No, I enjoy kissing her. Well, that's just the way it is. We've been married ninety-eight years. Forty-nine for her, forty-nine for me. And next year we're going to hit the big 5-0. We're looking forward to that. And uh it's a joy to be here. This is a this is one of our favorite places. God uh I'm not bragging or complaining, but God lets us get in a lot of places. And uh I I'm uh I I'm uh I'm a married man who does not travel without his wife. And some of my buddies do, uh, but I I I don't do it. And uh the biggest reason is because I don't want to travel without her. Love always wants to be near the object of its affection. Amen. And um we're we are a team. If I didn't have her with me, I would make more wrong turns, and I would end up in more wrong places than you can even imagine. We do everything together. We got married on the same day. We celebrate our anniversary at the same time every year. We sleep in the same bed. We uh ride in the same car, we eat at the same table And she's my American Express card, I wouldn't leave home without her. And that's just the way it is. I tell her this. I tell her and she she lives in pain twenty-four-seven. She's had surgeries that helped her with uh with her knees, but uh She has real serious um rotator cuff problems and they can't repair 'em. They tried the one and it just tore out. And so she can't raise her arm uh one of them and different Stephens. So she lives in pain. So I told her I I I say now, babe, you get to the place where you can't travel. You can't handle it. Because uh there's not a lot of glamour and glory at running the road all the time. Uh uh we're we're gone from the house about seventy percent uh of the time uh a year and not complained about them just statement so I told her I said you you ever get to the place where you can't handle it then we're off the road. Uh the there's no good solid uh aggressive soul winning church like y'all have here that would be interested in an old flat war uh uh Baptist preacher that's over the hill. But uh there'd be a little country church somewhere that uh couldn't find anybody else and And so we'd just go over there and and uh live out the rest of our life and pastor a handful of folk so that she wouldn't have to travel. But as long as she can handle it, we're gonna stay at it. And uh we just thank God for it and thank God for you and love your preacher. And uh I I still think I still think uh periodically about the uh a message that uh I've had him do a couple three places uh Uh the night Jesus saying. But uh do you you ever preach that any place anymore? Yeah, well that's the way that's the way things go. But uh And uh you guys are uh you got you got you got two things going for you in this church. You got a woman that knows how to m th knows how to make the right kind of cornbread And here's the fascinating thing about it, she tells me that she doesn't even eat cornbread. Top that. You talk about a miracle. Huh? Somebody that can make it right and don't even eat it. Now her husband really likes that because that gives him much more. And then I found out I found out today you got a woman in this church that knows how to fix beans. I mean the right way. And we had a great time with that. Well, open your Bibles, if you would please, to the book of Numbers, chapter number 21. Numbers chapter number twenty-one. And uh I hope I hope that uh I can uh the Lord can uh uh uh help me uh to help you tonight. This is this is as practical a message uh that I have and um I I have three sermons, uh 452 titles. My wife just about got sermon number four ready for me and When I get that, then I'll have 610 titles. And uh you'll you'll figure out what that means. But anyway, uh this message I've been pre this is the truth, I've been preaching this message for over 40 years I don't feel bad about that. Uh Dr. R. G. Lee, uh out of Memphis, preached for 60 years. And um He preached his famous sermon Payday Sunday over 3,000 times. You know what that means? He had to preach that sermon 50 times a year. So I don't feel bad about preaching a message at home. But anyway, so um uh but it it but it it can help and I I had I had a friend over uh I have three friends. I had a friend over in Indianapolis that uh went to be with uh the Lord a few years ago and he he always prayed uh before the service. And he'd always say this in consummate his prayer. He would always say, Lord, do something to us so you can do something through us. And that's just sort of the that's sort of the passion and the and the desire of a teacher or a preacher of the Word of God. And not sometimes I have to Sometimes I have things that uh get in my heart that for whatever reason it's hard to it's hard to get it out. And it you try to communicate it and sometimes it doesn't come out the way the way it's supposed to down in your heart. You ever have any trouble with that? And um you'd think God does as much speaking as I do, wouldn't have any trouble with that, but uh anyway, that's the way it is. But this is a message that'll help you. Not because I'm the one doing the preaching, but because of the content. And I hope that that you'll uh uh be able to get something out of it that will help you, and in turn uh God will use you to help others And I'll announce what the subject is all about before I ever start, which sometimes I don't necessarily do, but I'm gonna preach tonight on discouragement. And uh uh we we're we're having we're having an epidemic of discouragement uh across our land uh and it's infecting uh and affecting uh uh even people in our fundamental Bible preaching churches. And so uh it's a it's an issue that we're gonna face uh time to time in our life But the Bible does show us two important things about discouragement. What causes it or what what it produces uh when somebody gets discouraged what it produces in our life but also then if you can stay awake through all that then there's uh there's the uh cure for it, or really better, uh the the uh uh the way to uh uh not be able to get discouraged and And uh that's a important thing. So I want to read in Numbers chapter twenty-one, verse one. And when King Erid, the Canaanite, dwelt in the south, heard tell that Israel came by the way of the spies, then he fought against Israel and took some of them prison. And Israel bowed a vow unto the Lord and said, If thou wilt indeed deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities. Now this is the nation collectively praying. The Lord hearkened to the voice of Israel, delivered up the Canaanites, and they utterly destroyed them, their cities, and he called the name of the place Hormah That word horma is a Hebrew word translated in our King James Bible means total or utter destruction. I mean God answered their prayer. And they journeyed from Mount Hoar by the way of the Red Sea and compass uh to compass the land of Edom and the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way. Ain't that something? Come off a mountaintop experience, back down in the valley a little bit, and already Discouraged. Now notice how God responded And the people spake against God and against Moses. Well, that's what it still works that way today. It's the preacher's fault, you know. Wherefore, if you brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness, for there is no bread, neither is there any water, and our soul loatheth us like bread. The Lord sent fiery serpents among the people and they bit the people and much people of Israel died. Well, why would you think that God would respond in such a drastic way? Because he doesn't want people getting discouraged. He made provision for us so it doesn't have to happen. Amen. But discouragement comes. One man said discouragement is one of the devil's biggest weapons. Another man said God's work is greatly hindered by discouragement. Another man said discouragement is a sin of leaders. Another said the question uh the the greatness of a man is not determined by wealth or talent, but by what it takes to discourage you You get discouraged, you're just about whooped. Amen. Now whooped now that's a country term. I forgot where I'm at. I'm here on the east coast. That means you get beat up. You know So we find, according to this passage here, that God's hand moves in a judgmental way against people who get discouraged. Now, why? Why doesn't God pacify us when we're discouraged? Well, there are several reasons Discouragement has a devastating effect in the hearts and lives of people. First of all, when a Christian gets discouraged, it affects his prayer life, and a discouraged Christian prays the wrong prayer. Go if you would uh there in numbers go back to chapter eleven. Now I'm saying to you that uh a discouraged Christian's prayer life is affected and and he'll pray the wrong prayer. Notice in Numbers chapter uh eleven it says In verse number 10, then Moses heard the people weep throughout their families, every man in the door of his tent, and the anger of the Lord was kindled greatly. Moses also was displeased. Moses said unto the Lord Wherefore thou afflicted thy servant? Wherefore have I not found favor in thy sight? That thou layest the burden of all his people upon me Have I conceived all this people? Have I begotten them that thou shouldest say unto me, carry them in thy bosom as a nursing father beareth a second child into the land which thou swearest unto their fathers? When should I have flesh to give unto all this people? For they weep unto me, saying, Give us flesh that we may eat. Notice how many times he says, I This guy's got eye trouble. Huh? That is getting him down. I am not able to bear all this people alone. Well, weren't we ever read in the Bible that God expects us to bear our burdens alone? Don't we find just the opposite where it says, casting all that care upon him, who careth for you? Doesn't Jesus give a personal invitation in the Bible? Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Huh? I'm not able to bear all this people that's too heavy for me. So notice how he consummates his prayer. And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of hand, if I have found favor in thy sight, and let me not see my wretchedness. Now wouldn't that have glorified God Huh? Wouldn't that have been a great testimony? God uses Moses to lead the people out of the land of Israel, uh out of Egypt, uh, across the Red Sea in that That victory there and all of that, now they're out there in the wilderness, and Moses says, just kill me. Boy, that would be a testimony, wouldn't it? Well, what's the matter with Moses? He got discouraged. And a discouraged Christian prays the wrong prayer. You read in First Kings chapter nineteen. After all that God used uh uh Elijah to accomplish in chapter eighteen, they had that great revival up there on Mount Carmel and all of that. And um uh but you get into f uh first Kings chapter nineteen, uh verse one, uh J uh Ahab tells uh his wife What uh what Elijah has done, he he did he did, Elijah did what every fundamental preacher would love to do to every liberal in the town He took their heads uh took their uh took them down by the by the creek and cut their heads off. Boy wouldn't that wipe out liberalism and modernism and humanism? Yeah Well at least we can dream. And uh so I mean he had all these victories, and so Ahab tells his wife and Jezebel sends a note to Elijah, and it's not a love note She said, Dear Elijah, by the time the sun goes down tomorrow night, you're going to be in the same fix as those prophets of Baal. No bother Elijah. I mean he's you read it chapter 17 and 18 God uh put him down there at the Brook Kareth and and uh fed him, you know, and took care of him. uh sent him by the widow and uh miracles there, sent him to Mount Carmel and uh uh he uh had that you know where he prayed down the fire uh and and all of that and uh uh I mean l revival broke out. Why would he worry about a th death threat from a woman? It's amazing the power and influence that a woman has over a man. Years ago, way back before I got saved, I used to hear this song every once in a while. It was a popular song, and the title of the song was O Woman, O Woman. Not Old Woman, O Woman, God forbid. O Woman. And part of one of the standings went like this O woman, old woman, or what can she be? Whatever she is, she's necessary. Afraid of a cockroach, she'll scream at a mouse, but she'll tackle a husband as big as a house. Month's about to have worked. Then uh I mean Elijah's not afraid to call down fire from heaven, not afraid to uh wipe out those modernists Not uh uh afraid to uh pray down miracles after miracles and all of that, but he ran from the threat of woman. And you know what he did? He got over there about verse number four of 1 Kings 19, he prayed the same thing Moses did He said, just kill me and get me out of the way. But you see, that was not the will of God. It's not the will of God for us to be snuffed out before our work is finished. Could you say amen right there? If you don't want to say amen right there, just say amen. I do my best to try to keep you away, you know. See, when you get discouraged, it affects your prayer life. And a discouraged Christian praise the wrong prayer. Not only that, but we say the wrong thing. We pray the wrong prayer, we say the wrong thing. Turn to the book of Jeremiah chapter number twenty. In Jeremiah chapter number twenty, Jeremiah's in the It's in the big part of your Bible to the left call the Old Testament. It's easy to find. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Jeremiah. Look in Jeremiah chapter 20, verse number 14. I mean, this guy's discouraged. Cursed be the day wherein I was born. Let not the day wherein my mother bare me be blessed. Cursed be the man who brought tidings to my father, saying, A man child is born unto thee, making him very glad. And let that man be as the cities which the Lord overthrew, and repented not. What is he talking about? He's talking about Sodom and Gomorrah. Whoever this guy is, buddy, he's got a case against him. He said, Lord, you ought to zap him with fire and brimstone. Just like you did Sodom and Gomorrah. Boy, he must be some kind of a heathen. Huh? Let him hear the uh the cry in the morning and the shouting of the noonday. Why? Look at look at who he's mad at. Because he slew me not from the womb, or that my mother might have been my grave and her womb to be always great with me. Wherefore came I out of the wood? You know who he's talking about? First of all, he doesn't want any birthday cards He doesn't want a birthday cake. He doesn't want a surprise birthday party. He doesn't even want you to acknowledge his birthday. I don't know that I've ever met anybody like that. Uh some of us have some kind of fouled up ideas about birthday. I was talking to a guy the other day that said for the seventeenth year he celebrated his thirty-ninth birthday. You don't talk to women about birthdays. At least you don't mention age. And so, but truth of the matter is, everybody wants to be remembered on their birthday. You know, especially if the birthday card's got some money in them. That's good. He said, you put a curse on that day I was born. He said, furthermore, hey, hey, furthermore. That guy that delivered me, you ought to zap him like you did to Sodom and Gomorrah. Now, what did that doctor do wrong? I mean, get the picture there. You see, there was a day when they did not let the husband In the birthing chamber. Now they do today. In fact, they make a circus out of it They got they got uh uh they got refreshments in there, they invite everybody on the whole floor, all of the family and all that everybody to come in and watch that baby being born. That's not always been that way In fact, you women have no idea what it was like in the old days when we had to stay down in the waiting room. Paced the floor. Worried, not knowing. I mean you gals just don't know what we had to go through. Serious business. And so just picture, just picture Jeremiah's pop. He's down there in the waiting room, concerned about his wife. Not no one of course we didn't have all the uh all the equipment back needed and it was gonna be a boar girls we're concerned about that and all of that And so the doctor delivers the baby. Uh uh he leaves the birthing chamber, he he goes down the hallway, he steps into the waiting room, and he says to Jeremiah's father, he says, Congratulations, you're now the papa of a brand new bouncing baby boy. Now what has he done wrong? Is that what we pay those doctors to do and pay? And pay. And pay. And pay. Huh? I mean the guy did exactly what he's supposed to do. And Jeremiah said, you'll kill him. But you ought to do it in some kind of a some some kind of a fantastic way, a spectacular way. Zap him with fire and brimstone. Shoot, no. What's the matter? I'm gonna tell you what's the matter with it. He got discouraged. And a discouraged Christian Prays the wrong prayer, says the wrong thing, thinks the wrong thing. Now here's John the Baptizer. John the Baptist. John is six months older than Jesus' earthly life. His second cousin to Jesus. His mother Elizabeth bore John, her old age. She was married to the first cousin, and so Mary is going to have Jesus six months after John is born. So they knew each other. Now there were a lot there were a lot of significant things about John the Baptist. I don't read of anybody else, obviously the Lord Jesus, but I don't read of anybody else that was filled with the Holy Ghost from his mother's womb. That's pretty powerful in itself. Now, listen, now John the Baptist grew up knowing what his ministry was going to be. Knowing that he was the forerunner of the Messiah. Now, not only that, but they're in the same family. They were second cousins. Now can you just imagine? Now I don't know what I don't know what the Jewish boys I don't know what they played back in in John's day and Jesus' day when they were little kids. Just imagine. Here they are, they're ten years old. And they're having one of those family get-togethers. So here's John the Baptist, and here's Jesus, and here's a bunch of other ten years. Can you just imagine a bunch of ten-year-old boys playing and goofing around all that, and one of them is sinless? Have you ever had any kids? You can't imagine that. Huh? Don't you think that made an imp an impression on everybody else? Here's Jesus. He wasn't a goody-goody two shoes, but he was perfect. Amen. So he grows up his whole life. He knows Jesus. He's part of the family. He knows that he's the forerunner, the Messiah. But by the time you get to, I think it's Matthew chapter 11, maybe I don't believe it was somewhere, maybe it's Mark Anyway, here's John the Baptist. He's in prison and he's going to die and he knows it. Herod's going to have him killed. So he says this to his disciples. He said, Go find him, go find Jesus, and ask him this question: Art thou he that should come? Or look we for another? Now of all the people of the world outside Mary, who would be absolutely assured that Jesus was the Messiah? Well, I would say would I would believe it would be John the Baptist. Sure he knew who he was. Well, isn't he the one that said one time while he's preaching, Behold, the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the Didn John say that? Huh? They asked him who he was, and he told him he was not the Messiah. He said he wasn't even worthy to tie his shoes. He said he must increase. I'm telling you, John the Baptist knew who Jesus was. But he's about to die. And he's having some second thoughts. And he's needing some reassurance. And so he says, go ask him, art thou he that should come, or look we for another? You know why I think he said that? I think he got discouraged. And I don't know how I'm gonna handle it if I'm facing death as a martyr. Say, well, this is America, we don't have to worry about that. Oh Dog, get your head, get your head out of the sand, look around. Huh? You see a discouraged Christian prays the wrong prayer, says the wrong thing, thinks the wrong thing, and sees the wrong thing. I don't like to be around whiners. The truth of the matter is, I don't like to be around doomsdayers. I mean I'm I'm aware enough to know what's going on in the country that it's not good, but I'm not going to dwell on that. Number one, I can't do anything about it anyway. So I want to focus on what I can do something about, amen. And the truth of the matter is, just leave it up to God. Nothing's taking God by surprise. Amen? Huh? And so, but, but, when you get discouraged, you don't see things clearly. Here, what is it? Mark chapter 5. Here's Jesus and his entourage. Uh they they uh come across the lake and they get up get out of the ship on a place called uh uh Gadera And the and the reception committee is a is a butt-naked demon-possessed man Nobody has been able to control him or contain him. Superhuman strength. Has to live out in the caves and out in the hills and all of that. They can hear him for miles wailing at night. As he tortures himself, cutting himself with pieces of sharp stone and all that. They've tried to incarcerate him. No place can hold him. They've tried to rope him down and chain him down. Superhuman strength. Nobody's been able to help him. He's the terror of the community. And so when Jesus gets out of the ship, starts walking up the shore, here he comes. The madman of Gadera. So Jesus has a conversation with him. And he knows what's his problem is the guy's the guy's demon-possessed. And so he addresses the demons. And he calls those demons, he orders those demons to depart from that man. Now, close by there are two thousand head of hogs. And so the demons request that the Lord would cast them into the hogs. And Jesus does. I mean, this guy had a lot of demons. I mean, those demons left him and housed two thousand pigs. Amen. Well, you know what happened? The hogs ran over the cliff and down into the water and was drowned. Somebody said it's the first mention in human history of deviled him. Now The keepers of the hogs run back to town. And they tell they tell the owners of the hogs and the town people what's happened. Now remember, this is that that demon-possessed, crazy man with supernatural strength that nobody's been able to help. So they all come they all go out there to see what's going on. You know what they saw? I'm gonna tell you what they didn't see. They didn't see that demon-possessed man now. In his right mind, clothed and sitting at the feet of Jesus. You know what they saw? Dollar sides. I mean, 2,000 a head of hogs worth a lot of money. Huh? So what'd they say to Jesus? Get out of here. They begged him to depart. I mean, look, yeah, you can grow more hogs, you know But nobody could handle that demon-possessed man except Jesus. But that's not what they saw. And so here they are. They're pleading with the Son of God to leave. That's just overwhelming You see, when you get discouraged, brother, I'm going to tell you it it tears you apart, man. You pray the wrong prayer, say the wrong thing, see the wrong thing, think the wrong thing. Huh? See the wrong thing, and end up in the wrong place. God says to Jonah I want you to go to Nineveh and preach. Well, do you know who lived up there in Nineveh? The archenemies of the Israelites. And so Jonah, Jonah gets these orders. He's got to go up there. He's got to go up there and preach. They'll kick him out of the ministerium and alive. They'll recall his ordination. I mean, they'll blackball him. He's thinking all kinds of things. So you know what he says? He says, now Lord. Uh now this is this is this is this is Hamlin's sub uh uh supposition. You say, well, I don't know if it worked that way. Well you don't know if it didn't. It must have gone something like this. Lord, I just want reassurance that you want me to go to Nineveh. So I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna go down, I'm gonna go down to the ticket office and see how much How much it would cost me to be able to go. Where was he gonna go? You're preaching on Jonah. Tarsus, yeah. And if I got enough money to buy that boat ticket to go there, I'm gonna take that as your will for me to go to Tarsus instead. You say that's stupid. Oh, I know that. But you know what? Jonah's just like we us Baptists. Sometimes we the dumbest people in the world when it comes to knowing what God wants us to do and us figuring out a way to get around it. So he goes down sure enough he's got enough money. So he buys his ticket. He's gonna take his boat ride, he's gonna go on his ship, he's gonna go to Tarsus, the opposite direction. Of Nineveh, where God wants him to go. So what happened to him? He gets out there. He's asleep. A storm comes up These mariners, not Marines, mariners, I mean, they're scared to death. Their ships are gonna uh capsize, they're all gonna die out there. So somebody went and woke up Jonah. He said, I'm telling you what's wrong. It's all my fault. And this storm is not going to subside. The only thing you're going to have to do, you're going to have to throw me overboard. Because if you don't, all of us are going to die. Now I'm the guy that deserves to. Because I'm the one that brought this storm on. And so it's not right for everybody to have to pay for my sin, my disobedience. Now, I wish I had time to stop and preach a little message there. I'm going to tell you, when you make the wrong turn, it's just not you that's affected. Because there's going to be a lot of other people going to be damaged in the process. Huh? So they reluctantly cast him overboard. And so God had that fish. Jesus said it was a whale, in case you wouldn't know what kind it was. The truth of the matter is, if the Bible says that a bluegill swallowed Jonah. I'd believe it if that's what the Bible said. Amen. I would believe it if the Bible says Jonah swallowed the flail. I you know, if that's what God aren't you memorizing the verse? Every word of God is pure. Amen. And so the fish, Jesus said as a whale, swallowed Jonah. Now it's an interesting prayer that he prays. He said, Out of the belly of hell I cried unto the Lord. Well he probably thought he was in hell, all that seaweed wrapped around that stench and all that down there Couldn't have been pleasant. So here he is, running from God, and he ends up in the belly of the fish at the bottom of the deep blue sea. What put him there? Disobedience. Huh? He was afraid to go where God told him to go And he went in the other direction, and he ended up in the wrong place. You see, we get discouraged. We pray the wrong prayer, say the wrong thing, we think the wrong thing, we see the wrong thing, and we get in the wrong place. Here they are, millions of them. Uh the the most conservative estimate is at least two million Jews out there in the wilderness for forty years. Now here they are, all these millions of people, and um and their livestock, and they don't have any water. So they go to the Lord, or they go to Moses, Moses and goes talk talks to the Lord, said we don't have any water. So so so the Lord says, okay, now I want you to go over this particular rock, and I want you to take that staff here, I don't want you to smack that rock Now there's going to be enough water going to come pouring out of that rock that's going to meet the needs of everybody. Now, brother, I'm going to tell you that wasn't some little stream pouring out of that rock I mean that was a gushing river. Two million people, plus their camels and plus their uh uh their uh their their cattle, sheep probably, also Well, a little while later they run out of water again. So they go back, they go back to Moses complaining and all that. Moses goes back and talks to the Lord. And the Lord says, okay now Moses, I want you to go back to that same rock, but you don't have to hit it this time. Now that's very significant. If the Roman Catholics could ever get that one truth by you know what? They'd never touch another crucifix the rest of their life If they're going to see, that's what that's all about. It's crucifying Jesus all over again. But he only had to die. So smiting the rock with the sap is a picture of the crucifixion of Christ. You with me? So the rock didn't have to be smitten the second time. God says Speak to the rock. I don't know if from the time he left his conference with God until he got in front of the Israelites, if maybe they had a deacon's meeting. I don't know. But something really put a burr under Moses' saddle. And by the time he got back to that rock, he is madder than a wet hen. And you folks ever had chickens? Do you ever douse one of them with a bucket of water? Brother, just as long as you're in a safe distance, it's really fun to watch. It really is. And and you'll all then you'll know from then on what that means. Matter in a way here. Anyway. So he gets to the rock. God told him to speak. Oh man, he called the Israelites rebels on. He'd have made a great evangelist. And uh, I mean he's ripping and snoring. And instead of speaking of the rock, he smacked the rock. Now God went ahead and gave him the river of water, but that's the sin that kept Moses from going into Beuland. That's why Moses died on the east side of the river. Huh? What was the matter? You see, when we get discouraged, we pray the wrong prayer, we say the wrong thing, we think the wrong thing, we see the wrong thing, and we get in the wrong place. The night before the crucifixion, Jesus said, every one of you boys gonna you're gonna to um uh you're gonna run off, you're gonna, you're gonna desert me. Peter said, Not me. If I have to die with thee, I will not deny you. So said all the disciple. But what happened? What happened after Gethsemane when they came and they took the Lord and headed for Pilate's judgment hall? Huh? They all forsook him and fled. And Peter followed the far-off The old timers used to say he watched from a distance warming his hands around the devil's fire. Well, that's a pretty good way to to uh uh to acknowledge it And so the Lord says, I'm gonna find out if Pete really means business. So three times. While he's with the devil's crowd watching what's going on in there, he sends somebody by to spotlight Peter. You see, what Jesus had done for three years wasn't done some back alley somewhere. There were huge crowds. So somebody saw the disciples that were with Jesus in some of those meetings. And so the person comes and says, Oh yeah, you're one of his followers. Here's his chance. Here's his opportunity. Take his stand for the Lord. He said, if I have to die with you, I'll not deny you. Well, he saw what was going on in there. He knew the end result of what was going to happen to Jesus. So what'd he do? Denied. Here come another one. Yeah, you we saw you. No, no, no, no, no. You mean no no no deny So the third time the little girl comes, says, Yeah, you were with no no no no no no Well yeah, your speech gives you away and our speech ought to give us away. Amen. So Peter, to prove to that crowd that he wasn't a follower of Jesus, started cussing. Huh? Buddy, that's one way to prove you don't belong to the Lord. Then, hey, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on out there and use the world's language. Go out there and blaspheme the name of God. Go out there and tell you a filthy. Go ahead. It's all right. Go ahead. The people around you don't think you're a disciple anyway. So you might as well prove it to them. You listening to me? Hmm? So he just started cussing. Excuse me, I forgot I'm on the East Coast cursing. Make you feel better, school film. You didn't think you didn't think I remembered your name, did you? Wrong place. When we get discouraged We end up in the wrong place. That's not the worst. We end up in the wrong spirit. Discouraged people develop a spirit of murmuring. Complaining. I read something in the Bible about a guy named Kor and his buddies, Dathan and Biram, and they went to the leader and said, Uh, hey, you're a dictator. You take too much upon you. Boy, don't you ever say that to your preacher? God can still open up the earth. Better be careful about that. Mm? Murmuring. Murmuring Complaining about what's going on, you know what it leads to? Criticism And the people spake against God and against Moses. We read that a while ago. Brother, keep me away from that crowd. I won't be around that bunch. Afraid the fire of God's gonna fall on that bunch. Amen? And that leads to a spirit of defeatism. You just throw in the towel. How many times? Preacher, how many times? How long have you been in the ministry? Sixty years. Twenty-five. How many times have we heard somebody say this? Well, I just wasn't getting fed. Hey, hey, let me tell you something. If you're gonna come to the table and get something to eat, you gotta have a plate and a fork. Amen. Everybody gets what they come for If you're not really interested in anything, that's what you're going to get. Nothing. Amen. But I'm going to tell you, if you come wanting to get something from God, you're going to get it. Amen. Huh? I'm just not well I there's just too many problems there at that church and I got friends on both sides and and I don't want to make anybody mad and so I'm just gonna let I'm gonna go find a church that doesn't have any problems. Well don't join it. You'll ruin it. Huh? But people get discouraged, and you know what they do? They murmur, they criticize, and they quit. And seldom Does a quitter ever get back in fellowship with God and get going in the right room? Amen. See, that's why. That's why the fundamental preacher uh uh beats the same drum all the time Uh he went to a school uh down in Tennessee. Uh one of the great giants of the 20th century was the pastor down there for uh I think he told me four to six and a half years. He used to say this, it takes three to thrive, three to thrive, three to thrive, three to thrive. Be in church on Sunday morning. Be in church on Sunday night. Be in church in midweek service. I'm going to tell you, doc, I know why Brother Leatherman has his service on Sunday night at 7 o'clock. Because Dr. Robertson used to preach against moving the service to six o'clock. Boy, uh, he thought that was a devil, man. It's your brother. Yeah. Huh? Why? Because he didn't want you to leave space to go back out into the world after church. That's what it was. Had an old boy. I probably told you this before, but I like hearing it somewhere fell again. And this big boy, one of the strongest boys I ever known in my life. Big guy. He's walking out in this one I was passionate over here in in uh central Pennsylvania, southeastern Pennsylvania. He's gonna be walking out of church one Sunday. He said, now preacher said, I'm not gonna be here next Sunday I said, no kidding, man. You're going to be in the hospital? What? You're going to die? What? No, no, no. He said the sun's shining. He said, he said, uh, I'm I'm going up the mountain on Friday. He said, I get up there, I get up there on the mountain, I get out there and get alone with God, and I'm just drawn closer to God. So I won't be here for sure. I told him, I said, now Fred, that'll work Friday night, and that'll work Saturday. But that won't work Sunday. What do you mean? Why not? Because God won't be there on Sunday. He know, hey, he's not gonna tell you, he's not gonna command you and me to be down at the house of God and him be up around a mountain somewhere Huh? Amen. You say that's pretty silly. Well, before you make a judgment, I want you think about that for a little bit. Huh? You see, a discouraged Christian prays the wrong prayer, says the wrong thing, thinks the wrong thing, sees the wrong thing, does the wrong thing, ends up in the wr Place And ends up in the wrong spirit. Ultimately, a spirit of defeatism And just what did Peter say? Even after the Lord had appeared to him a couple times after he uh after he uh uh was resurrected, he said in John 21, he said, I quit. He said, I'm going fishing. That didn't mean he was going to work fishing for Bluegill. He was going back to his previous profession. He was quitting on God. And he took six other guys with him. You never go down by yourself. So that helps us to see somewhat of what happens when a Christian gets discouraged. Now you say, I don't want to get discouraged. Well I don't I don't either. Now listen carefully. You don't have to. I don't have to get discouraged. Hey, I don't care if your mother-in-law moves in with you, you don't have to get discouraged. Amen? I'll tell you this: God's bigger than your mother-in-law. Or whatever other problem that could happen that could discourage you Alright? So here's the antidote. Or here is the cure in case you get discouraged. Four things you if you if we do these things faithfully. You will not get discouraged. Number one, pray. Remember what the disciples ask in Luke 18, 1. Lord, teach us to forget what he said? Men ought always to pray and not to faint. You know what that word faint is translated in our King James Bible? It means to lose courage. It means to get disheartened. It means to get discouraged. He hey, hey, hey, he said this. He said, if you've got an effective prayer life, And you can have the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. You know one of the things that's killing fundamentalism? Now I'm an old-time independent, separated, soul wooded, fundamental, pre-malunic missionary minor fried chicken, eating peach pie, loving And also black raspberry pie. Uh uh coffee drinking that, not decaf coffee. You can't get any more fundamental than that, and I'm not leaving the fundamental Baptist ranks. Number one, I'm not going to the Southern Baptist Convention. I'm not going to any convention. I'm going to stay independent, fundamental, and I'm not dropping the name Baptist. I don't care who else does, I'm not. I understand our heritage. I understand the blood that was shed and all of that. And even the fight that's going on today. And so that's what I am, and that's what I'm gonna die. I am And that's I only I only run with with people that at least close enough to me that I can that I can go preach for 'em. I got a couple of preacher friends that drink decaf, but nobody's perfect. So anyway. This will happen. Every now and then Sunday night the preacher stand up and said, Anybody got a testimony tonight? And that church service just turned into a funeral dirge. People sit there frozen. Half of them don't even know what a testimony is. And the other half doesn't have one either. So now the preacher's embarrassed. Nobody's standing up. Nobody's given uh given a testimony and given uh honoring the Lord and praising the Lord for an answer to prayer this week. Nobody. So now he's on the spot. So he has to start coercing. Ain't God done nothing for nobody in this church? And men he'll just start beating them over the head and beating them. No, has God done anything? And he'll reel for a while, so he'll find somebody say, Well, brother preacher. I got a testimony. Eleanor had her in drone toenail uh operated on this week. The doctor said it's gonna be all right. So Well, thank God I just went through all that. Painful, believe me. But there's got to be something There's gotta be something better. I mean that's okay. That's alright. But how about an answer to prayer leading somebody to Christ or or having a need uh and God coming on the scene and meeting that need uh that couldn't be met. Huh? Huh? Hey, huh? The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. And so, if our prayer life is what it ought to be, you know what? We're not going to get discouraged. Because we know that whatever the burden and whatever the problem is and whatever the issue is, we can take it to the Lord in prayer. And know that he's going to do something about it. See, men ought always to pray and not to faint. And so, uh, number one, uh have an effective prayer life. Don't settle for less. An answered prayer. Because God wants to do great in my I preached on this either last year or year before last. Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think. According to the power that we're going to have. He's going to do a whole lot more for us, even beyond what we want him to do. Amen? Mm? So pray. Number two, keep the right attitude. No reason, even in these dark days, when we see uh what's going on, see our country. Uh and it has to happen. You can't have a one-world government and have independent nations, so America's got to hit the rocks. It's got to happen. It's gonna happen. Amen. And truth of the matter is we ought to be shouting it out because it's all fulfillment about fulfillment of Bible prophecy. You know what all this means? But it just means that the coming of the Lord draweth nigh Here's the greatest sermon in the Bible. Am I boring you? Huh? Okay, you look mesmerized. Did you get overheated today? Huh? Here's the greatest sermon in the Bible. Have faith in God. Just keep on trusting him. Claim his promises. We used to sing this song in a long ago, brother preacher. Every promise in the book is mine. You know why we did that? Because it's true. And we believed it. Amen. So just keep on trusting God. I don't know what's going to happen in this situation. I know who does. Oh, if it doesn't work out, it's gonna be devastating. I know somebody who can change it. Huh? With God all things are possible. Amen. Yeah So just keep on trusting. Have faith in God. Just remember something. If The problem you've got and the situation that you're in, if it's chastening from God, do you know why he's doing it? Because he loves you. And he wants to correct. So you say, well, I don't know if it is or not. All you gotta do is ask him. He can communicate to you. He can show you. And it could be it could be uh something that he's allowing uh to strengthen your faith. Have faith in God. Keep the right attitude. J. Clement Stone was a multimillionaire. They claim he was Christian. He said this in the long ago. He said, there's very little difference between people, but that little difference makes a big difference. He said the little difference is attitude. The big difference is Whether that attitude is positive or negative. Now I'm not giving you power of positive thinking. I'm giving you Bible believing. Just trust in God. Have faith in God. Trust Him. I just don't understand what's going on. Who said you had to? He said this: trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. Well, I just don't understand. Well, whoopee do. You're growing. A lot of things we don't understand. Down south. Oh, we are down south. Keep reminding me of that There was a guy down in Carolina, I'm not sure about Maryland yet. I know that. But anyway, we just keep on and Virginia especially. Down around Apple Matics. I don't have to understand. I just have to hold his hand. Now there's something even better than that. We can let go if we're doing the holding. But he does the holding. And he doesn't let go. Amen. So I'm just simply saying, keep on praying and keep on trusting. Then the third thing we can do to avoid discouragement, and that is. Don't quit on God. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. You know what the devil is wanting you to do? You know what he's trying everything he possibly can to get you to do? He wants you to quit. He wants you to wake up some Saturday morning and say I'm no more. I've had it. I've had it with them snot-nosed kids. I'm not gonna knock on another door. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna make another visit, visit on that bus route, I'm done. That's what the devil wants you to do. And he wants you to say to the preacher, find somebody else for my class. I've done my duty, I've done my part. I'm going to sit back Relax for a while. Only problem is that's what you end up doing the rest of your life. No. Be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord for as much as you know that you're what? Labor is not in vain in the Lord. I'm going to tell you there is a payday someday. And we're getting closer to it. Amen. So keep busy for God. And then number four, I'm not a liberal, I'm not a modernist, but get this. Keep on singing The older I get, the more I'm impressed with the ministry of music. I'm talking about I'm talking about I'm talking about Ephesians 5 singing. I'm talking about Colossians 3 singing. I'm talking about a singing that comes out of the heart of a spirit-filled believer. You see in Ephesians chapter 5, the command is be filled with the Spirit. And then verses 19, 20, and 21 give you the first three evidences of a person who's controlled by the Holy Spirit of God. And I love the first one. You get to talk to yourself. So see, you're not off your rocker. Speaking to yourselves, but it's important what you say. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Now, I got one criticism of Fundamental Baptist. We don't sing enough. Number one, we need to have the mindset when we go to church, we're not going there to get out. We're going there to get in. Amen. I mean if you're gonna go over here, God forbid that you go over here to watch a Ravens football game or an Orioles baseball game, when you go through the ticket booth you don't say, now look, this thing's gotta be over in an hour and a half. But telling the right? Uh if that thing