Then if you would turn to Colossians, Ephesians and Colossians We're finishing up tonight a series I put together some time ago. It's been the last several weeks, but on why we do not use contemporary Christian music here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And that's what we've been trying to um uh explain why we don't use contemporary Christian music. Now there's two dangers in the area of music and we've been bringing this out. One is of course going the way of the world and incorporating the music of the world in. The other is holding to the old hymns but just dry and dead and nothing to it. That'll that'll kill a church as much as uh the worldly music will corrupt the church And so we need to be sure when we're singing these songs that we're just uh singing to the Lord, that our motive is right, that uh we're paying attention to what we're saying, that we're uh singing these songs from our heart and uh I tell you what, these old hymns will stir your heart if you get a hold of what's being said and what it means to us We um uh back when the boys were small we did for years uh till they were up uh about to their teen years and then uh we didn't do it as much when they started getting jobs and everything but every night before we go to bed we'd read some scripture and pray around and uh we had a hymn book and we'd just sing our way through that hymn book. We'd take one song and we'd sing all the verses of that song. The next night we have the next one in line. If we knew it, if we didn't know it, then we'd skip it. But uh we just tried to get those hymns in, and boy, what a blessing that was. And um Uh even to this day a lot of times. I try and keep these hymns in our hearts and minds. So look with me if you would, Ephesians chapter five. I'm just going to use these as a as a beginning point. Verse number eighteen It's a familiar verse for us. It says, and be not drunk with wine wherein in excess, but be what? Filled with the Spirit. Then notice verse number 19. Brother Hamlin made reference to this Sunday when he was preaching The very first thing that follows being filled with the Holy Spirit is speaking to yourselves in psalms, hymns, and what kind of songs? Spiritual songs. If a song is a spiritual song, what does that tell me about that song? Spiritual, right? What's the opposite of something being spiritual? Be fleshly or carnal. The opposite of spiritual is carnal. So according to this, if I'm supposed to sing spiritual songs, then by implication, there are carnal songs. And so music is not neutral. Is what we're saying. And so anyway, speaking of yourselves in Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to who? To the Lord. And then tied in with that, to verse 20, is giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now if you would come over to Colossians And notice with me verse number chapter three of Colossians and verse number sixteen. Colossians chapter 3 and verse 16 says this let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another. Look at this How? In Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. Notice he puts a qualifier. God puts a qualifier on both of these instructions as to the characteristics of the music. that we are to have the type of songs we are to sing. There is to be spiritual hymns songs spiritual songs. And notice our motive. Who are we singing to the to in both of these passages? We're singing to who To the Lord. And so when we do sing, we ought to be singing not for the person beside us, not for the person be in front of us or behind us. We're not up here putting on a show. We're singing to the Lord. It is a ministry that we have uh to bring glory to the Lord. So I'm going to give the last um message tonight on why we don't use contemporary Christian music. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our study. Lord, you know I am not a musician by any stretch of the imagination. We love music. And God, we believe you've given it to us. And I pray that you would just help us to get a grasp on some biblical principles here. Fill me with your Holy Spirit, I pray, Lord. And be our teacher tonight through me. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Anytime you talk about music, you're going to get on a hot button subject. Uh it's a people some people are very passionate about it. Uh some people are very strong and it's very easy to get into the flesh sometimes. when defending or even and defending good music or defending what I would consider uh carnal music. And so that is not our approach. We're to do all things in the Spirit of Christ. We're all to do all things kindly. We're not angry at anybody Uh we're not going to fight with anybody, but we do want to know what the Bible says and what the scriptural principles are. I read this uh uh as in preparation for tonight I I read this statement. It says, everybody, somebody in one of the books I was reading said everybody loves music. They said, I've never heard anybody say that I hate all music. I gotta think about that. I never heard that statement. Uh I don't know anybody that hates music across the board, just can't stand music Imagine somebody's out there, but uh God created us that way. It's part of our life, part of our makeup. Now, we're talking about contemporary Christian music. There is a tremendous amount of documentation, and I would like to think I was able to give some of it in this series, that proves that music, and by music I mean with or without the words There's a tremendous amount of documentation that music itself has a powerful effect on us. Alright? It affects us emotionally. How many people ever heard a song from way back yonder when you were young and it affects you emotionally? Anybody know that? Oh, that reminds me of my first girlfriend, you know. And uh emotional, brings about emotions. Music affects us physically. Physically. If you ever sit in a restaurant, you're not even paying attention, there's some music going, and the next thing you know, your foot's tapping away. Anyone know what I'm talking about? It's a physical reaction. To a musical stimulation. It affects us physically. We can deny it all we want. It does. It affects us emotionally. It affects us mentally. Years ago there was a governor in one of the Midwest states, I don't remember what it was, I should have written it down, but he was trying to get passed through legislation that all Ladies who are expecting all pregnant ladies would be required to listen to classical music while they were uh during their pregnancy because they had some documentation that people that listen to classical music Children that listen heard classical music when they're in their uh in the womb were smarter than kids that didn't. So obviously my mother did not listen to much classical music. But it does. There's documentation affects us mentally. And I think there's clear evidence that music affects us spiritually. In the Bible and out of the Bible. Remember when Saul had the evil spirit from the Lord come upon him? We looked at this earlier. And David came, and what did David do? David played his harp. And when he played the instruments, the musical instruments, the Bible says the evil spirit from the Lord departed from him. There was a spiritual effect that the music David played had upon Saul. So music affects us spiritually. It affects us mentally, it affects us emotionally, it affects us physically. It is a powerful, powerful force given to us by God. Now to me And again, I mentioned this last week. I take my responsibility as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, I take that very seriously. I like to horse around, I like to have fun, I like to laugh When it comes to pastoring the church and and overseeing the direction and the principles and the practices of our church, I take that very seriously because, you know, one day I am going to have to stand before Jesus Christ and give an account for the leadership of the church. And so I take that very seriously. And for me, this matter of contemporary Christian music, it is not a preference of a style of music, but to me, it is a biblical principle at stake. Some people say, well that's just you just don't like that music. No, that has nothing to do with it. In fact, if the truth was known, I probably would be appealed to that music because of my background It's a biblical principle at stake. Listen, whether I like something or not does not make it right or wrong. So what does God's word say? What does the Bible say? That is our determination of whether something is right and wrong. So we have I boiled this down. I originally had four, I combined one, and uh we have three reasons why we don't use the first one uh why we don't use contemporary Christian music. First one, uh if you remember, we said because of its worldly characteristics And um the Bible is very clear on what our relationship with the world is supposed to be. We are not to be friends with the world, we are not to love the world, we're not to be conformed to this world We're to be transformed, we're to be distinct, we're to be separated from the world to Christ, in our lifestyle, in our values, in the principles we live by. All this is to be very distinct, distinctively Christian. That's what Dr. Robertson used to say. Be distinctively Christian And that's true of our music. And we went through and looked at many of the worldly characteristics of contemporary Christian music. And inevitably somebody says to me, Oh, but here's an exception. That's my whole point. That's the exception. Generally, a characteristic of it is that it's very worldly. Then we said number two, second reason we don't use contemporary Christian music here is because of its ecumenical characteristics The overwhelming majority of contemporary Christian artists are very ecumenical in their thinking. They will not take a doctrinal stand. in separation uh uh and from false teaching. I have a a dear preacher friend of mine. He's with the Lord now. Dear friend of mine. I've preached for him a number of times. I di I I did not have him preach here though, and uh you'll understand why here in a moment. He said, dear friend, for the most part, ninety-five percent of what he did was good and solid But he would have music in and he would have uh musicians in that I was very uncomfortable with into his church. And um I talked to him about it. Uh again, good friend. He was at many of our meetings we've done over the years And um one time we were talking about this group he had in singing, and he loved these guys, and that they weren't hardcore rock and roll, but they were just uh closer that way than I would be comfortable with. And I talked to him one time about this group he had, and he says, well, uh I got looking him up on the internet and you know what I found out? He was from a different denomination. He had some doctrinal uh issues very serious. And I asked my friend, I said, well what about this? You know, look what this guy teaches and preaches. He goes, I know, I know. And he said this, I know his doctrine is wrong And I would never have him preach, but his music is great. Now, I don't know about you, but I have a problem with that. Can you imagine if I would bring a Church of Christ preacher in here that teaches baptismal regeneration? But boy, he has a great message on marriage And so I'm just going to come in and have them sing that or preach that message on marriage and just not preach about that. There's a problem there. We're to reprove, rebuke, exhort. We're to say, hey, wait a minute, there's some problems here And so the ecumenical characteristics of it uh is one reason or another. And we expounded on that. Here's my last thought. Here's the last uh reason in this series. Because contemporary Christian music alters the character of a church. Contemporary Christian music alters the very character of a church or of a believer. Um the music in a church, somebody made this statement. I don't remember who it was where I got it. The music in a church has as much influence on the character of the church as its doctrinal statement and perhaps even its preaching. Do you get that? The music in a church has as much influence on the character of the church as his doctrinal statement does and maybe even its preaching. Andrew Fletcher was a statesman back in the 1600s in Scotland. He made a profound statement that is still quoted in music universities around the world today. He said this If a man be permitted to make the ballads of a nation, now what does he mean by the ballads? The songs, the music. If a man be permitted to make the music of a nation, you need not care who writes the laws. In other words, he's saying the music influences the character of a nation more than the laws do Anybody think back, what what time frame in the last hundred years of the United States of America, and I'm talking about society and our character, when did we begin to change When did we start seeing drastic change in the character and morals of our country? 50s and 60s. The 60s in particular. The Bible's taken out of the schools. Prayer is rejected. The homosexual rights movement gets a footing and really starts making progress. Abortion is introduced a little bit later. What was characteristic, what was a major influence in our society in the late 50s and 60s? Rock and roll music In fact, it had such an influence in our society that Congress investigated, put together an investigation to investigate and study the adverse effects that rock and roll music was having on our society. So it does affect people. I think Andrew Fletcher was correct. He went on and said this: you cannot reform the morals of a city Without first changing its music. Do you get that? You cannot reform the morals of a city without first changing its music. What does he say? He is saying that the music of society has a profound effect upon the morals of society. Would you agree that our society has become immoral? What would you say is the cutting edge of introducing and pushing immorality? Would it not be the music industry? Anyone watch the news this week? The perversion that's taken place in our the music our young people listen to. I hate to even reference What took place on the national stage just a few nights ago and broadcast on national television. It's pornographic, all in the name of music. What I'm saying is this, music has a profound effect upon the morals of a people And so, um, God has directed us, his people, to be steadfast in our biblical convictions. Would you agree with that? We're to be steadfast on our biblical convictions. Um we're to we are to get Bible convictions and we are to plant our feet on them and we are not to move God's word does not change. God's standards of right and wrong do not change. God's morals do not change. And there is a very real force in our society That seeks to change those morals, those standards, those convictions that we have from the Word of God. And we are to guard against that. We are to stand firm against that. We are to be steadfast in our loyalty to God's word. And music is a powerful force that can either strengthen my biblical convictions or dilute my biblical convictions. Now, thus, we need to be very cautious and very deliberate in the music we allow to influence us. Now I'm talking about primarily I'm addressing in this series the music we use in the church here But can I encourage you to take these same principles and apply them to the music you allow to influence you individually outside the church? It has a profound effect on us. It really does. And my experience has been, I've been doing this a long time. And I've been through the fuss when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis, in Bible college, we dealt with it, you know, pastoring. I was out in youth evangelism for three years. I've had everybody, I've had the kids, I've had their parents, I've had their grandparents confront me and give me every argument in the book as to why contemporary Christian music is good for us And I have yet to be convinced that that's correct. My experience has been this that every church that I know of That has introduced contemporary Christian music has fundamentally changed in their character. That church did not remain the same Neither did that church become stronger in its commitment to the Lord. It did not become more biblical in its convictions, but rather just the opposite. I have yet to know, and maybe there's exceptions out there, I've never come across them. But I have yet to meet anybody That was strong and had good solid Bible convictions, had good, solid Bible doctrine, and embraced contemporary Christian music and got stronger in their convictions. Never found, never heard that happen. It always goes the other way. I do not know of any Christian that dressed more modestly because they listened to contemporary Christian music than because they listened that they stuck to the good old gospel hymns. Never saw it happen I can give you illustration after illustration after illustration of churches that embrace contemporary Christian music And it wasn't long until the invitation was gone, it wasn't long until the standards were set aside, it wasn't long until revivals uh were canceled. Now I'm not saying that's true across the board But I'm telling you, I can show you where contemporary Christian music changed the very character of what that church was. And I'll be very honest with you, Mount Lake and Embed and Pat Church, we have our areas that we need to work on, we have our areas of shortcoming, but I'll tell you one thing I do not want this church to change as far as our doctrine and our convictions and our standards are concerned because I am convinced they are solid on the Bible. And I will stand, and I trust you'll stand with me, that we will not allow a force to come in that will alter our fundamental heritage and our fundamental standing on the Word of God. And I believe contemporary Christian music does that. I believe it's a direct threat to our fundamental position I found that churches that embrace contemporary Christian music generally become more man-centered. Generally, they drift from strong biblical convictions. Can I give a personal testimony? My home church. Um back home years ago Now, it was a little more subtle there. They didn't all sudden drop the hymns and and bring in the rock bands. They didn't all sudden do away with the piano and bring in the the drum set. They didn't do that But it was subtle, subtle. They'd bring it in here, a little bit there. Next thing they weren't using hymns, then they then uh they're just singing praise songs. You know what my dad says when he comes down here? When my dad's down here, I want you to sometime keep an eye on him when he's sitting over here. He usually sits right about where Mr. Waterhouse is You watch him when we're singing the hymns. You know what's happening? There's tears rolling down his cheeks. You know what he tells me? He says, I miss singing these old hymns. He says our church, he's just telling me yesterday on the phone, last night we were talking. He says our church doesn't give invitations anymore He said, Sunday night exile. I don't even go to church. Sunday night there's nothing. They don't do anything. He said, Wednesday night, they have a few kids' things, no prayer meeting, no Bible lesson. He said, we haven't had revival meeting in 20 or for 20, 25 years. Can you imagine that? So we don't go soul winning. My dad drove the buses there for years and years and years. Said they'd sold the buses twenty-some years ago. Don't run any buses. No visitation. Nothing Now, does contemporary Christian music do all that? No, not directly, but that's all part of the changing of a church. I'm convinced of that. The music is a powerful, powerful force. I know of no church or Christian that has embraced contemporary Christian music and is now stronger in their doctrinal position, more modest in their apparel, or more distinct in their separation from the world and to Christ. I have seen Christians leave good strong churches stuck to the good godly hands. Next thing you know, boy, their body's pierced. They got tattoos all over them. They're going to the world and rocking and rolling. And it's it changes them. It changes them. A. W. Tozer said this. How many people recognize the name? A. W. Tozer. Boy, what a great man. He wrote this. The notion that music and song are merely for enter uh let me start over. The notion that music and song are merely for amusement And that their effects can be laughed off is in deadly error. Actually, they exercise a powerful creative influence over the plastic human soul. And there are permanent, their permanent effects will be apparent in our either growth in grace or our growth in evil. What's he saying? The music we listen to has a profound effect on whether we grow in grace or whether we grow away from grace in sinfulness and worldliness. I've dealt with this a long time. I don't have the final answer. I am not a musician. I could introduce you to people that can break down the music principles and particles and tell you You know the reasons for different stuff? I can't do that. But I do know this. I told Brother Hamlin, I've been in ministry 25 years, 28 years, 1985 I do know this in all these years I have yet to have someone come to me, take I've had plenty of people take issue with me, but I have yet to have someone take issue with me and come to me with an open Bible And sit down and give me scriptural basis as to why I should embrace contemporary Christian music. Nobody has ever done that yet. You know what they say to me? They say, you're just being judgmental. They say, but I like it. Or they'll say, there's nothing wrong with it. It's popular. It gets people out. Listen, that is not the basis of our decisions. The basis of our decision is what does the Bible teach? And if somebody could sit down and take an open Bible and convince me that it is biblical and spiritual and of God to take To take our music and imitate the world, to adapt the world's values, and bring it into our music. If they could show me from the Bible that that's of God, then I'll do it tomorrow But it can't be done. Can't be done. It's an old illustration, but it applies here beautifully Uh a king had built a castle on the top of a mountain. And he had a home down in the valley and one up on the mountain. And the problem was the road up to the mountain was very treacherous. On the one side was a straight cliff up, and the other side was a straight cliff down for thousands of feet. And he was trying to find a chariot driver that was can would convince him he could get him up there To the top of the mountain safely. And so he had different tryouts, and it all boiled down to two. He goes, alright, and says, I'm gonna have you take me to the mountain on this treacherous road. And uh see which of you convinces me you can get me there the safest. The first one is very confident. He says, I can get him there. I can handle these horses, I can handle this chariot. I've been riding these since I was a little kid. I have no fear. Put the king in the back and hea! Those horses took off and he went racing up that hill, flying around the corners right along the edge. Lo and behold, he got to the top and he didn't go over. He said, What do you think of that, King? Because man, you can really run that thing. Went back down, the next guy was there. Next guy got King Annie. He said, Are you ready? Yes? Okay. You're very deliberate, very carefully ran that chariot right over against the wall. As close as he could. He got up there, took him a little longer. And the king said, That's the one who wanted to drive my chair. He doesn't see how close to the edge he can get. He's very, very careful to make sure he's safe That is my approach to our music in our church. I want us to be very cautious. I want us to be very conservative. I want what we do to be sure It mashes up with scripture. I would far rather, and this applies in so many areas, I would far rather get to heaven. And find out I could have done some things I didn't, than to stand before Jesus Christ and find out I did a lot of things I ought not to have done. Does that make sense? You know what that's called? That's called being careful. It's called not causing others to stumble. It's bringing glory to God. So that's why we don't use contemporary Christian music. That's why I don't listen to it in my own personal life. I don't listen to it. I don't want it to influence me. And uh Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord, I pray, Lord, that I was able to communicate this in a way that people understand