Five years. In that time we've been pleasing and displeasing to our customers. We've made money and lost money. We've suffered the effects of government control and bad billpayers We've been held up, robbed, lied to, and even cussed at. The only reason we remain open is to see what's going to happen tomorrow. I know that feeling a little bit. That one wasn't that great, so I'll try this one. Four-year-old girl had to have an x-ray. Apparently this is a true story. Little kids are great. Little girl, four-year-old had to have an x-ray at the medical office. Um this nurse is telling this story She was in an accident with her bicycle and the doctor thought she broke her wrist. However, uh the girl was just very concerned about the procedure and no matter how much her mom tried to calm her down, the she was just uh frantic. and scared to death and uh trying to get her into the x-ray department there. Uh she was just uh resisting with every ounce of her being. They finally got her in there. And a few minutes later after the x-ray she came out and she was calm and all smiles. And um her mother said, Well how'd it go, sweetheart? She goes, They took a picture of my bones, she said, smiling. And she goes, Well yes, dear, I told you it would be easy. Did everything go okay? And she goes, yes, it was great. I didn't even have to take my skin off or anything. And so she thought she was going to have to take her skin off John chapter 14, if you would notice with me verse number one. I want to read down through verse 6. The Bible says, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. And receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know. Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest, and how can we know the way? Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. I want to talk about heaven tonight, just for a few minutes. And uh let's ask the Lord to bless, speak to our hearts. Father, thank you for blessing us today. Lord, every day just screams by so quickly. And uh we're just grateful that uh for the service this morning and the fellowship tonight. Lord, we're looking at something that's very dear to uh believers and Lord your word addresses and this matter of heaven. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that we would have a renewed appreciation for this place, a renewed confidence in the reality of heaven. And Lord, a renewed anticipation for the day that we can be there and experience that wonderful place. And fill me with your Holy Spirit, I plead, dear Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Uh it's probably been a month ago now. It might have been a little more than that, not much. I got an email. It came through our website. A fella had picked up one of our gospel tracts, and I don't know where he's from, uh out of the area here But he picked up one of our gospel tracts that says how to go to heaven. It's one of our um uh Beacon of Truth tracts, and he had written to me. And he wrote me saying, basically challenging the fact that the Bible teaches that Christians go to heaven when they die. And he questioned me, he says, where in the Bible does it say that a believer, a Christian, will go to heaven when they die? Well to me it was a very simple answer. I did a little research. I had his cell I had his uh email address and his full name, so I was able to find out a little bit about him And uh he's basically a critic and he had written a lot of different places challenging things. And so I didn't take a whole lot of time with him, but I would like to answer that question. Where does the Bible teach that when a Christian dies, he's going to heaven? Well, there's no direct verse that says that But the Bible clearly teaches it. The same, but when a Christian dies, they go to be with the Lord Jesus. Right? We understand that. John 14, verse 3, he says, that where I am, there ye may be also. 2 Corinthians 5:8, Paul says, absent from the body, present with the Lord. Talking about a believer. When he's absent from the body, when he dies, he goes to be with the Lord. Philippians 1 23, Paul said that he would far rather uh that uh he's in a strait between two. One is to remain with them, and the other is to go and be with Christ And so the Bible teaches that when a believer dies, we go to wherever Jesus is. Does that make sense? Wherever Jesus is, that's where the believer goes when they die. So that leads to the next question. Where is Jesus then? Well, the Bible clearly teaches that Jesus is with the Father. Look with me at chapter 15 of John, uh John chapter 15, uh just a page over in verse number five. He says this. He says, I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him this That's not right. John chapter 15 and verse number 10. Let's try that one. That ain't right. John chapter 14. That ain't right. Somewhere it says that Jesus That Jesus is with the Father. If you go to we won't take the time, but Hebrews chapter 8 and verse 1, and Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 12, I think. Says that Jesus is with the Father. He's at the right hand of the Father. So we know that wherever Jesus is, that's where the believer goes when they die. Jesus is with the Father. The question is, where is the Father? Well, in Matthew 6:9, in Matthew 16, verse 17, and in Luke 11, verse 2, we're told that the Father is in heaven. So it's a roundabout way to get there, but it's very clear in Scripture that when a believer dies, they go to heaven. They go to be with the Lord. They go in the presence of God. And God is in heaven. And so I want to talk tonight a little bit about this place called heaven. My first point is this: heaven is an actual, real, literal place. Heaven is a real place. Heaven is as real as God. If there is no heaven, there is no God. Because repeatedly we're told about God being in heaven. If heaven is not literal, then we don't have a literal God. But God is real. God is for uh literal, and we have an actual real place called heaven. Every scripture in the Bible dealing with heaven presents heaven as a real place, an actual location. It's interesting as I got studying this. The Bible never tries to prove heaven. There's no passages in Scripture where it says, all right, here's the evidence and proof of heaven. The Bible just assumes the place called heaven, just like the Bible assumes the existence and presence of God. The Bible assumes the existence and presence of heaven. What does Genesis chapter 1 and verse 1 say? In the beginning, God. And uh so the Bible just assumes heaven's existence Since Christians, somebody made this statement. I came across this. Since Christians have largely ceased to think about the other world, we have become very ineffective in this world. Do you get that? The less we give thought to the place called heaven, the more ineffective we are in this place called earth. I had a roommate when I went down to Bible college, uh I had in my mind, I pictured, I was just a new Christian. And I pictured in my mind when when I went to Bible college that everybody there loved God. Everybody there was sold out for Jesus Christ. Everybody there just wanted to live for the Lord. And uh I got there, I found out that wasn't so. And I had a roommate and um I was excited, got showed up down there, I was excited, I was out, got involved in the bus ministry, mentioned that a couple weeks ago, and Uh and uh boy I was getting in they had prayer meetings and uh and uh I thought we had eight guys in a one room of apartments. We had eight College guys, freshmen in a one room apartment. And uh four beds uh four beds in the living room, which was just one room in the kitchen and a bedroom, and four beds, two bunk beds in the in the bedroom. And so we were packed full. I said, hey guys, you know what would be great? Let's have devotions every night. I thought they would all be, yeah, that's a great idea. And uh they're all like, what? Are you crazy? Uh and I said, why not? It'd be great. We could share prayer requests and read a Bible verse and just kind of finish out the day together and And uh I said it would be great. One fellow said this. He said, Brother Leatherman, he says, you are so heavenly minded you're of no earthly good. Now that was a slap in the face to me. You're so heavenly minded, you're no earthly good. And I got I walked away and I thought, well, maybe maybe I'm going overboard with this a little bit. And I got thinking about that, and I that night I thought, you know, that knucklehead, I thought, you know, he's so earthly-minded, he's no heavenly good. His whole life is here and now. His whole life is this world. He's not even thinking about the fact that there's a world to come and there's a God to meet someday. I think it would do our church and the churches across the land a heap of good to remind ourselves, hey, we're going to a place called heaven. It's for real. It may affect how we live our lives here. It may affect how we value things here and now. And so, um, now here's a question. People deny the reality of heaven. People give stupid questions and challenge us in some obvious areas. Who is behind, who is it that is behind the false doctrine denying heaven? Who's behind that? Who's behind uh the unbelief and of the atheists denying the reality of heaven and hell? Well, the answer is given to us in Revelation chapter 13. Now keep your place here in John. We're going to jump back and forth between the Gospel of John and Revelation a little bit, but come back to Revelation chapter 13. And we're told who's behind this. I did a funeral here. It's been some several years ago. I did a funeral. and uh and um did the service and afterward as i always do I came down and I shared my condolences with the family. They were sitting on the front row here and expressed my love for and my prayers and I stood off on the side And the person I did the funeral for was a saved person. I talked about them being in heaven and uh and talked about that a little bit and as I was standing here as they were dismissing Person got up. I mean this is a pretty good size crowd. Person got up. They were sitting over on this side, got up, walked out in front of everybody as they're orderly dismissing And walked down, came right up to me standing here, and started confronting me about whether a person goes to heaven. And started saying a person doesn't go to heaven when they die and the the Uh there is no heaven. We're just waiting for a new earth and God's going to come back and create a new earth and we're all going to live here on earth. And uh I said, well first of all, who in the world wouldn't want to go to heaven when they die And I said, second of all, I don't think this is the time or place for us to discuss this. I'm standing here right in front of everybody. And they were just worked up that there is no heaven. that um that uh everything is uh here now on this earth and and all that do you know what you know what cult that we're in? Jehovah's Witness. Deny the reality of heaven. Who's behind all of that? Look with me at Revelation chapter 13 and look with me at verse number 6. This is speaking of the Antichrist, Satan's Messiah. Of course, Satan is behind him and empowering him. And look what it says. He opened his mouth in blasphemy against God. To blaspheme his name, now look at this, and his God's tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven. Do you notice what it says? Satan is possessing the Antichrist to blaspheme God in his name and to blaspheme God's tabernacle. Now, that may simply be referring to the tribulation temple that's going to be rebuilt during the tribulation, but I don't believe that's the case. The tabernacle of God is heaven, where God dwells. And this verse tells me that Satan possesses the Antichrist to blaspheme. To speak ridicule of to mock and diminish the idea of heaven And so the attacks on heaven, when people criticize and find fault and reject the Bible teaching on heaven, I am convinced they are satanically, in uh those doctrines are satanically produced. That is who is behind all of that. J. C. Ryle was a preacher back in England, back in the 1800s, and he made this statement. He said, I pity the man who never thinks about heaven. Well, that's an interesting statement. I adopted it a little bit. I put this. I pity the man that distorts the reality of heaven. The fact is there is a heaven. It's very real. It's a literal place. The Bible teaches it that way And so our first thought is: what about heaven? What's it like? Well, it's real. I put this down for my second thought. Heaven is not just a real literal place, but heaven is a wonderful place Turn with me again, if you would, back to John chapter 14. And I love this passage of Scripture. John chapter 14 and verse number 2, he says this: In my father's house. Interesting, that word house comes from the same word we have the word tabernacle that we just read in Revelation. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. Now look what he says here. I go to prepare a place for you. Who is it that's doing the preparing of this place? It's Jesus Christ. What kind of mansion do you think that Jesus Christ would prepare? Can you imagine? Um look around at creation. I made reference uh this morning about when we were out there, Tom and I were out fishing Friday night, and it was about 10, 10. He's not here. He caught more than me the stink pot. But um uh we're out there and uh we're looking up at that sky and I thought, good night. Jesus Christ just spoke all of this into existence. And the beauty of that sky, you know what verse came to my mind? The heavens declare the glory of God. And the firmament showeth his handiwork. If God created this world and this, as beautiful as this world is, in its fallen state, what in the world must heaven be like? Christ is there preparing us a place. Now here's the interesting thing. He says, in my father's house are many mansions. It's places you live in. Now, who is he talking to here? Now, this is what really stirs my heart. Well, we've got to come back to chapter 13 and look up there at verse number 36. I'm going to read these verses, give the context, and that changes a little bit my understanding of verse 2 here. Look at verse 36. Simon Peter said unto him Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now, but thou shalt follow me afterwards Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake. Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily I say unto you, the cock shall not crow till thou hast denied me thrice. Now keep reading into chapter 14. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God? Believe also in me. Who's he talking to? Peter. Chapter 14, verse 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 is a continuation of his conversation he's having one-on-one with Peter. And he says to Peter, get this. He says to Peter, in my father's house, he's standing there looking at Peter, and Peter's looking at him, listening to him, I'm convinced, very intently. Because Jesus just told him he's going to deny Jesus three times. Peter says, Oh, I'm going to die. Jesus says, No, you're going to die me three times. But don't let your heart be troubled, Peter. You believe in God, believe also in me. And then he says to Peter, In my father's house are many mansions. I go to prepare a place for You, who's the you? Peter. You know what he's saying? Peter, I'm making a place for you specifically I am designing a mansion for you. This isn't just a blanket statement that, oh yeah, we got mansions up there, you know. I'm convinced in studying this, the more I study it, the more convinced I become of it. When Jesus says he's preparing a place, a mansion in heaven, I believe That in heaven, that real actual literal place, Jesus Christ prepares a mansion for each and every individual believer. With our personalities, our unique characteristics all in mind. We don't lose that when we get to heaven. And so, Jesus said to Peter, I'm preparing a mansion for you. By implication, and by application, we say he's preparing a mansion for all believers. And so we get to heaven, we find out that God has prepared a dwelling place for us, a mansion for us, that is specifically designed for us. I do not see uh just dormitories in heaven. All exactly the same. Do you ever drive through those neighborhoods? Where they all all the houses have the same windows, they all have the same garage, same design, same roof, same yard, same port anybody everybody know what I'm talking about I don't see that happening in heaven. I see I think you drive by Brian and Sandy's mansion, you'll say, Oh yeah, that's where Brian and Sandy live. Apple trees all over the place. Yeah, that's their place. Uh you know, it's designed specifically for us. I think we'll get Brother Pat drive by there. There'll be a rocket launching plaid right on the what in the world. Got a place for you. And so heaven is a wonderful, wonderful place. And here's something interesting, and I didn't realize this until I was preparing this message. That word prepare, I go to prepare a place for you, it was actually used in ancient days, that term was used to refer to a king who had an advanced team. And when the king was going to travel from one city to another for diplomatic purposes or whatever, he would have an advanced team that would go ahead And they would put everything in place exactly the way that king wanted it. They would establish the food. They knew the type of food that king preferred They knew what type of tapestry he would prefer. They knew what type of housing. And they would go ahead and they would prepare A place specifically for that royalty that was coming. Same word Now, does that not imply to you and I that Jesus Christ, anticipating our arrival in heaven, is preparing, putting together a mansion, a place designed specifically with you and I in mind? I don't think that's stretching it. What an amazing place heaven is. I'll be honest with you, the more I studied this, the more I thought, boy, I'm kind of anxious to get there. See what this thing is. Heaven is a literal, real literal place. It is a wonderful place. Come over to Revelation. Here's some more wonderful stuff about heaven. Revelation chapter number twenty one and uh Look at verse number two with me. Revelation 21 and verse 2 And I, John, saw the holy city, the New Jerusalem. Now, I'm I have a sneaking suspicion that New Jerusalem is heaven. And that's where believers go dwell until this event. Then the new Jerusalem comes down from God out of heaven, the heavens, prepared as a bride, a torn for her husband And this is the new heaven and new earth. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle, the dwelling place of God is with men. And he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. You know one of the things that makes heaven so wonderful? I think one of them is that there's going to be a mansion built especially for me. Well, I think we'll walk into that thing and wow, you know, this is exactly the way I would have made it. Man, the Lord knew I like that kind of sink. How about that? And uh, wow, this is big. Uh there's a uh well anyway, but um we go through there and uh but there's another thing, another aspect of heaven that makes it wonderful, and actually this is it It's the we will be in the presence of God. Think about that. We will be right there with God We will see Jesus Christ with our eyes. Our faith will become sight. Be in the presence of God. Somebody said that if heaven, if the mansions of heaven were tar paper shacks, and the streets were made of gravel, and the skies were cloudy all day. If Jesus was there, it would still be heaven. Would still be heaven. The presence of God will be with the one that created this. Universe and everything. Amazing thing. It's the presence of God that makes heaven so wonderful. Look with me at verse number four, the same chapter. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death. Neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. No more death in heaven, no graveyards No tombstones, no hospitals, no ambulance, no fire trucks, no pain, no death I was when I was on staff with Neighborhood Bible Time, there was a uh large church in Detroit. That had Bible time the year before and the evangelists really did some dumb stuff and they weren't going to have it again. So Brother Holmster was talking to the pastor that that school year and he said, listen, we really want you to have it's a big church and always had great responsibility. He goes, listen, don't give up on us. He says I'll send Brother Dennis Leatherman out there, his crack evangelist. And um his uh I'll send Brother Leatherman out there and just give us one more chance. And um he says, okay. So I went out, of course I'm under the gun, and uh I gotta I gotta do good and man we're preaching there's like six hundred kids And the one day I got on, I don't remember what the story was, we had all these kids out there, I mean several hundred kids out there, and all the workers they must have had thirty or five or forty teachers and And uh I'm just going at it and I'm all excited and I'm telling the story on it. Somehow I got awful in heaven and I'm talking about how great heaven is and no school in heaven and no homework and And uh all this stuff, you don't get no spankins in heaven and the kids are all, yeah, you know, and they're cheering. And I said, Praise God, there won't be any dentists in heaven, and the kids are afterward Kids are all gone and we're standing around, I'm all psyched, you know, and I was into it and it was fun. And ladies standing there. And uh she goes, Mr. Leatherman, can I have a word with you? I said, sure. She goes, you said there won't be any dentists in heaven. I said, yeah? My husband is a dentist, she said. I said, oops. And I explained to her, of course, I didn't mean there wouldn't be dentists. There won't be the need for dentistry in heaven. And she was just giving me a hard time, scared me to death. But um Hey, I tell you that one fact alone. No dentists in heaven. Praise the Lord. Amen? And uh so uh heaven's a wonderful place. We've got mansions designed just for us. There's no more death, no more pain, no more sorrow. I was helping someone this week, and they were just crying. Their heart was so broke over some sin. And uh, you know, that's not going to happen in heaven. Can I tell you one of the things that I appreciate so that to me makes heaven so wonderful? One, of course, is the presence of Christ. That's the super reason. But there's something else. We get to heaven. There's no more sin nature to deal with. Ain't that something? I am never going to have to struggle in my own heart with what's right and wrong. Never again. No more battle fighting temptation. No more end of the day coming and hanging my head and saying, ma'am, why did I say that today? Every desire of the heart is going to be pure. And holy and good. Isn't that amazing? I just almost try and fantasize what would that be like To have no sinful tendency at all. No temptation of the heart at all. My thoughts are all pure My words are all pure. My actions are all good and kind, Christ-like, without any effort, without any struggle. Isn't that amazing? What a wonderful place heaven's going to be. Revelation 21, look at verse 19. And the foundation this this is fascinating to me. Says in the foundation of the wall of the city were garnished Uh the wall of the city were garnished with all manner of precious stones. The first out foundation was jasper, the second sapphire, the third Chalcedony, the fourth emerald, the fifth Sardona Sardonyx, uh, the sixth Sardis, the seventh Crystallite The eighth barrel, the ninth Topaz, the tenth Christo Christopheras. I'm impressed with Pat how he can say these names so well. Uh I'll get him to read this part next time. And uh the eleventh a Jisenith and the twelfth Amethyst and the twelve gates were twelve pearls, every several gate was one pearl And uh a little boy heard the preacher reading that and he said, Uh, hang the pearls, I want to see the oyster that made that baby. And um but uh and uh the the city was pure gold as it was transparent glass. A man visited a distinguished artist in his studio. And the artist was there at his table, and he had an open Bible beside him, and he had it open to this passage I just read to you. And he was arranging colored glass squares. He was arranging them. And he said to the man as he walked in, he said, I have made an amazing discovery. He said, These are the precious stones in the foundation of the New Jerusalem. Look at this. And when they are placed in the order described in the vision of John in Revelation, they form a perfect harmony of color. He said, were a convention of artists called to produce a perfect color scheme, they could not improve upon what is presented here in this passage. Isn't that an amazing thing? Heaven is a wonderful, wonderful place. Somebody asked, will we know each other in heaven? I like what the old preacher said. He said, well, we're not going to be dumber in heaven than we are on earth. Good point. The Bible says, then we shall know even as we are known. Yes, we will know each other in heaven. The fact is, we're not given a whole lot of information in the Bible as to what heaven is like. We just don't know a whole lot. I gave you basically what we're told about heaven. The interesting thing is, and in a couple weeks I want to do a message on what is hell. The interesting thing is, we're told a whole lot more about hell in the Bible than we are about heaven. We have much more information and details about hell than we're told about heaven. Somebody said this: heaven is an unknown region with a well-known inhabitant. That's true. Richard Baxter was an old Puritan years ago, hundreds of years ago. He said this, My knowledge of that land, speaking of heaven, my knowledge of that land is small, my eye of faith is dim. But it is enough that Christ knows all, and I shall be with him. I like that sentiment. I guess the best description of heaven and how wonderful it is is simply this: to be with Jesus. To be with Jesus. And Paul said, that's far better. That's far better. So heaven is a real literal place. It's a wonderful place. So let me quickly add this: heaven is an active place. What do we do there? We've got this picture from cartoons and whatnot that we're going to set around on clouds and harp on harps and just float around. To me, uh, no thanks. I'm not interested in floating around on clouds and harping on harps. The fact of the matter is the Bible tells us differently. If you would, we're right here in Revelation 22. Come over to 22. Look with me at verse number 6. Or I'm sorry, verse number three. Revelation 22, verse number three. We're told a little bit what we'll be doing in eternity in heaven. Look at verse 3. And there shall be no more curse, praise the Lord But the throne of God and the Lamb shall be in it, and his servants shall what? Serve him. The word serve simply means to minister to or to perform services. We're going to have responsibilities in heaven. We're going to have a job to do. See if there isn't anybody here like me. Now you may be a little different, but if I have a day off and I just sit around and do nothing. By the end of the day, I am miserable. Anybody can I can anybody get a witness? Now some of y'all say, I love it. But if I'm just sitting around doing it, man, I'm irritable at the end of the day, and I'm grouchy, I mean more so than normal, and um I mean it's just terrible. And Kathy said to me the other day, I was I was kinda messing around last Tuesday. She goes, You need to go do something. And um that's be just between us. But um But if I got a day where I'm busy, I'm working, boy, the end of the day, I know I produced this and I accomplished that and I did that and the other, you know, there's real fulfillment there. You know what I say? That was a good day. That was a good day. You know what's like in heaven? It's going to be good day. We're going to be busy about the Lord's work. I don't know what all involved, but we'll be serving. It says a little bit later on that we will reign. It means to exercise responsibility over. God's going to give us responsibilities in heaven. He's going to give us duties to perform, services to carry out. And we're just, I think, my impression is we're just going to be busy bees as happy as can be. Just going about it. Now the Bible said, but Brother Letterman, Revelation says that we'll be at rest. Sure. We'll be just rested, peace in our heart, joy in our heart, as we're busy serving God. Isn't that a wonderful thing? I look forward to that more than just sitting around You say, oh, preacher, you mean we work in heaven? Hey, God created Adam before the fall came, before Adam sinned. He had all kinds of work to do. He had all kinds of responsibility in paradise, paradise of Eden, boy, he was to till the land and to keep it And I think Adam was a very fulfilled man, working away there, and hit his job. At the end of the day, well, that was a good day. That's the way heaven's going to be. Very fulfilling, I believe. A godly man was on his deathbed, and obviously he was only going to live a little while, but he was very conscious. And his son came in and was concerned that his daddy was afraid of dying. And he sat down beside him and he said, Daddy, how do you feel? And he said, I don't mean physically, I know how that is, but how do you feel about facing death? And he said, his daddy got a big smile. And he said, I feel like a little boy on Christmas Eve. A little boy on Christmas Eve. Going to heaven. It's a literal place, it's a wonderful place, it's an active place, and heaven is an available place. Anybody can go to heaven. If they'll trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. What did Jesus say in John 14:6? I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Jesus is the way to heaven. So two things I end with. One, let's make sure we know Jesus Christ our personal Savior. You're in church on a Sunday night on Labor Day weekend. So I venture to say, for the most part, most of us, no doubt, know Jesus Christ our personal Savior. Praise God for that. Amen. If we know Christ as Savior, let's give thought to heaven. Let's think about it. Let's evaluate what we are investing our time and effort and resources in here and now. Realizing we're only going to be here for a short time. 70, 80, 90 years is a short time. Ask anybody that's 70 or 80 or 90 years old. They'll tell you it's a short time. How much am I investing my time and my effort and my resources into something? I'm only going to be here a little bit. When I know I'm on my way to heaven, where I'm going to be with God for all eternity. Maybe it might be a little bit better investment to invest our time and energy and services in that which is eternal. And that which bears fruit in heaven brings glory to God in heaven. Um How do we do that, preacher? We win souls. You know what my conclusion was when I was done this study? You know what God spoke to my heart about? I need to get as many people on the way to heaven as I possibly can. I'm afraid we as independent fundamental Baptists have lost the vision of soul winning. We've lost the urgency of getting people to know Jesus Christ so that they go to heaven when they die and not to hell. This place is amazing. And as amazing and awesome as heaven is, hell is as horrible So what do we do? We've got to invest ourselves in getting people to heaven. In getting people to heaven, bringing them to Jesus Christ, introducing them to Jesus Christ. And I'm asking those of us that are here tonight, let's commit ourselves. Let's commit the rest of our lives. As believers, to getting as many people to know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior as we possibly can Tell you, this broke my heart again tonight for Kazakhstan. 17 million people. And heaven is available to them. If we can just get the gospel there. We just get the gospel into. That requires praying to break down satanic strongholds, fasting, no doubt, maybe a factor in this. What about our community? What about the people we'll be with tomorrow and Tuesday and the schoolmates we go with? Heaven? Hell? Heaven's an available place. We just need to bring people to Christ and they can go to heaven. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to rejoice in the wonderful place that awaits us. God, this amazing place. I pray you'd help us to reevaluate our values here and now and our temporary values we invest