If you would take your Bibles and turn with me tonight to James chapter one That song um Ship Ahoy that he was talking about tonight, uh you ought to hear Lonnie Moore sing that song. Brother Moore's been here and years gone by. I'm telling you, he can sing that song just beautifully. And uh that's that's a great, great hymn. James chapter one, I want to read verses 21 and 22 and 23 Actually, I'm just going to read 21 and 22. This whole section all the way down through verse 25. This really is one passage that should go together. But I I I'm just going to zero on verse 21, but I want to read verse 22, kind of get the context here. Notice James 1 verse 21. Wherefore, lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your soul. But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. And so I want to I want to speak tonight just quickly on the right way to receive God's word in verse number 21 there. Let's pray. Father, bless now our study of your word. What a joy it's been to be in your house. And God to uh fellowship with your people, sing these songs. Uh just blesses my heart. And now as we finish out the day in your word, I ask that you would help us teach us And help us to grow in our faith and become stronger Christians. Lord, maybe you'd give us something tonight that would prepare us for the week ahead. That our testimony be strong and clear. Fill me with your spirit, I pray. Speak through me, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. One of the dumbest things a person can do is to try and lie to God. Do you agree with me? That's just dumb to try and lie to God. People have tried it throughout history, and you know what? It's never worked. It's dumb to lie to God because God is all-knowing. He knows everything. Ananias and Sapphira tried lying to God. Didn't work too good, did it? He ended up dead. God knew. And so it's really dumb for you and I to think that we can somehow convince God something is so that ain't so, isn't so Try and get God to think something is one thing when it's really something else. That's not going to work. That's dumb. Now, it's very damaging to lie to other people. It's dumb to lie to God, but it's damaging to lie to other people. You read Proverbs, you know Proverbs talks a lot about the lying tongue. And when we lie to other people, all we really do is hurt people. We damage relationships, we damage our testimony. We damage other people sometimes, their credibility, their testimony. And so we need to stop and think. When we're trying to weasel out of a situation or we're trying to convince somebody that something is one thing when it's really something else. And we lie, we're hurting things. We're causing damage. It's better to tell the truth and let the chips fall where they may than to lie. So one, I said it's dumb to try and lie to God. That's just dumb. Two, it's very damaging to lie to other people. That hurts things. But number three, get us started here. It is deadly. It is dangerous to lie to myself. If I convince myself that something is one thing when it's something else, I am setting myself up for disaster. To lie to myself is deadly. I'd like for you to keep your place here in James, and we're going to look at a few verses as quickly as we can tonight. I'd like for you to turn with me back, turn with me back to Matthew chapter 7. Of course, Matthew chapter 7 is right smack dab in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount. We're studying the introduction to the Sermon on Mount on Wednesday nights, the Beatitudes. And I understand Mark did an excellent job Wednesday night. I appreciate him filling in for me. And Matthew chapter 7, verse number 22. Let's look at verse 21. Matthew 7, verse 21. This is a very significant portion of scripture. We ought to be familiar with this passage Matthew 7. 21, Jesus speaking here, he says, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven, now look at this, many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils And in thy name done many wonderful works. Sound like some good folks, huh? I mean, these are outstanding people. But look what the Lord says in verse 23. Then will I profess unto them I what? Never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work into iniquity. Here you have some folks who convinced themselves, deceived themselves into thinking they were saved. When they were really lost. They had convinced themselves that they were good enough to get to heaven, when in reality they ended up in hell. Can you see where deceiving myself can be incredibly dangerous? Convincing myself that everything's okay when it isn't? Convincing myself that uh I'm going to heaven when I die and I'm really going to hell. Now, it's deadly for an unsaved person to convince themselves they're really saved when they're not. But it's also dangerous for a Christian, one who is saved, genuinely trusting Christ as Savior. And deceive themselves into thinking that they are spiritual when they're really carnal. Sometimes we can get the right words and we can put on the right show, and we just convince ourselves That we're far more spiritual than what we really are. And you know what I found? Generally other people see through that pretty quick. It is dangerous when we convince ourselves as Christians that when that we are mature Christians when in reality we're really immature. That we are wise when in reality we're really pretty foolish. And we have a tendency, and I'm using the word we, we have a tendency to think of ourselves more highly than we really ought to. And we have a tendency to think of ourselves much more spiritual and much more wise and much more mature than what we really are. Now I said all that because of a statement that is made in James chapter 1 and verse 22. And as I said, verse 21 all the way down through 25 is one passage dealing with the subject And notice what he says on the last part of verse 22. He says, Be ye doers of the word, not hearers only. Now look at this last phrase. Deceiving who? Your own selves. Says you've got yourselves fooled. You believe one thing is true about yourself when in reality something completely different is true. And this whole section here, we're beginning, verse 21, is beginning an entire section that addresses the danger of deceiving ourselves. And God gives us here the importance of God's word so that I can accurately assess my spiritual condition. You follow what I'm saying? It is very easy and we are prone to fool ourselves and to think ourselves into thinking we're something we're not And so God gives us this passage of scripture here and says, this is how you avoid deceiving yourself. You go by the standard of my word, the word of God is what assesses my condition, not my opinion or not my popularity or my knowledge. God's word is what tells me whether I'm what I claim to be or not. And so, uh, verse 21, we get to as we introduce this, and he tells us right from the get-go how to receive God's word. Now let's look at verse 21. I'm going to try and buzz down through here as quickly as I can, but I do want to get the truth across. Wherefore, lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and I'll explain that, and use the word and receive Now that's the subject of verse 1, receiving the word of God. Or verse 21, I should say. The word receive is an interesting word. We think of, you know, you picture your mind, what is that word receive? This is the idea of the word. It has the idea. Do you ever see when these ladies come up and sometimes some of the ladies just need a little extra hand and Brother Mark or Pastor Grant or myself will step up And we'll kind of extend our hand to them and give them a hand and help them with a step. You've seen us do that? That's the idea of this word receiving, extending yourself up and bringing them to yourself. Uh it has the idea of um uh of embracing a friend. Somebody I was down this week as I've been talking all day about uh the beacon of truth in the board meeting and there's some of these fellows that are dear, dear friends that I see once, twice a year. And we immediately go up and we embrace each other. We're friends and we give each other a uh a hug And that's the idea of this word, receiving. It also has the idea of someone coming by your house And it's someone you know and someone that's dear to you and someone you're very familiar with, and you throw the door open and you say, come on in That's the idea here. Receive with meekness the engrafted word. Take the word of God in. Embrace it as a friend. Extend yourself out to it. Welcome it with hospility. Hospital hospitality. Hospitality. My brain's working faster in my mouth for a change. Usually maybe my mouth is going faster than my brain is actually. But uh it it has with hospitality, welcome the word of God Receive it as a dear friend, someone that is precious to me. And so he's telling us the attitude that we need to have as we approach the Word of God. When I open my Bible, I am to open it as a dear friend coming into near to me and welcome into my heart and life. Isn't that a beautiful picture? And so let me look at a few things here. How do I receive God's word? How do I go about receiving God's word in such a way? Number one, real quick, I need to give these to you. There must be preparation If I want God's word to accurately assess me so I'm not fooled, I don't deceive myself, there's a little preparation I need to do, and I get that from the first part of verse 21 Wherefore, lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness. So these are a few things I need to do if I'm going to receive God's Word. I need to do a little preparation. That word lay apart means to cast off. To put it aside, one of the first things I do on Sunday afternoon and Sunday evening and Wednesday evening is one of the two things that I do when I get into the house. First thing that goes is the jacket And then either the tie or the shoes are close second place. Get that thing off of here. Whoever invented ties, it had to have been a woman to invent a tie because no man would do this to another man. But that's the idea of that word put aside. Uh wherefore lay apart, I mean, uh get it off, get it away from you, get it out of there. So I stepped up to the pulpit here tonight and we had some of these certificates and whatnot and I laid them aside. I cleared off the the pulpit so I'd have room for my notes in my Bible. And that's the idea. He says when you come to the Word of God There's some things you've got to cast off. You've got to get them out of the way. You need to put them aside. Two things he tells us specifically, if we're going to get anything from God's Word, if it's going to help me in any way Two things in particular I need to clear out before God's word is going to be effective. Number one, filthiness. Now that's the only time that word is used in the Bible Right here. I went to look, see how it's used other places to get an idea of what he's talking about, and it's not used anywhere else. Um filthiness. Sorry, I looked up the definitions Uh it means to be not just dirty, but to be disgustingly filthy Now picture in your mind something that is disgustingly filthy. It has the idea of being filthy to the point of nasty. Repulsive. It is a word that is very offensive To the senses, to uh all this. Uh when we worked in Chattanooga uh there and uh ran the bus into the inner city projects, I mentioned this before There was one home there uh a woman lived in. And uh you know when I looked at this word and I started studying, that her home is a it was uh Government housing thing, uh her home came to mind. It was absolutely filthy Could not walk in and I could I could not be in it more than a few moments and I literally start getting sick. It was so filthy. That's the picture of the word here Now, wherefore lay apart all filthiness. You say, preacher, you know, I'm not that way Try to keep myself clean. I try to do right. I'm by uh you know I I think I'm a decent person. I wouldn't describe myself as a filthy person morally or spiritually Now here's the problem. We judge ourselves by our standards, not by God's standards. And your average Christian views sin as nothing more than simply breaking a law. We view sin as nothing more than, well, I wasn't perfect. Yeah, I did wrong, but you know, come on. Yeah, I went a few miles an hour over the spin. I broke the law, but you know, it's not that bad That's our problem. We view sin as some trivial little thing when God views sin as something that is absolutely filthy. Repulsive. God, and this is something that's been coming out in our study in re- in recent weeks, on Wednesday nights and Sundays. Our God is an incomprehensibly holy God And we have our own sinful behavior, we have our sinful habits, we have our sinful thought processes. Among ourselves, we don't see it that bad. But when I bring my disobedience and my lack of faithfulness and my sin before God's holiness God describes it as repulsively filthy. And he says, I've got to address that. If I am not going to face the sin that's in my life, I'm not going to get much from God's word. I'm going to continue to deceive myself into thinking everything is alright. When God says it's absolutely filthy. So there needs to be a little preparation. I need to stop and look at my life and say, you know, these things that I don't think are so bad in God's sight are absolutely horrendous. And they need to be addressed. I think one of the reasons Christianity is so anemic in our world today is because we have such a low view of what sin is We have whitewashed it and cleansed it to the point that it's really nothing more than just a mistake. When God says it's filthy. It's wrong. It was treated in the Old Testament as like a disease. Leprosy is one of the foremost types of what sin is like And nobody thought leprosy was a trivial thing. Nobody thought leprosy was just some, ah, it's a little something. Everyone viewed leprosy as something absolutely repulsive and hated and despised. And God says that's what sin is like. And so we come to God's word. We need to face this. There needs to be a little preparation. He says, put aside that sin. He says, lay apart, put it off like you put off a A coat, clear it out like you cleared off a table. Get that out of the way. Get that dealt with. Get it away when we when you receive God's word. I'd ask myself this as I was preparing this. What if our body's condition reflected our soul's condition? Some of us spend a good bit of time trying to keep this body clean, trying to get it to look decent and smell decent. And by the way, I'm really glad you do that. Praise the Lord. Keep it up. I thank God for deodorant. Amen. And showers and soap. That's good stuff. But wait a minute. What about our spirits condition? What about our spiritual condition? What if my body was as clean physically as my soul is spiritually? Huh. Wonder how filthy my body would be. I wonder how ashamed I would be to go out. He says, lay aside all filthiness, all filthiness. I believe we need to be as careful about the cleanliness of our soul as we are about the cleanliness of our bodies. I thought this was interesting. This word, he says, lay apart all filthiness. Now I don't know how these two connect, but I was reading several um experts on words and definitions and dictionaries and and uh encyclopedia. And they also said that this word filthiness here that we get our English word from, it also was used to refer to earwax How about that? We've had some experiences with that personally with earwax lately. It's none of your business. But the idea here was with this filthiness referring to earwax, the idea is It gets into the ear canal and just plugs that thing up and just clutters up the ear canal and cannot hear what's being said. Follow what's happening? And I thought that was interesting. He says, lay apart all filthiness. In other words, I wonder if the idea here isn't, listen, clear out the channel so you can hear what God's saying Clear up the clutter so God can actually speak to your heart when you come to the Word of God. I think it's interesting, Hebrews chapter 5, if you want to turn there, it's just a few pages away Hebrews chapter 5, Paul, I believe, is the human penman of chapter of Hebrews. And under the inspiration of God, he's writing to these Hebrew believers And uh he says in chapter 5 and verse number 11, listen what he says, of whom we have many things to say He's talking about uh Melchizedek and all this, and he says, we got a whole lot more to say about this, but he says I have many things to say, and they're hard to be uttered. It's hard for me to get through to you. It's hard for you to understand what I'm trying to say. Why? Seeing ye are what? Dull of hearing. In other words, you've got your ear canal so clogged up You can't even hear what God's trying to say to you. You can't even understand what the Lord is trying to speak to your heart and mind about. And when James says, lay apart all filthiness, all of this stuff and and uh you know that concept of earwax coming out Clear out the channel. Clear out what's between you and God. Make it clear so that God can speak to your heart so you're no longer deceiving yourselves. And we can see ourselves for what we really are and where we need to go and what we need God to do in our lives. But you're so many Christians, so many of us Have our hearts and lives just filled with sin. What God considers to be repulsively filthy. And we can't even hear what God's trying to say to us. And thus we think we're fine. We think things are what they are So there needs to be a little preparation. The other thing he says we need to lay apart, verse 21, not just filthiness. I like this phrase for whatever reason, I think it's fascinating. Superfluity of naughtiness. Isn't that a cool word? Superfluity of naughtiness. All right, that's not something we term we use every day. So what does it mean? Superfluity means what you maybe picture it to mean. It means an overabundance. If you have an abundance of something, you have what? You have more than what? More than enough. You've got abundance of something. You've got more than enough. But this has the idea of overabundance. I've got more than more than enough. It means a superabundance But it also has this concept, something that's left over from a previous experience. Uh so many so how many folks here do canning? You do canning in the fall. Does anybody have left over from last year's canning? You've got some green beans or whatever. You have left over from last year. You know what that is? That's a superfluity. You had more than what you needed through the year, and it's carried over into the new year. Right? Do you follow what's saying? And so he says, put aside, lay apart all filthiness and superfluity, not of green beans, but of naughtiness. Of naughtiness. How many of you ever saw a little boy and said that boy is naughty? Yeah. I look at the crowd and I'm not calling any names, I'm just saying The word naughty in the Bible has a little bit more seriousness about it than what we talk about a naughty boy. How can it say we never talk about naughty girls? It's always naughty boys. I know some naughty girls. The word naughtiness means to be unashamedly wicked. Wow. To be malicious, to be violently evil. And I think again, I think he's human he's using strong terminology here. And I think what he's doing, he's addressing the fact that we have a light view of sin. We have a very whitewashed view of sin. When God looks at it, it is repulsively filthy It is overabundantly wicked. And he says, when I'm going to receive the Word of God, I've got to view this, I've got to deal with this, I've got to make some preparation and deal with this stuff, this garbage in my life, if I'm going to have God speak to me and uh and uh his word have effect on me Sin, this is my summary of this statement. Sin in my life will stifle the Word of God's impact on my spiritual growth. If I don't deal with it, if I don't do a little preparation, say, you know, there are areas of my life that are absolutely horrendous in the eyes of God In the eyes of man, not that bad. Even in my own evaluation, not that much. Not perfect, but it's not great. But in the eyes of God, it's filthy. It's it's wicked. And I've got to deal with that. You know what Mark chapter 4, and I wanted to turn there, but we're not going to take time. Verse 18 to 20. He's talking about a sower sowing seed. And the seed he points out is the Word of God. And the soil is the heart of man. And he says, there's a certain seed that has weeds. And he said, the heart of that man receives the word of God, but these weeds and the lusts of other things and the wickedness of the world chokes out the word of God. And he's pointing out that that ground is going to bear fruit and it's going to, the word of God is going to be received and accomplish the purpose behind it, there needs to be some preparation into that field. There needs to be a little preparation, that soil, those weeds, that filthiness, that superfluity of naughtiness. needs to be dealt with so that the word of God can take root and bear fruit in my life. And I believe that's what he's addressing here. Wherefore, lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness. In other words, get your heart and soul into being the condition of good soil. So there must be preparation. Second point, there must be passiveness. I'll explain what I mean by that. Look at the verse here. He says, and receive with meekness. The engrafted word. The word meekness, we talked about this on one Wednesday night recently. It means gentleness in this context here. It means gentleness. It means with tenderness Anybody here ever get sunburned? Anybody here get sunburned? When you get sunburned, your skin gets very, very tender. Right? It means it's very sensitive. You know what I'm talking about? That's the idea here, to be very sensitive, to very tenant. It has the idea of uh uh to apply it in this context of having a teachable attitude In other words, God speaks to my heart. And I'm receiving it with meekness. In other words, I'm very sensitive. I'm very tender. God speaks to my heart. Ah It's the opposite of having a hard heart. Anybody here have calloused hands? Boy, that's tough. My grandpa particularly had calloused hands. They were so callous they would crack and bleed. It just got so dry and so hard. Uh brother Bill, you lay block. You probably know a little bit about calloused hands. I mean you've seen other guys with it probably. It's the opposite of that. Callous can't believe you can put it almost uh I think my grandpa you'd almost put his hand on a stove and he goes, shh, you won't even feel it But receiving the Word of God with meekness means I'm very, very tender. God speaks to my heart and I want that to be right. I want to respond to that. I want And that's what he's saying here. I'm very passive. In other words, I'm letting God have his way. When God speaks to my heart, let him have his way. It says in 1 Peter 2:2: as newborn babes Desire the sincere milk of the word. Boy, that little newborn babe, boy, do you just put it there and it just takes that milk in? That thing is so great. And that's the idea. Just meekness, just coming to the Word of God. God, whatever you say is so. God, whatever you instruct me to do, I want to do. That's the idea with this. And by the passive, I mean I put down my defenses. Here's how some of us come to the Word of God. Now we would never say it this way But this is what we do. We come to the Word and God and say, with this mentality, I know what I'm going to do and I know what I'm not going to do. I don't care what God says. My mind's made up. This is the way it's going to be. It doesn't matter what God says. I'll tell you what, I could go down the list and give specifics of how we do that. And um uh we spoke to the ladies yesterday about modesty. That was excellent. About a proper men and women and those types of things. And I'm telling you, some people come with this attitude, I don't care what God says about that, I know what I am, I'm going to fit in, I'm going to be a part of this world, I'm going to do what I want to do, no matter what God says That is not receiving the Word of God with what? Meekness. That's putting defenses up. That's hiring defense lawyers and going to court against God and say, God, I know you said this, but we're looking for loopholes. I need to dismiss my defense lawyers. I need to let down my defenses, and I need to let God have His way. Amen? If I'm going to receive, that's the way I'm supposed to receive God's word. I submit my will to God's will, which is God's Word. You cannot, God's will is not separated from His Word. You want to know God's will? Get to know God's Word. If it's not in God's Word, it's not God's will. And so I submit to that. And then last of all, there must be anticipation. Look what he says. Wherefore, lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness. Receive with meekness the engrafted word. Look at this. Which is able to save your souls. Now I'll be honest with you, that threw me. That last phrase, which is able to save your souls, he's writing to save people. We saw that in verse 1. We see this throughout the book He's not writing to unsaved. He's not talking about unsaved people finding out how to get saved. What does he mean, which is able to save your souls? Well, let's back up a little bit. The word engrafted means to impart into another. You've heard of Grafting branches into another tree. The Bible talks about grafting wild vines, uh wild grapes into the natural grape vine When he says the engrafted word, he's saying, God, when you trust when you and I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, God engrafts his word into our heart and soul. The day on Tuesday after I got saved, God's word meant something to me that it did not mean to me on Monday before I got saved. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Suddenly I understood. Suddenly it made sense. Suddenly it was important to me. It was engrafted into my heart and soul. There was a connection there, was a living connection with God's word now. I'm a child of God. This is the Word of God. I have a connection with it that I did not have as an unsaved person So he says, receive with me. That's why, hey, I think that's why some church members and churches around the world, if they don't get anything out of the Bible. Maybe they've never been born again Hey, I'm just saying. Just saying. So the Bible means nothing to me. Maybe it's not been engrafted. Maybe there's no living connection there. Maybe you need Jesus as your Savior. And so, but he says there must be anticipation here. He says, which is able to save your souls. Now, I am convinced of this. As I study this, I am convinced of this. He is not talking about salvation from the judgment of God on my sin. That's already taken place. Verse 1. Verse 2, he says, My brethren, they're saved people. The wrath of God has already been moved. They're saved from the wrath of God. They've been saved from the judgment of God. They've been saved from eternity in hell. It's not talking about their soul salvation from the judgment of God But the Bible clearly teaches there are three aspects of salvation. Now this is a whole series in itself, but let me give it to you real quickly One is there's the moment I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I am saved from God's judgment. Amen? How many folks here? You're saved and you know it? Stomp your feet. Alright. That was for Sarah. Alright, that's enough We got bust kids back there, I think. But um if we're saved, we no longer fear God's judgment on our sin. Amen? No matter what I do, there's no more God's judgment on my sin. But there's a second aspect of salvation, that is a present salvation or an ongoing salvation, and that is this, where God is saving me from the presence and hour of sin in my life. If we've been saved any length of time, we should be seeing God changing us. We should be seeing victory over certain sins and growing and having victory and getting closer to the Lord. Amen or not? That's progressive salvation in a sense, and that's where my standing with God is settled the moment I trust Christ. But as I grow, there's a salvation from the sins that once dominated me And then there is a future tense of salvation, and that is this. There's coming a day when all heartaches will cease. I'll have a new body, a pure, glorified body, no more sin even present in my existence. I'll be fully, eternally, perfectly safe in every aspect. And that's a coming salvation. So I believe what he's talking about here, receip, lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness. And receive with meekness this word that's been in breath that you have a living connection with Which is able to save your souls, which is able to develop you to grow and grow in your salvation and become more and more like Christ and see victory over past sins. You cannot, I cannot, we cannot separate a humble submission to God's word and victory over sin. My victory over sin is absolutely dependent upon my humble submission to God's Word. And if I refuse to receive with meekness the engrafted word of God, I'll never see myself grow. I'll never see that salvation over the sins that dominate me. Now it's ongoing. It's ongoing our whole life. We're struggling. And we have got to take God's word seriously. So here's my challenge for us tonight. Let's this coming week Determine that every day I'm going to try and accurately evaluate myself in those areas, that filthiness, that superfluid annoyingness, I want to put that aside. I want to clear that out. Those stinking things that creep in that I know are are sinful and in God's eyes are horrendous. I want all that cleared out. I'm going to be passive in a sense in coming to the word of God. In other words I'm just going to open my heart up. I'm not going to fight God. And I'm going to let God's will be done. I'm going to yield my will to his word And then I'm going to anticipate that in so doing, God's going to start giving me victory. And I'll start growing. Does that make sense? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us to receive your word as instructed here. I pray you'd help us to face the issues in our lives, the sins that are there that are so offensive to you, and we've just whitewashed them so much. Help us, Lord, to be tender-hearted and submissive as your word speaks to our hearts. And then we anticipate you, God, working in our lives and helping us grow and mature and be more like Christ. Their heads bow and eyes closed, say preacher. I want to receive God's word as God instructs us here. I really do I want to see God working and giving me victory in life and growing in my faith. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. I want to follow these instructions here. Now some of us need to decide we're going to read the Bible every day Others of us need to decide I'm going to dismiss my spiritual defense lawyer. I'm going to take my walls down. I'm just going to let God, if he says it, it's so. I'm going to take it at that And some of us need to just wait on God and let Him have victory and give us victory. Father, bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer is going to play a few verses of imitation. Now is the time to respond to the Word of God. As God spoke to our hearts and God challenged us tonight. Then we come and we say, Yes, Lord, you're right Yes, Lord, I need you to help me. Maybe tonight as I was preaching the Holy Spirit of God brought some things to mind that need to be faced, some preparation that needs to be done, needs to be dealt with Now's a good time to do that. Say, come Lord, here it is. I know it. I know it's not right. I know it ought not to be there. Some changes need to be made. God, I want to do that. Help me Maybe God's been dealing with something we've boy we've argued with God and we've negotiated with God and it's clear in his word what he wants. And maybe we need to just come and with meekness receive it and say, all right, Lord, no more defense, no more arguing. If that's what you say, then that's the way it is. And then all of us just anticipate God growing, God giving victory. If we do what God says for us to do, then God will do what He's promised He would do. He surely will. He surely will. Further away. Thank you, Father in heaven, once again for your word and your spirit. Help us we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated, ushers. Come on down right away. We take our offering up. List of prayer requests. Let me give them to you real quickly. Betty Gallagher, Curtis, we need our ongoing prayers. Pray for this little boy, Gibson family, this little boy that passed away. They really need our grace. Seal Leatherman and Amy Nance both have uh double mastectomy coming up coming up and we really need to pray that that cancer is not spread into their bodies. Really pray for them. The Stemple family that had the fire this past week and the needs there. And then also Sam Thomas leaves this coming Wednesday or coming weekend and he's going on this uh Bible trip down in Haw in uh Hawaii. So we really need to keep Sam in our prayers, if you would, uh Sam Thomas. All right, let's look to the Lord in prayer. Charlie, would you pray for us? Again, brother, we thank you for a good day in your house. Thank you for the forming request. That's up to you, Brother Sam. Just continue to work work to do while many physically think of the too late to think of the family. He was in this time, the trial, or this beach. He was in village