I just want to look at verse number three. I still feel really strong here, David. Almost a ring in there. Um, and I got the cordless on also. Jonah chapter 1, I just want to read verse number 3. If you remember a couple weeks ago when we last looked at this, I had taken the book of Jonah and I kind of broke it down into my outline And if you remember, verse 1 and 2 was the first point, the first section, I guess you should say, of my outline of this book, and that was Jonah's call. Verse number three is the second section of my breakdown of the book, and that's Jonah's contention. Look at verse 3. It says, But Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarsus from the presence of the Lord. And went down to Joppa, and he found a ship going to Tarsus So he paid the fare thereof and went down into it to go with them unto Tarshus from the presence of the Lord. I'm entitled the message tonight, How Not to Answer the Call of God. God had called him in verse 1 and 2 to go to Nineveh And this is how you do not respond when God instructs us to do something. So let's pray. Father in heaven, bless us, Lord. I ask again and speak our hearts from this passage. I pray that with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I ask that you would use these truths in each one of our lives that we could recognize your leadership in our life, that we could discern How and how you're leading us. And then, Lord, that we would have the proper attitude and response to your leadership and direction our lives. So please help us there, Lord. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Now I've been looking at Jonah as a kind of a manual on missions, on the call to missions and whatnot. I'm going to keep that approach, but I want to, as I got preparing for tonight, I I just want to reiterate here, the call of God is not necessarily limited just to the foreign mission field. We're sitting here and you say, well You know, I've prayed about it and I've yielded myself to the Lord. I'm willing to go if that's his will for me. But I feel that God has uh wants me to stay here. I feel it's God's will for me to serve him here And that's fine and dandy. That's the the right approach we have. But the call of God is not necessarily limit limited just to go to the foreign mission field. The call of God isn't necessarily just limited to um a full-time position as pastor or evangelist or assistant pastor and all that. You say, uh God's not directing me, God's not doing that God calls each of us to very important areas of service in the body of Christ You could say, you know, in Corinthians, uh, God refers to the church as a body. Remember that? If the I say were uh if the all said I want to be an eye, where would the hearing be? Everybody remember that passage of scripture But every part of the body has a very specific calling. You follow what I'm saying? Every part of the body has a very specific responsibility that God has given us as part of the body of Christ, so that that body functions. uh to its full potential so that body functions as God intends for it to do. And um, you know, inevitably uh Uh I might be talking to somebody, I don't know, we lost a finger in an accident or uh uh machinery or something, or you come across guys and missing a leg or or whatever, we have organs removed from us and and the body isn't able to function at its full potential that it would have had it had all of its parts. You follow what I'm saying? So when we're talking about the call of God here tonight And throughout this, don't dismiss the principles that are being addressed and say, well, that's for those who are called to the mission field. That's for those that God's called in the full-time mission. No, no, no. It's true for any area. And I'll be very frank with you, I have on my daily prayer list, and I know a number of others, Mark and others are also praying. We're praying. We're actually we're short some Sunday school teachers And uh we really need help on buses. And so we're praying that God will call folks, speak their heart, direct them, give them a vision of burden for that, and be able to fill those areas. So We're talking about how not to respond to the call of God. Don't limit it just to those that go to the mission field. It implies here to us, all of us as believers. All right? Now let's look at this. Number one, here's my first point on my outline tonight from verse 3. I want us to notice. Jonah's decision. Remember verse 1 and 2, God said, The word of the Lord came to Jonah, son of Amittai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. Verse number three, Jonah makes a decision. Notice there's a little word there that starts verse number three. That is a significant word. But Jonah. Now, I got thinking about that, how that word is used throughout Scripture. Sometimes the word but is used in Scripture in a very positive way. Sometimes you get through scripture and God's describing man's condition or a situation. Then you'll, the next verse will have a phrase like this: but God. And it's like, yay, you know, everything's terrible, everything's horrible, but God, and then God does something, or God's in place, or God has a solution, and God turns it all around. That's good We're not too far away. Come over to Daniel chapter number chapter number one. Just a few books towards the front of your Bible. Daniel chapter one. I still am I a little strong still on the sound? I think so. I just feel like it's ringing in my ears, dude. Daniel chapter one, similar situation. Daniel's taken over to uh Babylon, not exactly the same, and uh they're trying to get him to eat the king's meat and and do all these things that violate his convictions. And it's just a terrible situation. And uh boy, he's really putting to the test. And look at verse number eight. Look, look, what are the first two words? But Daniel purposed in his heart Wow, those are positive. Those are positive uses of that phrase, but God, but Daniel, purpose in his heart, he wasn't going to give in to this. I wish it wasn't here in the story of Jonah. But this is a negative use of it. God says, I want you to go to that city. I'm calling you to go there. I have a very specific place. I have a very specific ministry. And it is very, very important that you go there and preach to these people. But Jonah makes a decision. He's not going to do it. Notice several thoughts about this decision Jonah makes. Number one, it's a sudden decision. When you read down through here, I don't get the impression that a lot of time goes by between verse one and verse two, do you? Doesn't look like it to me. God says, go to Nineveh, that great city, cry against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. But Jonah rose up to flee. I don't get the impression a lot of time. It's it seems to me it is just uh a sudden decision. There's no uh no apparent hesitation going on here on Jonah's part. There's no debate going on that I see. Going on on Jonah's part, it's not like he's there, oh man, God's called me to go to Nineveh. What should I do? Should I do this? Shouldn't I do that? Oh man, I don't see that at all. It's almost, as I studied this, I almost got the idea that his mind was already made up before God even indicated anything he was going to do I believe, this is my impression from study it, I think Jonah was locked in the what the rest of his life was going to be and how he was going to, and he had his plans all laid out, and anything that interfered with that, he wanted nothing to do with it. Not even God was going to mess with his plans. And so when God says, come go to Nineveh and preach against that wicked city, he doesn't even hesitate. No. I'm not doing that. There's no debate. There's no negotiation. There's no hesitation. His mind was already made up before God ever said anything And that's my impression. So this decision he makes to not go, it's a sudden decision, and I put this down, number two, is a very selfish decision. His contention, I think Jonah's contention with God about going to Nineveh, the more I study this, it had it doesn't have a whole lot to do with how terrible Nineveh was And we talked about Nineveh and their history and their reputation and their relationship with Israel was horrible and they were vile and and violent and And just the Wicca Wigan. But I don't, the more I'm looking at this, it it's not Nineveh's terrible condition that kept Jonah from going. It was Jonah's selfishness that kept Jonah from going. It was just his concern. He was he was um uh it was his spiritual condition that kept him from going there. Wasn't like he loved God and he was burdened for people, and boy, he just couldn't bring himself to go to these people. It wasn't that way at all. He could care less. It was all about Jonah God and Nineveh, whatever the results were, he could care less. He was understood. This decision was not for the well-being of anybody. Jonah's decision not to go to Nineveh and disobey God was not for the well-being of anybody but Jonah. So all he was concerned about, him. And let me bring this home a little bit. We need to be very, very careful. When God directs us, when God leads in our life to have a ministry and invest uh ourselves in in some fashion in the lives of others and in the advancement of the gospel, and we make the decision, no, I'm not going to follow the Lord's leadership. No, I'm not going to cooperate with God in that matter. We need to remember that that is an incredibly selfish decision. Let me bring it home. We have faith promise and and we challenge folks to give just whatever God leads and directs to a give towards mission over above our tithe. And thank God for a church that gives very well, I think. But when we say and God lays it amount on our heart or God prompts us from the preaching or our prayers or study of God's word, and God prompts us some uh in an area concerning, let's, for example, our faith promise And we say, no, you know, I'm not going to do that. Why is it we're not doing that? Is it because we're very concerned about some other area? No, it's because we're concerned for who? ourselves. This was incredible self incredibly selfish decision on Jonah's part. There was a nation, a whole city of a million plus people that needed to hear from God, and his concern was me. And so uh it seems like to me, well in fact his selfishness, as you go through the book here, these four chapters, 48 verses, The more you progress through this, the more his selfishness comes out until you get to the last chapter, and he is whining and complaining and griping over every little thing. And um uh incredibly selfish man here. So his decision to say no to God's calling, first it was very sudden, his mind was made up before God ever spoke to him. He wasn't open at all to the Lord's will. Second, it was very selfish. You know what I've come to the conclusion? It's a whole lot easier for Christians to disobey God than it is for us to obey God. Anybody ever find that true? How many people have ever felt God prompting you to do something? Maybe just say give a tract out somewhere and all of a sudden there's this battle going on inside your heart and mind. Can I get a witness? Sure. Or uh whatever, and this thing's going on. We don't struggle with that so much for disobeying God. It's only obeying God. I want to say this, it's a whole lot easier to disobey God than it is to obey God, but the price of disobedience is far greater than the price of obedience. It is easy for him to say no at this point, but brother, get the chapter two, he paid a heavy price. And um the easier route, I got thinking about this, and I think this is true across the board Generally, the easier route is the most is the more expensive route. That's true in travel, isn't it? For the most part, um, you know, we're going down a couple weeks to Dan's uh wedding. I almost said funeral uh wedding. Um We're going down to Dan's wedding and uh you know w it the easiest thing to do would be drive up to Morgantown, hop a plane, catch a flight over to somewhere and then fly down. But brother, that's a whole lot more expensive just driving ten hours down there. And that's the way it is in the spiritual life. We can take the easy route. We can do, well, you know, I know God's called me to do this, but this would be a whole lot easier. I went sure, but uh there's a heavy price there. So number one, it was a sudden decision. Number two, it's a very selfish decision. I put this down. It was a very serious decision on Jonah's part. I mean he meant business. Look at verse 3. Arise, or I'm sorry, verse 3. But Jonah rose up to what? Flee to Tarsus. Unto Tarsus. That word flee, I got looking that up. You know what it means? I mean, what do you picture in your mind when somebody is fleeing something? Running. I mean they're not horsing around, they're not just meandering and wandering off. They need business. And they are absolutely running. And that is the word picture I got here as I study this. It it has the idea of intense effort put into this, like he is running a race. One of the definitions was to run away with great energy. And so the picture you get in your mind is that I am out of here. And he's putting all his resources into getting away. He was serious about saying no. He was very serious. He was not going to do what God said. No matter what it cost him, no matter what effort was required, he was not going to do it. He was very serious about that. And I got thinking about this. Alright, God tells Jonah to go to Nineveh. Why doesn't he just why did he run away? Why didn't he just stay there? Just say, no, I'm not going there. I like it where I'm at. I got my house, my family. I'm just going to stay right here He doesn't do that. He not only does he not go, he makes every effort he has to go the other way. Remember, this is how not to respond to the call of God. If God calls us to go somewhere or do something, we do not want to go the opposite direction. We do not want to make any effort at all to do the opposite of obeying God Jonah did. It's amazing how much effort some people put into disobeying God. How hard people work at not doing what God says to do. There were some guys when I was in Bible college for about six months, it might have been a year, I worked as a delivery van for ABC Delivery out of Chattanooga, Tennessee And my route, I drove this van, and my route was to go south into uh go into North Georgia. I went south of Chatano into North Georgia, Rome and Calhoun and a bunch of these little towns. I had my little circuit. And there was one, and it was all carpet. Carpet mills down there. It's just all over down there. And so I end up in all these carpet mills. There was this one warehouse for a carpet mill I got in. And those two guys were the most lazy guys I've ever seen in my life I have never seen anybody work so hard at getting out of work. You know, it would be down there and uh it was like it would take them an hour. to avoid doing whatever needed to be done. They could have done it in three minutes and they'd be done. And I got thinking, boy, isn't that the way a lot of Christians are? We go to great efforts to not do what God tells us to do. That's what Jonah did. It had been a whole lot easier for him just to go to Nineveh. But instead he flees the other direction So first thing we notice here is Jonah's decision in verse 3. Then notice the second thing I notice in verse number 3 is Jonah's destination. Go to his destination. Where is he going? Look what it says. Where's he heading to? Tarsus. Where in the world is Tarsus? Well, I've been studying, I've looked at books, commentaries, I looked up the word, and you know what the conclusion is? We don't know where Tarsus is Several of the Bible scholars suggested maybe Cyprus, which is just off the coast there from Israel, not too far. Couples said maybe Sicily. Up in that direction. Others said Spain, others uh various places. One said uh Taurus, which is where uh Paul was from, but I don't think you'd take a boat there. That's an inland city And so wherever he was going, we don't know. But this we do know: wherever it was, it was not where God wanted him to be. And that's a problem. So number one is decision. Number two is destination. Number three, I noticed in this verse, is uh his descent. There's a word used twice in this verb that I in this verse that I circled in my Bible. Notice what it says. Jonah rose up to flee under Tarshus from the presence of the Lord and went Down. Uh to Joppa. And there he found a ship going to Tarsus, and he paid the price thereof and went down into it. Now, the word down simply means to descend or go to a lower place. And um Then this no doubt the reference the first down in this verse is a reference going down to the cities, going south. If you look at a map And uh if he's in Jerusalem and you go down to Joppa down on the shore, it's a southeast journey. Probably uh I don't know if you do it a half a day's journey walking or whatever So when it says down the first time, it's a geographical direction. He's going south. Then he gets in the boat and what's he do? He goes Down into the boat. Later on we find out he's asleep down in the inside the boat. So he gets on the boat and he goes down inside of it. So it's talking about a location. But I can I suggest this Not only was he going down geographically, but he is going down spiritually. He is descending. You get to chapter 4, and you would never recognize this man as a prophet of God. And I'll be very frank with you. It is very rapid descent. When we start saying no to God, it is a very rapid descent spiritually. And I've seen it over and over and over where people, God prompted people, or people resist or rebel against God, and it does not take long to get so far out of the will of God by simply making the decision to say no. To descend. Our decisions determine our spiritual condition. Think about that. I am today spiritually because of decisions I made or did not make in the past. Question. If a person is going to heaven when they die, that is a result of a decision they made to trust Christ, correct? If a person is right with God, if a person is in fellowship with God, it is the result of decisions they made to respond to the Word of God, to do what God says, to trust God in certain areas, and they're in fellowship with God. We find some Christian out of church, away from God, out of fellowship with God. It is a decision they made And we can try and blame circumstances, we can try and blame other people, we can try and blame our uprising, we can try and blame everything else in the world, but we are what we are spiritually because of the decisions we make personally. And Jonah made a decision that he was going to disobey God, and that began a descent in his life spiritually. A seemingly insignificant decision to disobey God Often has catastrophic consequences spiritually. Now we hate to admit this But I venture to say y'all are very good at looking very pious at me when I confess my very few faults that I have But I look back over 34 years of Christian life, and there are a few times where I made the decision to disobey God, to not follow the Lord, take things in my own hands, and at the time it always seemed insignificant. Oh, it won't matter. Oh, this isn't that big of a deal. And now I look back and what do you what do you what do you think I find? So, wow, that was a big deal. And Jonah at this time may say, what's the big deal to this? I don't know what he's thinking. But whatever it was, he made this decision, and man, it has catastrophic uh uh consequences. It nearly cost him his life. And so decisions. Somebody said that once you start down the road spiritually, it is very, very difficult to stop and turn around and come back. How many times do we tell young people uh uh don't ever smoke that cigarette because once you start, what? It's very tough to quit. Don't you smoke that first joint. Don't you drink that first liquor of beer. You know what I found? The cure to alcoholism? Don't take the first drink. Nobody has ever become an alcoholic uh that refused to take a first drink. Doesn't happen. And so to say no. And uh Jonah disobeyed God and it started a spiral down. Number four. Jonah's departure. This is my last thought from this verse. Notice his departure. Now there's a phrase used here that to be honest with you, I just struggled with this, trying to figure out what in the world he's talking about. Look at verse 3 again. But Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshus. Look at this next phrase, from the presence of the Lord. Come down to the end of the verse. He went down into it to go with them unto Tarshus from the presence of the Lord. Twice The Bible says Jonah is fleeing from the presence of the Lord. For whatever reason, in his head, Tarshus, if he got to Tarshus, he would be away from the presence of the Lord. Now that's his real motive. He wants to get away from the presence of the Lord. Now Surely, he's an old prophet. He's been around for a while. We noticed that in the introduction. He's not new to this. Surely he was familiar with Psalms chapter 139. Take your Bible if you would, real quick. I want you to come back here and see this. Psalms 139, chapter 139. Great chapter. Now this is a psalm of David, so this is years after David's off the scene. This This psalm has been in the hymn books, in the scriptures, for a long time, by the time Jonah shows up. There is no way in the world Jonah did not there is no way in the world Jonah was not familiar with Psalms 139. Now, look with me, if you would, at verse number 7. I'm going to read several verses here, about four verses. Psalms 139, verse 7. Look what David says. Now, this is inspired of God, preserved in his word. Jonah knew this. Whither shall I go from thy spirit, or whither shall I flee from thy presence? Now that's a question mark. The answer is obvious. It's what? Nowhere. You can't do that. And David elaborates here, verse number 8. If I ascend into heaven, thou art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, where was Jonah going? He's going to some island out in the sea He's trying to do exactly what this passage says is impossible to do. If I make my uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. If I say, surely the darkness shall cover me, where's he at? He's down in the bottom of a boat. Question: electric lights in the bottom of this boat? No. They don't even have glass windows. He's down in the bottom, trying to go out to the sea to get away from God. Even there, uh uh if I say surely the darkness shall come, even the night shall be light about me What is this passage I just read? What is this teaching us about God? He's everywhere. What's the big term that we like to use for this? He is omnipresent. You cannot escape the presence of God. Yet Jonah chapter 1, verse 3 says twice that Jonah fled from the presence of God. Was he that dumb? That all that he had been exposed to, he had no doubt memorized this, taught this, preached this, he's a prophet of God. What's going on here? Aha, I gave three I come up with three explanations. Alright. Number one, I put this explanation. What is he thinking? One, I think you can get so blinded by self and sin that we that uh we become we can we can get so blinded by self and sin we don't even see the truths that we know are true Does that make sense? For instance, the Bible teaches many places, and this is part of his omnipresence, that God sees everything we do. How many people know that? How many people know that's true? God can see everything we do. How many people here, now this is a small group tonight, so we can confess This is our spiritual support group tonight, all right? Um how many people here have ever done something that you knew God could see it? But if anybody saw you doing it, you'd be really embarrassed. Anybody here? You knew it was wrong. But you did it anyway, full knowing. That God sees it and is watching. Can I get a witness? Why do we do that? What do we we know it's true. We know God sees us. We know it. And we go ahead and do it anyway. It's the exact same reason I think Jonah, maybe, if if he's running from God, he's just so blinded by his selfishness that he doesn't even care, he doesn't even think. I just want to get away from the presence of God. Jonah, you can't do that. But he's blind to that. Sin, that's a good quote, sin made him stupid. I think that was from 26 years of being married to me. She learned that. She observed that. Anyway. One is blinded by self to this well-known truth. I put this one down. Now here's a possibility. And one of the commentaries I was reading, this came up, and I thought, oh, that's an interesting thought They suggested that by him trying to flee from the presence of God, he knew he couldn't do that, which I'm convinced. That rather than trying to get away from God's presence, Presence necessarily, he was trying to leave the office that God had called him to. The prophets of God were known by the Spirit of God coming upon them. Unlike in the New Testament, we have the Holy Spirit in us. In the Old Testament, the Spirit of God would come upon the prophets of God. And the suggestion here is that Jonah was quitting the ministry. I'm out of this. I'm not going to do this. If that's what is involved, if that's the price that's going to be to go to Nineveh, I'm not doing it. I'm resigning my position. I'm getting out from the presence of God, the office that God has placed me in. I think that's an interesting concept. We have two other people in the Bible that did basic, tried basically that same thing. Anyone want to take a guess who they were? We looked at one in Sunday school not long ago. Peter. What did Peter say? I go uh fishing. I'm quitting the ministry. I've failed too bad. I'm out of this. I'm going back to the fishing trade. Did God let him do that? No, Christ confronted him after he's out fishing. Little children, have you any meat to eat? No. Have you caught anything? No. Come and dine. And then the Lord restores Peter. There's another fella in the Old Testament that says, I'm not preaching God's word anymore, who said that. Jeremiah. Remember? He said I think it's chapter 29, Jeremiah 20, verse number nine. He says, I'm uh the people won't listen to me. It's not worth it. I'm doing all this, and there's no results, nothing. I'm not preaching God's word anymore. Does anybody remember what hat what he said after that Said the Word of God was like a fire burning in my heart I couldn't I couldn't contain I had to preach the Word of God. I think that's Possibly what Jonah's doing here. He says, I'm out of this. I don't want to be a prophet anymore. I want to get away from the presence of God in that position and that particular uh responsibility gave me. I'm moving That could be. Can I tell you what I think he's probably doing here? I think he's attempting to flee from the conviction of God on his heart. God had stirred his heart. God was calling him to go to Nineveh. And he wanted to get away from that burden, from that call. He wanted out. God's presence was heavy upon him, convicting him that he needed to do this. And he wanted to get out. You know what I found out? It is very, very difficult to get away from the pre- the conviction of God. How many feel how many folks here uh fought the conviction to get saved before you got saved? Anybody know what I'm talking about? God was coming. Now I went five months And then after you get saved, you look back and say, what an idiot. You know, man, why was I fighting this? I think what's taken place here is Jonah is trying to get away from the call of God. He's trying to get away from God leading and directing him there. You listen carefully. We've got a few missionaries coming in in December. We have our missions emphasis and Dwight Talbot's coming through, and we have several scheduled throughout the year next year Listen carefully to them when they give their testimony of how God called them to their mission field. And I like to ask them to give that, because I think it's a God can use that in our lives. And you pay attention. Now not all of them, but a lot of them will say something like this, Boy, I did not want to go, I fought that thing, and God just hounded me and hounded me, and everywhere I turned God would confront every sermon. It seemed like God was dealing with me. And you watch that. I think that's what Jonah is doing. He's trying to get away from the convicting presence of God about uh the Lord's call And he couldn't do it. He couldn't do it. Now one last thing I want us to notice here. Notice how everything comes together for Jonah. Let's look at verse 3 again. Jonah rose up to flee and to Tarshus from the presence of the Lord. Alright, he's initiating this move. He made the decision. I'm out of here. Look how it comes together. Let me read it the way we might think it would be if somebody's running from God. And he went down to Joppa, and there weren't any ships going to Tarshis at all. And there were more than he could afford, and nothing on his schedule, and he just couldn't do it. It's not what it says. I get the impression reading here, everything fell right into place. He shows up in Joppa. First of all, he makes it there. Then lo and behold, there's a ship going right to where he wants to go. And lo and behold, the thing's not sold out. There's tickets available. And lo and behold, they're leaving right away, which fits the whole uh spirit of him. He's fleeing. And the circumstances were just right for him to disobey God Now I hear sometimes people, and no doubt I've been guilty of myself, and we need to be very, very careful. This must be God's will, all the circumstances fall in place That is not necessarily true. Circumstances never trump the Word of God If God has told me to do something, if God has told me not to do something, it doesn't matter how ideal the circumstances are. Circumstances are not the Bible. The Bible is the Bible. And I can see Jonah thinking in his mind, oh this is great. And it is all fine. I made the right decision. This is going my way. This is this is super. This is fine. Come and read the book of Acts sometimes, see how circumstances were for Paul. 99% of the time, it's exact against what he's called of God to do. And he did it anyway. So we have to be very, very careful. Just because we have favorable circumstances does not necessarily mean we have the blessings of God or we're going to ultimately have success. I want to remind you, there just happened to be a storm coming by, also. There just happened to be a whale. Let's back up. There just happened to be sailors who were willing to throw a guy overboard. So circumstances are not a good basis for making decisions on. Now, sometimes God can use them, and God obviously is Lord over circumstances. But just because every you know what I've found? I found sometimes circumstances are awfully uh awfully uh are awfully uh good for staying home in bed Sunday morning It's raining out, I'm comfortable. Uh it's the circumstances. It must be God's will for me to stay in bed, because all the circumstances are perfect. Watch out for that. I ended with this. The decisions we make when confronted with the will of God determine our spiritual condition now. And will determine our spiritual well-being in the future. Jonah's decision here in verse 3 is why he ended up in the whale's belly in chapter 2. And so the decision we make now, it may seem, oh, everything's working together, this is all circumstances, this is what this is, I'm making this decision. It may seem insignificant But brother, if it's against the will of God down the road, there's an awful price to pay. So Jonah had some contention with God. But Jonah I don't know how God may be leading her life. I know how God has and and leads in my life many times. And when God directs us, To a ministry or a place of responsibility, of a part we play in the body of Christ and the advancement of the gospel, let's not say but Dennis. I don't want that written of me. I want it to be yes Lord. Not my will, but thy will be done. Yes, Lord, I'll step in that. Yes, Lord, I'll take that responsibility. Yes, Lord, I'll answer that call And uh then God can use us how different it would be if Jonah had just agreed with God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us, Lord We thank you for your leadership in our lives and for trusting us with the gospel and with ministries to invest in others and in the gospel and in the Word of God. And I pray that you would help us to trust you and obey you. And not be like Jonah, but say, Yes, Lord, as Isaiah did. And here am I, Lord, send me. I pray that will be true. Our heads about our eyes are closed. I don't know how God may be leading in her life or anything. That's individual