And said unto them, If any man come unto me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and read this whole section. But if you would notice verse number 26, it says, If any man come unto me and hate not his father, mother, his wife, children, his brethren, his sister, yea, his own wife also, look at that next statement. He cannot be my disciple. That's a very emphatic statement. There's no question what that means. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 33. So likewise, whosoever he be of you, that forsaketh not all that he hath, now look at this, he cannot be my disciple. Wow. That is a strong statement on the part of the Lord. Very emphatic here. So here's my question that I'm titling the message this morning: What must I do to be a disciple? Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, thank you for the good service this morning. The singing has been a blessing to me. And uh Lord, the fellowship has been a blessing. My heart's already stirred Now as we look into your word, I ask God that you would teach us this morning. I pray you would teach us something that we need to learn. I pray that you would give us understanding in areas of our life that we need to have greater understanding. And I pray that you would help us make the right decisions based upon the information we're given in the next few moments from your word. I yield my will to you, Lord. I present my body anew this morning. With all my heart, I ask that you would fill me with your spirit, that it would be you speaking through me to all of our hearts, and that, Lord, we would understand what it What we must do to be a disciple, and that we would then be willing and eager to do that, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. In every Bible preaching church, I am convinced, every Bible preaching church consists of three categories of people Now, I mean spiritual category, spiritual conditions, that people that make up that church. The first category would be unsaved. You say, preacher, surely nobody in a church would be unsaved. Listen, regardless of how strong that church is committed to the gospel. And regardless of how committed they are to believing the Word of God, in every church there is going to be a percentage of people who have never genuinely been born again. Now, I hate to say that. Don't like to think on that. But the fact is at any given moment in a church service, if the rapture were to take place and the Saved people were to be caught up out of that church, I hate to say it, but there is a certain percentage of church folk that would be left behind. Every church consists of a percentage of people who have never genuinely been born again. As I said, we don't like to think that. We like we prefer to believe that's not true. But the Bible is pretty clear In the Gospel of Matthew, in particular, the Lord made several references to what he called tares that were mixed in with the wheat. And the way he illustrated it, and I believe it's in Matthew 13, the way he presented his teaching here on this was that there was a field of wheat that had been sown. And an enemy had come in and had among the seeds of wheat that were sown, the enemies, the devil, had sown tares. And a tear, if you'll study this out and look it up, you'll see that a tear is a useless plant. Provides no nutrient, it has no benefit, it's just a weed, really. But the tear looks just like a weed A tear grows just like the wheat. It blows in the wind just like the wheat. It's very difficult at times to tell the difference between That which is genuinely wheat, and that which is the tear. And in any church You're going to have a percentage of folks that are not genuinely born again. Oh, they might look saved, they talk saved, they they dress saved. But they never genuinely trusted Christ as Savior. Now that percentage may fluctuate. Some churches, it may be a larger percentage that are unsaved than other churches. But nevertheless, that's the case. Now, do these people in the church that are unsafe, do they know they're unsafe? I think in some cases, yes. Um we we could give testimony of folks. There's folks in here could give testimony that maybe grew up in church or were uh whatever were part of a church, had joined the church one way or another, and had been a member and involved and sang the hymns and carried their Bible and were part of it and were never genuinely saved and knew in the back of their heart and mind they were not saved. And finally, God get a hold of their heart and convicted them, and their concern for their spiritual well-being overcame their concern what other people would think, and they trusted Christ and got saved. I know of a preacher's. I know of several preachers' wives that went to Bible college, married a preacher, were involved in the ministry And the back of the heart and mind, I'm thinking of one in particular, in the back of her heart and mind, the whole time, she knew she was just going through the motions. She knew she had never trusted Christ, but she was afraid of what people would think if she came out and made it right. Until finally God dealt with her. In the one case I'm thinking of, she was playing, I think she played the organ. The preacher gave the invitation, she was playing, she quit playing, praying, came, quit playing the organ, came down front, said, I need to be saved. So the it fluctuates. There's a certain element, I'm convinced, in every church, that Certain percentage of church folk that have never genuinely been born again. Do they know that they're unsaved? Some cases yes. I think there's folks that know they're not not saved. They knew they're They're playing some court sort of game with their soul, and they won't deal with it. But I think on the other hand, there are some folks that genuinely believe they're saved, but are not. Maybe they are trusting in their church membership to save them. Maybe they are trusting in the fact that they go to church or they're a good person and For whatever reason, they got in the church, became a part of the church, never been born again, and are trusting in their good works, their lifestyle, their actions, their behavior, maybe their ministry To make them acceptable to God and they believe they're saved, that they've never trusted Christ. Take your Bible if you would. Now keep it here. We're going to come back to this. Would you turn over to Matthew chapter number seven with me Here again, the Lord illustrates this type of person. Person that believes they're saved, has convinced herself they're saved, but they're not They're trusting in something other than Christ, in Christ alone. In Matthew chapter 7, and are you there? Do you find that? Go to verse 21. Matthew 7, verse 21. He says, this is Jesus speaking. He says, not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he which doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Look at this. Look at verse 22. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. What are they saying here? They're saying, Lord, listen, I was active in your ministry. Lord, I was a part of your work. I was a part of the church, maybe. And uh look what look what they say here. Let's put it in our day and age. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? I can hear someone say, Lord, I deserve to go to heaven. I've taught Sunday school. I taught your word. I worked in the in the children's church. Surely that has made me acceptable to go to heaven. Others said, some I prophesy in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils. Lord, I witness to other people. I shared the gospel to other people. I may have maybe even saw some people say, Lord, the fact that I give out tracts and I witness, surely that makes me acceptable to heaven. Some say I've taught Sunday school. Others say I've tried to be a witness. I've been involved in the ministry. And in thy name done many wonderful works. Lord, I've put money in the offering plate and I've helped around the church and I've helped with this and I've done that. These are people who are good folks. They're a part of the work. They're part of the church. But they've never been saved because they are trusting in their church membership and their good works to make them acceptable to God. Look what Christ says to these people. Look at verse 23. And then will I profess unto them, I, what's that next word? Never knew you. Look at this depart from me ye that work what good night He's not talking to people who were drunkards. He's not talking to people who were adulterers and liars and thieves. He's talking to people who were good folk. They were involved in doing things. But the problem was They were depending on the good things they were doing to make them acceptable to God. And God says your righteousness in Isaiah 64, 6, he says, your righteousness, as far as your salvation is concerned, is no more valuable than filthy rags. Your good works, your teaching Sunday school, your involvement in this, that, and the other will do no more to save your soul than the person living out in wickedness and sinfulness. So, are there people in a church that are unsaved? I'm convinced there's a certain percentage in every church of folks that are unsaved. Some know it For whatever reason, they know in the back of their heart mind I've never genuinely trusted Christ. And uh my word to that person is, what are you waiting for? Get that settled. Come on. Some folks are trusting in the good things they're doing to make them acceptable to God. God says, I never knew you. You never saved. That's not how you get saved. I had a fella years ago that uh started coming to church here, the church he was involved in and made some changes and Um he was uh dissatisfied with that and I think biblically that he had a legitimate reason to be unhappy with it. But he started coming here and Uh he came for a little while, several weeks, a couple months maybe. And I visited him. Finally went out to visit him one time and I sat down beside him. We were talking a little bit. I said I'm really glad to have you in the church and you know it's anything we do. And I asked him this question He's an older man. I said, sir, let me ask you this important question. If you died right now Do you know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that you would be accepted by God into heaven in the presence of God? Without hesitation, he says, Oh, yeah, absolutely. I said, really? I said, I don't hear a lot of people say that too much. I said, what are you depending on? What are you trusting in to give you that assurance? This is his answer. I was Sunday school superintendent of our church for 40 years. That is how I know I'm going to heaven. Listen, thank God I hope I hope Mark will be our Sunday school superintendent for 40 years. But Mark being Sunday school superintendent, by the way, this wasn't Mark I'm talking about. But um But my point is this being a Sunday school superintendent is not what's going to get a person to heaven And I had to tell him, I took him to Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9. It says, For by grace are you saved, through faith, that not of yourselves. Is a gift of God not of works, lest any man should boast. And here you had a man He was a member of a church, faithful to the church, active in the church, but by his own testimony was unsaved. He was not trusting in Christ and Christ alone to forgive his sins and take get him into heaven. He was trusting in the works he had given to the church. Follow what I'm saying? So there's three categories of folks in any any church, any given church, regardless of how strong it is on the Word of God, regardless of how committed they are to uh going by the book. You're going to have an element within the church who are unsaved. But then you have another category or a spiritual condition you'll find a certain percentage in, and that is folks who are saved, but all they are is saved. You got unsaved, then you got some folks who have genuinely trusted Christ. They've been born again, they've accepted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. And their sins are forgiven, and when they die, they are going to go to heaven. And by the way, when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, we can know we are going to heaven. Jesus is the Savior. Jesus Savior. When I accept Him as my personal Savior, He takes responsibility for my ultimate destiny, and He is faithful to get me to heaven. Jesus never fails. And if I'm trusting him to forgive me and save me, then I can know that I am forgiven, I'm saved, I'm on my way to heaven. And I would like to think, and I'm fairly convinced, that the majority of folks in your good Bible preaching churches have genuinely been saved. They've accepted, they've acknowledged to God that they are a sinner. They've turned to Christ for forgiveness and cleansing from their sin. They've accepted what Jesus Christ did on the cross and suffering hell for them in their place. Buried and rose again, they've accepted that as true, and they've received him, called on him, and trusted him as their own personal savior, and thank God they're safe. But that's all they are. They're not any more than just forgiven and on their way to heaven. Now It's good to be saved. And it's better to be saved than not saved. And so praise the Lord for that. If they die, they'll go not if when they die, they'll go to heaven Uh I like what John, we referenced this in a message just a week or so ago. John ten twenty-eight says, uh I give unto them eternal life, and they shall Never perish. What a promise. What a promise. People that accept Jesus Christ Savior, God freely gives to us eternal life. Hey, if something's eternal, how long does it last? Forever. I give unto them eternal life. They'll never perish, never die, and go to hell. Thank God I am saved. Saved, saved, saved. I forget the rest of the words, but uh it's a good song. But that's all they are. They've never gone beyond that. When they die, they will go to heaven, but they will not receive any rewards. Because it never was more than simply trusting Christ, which will save your soul. Look with me if you would. Turn to 1 Corinthians with me, if you would, please. Paul addresses this. Now, if you know anything about the church at Corinth that this letter is written to, You'll find, if you study them carefully, you'll find that this church, the folks in the church were saved. Paul refers to them as brethren. It refers to them folks as trust in Christ. Their sins are forgiven, and they're on their way to heaven, but that's all they were. They weren't living for God. They'd never gone beyond just simply trusting Christ. And he's addressing that in chapter 3 of 1 Corinthians. And if we come down to verse number eleven, he goes into specific detail as to what happens when a person who got saved And that's all they did faces the Lord. Look at verse 11, 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Says this I'm sorry, I need to get my right passage here. Look at First Corinthians chapter three, verse eleven. For other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Alright, what's he saying here He's saying the foundation of my salvation. Now you have to bear with me here a little bit. The foundation of my salvation is Jesus Christ. Somebody asked me, uh I had a fella asked me one time, I asked him, do you know for sure if you died right now you go to heaven? He said, let me ask you a question. I said, okay. He said, Do you know for sure if you died right now you go to heaven? I think that was Phil Sherman asked me that years ago Do you remember that, Phil? He does, he just don't admit it. But um uh and I said, well, and that doesn't people don't ask me that too much And uh I was glad I'm glad to report I was able to say without hesitation, yes. I do know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven. Not because I'm better than anyone else, not because I'm a preacher, not because I'm a sinless person, uh uh, which I'm not, but simply because of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the foundation of my salvation. He is the one that saves me. He is the one that gets me to heaven. So he's saying to these Corinthians who are saved, but that's it. He says the foundation is Jesus Christ. But look what he says now. Now, if any man build upon this foundation, The word build there means to put up framework, to put up a structure. In other words, he's saying, all right, Jesus is your Savior. He's the foundation. He saved you from sin in hell. He's given you eternal life. When you die, you go into heaven. Now, with that fact in place, If any man builds on that. In other words, if how you live your life in light of that, what you do with this new life that salvation has given you. If any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stone Then he switches types of materials: wood, hay, stubble. Every man's work In other words, how he lived as a Christian. What did he do with that salvation Christ gave? How did he live? Any man's work shall be, for every man's work shall be made manifest. For the day, you could circle that in the Marjorie Bible put the judgment seat of Christ, for the day shall declare it. Because it shall be revealed by fire. In the Bible, fire in situations like this where it's used is referring to judgment. And the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive reward. If any man's work shall be burned, in other words it doesn't pass the test, doesn't pass the judgment If any man's work be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved, yet so is by fire. Now, what's the Lord saying here? He's addressing A certain condition a person can be in spiritually that many people in about every church consist of. They've trusted Christ, they've came to the point where they've acknowledged to God their sinner, they've accepted what Christ has done for them as a They've accepted Jesus as their personal Savior. God has forgiven them. They saved them. When they die, they're going to heaven. That's settled. But they've never gone beyond that. And their Christianity was a self-centered Christianity. In other words, God forgave them and saved them. And they're Christians now, but they basically live for themselves. They've had what I refer to as convenience Christianity. I'll fit in my service and ministry and love for the Lord. I'll fit it in where it's convenient. But if it's inconvenient or it doesn't fit my schedule, well then the Lord takes second place. And he's addressing them and saying, Listen, Christ has given you this foundation. He saved your soul. He's he's given you the assurance and the Security that when you die you're going to heaven. Now, what are you doing as a Christian? What are you building on this life that Christ has given? Are you building wood, hay, and stubble? Are you just living for yourself and and uh temporary things that don't last? Things the here and now for this hour, for this age? Or are you building a life that is invest in things that last, gold, silver. And that when you stand before the judgment seat of Christ Your life will have been lived for eternal eternal things and lived for the Lord Now he says, you folks who are saved, and you're living Christian, self-centered Christianity, you're living a convenience Christianity. Oh, you'll you're saved, you'll go to heaven, but you ain't getting any rewards. Everything you live for, everything you've invested in your whole life is just as far as bringing glory to God and bringing rewards in heaven is ashes. There's nothing there, but they're safe, so as by fire, they'll get to heaven. Praise the Lord for that Can I be frank with you? I'm afraid that's where most Christians are. I think that's people saved, trusting Christ, yes. But as far as my life being built and that life being lived for the glory of God and him alone, Not so much. Not so much. So we have unsaved people, that's sad. That you would have folks in the church that are unsaved. Then you have folks in the church and probably the biggest majority of folks that are saved and you know they're they're look for God. It's it's if it's convenient, it fits in, you know, if it works. If I can work it out, I'll live for God. If I see or want something that I like, I'm not going to give too much concern what God says, I'm going to do what I want. Yeah, they go to heaven, but so is by fire. They don't have much to show for it. But there's a third category. Spiritual condition that makes up any given church. And that is what the well the Bible refers to as disciples. Disciples. The word disciple, a disciple is someone who is more than just saved. We are talking about we're studying in the Sunny Adult Sunny School hour, we're studying the twelve disciples. We're trying to learn their names. And uh we're studying the characteristics of each of them. We're looking at Peter now. Next uh next guy we're gonna look at is Philip. We've already studied Andrew. These guys are disciples. Actually, the gospels refer to thousands of disciples throughout Christ's ministry. Distinguishing them from just believers, just someone that's saved, but someone who is a disciple. A disciple is more than just a student of the Bible. A disciple is someone that's more than just a student of the Lord Jesus Christ. You can be unsaved and study the Bible. Thousands of people do it. I meet them a lot. It's more than just finding out information about Jesus and gathering information about the Bible. No, no, no, no. That's not what discipleship is. Being a disciple is more than just being a student of the Word of God, a student of the Lord Jesus, it is being a devout follower of Jesus Christ. It is the person that takes the teachings of Christ and the teachings of the Word of God, and they become precious, and the life is lived in submission and out of love for the Word of God and the Son of God. That is a disciple. A disciple. John the Baptist put it this way: He must increase But I must decrease. That is the mentality of a disciple. Less and less of my will, more and more of Christ's will. Less and less of my glory, more and more of Christ's glory Jesus, of course, being the Son of God, you wouldn't describe him as a disciple, but he put it this way that describes the mentality of a disciple. In the garden of Gethsemane, before he was crucified, the night before he was crucified, he prayed this, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Then he said this. Get this. Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. That describes the mentality of a disciple. Lord, I once was lost. I was on my way to hell. If I'd have died in my unsafe condition, I'd be burning in hell. But somebody shared with me the gospel of Jesus Christ, and I accepted Jesus as my personal Savior. Now you've forgiven my sins. You've saved me from hell. You've given me a home in heaven. You've given me new life. You've given me the Holy Spirit dwelling within me. Lord, now I want to live for you. I don't want it to be me anymore. It needs to be Christ. I want my life when I stand before Christ to count for eternity. I want the way I live my life to bring glory to my Savior. That's the mentality of a disciple. When Jesus called Peter, James, and John, they were in a fishing venture together. They were businessmen, uh co owners apparently of a fishing business. And they had heard of Jesus Christ and they were listening to him and they had been going to hear him preach and different things and They apparently trusted Christ as their Savior, had that, I believe, in John chapter 2. And then the Lord, after a period of time, the Lord says to him, Follow me. The Bible says they forsook their nets. They followed Christ. That's discipleship Now, you don't have to quit your job and go into full-time ministry and be a disciple. But what you do is my get to the point where my love for the Lord My commitment to Christ supersedes all other commitments. I believe in Any given church, Bible preaching, strong church, I think there's, I like to think, there's a certain element of folks who have who are disciples. They're more than just saved from hell, their life is committed to Christ. Now here's my thought. Oh, by the way, there's some there's privileges that go along with being a disciple, and that's a whole nother message. But if you study in the gospels, the disciples had the present special presence of God in their life. You just Christ, they were they were on part of the inner circle, so to speak. They had a clearer understanding of God and his life. Many times Jesus would pull the disciples aside. And he would say, let me tell you what I mean by that parable I just told. And they'd have further insight. And also, there's great rewards at the judgment seat of Christ. We read that here in 1 Corinthians. It's great rewards. Here's what boggles my mind. This is an amazing thing. Are you with me? Everybody with me? Let me tell you what just amazes me is that Jesus Christ would take responsibility for all my sins. That I've done. And and all the sins are going to ever be committed throughout my life. He takes responsibility. He suffers the judgment of God for it. He suffers an eternal hell for me personally. He's buried and rose again. He offers forgiveness of my sins freely. I accept it freely. May seventh, nineteen seventy nine. I accepted Christ. God saved me. And then he says this If you'll live for me, I'll reward you. Good nutty. You gotta be kidding me. You're gonna reward me for living for you after you've done all that for me. Then you're going to re looks like the least you would expect from me is to live for you. But he says, I'll reward you on top of it, and I'll reward you lavishly. Isn't that amazing? Now, when we get to the judgment seat of Christ, it's going to dawn on us. I don't deserve these rewards. I'd be burning in hell if it was up to me. You know what we're going to do with those rewards? Great. We put them right back at Jesus' feet. Say, Jesus, you deserve all the glory. I appreciate the rewards. You don't know how much it means to me. But good night. Good night. These go to you. So there are privileges for Being a disciple, closeness of Christ, a little bit deeper understanding, maybe of the Word of God, a clearer understanding maybe is a better word. of the Word of God and rewards when I get to heaven. As opposed to the person that gets saved and that's all they do. Just get to heaven, it's all burned up. I don't have anything to show for it. And I get into heaven, but Just by grace, anybody gets there. Here's my point. I want to be a disciple. That's what I want to be. I wrote in the front of my Bible, I want to, when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ, hear my Lord and Savior said, Done us well done. You live for me. You've invested your life in eternity in the things of God, not the temporal things of the world. I want to be a disciple. Now the question is, how do I become a disciple? What do I have to do to be a disciple? I know what I have to do to be saved. That's accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. That's the only thing I can do to be saved. I know what I can do. I know what a person has to do to be lost. Just don't do anything. We have a gospel tract we give out. It says how to go to hell. You open up, it's blank. Do nothing. Stay the way you are. Don't get saved. So we know what the person has to do to go to hell is don't get saved, he'll go to hell just naturally. Go to heaven, trust Christ. But what do I could do to be a disciple? What do I have to do as a saved person for my life to count for God? He tells us. In fact, there's passages all through the Gospels where the Lord makes a statement. If this isn't true in your life, then you cannot be my disciple. You cannot be my disciple. You cannot be my disciple. He doesn't say if these things are true, you cannot be saved. Anyone can be saved by trusting Christ as Savior. But if you want to be a disciple, it requires investment on your part. Requires some very important decisions need to be made on your part as a Christian. If you want to be a disciple, now what are those? We could do a year study on this. I'll just list a few. Look at verse 26. Come back to Luke with me. And verse Luke 14, look at verse 26. Now you gotta think this through a bit. Now bear with me. We're okay. If any man come unto me and hate not his father's mother and wife and children and brethren And sister, yea, in his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. Why, preacher? I'm saved. I know God has saved me. There's no doubt in my mind. I've accepted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I've got Bible basis for that I know when I die, I'm going to heaven. I want to be a disciple of Christ. I want my life to count. He goes, okay. You gotta hate your mother, your father, your brother, your sister, your wife, yay, and your own life also. I gotta hate my wife. I gotta hate my kids. I gotta hate my mom. I gotta hate my dad. What are you talking about? This is what he's saying: you must love Christ supremely. My love for Jesus Christ must get to the point where all other loves appear to be, I don't even love them, because my love for Christ is so great. Every aspect of living my life is to be devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ because I love him for what he has done for me. My love for Christ is to suppress even my love for my own family. He's using what's called a hyperbole here. In other words, it's a it's an exaggerated statement to illustrate a point. I I I've used this illustration before. Did you ever drive uh down the road and um you're going across sixty eight towards Baltimore. Did you ever notice the closer you get to the city the faster people go? Those Baltimore folks are nuts. Not like the Philadelphia folks. They're normal. But um Right. But you're putzing along there, driving along, and some guy goes by. And what do we say? We say, good night, that guy passed me like I was standing still. Anybody ever hear that? Anybody ever say that? Now, were you literally standing still? No, you were driving along. But your speed compared to his speed, it seems like, it looks like you're standing still. That's what Christ is using here. That technique to illustrate my love for Christ needs to be so great. And my love for my family looks like I don't even care about them. Listen, there's a real danger for us as Christians to put our families before Christ. I've seen it. That's a dangerous thing. Christ must be supreme. Preacher, and I want to say it was F. B. Meyer, I can't document that, but I believe it was F. B. Meyer when he was engaged to his wife. She asked him this question. She says, Is there anybody in the world that you love more than me? Without hesitation, he answered, Yes, absolutely. She said, who is it? He said, the Lord Jesus Christ, I love him supremely. You know what she said? Good, we'll be just fine. I found it's very difficult to love my family like I should until I love Christ supremely David Livingston, you recognize that name? Great missionary to Africa. Man, we pla we uh laud him and and uh we honor him and we stand in amazed at what God did through that man's life. Do you know David Livingston had a wife and several children? He brought them to Africa with him to be with him, and they could not handle The missionary life. David Livingston made a choice: either I go back to England with my family. Or I follow God's call in my life. He made the decision. God has called me to Africa. These people will die and go to hell without the gospel. Somebody has to come here. And his love for the Lord Jesus Christ was so supreme to those outside looked like he didn't even care about his family. His wife and children ended up coming back to England. She had contracted several diseases while she was there. She died when she was forty-two. They had been apart for years. In fact, David Livingston had taken severe abuse, false accusations that he had been unfaithful to his wife. They were all vicious lies. You say, didn't he love his my wife and I were talking about that incident as I was reading, I told her about it, and we were talking about it. Say, didn't he love his wife and children? Didn't what did he hate his kids? No, no, no, I am convinced David Livingston loved his wife and children dearly. Can you imagine how it must have broken his heart to send his wife back? And to be without them, his children. But his love for Christ was so supreme. Now Christ isn't saying that you and I have to do that. But he is saying, listen, if your life is going to count for eternity. You've got to make your love for Christ supreme to all other loves. We've seen missionaries over and over, I was thinking other family that was here when we came, uh the church supported them. They were over in Africa and there were and they were being uh the natives there were would s shout hateful, nasty things to his wife. He had a very attractive wife, very lovely children And they would throw potatoes at him and mock them. And people would say, What in the world you had a good job in the United States, you had a lovely home and you left all of that and took your family over into that environment. What do you hate your family? No, I knew John de uh very well. He loved his family dearly But he loved Christ supremely. What do I have to do to be a disciple? I need to love Jesus Christ supremely. It is very dangerous to put our family before Christ. You say, preacher, if I make that decision, if I love the Lord so much. Then God's gonna then I'm gonna have to be mean to my family. That's not what he's saying. In fact, I want to tell you, if you love Christ supremely, you will be nicer to your wife than if you love her more than you love the Lord. I think You'll be nicer. You'll be a better wife to your husband if you love Christ supremely because you'll be a better Christian How do I be a disciple? What do I have to do to be a disciple? Well, love Christ supremely, or you can't be my disciple. If you love your family more than you love Christ, you can't be a disciple. You can be saved and go to heaven. He can't be a disciple. He gives another one. I must lose my life completely, and I'm going to end here. Look at verse 26. The last part he says, yea, and his own life also. There comes a point in my life as a Christian where I have to make a decision, not my will, but thy will be done. Need to get to the point, like Paul said, it is no longer I that liveth, but Christ liveth in me. Peter, James, and John left their nets and followed the Lord. Shortly after I got saved, we learned a little chorus. And boy, I tell you, every time I sing this or it comes to mind, it pierces my heart. Listen to the words of this chorus. More than life I love thee, Lord. More than this world can afford. I have given myself to thee, O Lord, I love you more. Wow. More than life, I love you, Lord. You say nobody can do that Nobody is able to love the Lord more than they love their own life. I'm telling you, hundreds of thousands have loved the Lord more than their own life over the years. You and I have great forefathers as Baptists who have died at the stake, burned at the stake, alive, because they love the Lord more than they love their own life. Tortured. Read Hebrews chapter 11, sawn asunder, of whom the world was not worthy. They loved God more than they loved living. And were willing to lay their life on the altar that God's will be done. That's discipleship. That's discipleship. I don't mean to be alarmist, and I've been saying this often, and I don't think I'm wrong. But I am convinced the day is coming in the United States of America where Christians are going to have to decide whether I'm loyal to Christ or I'm loyal to myself. We have gotten away for our 200 years of being honored and respected by this country for our faith in Christ, but I'm afraid those days are over. I'm becoming more convinced that Christianity is being viewed by the leadership of our country as an enemy of the state. And you and I, as Christians, are going to have to decide. Do I love my pleasure? Do I love my ease of life? Do I love my prosperity? Or do I love the Lord? Cannot be my disciple. Don't lose your own life also. If you and your life is more important than God's will, you're saved. You can be saved. That's not what we're talking about. You can't be my disciple. Missionary was going to the foreign field, and one of the family members said, If you go there, you will die there. The missionary responded, That's impossible, because I've already died. And then verse 33, I've got to let go of my possessions immediately. Number one, love the Lord supremely. Number two, lose my life completely. Number three, let go of my possessions immediately. One characteristic of the New Testament disciples was their possessions did not possess them. In America, our stuff has become our God. And we will work and slave for hours and hours on end to get more stuff. And yet we give God what little bit is left over. That is not discipleship. That is not discipleship. It's a dangerous thing to allow our possessions to have a higher priority in my life than my relationship with the Lord. I must not allow my things to become my gods. Is my relationship with the Lord the most important relationship I have? If not, I cannot be his disciple. Is my lifestyle Christ-centered or is it self-centered? If my lifestyle is self-centered, I cannot be his disciple. Is there anything in this world more important to me than please Lord? If there is, I cannot be a disciple. As I prepared this, I thought, good night, that price to pay to be a disciple is overwhelming. And then we could go to other passages where he puts other conditions. And then I realize this. It really isn't overwhelming. When I understand that all this Conditions are really simply me loving the Lord more and more and more and more. And loving myself and the world less And less and less and less. It's simply nothing more than Christ increasing and me decreasing. I met my wife. I was mowing grass, she brought some iced tea out. That was all it took. It was over. I don't know anything about her, but Bingo. I was uh I mowed that yard five times. I was done and I just kept mowing it. She kept bringing iced tea out and I just kept mowing it. Her sister said, I don't think there's any grass left. And uh not quite that way, but At that point when I met her, there was a few things I would have done to have a relationship with her, invest a little money and take her out and, you know, take a bath. Stuff I'd be willing to do to Get to know her a little bit. But here's the thing, the more I got to know her, the more I fell in love with her, the greater my commitment to her, the higher the price was that I was paying to have her. But you know, I didn't feel it as paying a price. Because the more I loved her, the less all these other things were important to me. That's what discipleship is. The more I get to know Christ, my Savior, the more I love Him, the less all these other things have a hold on my life. Follow what I'm saying? It's not a begrudging, oh, I've gotta love the Lord so much that it looks like I hate my family. Oh, I've got to die to self. I can't love this stuff. It's not that at all. It's like I love the Lord. He's been so good to me. He saved me from hell. He's given and giving. He's been so good to me. I want to be his disciple. I want to be Holy Christ. Does that make sense? There's one person in my 25, 28 years of ministry. That I have seen get a hold of this in an unusual and a very rapid way. You know who that was? Michael Stubler Now, I don't mean to exalt him above measure, but I'm telling you, those of you that knew him, when he got saved, he grasped what this discipleship was all about. In an unusual way. And he would call me up and say, Preacher, you know, I don't I'm gonna put this aside. I just want to be all Christ. I'll never forget one time he called me. He says, I want my heart just to be wholly the Lord's Cancer set in. And that didn't slow him down one bit. In fact, it fired him up even more. And he had less of a grip on this world, and he had less stuff than he ever had in his life, and he was happier than he had ever been in his life. He was in love with Jesus. Tom and I were with him when the doctor came in just before his second surgery. The doctor came in, he had a long face, and it was a very somber mood. The surgeon came in, he said, Mike, I said, I'm sorry, I have nothing good to tell you. Remember that? I have no good news. Puffed a little bit, he said, Mike, how are you doing? Mike, he said, this is Mike's words. Man, I'm loving life. You know why? Because he's in love with Jesus Christ. Lost his family, lost his health, lost his possession. He lost everything that this world says you have to have to be anything, but he had Jesus Christ. And he loved them. That's discipleship I want to be a disciple. I want to be a disciple. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, this is