And that from a child hast thou known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Jesus Christ. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction, in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Please bless this crowd as the uh as the message comes. Just open our hearts, Lord, and just uh just we do thank you for everyone here and uh we just pray for each of them, God, that uh that they would have a personal relationship with you, Lord, and that uh they would listen to you today, God. And uh just uh once again thank you for our pastor and uh for all the work that you've done Lord and that you've allowed him to do God. And uh Which thankfully I guess be here in your name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Simply trust me every way. Trust me to ask for any way. Matthew Jesus that is all the law why we dance his mirror into this poor born. Hear him go with us in Jesus and his own. Singing if my way is clear, praying if the path is clear, heaven danger for him. Oh, trusting Jesus that is all trusting him by the ball. Fill within the just for war Trusting Jesus thy trust in the world. Hear him call, simply trusting Jesus. Simply trusting Jesus. Jesus. Amen. Amen. Second Timothy chapter three, isn't it a blessing to have Brother Fox with us? What a great man. He has just become a dear, dear friend all these years. And um God's using him a great way. We'll say more about him. He's going to speak tonight and uh we'll say more about him then and uh we appreciate him so much. Well, it's hard to believe twenty years ago, um this past All right, this past Thursday, September nineteenth, twenty years ago, my wife and I pulled uh actually the sixteenth, we pulled into the parking lot here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, scared, out of our minds. had no idea what we're doing. And a couple folks came and helped us unpack and put things into the parsonage and uh one of the men's said to me the church now you folks that were around the church had been through a little rough time before we showed up. I really didn't know a whole lot about it, but it was it was a little rough time and they were kind of down. And one of the men said to me, he said, Now preacher I know you got a plan to fix this thing up and get things up and going. And I said, Amen. Praise the Lord. And uh after he went out I told my wife, I said, I have no idea what I'm doing. But God's been faithful. And twenty years ago the nineteenth, uh was a Sunday back in nineteen ninety-three, September nineteenth. Step behind this pulpit, preached my first message as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and I cannot believe that these twenty years have gone by and how good the Lord has been. Look at verse number Verse number 14 with me. And I just want to take that first phrase. And it says this, but continue thou in the things which thou hast learned. And God's taught me some things as pastor. I would like to think that I have grown as a Christian and as a pastor these past twenty years. And uh I told a couple of the deacons I want to preach twenty things that I've learned in twenty years. And they said, good night. We won't be out of here until tomorrow morning. And so what I'm gonna do is I'm only gonna preach a few things I've learned in the last twenty years, and I hope and pray it'll be a blessing to all of us and a challenge. Let's pray together. Father, I'm so grateful for this church. God, we've said so many times This church has been the joy of my life. I know Kathy feels the same way. And I ask God that you would be glorified today. And I pray that you would continue to work in and through Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church for many, many years to come if you tarry. and uh meet with us now this morning. I pray that some of these things you have taught me I could just share with others and and uh we would grow all grow. And uh bless, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen. I read one morning this week in my person my devotions, my private devotions, uh, from Psalm 73 and verse number 28 It says this, for it is good for me to draw near to God. I have put my trust in the Lord God, that I may declare all thy works. And as I read that passage, uh I got thinking that, you know, it is a good thing to get closer and closer to God. Amen. No. It's not a good thing to get away from God. I've seen people draw closer and closer to the Lord these twenty years And I've seen people get farther and farther from God these twenty years. You know what my conclusion is? It's better to get closer to God. It's better to take those steps, draw closer to the Lord. I read this passage. It says, I've put my trust in the Lord. I've come to find that it's better to trust God than to lean on my own understanding. It's better just to wait on God and trust in God and look to Him rather than take things into my own hand and lead on my own understanding. You know, over these twenty years, and some of y'all can Verify this. Uh I've done some things according to my understanding. You know what I found out? It never works out. When I trust God, I wait on God. I found that that always works out. It's always the best. It's good to trust God. And then he says that I may declare all thy works. And when we draw near to God, as individuals, we draw near to God, we get close to God. And we trust him with the issues of life and our direction in life, then as God blesses and helps me. Then I can go to others and I can declare to others what God has done for me. And maybe somebody else is going through a similar situation what I'm going through and I can come and say, hey, let me let me show you how God helped me through this. Let me show you. I cleaned on my own understanding. I made my own decisions and boy didn't work out so well. But when I trusted God in this situation, this is what God did for me. And I can declare his works to others And I think that is what the ministry is all about. That's what I think Christianity is all about. You and I getting close to God, trusting God, and God working in our lives, and then once going to others and saying, hey, this is the way it works. And so all these twenty years, uh God has blessed and God has helped us. When we came in nineteen ninety-three, that's September Uh that night I remember forget September 16th, Lonnie Lewis was helping us unpack, and uh he said uh it was September, it was a Thursday, September 16th. He said there's going to be pump going to be frost on the pumpkins tonight. I said, yeah, right, September. There ain't going to be no frost and no pumpkins tonight. Guess what? There was frost on the pumpkins that night. And there's been frost ever since. Um been freezing to death ever since we got here. But we showed up and um I tell ya folks that were here rallied together and these twenty years I believe the church has been committed to giving glory to Jesus Christ. We thank God for preachers that have come through. We thank God for church members that have given themselves the Lord and are serving God. But I tell you, we understand behind all of it all, the glory goes to the Lord Jesus Christ. That's right. We've not sought to exalt man. We've sought to exalt the Lord Jesus Christ, because without him, we'd be nothing. That's right. Without him we'd be lost on our way to hell. There would be no church. There would be no salvation. So the church rallied together and we've sought to glorify Jesus Christ. And lift him up. The other thing we've sought to do, the church rallied behind, it didn't take long, the church caught a hold of a vision, and that was getting the gospel to every person that lives on planet Earth. One way or other, doing everything we possibly can to get the gospel of Jesus Christ to every single person around the world. Now I'm I'm my mind's racing here this morning as I'm speaking, but I'll tell you this, here's something I've learned that's not on the list. This is number twenty-one. Um I've learned that a little church can have a big impact. I w Brother Fox and I were talking on the phone the other week and I said this. I said a small church can have a big gospel footprint. Yeah. We can have a big impact. And I've seen God do that here. And be able to reach around the world. Around the world. We've had some success in the twenty years. We've had some failure, but through it all God's been faithful. Now here's a couple of things I learned. I want to I want to encourage you to jot these down Here's the first thing that came to mind as I sat down. What have I learned? I've learned this. I've learned that salvation is the greatest issue in life. Now I believed that when I came. That Sunday morning, September nineteenth, nineteen ninety three. I stood behind this pulpit right here for the very first time, and my message was, ye must be born again. Amen. And I believed with all my heart the most important thing in a person's life is salvation. And 20 years later, I am more convinced of that now than I ever have been in my life. That a person be saved. Take your Bibles if you would, please. I want you to see a passage of Scripture. And we're not going to go to a lot of verses this morning, but turn to Mark if you would. The Gospel of Mark. Matthew, Mark. And chapter number eight. Twenty years later, I stand here and I am absolutely convinced that the most important issue that any person faces in life is the salvation of their soul. Mark chapter 8, if you would look with me at verse number 36. Now, I'm a strong advocate of underlining and highlighting in your Bibles and taking notes in your Bibles. And Romans chapter 8, verse 36 really ought to be underscored in one way or another in your Bible. Look what it says. For what shall it profit a man? If he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul. Right. You catch what God's saying here? If you could gain the whole world, if you could be the richest man in the world, if you could have the most possessions, be the smartest, the best looking, the most popular, or the richest person in the world, and you die and go to hell That hasn't done you a bit of good. And done you a bit of good. Um John chapter 3 and verse 3, Jesus said to a A good guy, a wealthy guy, a religious guy, came to Jesus and uh Jesus said to him just right off the bat, Jesus says, You must be born again. Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. He says, What are you talking about, born again? He says, You must be born again. Right. Most important issue in life is the salvation of a person's soul. Now, is money important? Sure, it's important. How we handle our finances that's a huge part of life. Jesus spoke enormous uh amounts in the gospels. Uh there's tremendous Passage of scripture dealing with finances. We have a class we're starting next month on Monday nights on dealing with finances from a biblical perspective. Money is important. But money does a person no good if that person dies and goes to hell. The most important issue is personal salvation. I believe having a house and owning property and that, that's important. And thank God we live in a country where, at least at one time, personal property ownership was was encouraged, was produ uh was uh was um uh was encouraged, yeah, exactly. My words exactly exactly what I was thinking. And uh and thank God if you're able to do that But wait a minute, what what good does it do if you have the nicest town in Garrett h nicest house in Garrett County, you die and go to hell. Right. I've seen this over the years. I've seen people with great wealth. I've seen people with many successes in life. And yet die without Christ. Isn't that a tragedy? It is. Money's important. Owning a house is important. Family's important. Good night. I love my family. You love your family. We want good families, we want strong marriages, and we want godly families and Christian homes. But wait a minute, you can have the best family in the world, but if you don't have salvation, if you don't have Christ and die and go to hell. What good does that do? What good does that do? The most important issue in life is a person's personal salvation. And by that I mean this. That we've come to the point where we've recognized the fact that I am a sinner under the judgment of God, and that only Jesus Christ can forgive me of my sin by taking God's judgment on himself. And I accept what Christ has done for me, and I accept him into my heart and life, and God forgives me and saves me From hell and from the judgment of God and from the sin that destroys my life. That's what we mean by salvation. Thank God for the chill. Man, there's a bunch of kids running around here today. Buses came in field, cars came in with kids. They're out there riding that mechanical bull. I just wish they'd let me control that operator just a little bit. Zing, zing, zing. Do you know the most important thing in the world for these little kids is that they come to know Jesus as their personal Savior. One of our workers, while we were shaking hands, one of our workers came up to me and said, Preacher, one of the kids got saved this morning. They handed me a decision card. One of the kids downstairs trusted Jesus this morning during Sunday school hour. I tell you what, that's the most important thing that ever happened in that child's life is when they accepted Jesus Christ their personal Savior. These young people in the service here, I'm so grateful for Pastor Grant and his wife Kristen. They're working with the young people. They had a room full down there this morning. You know what the most important issue in all of our young people's lives? That they be saved. That they know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Are there other issues in life? Certainly. But I found, I believe it when I come, I am more convinced of it now than ever, that young people need Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Amen. We went by yesterday. Um we oh we were going out uh knocking on doors and and doing our great commission day and sharing the gospel with folks. And we drove up by here and uh all those kids and families out in the field playing soccer and football and badminton and whatever they were playing, and uh just hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and we drove by and I thought Well, I wish we could win all those kids to the Lord. Wish they could all be saved. Yes. Know Jesus their Savior. Most important issue in a young person's life is the salvation of their souls, being saved from the judgment of God. I've learned in 20 years that young people die. One of the biggest funerals I ever did was a 16-year-old girl over in Terra Alda. Killed in a car wreck. That place was packed out. I was glad to be able to say she had ridden our Sunday school bus and had just trusted Christ just six months before the accident and was coming to church. We're able to give the gospel at that funeral, and I want to say there was 35 or 40 young people raised their hand that they trusted Jesus as Savior. Amen It's important that young people be saved. It's the most important issue. I put this down. Salvation's greatest issue in life for college-age students. Hey, uh a person that's 18, 19, 20, 25 years old, that person needs to know they've been saved. If you've gotten to that point in your life, you've not accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, the most important issue in your life is that you be saved. Yes. That you accept Jesus Christ your personal Savior. For uh young couples raising up children. I'm telling you, I thank God for the young couples in our church, but I'm telling you, we need Jesus Christ in our homes. That's right. We need daddies who are saved, mamas who are saved. I put down s middle aged folk. I don't know what middle age is, it keeps getting older I was telling somebody said something about age, I said, Ah, I'm middle aged. That m that means I'll be a hundred and nineteen a hundred and six. That sounds good to me. I'm fine with that. Middle aged need to be saved. Senior citizens need to be saved. I was thinking that just the last two months I've been jotting things down, just lessons I've learned these 20 years. The first thing I have is salvation is the greatest issue in life. Yes. So I thought about that. I thought about a man. I got a phone call. This was a number of years ago. And they said, preacher, we got a man, he's dying. Doesn't have long to live. He's an older man. And uh would you be willing to go visit him and just talk to him about the Lord and about his soul and about eternity? I said I'd be glad to. He had a place up at the lake. I don't know that he lived there. In fact, I know he didn't live there. Beautiful home by the lake. I mean high dower home. Found it, drove up the driveway, big building there by the water. Family there, they asked me to come in or some nurses there. Introduced myself, we talked a little bit. He had a beautiful he has a big place down east, Baltimore somewhere, had a home. This was his second home. Obviously a very successful man as far as the world and possessions and finances were concerned. They came in and introduced me to him, and it was obvious he wasn't well. I was told he didn't have long to live. We sat down and we began talking. I introduced myself. We just made some small talk there. And I said, well, can I? I said, I just wanted to come by and introduce myself. I'm going to be praying for you. I said, I want to help you and and I want to give you some guidance and maybe answer any questions you have as far as spiritual life is concerned. I'd like to read a passage of scripture. And so I read John 3. 16. I kinda talked to the gospel a little bit and I was I was just laying some groundwork and he's listening intently And he said to me, he said, excuse me. And he looked at the others, his wife and some family and some of the nurses. He says, Can you all step out just for a moment? I want to talk to the Reverend by himself. So everybody said, sure, sure. They stepped out and they closed the door, and I scooted over beside him. And he said, Reverend, I've really not had any interest in God or the Bible or church all these years. He told me he's a World War II veteran, Brother Harry. He fought in Northern Africa and was over there. He said, I've never been interested in God or religion or the Bible. And he began to weep, I mean sob. And he told me, he said, I need to know if God will forgive me for something I've done. And before I could even respond to that, he began telling me of something that happened in North Africa, something he had done. Terrible, terrible And he was sobbing and he said, Can God ever forgive me? So I'm going to die. Can God possibly forgive me? He said, all these years, this has been on my heart and mind. I am so glad I could open my Bible and show him that the blood of Jesus Christ, God's Son, cleanses us from all sin. And I could show him Romans 10, 13, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And after reading several scriptures and explaining them to them, explaining them to that man, he bowed his head and he called on Jesus to come in his life and have mercy on him and forgive him for all his sin. I was able to explain to him, you know, as terrible as that sin was, that wasn't what was sending them to hell. It was the fact that we're all sinners under the judgment of God and accepting Jesus Christ or rejecting Him. Rejecting Christ is what sends us to hell. And I explained to him said whether you had committed this horrendous thing or not, you still needed Jesus Christ as Savior. He was a successful man. In every sense the world would consider success. He was it. But he needed to be saved. It was only a few days later I got the phone call. Mr. So-and-so passed away last night in his sleep. Went down east, someone else did the funeral. I never had any more contact with the family. But I learned something. I learned that salvation is the most important issue in life. Let people be saved. Let people be saved. The greatest thing we can do here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is bring people to Jesus Christ. Yeah. It's the greatest thing we can do. We could build houses, we could send m uh money to uh poor people, we could uh buy shoes and give them to the shoeless, and those are all wonderful things. But the greatest thing Seeing people saved from sin and hell and finding a home in heaven. The other week, Charlie and I, uh, where's Charlie at? He always goes down to McDonald's every time we have church. Um he's out working the parking lot and uh but Charlie and I were out knocking on doors and a lady Wanda came to the door. We're able to open our Bibles and show her how to be saved, wanted to call on the Lord, trust her Savior. We walked out. Old Charlie was walking up here and he was just ecstatic. So Johnny, get down here. And um So uh what did I learn? I learned that salvation is the greatest issue in life. Will you write this down? Number two, I've learned that world missions is the purpose that our church exists. World missions. Now, what do we mean by that? By that I mean we take this gospel of salvation to the whole world. Mark 16, 15. Go ye therefore, go ye therefore and no Mark 16, 15. Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature That is our commission. That is our responsibility is to take the word of God into all the world. Hey. We uh this church, I'm telling you, of all the churches I've been a part of, there is another church that has more fellowships eaten and uh fellowships than this church I've ever had. If we go three weeks without a fellowship meal, people are complaining and griping, what in the matter we We eat more chicken around here and food and I'm telling you it is great, I thank God for it, but we don't exist for fellowships. It's not why this church exists Uh I'm grateful for the picnics we have and we had a great picnic with the super seniors out at uh Ed's place. The only thing I didn't like was he and Chester cheated on Cornhole and um But uh I'm telling you we had great picnics and they're fun and we have activities and all these things. But Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church was established by God to take the gospel into all the world. Seven, eight years ago, we've adopted Kazakhstan as our mission's focus. And we pray and we promote and we do everything we can to get missionaries into that nation. 17 million people Two independent Baptist preachers in s in a country of seventeen million people. We exist For the purpose of getting the gospel and preachers around the world in this countries like Kazakhstan That's why we exist. We have sword. I consider our sword conference on revival and soul winning and our missions conference the two most important meetings this church holds all year long. Sword Conference promoting soul winning here at home. Missions Conference promoting getting the gospel around the world. I was reading this week uh uh Hudson Taylor. How many folks recognize that name? Hudson Taylor, great missionary to China in years gone by. Boy, you ought to read his book, Hudson Tarot's Spiritual Secret. What a powerful book that is. He was in England home from China and uh he was preaching and promoting missions and Trying to stir up volunteers to come to China and help him start churches and give the gospel to those dear people. And he was in Scotland and a one-legged school teacher. At the end of the service, hobbled up to him and volunteered to go to China with Hudson Taylor to be a missionary. Hudson Taylor looked at him and said, with only one leg, why do you think of going to China as a missionary? This is what the one-legged school teacher said. I don't see those with two legs going. And I wrote in the side of the book, Amen. Amen. Our responsibility is to get the gospel in all the world. A little church can have a big impact on world missions. On world missions. I thank God for that. I tell you what stirs my heart, at the beginning of each month we get a report off of our website about folks that download sermons off of our website. Last month I think we had 39 different countries that people had downloaded sermons off of our website and had listened, China, Mongolia, Kazakhstan, other countries. People listening in, the gospel going out. Brother Fox is going to tell us tonight about the great God Bless America crusade they had last week. had hundred and some people listened in on the internet around the world. Am I correct? Hundred and some thousand. Hundred and some thousand. Listened in a hundred. Yeah, that would be praise the Lord. Number three, let me give you my third one here real quick. Number one, I said salvation, I learned salvation is the most important issue in life. Number two, world missions is the purpose for our existence. Some of y'all are sitting there thinking, this is all we've heard for twenty years. Praise God. And uh I got some news for you. It's all you're going to hear for another twenty years. Let me put the put this down. What'd you number three? God is in control. Amen. I learned that God is in control. I like Proverbs 16, 33. It says this: the lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. And I'd read that thing, I thought, what in the world is he talking about? The lot is cast into the lap, and the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. And it dawned on me one day. A lot, when you cast lots, you have no control over how it's that that dice is going to roll. You have no control what it's going to turn up And what he's telling us there is the things that life throws at us that we have no control over. God's in control of all of it. That's right. He is. I can't control. You go to the doctor, doctor says we found a little lump here on your throat. We don't know what it is. We have to do some tests. We have no control. That's what life throws at us. But we look beyond that and we say there's a God in heaven that is in control. That's right. There's a God in heaven that is behind us and he can take the worst of things and turn them around and bring good out of it. I've seen situations where it looked absolutely hopeless, and I see no way anything good can come out of this, but God, in his wisdom and power can take that and turn that thing around and lo and behold Jesus is glorified and lives are changed and and good comes out of it. God is in control. I found that no matter what life throws at me, behind it all, God is working God is working. I don't know what life is throwing at you right now. Some of y'all I do. Some of y'all I've been in your homes in the last month and I've prayed with you. Situations that are tough. I'm here to tell you, God hasn't lost control. God has allowed that to happen. It may not necessarily be his will. But he's allowed it to happen. And if God allows something into my life, then he can take that and bring some good out of it. God is in control. God is in control. Amen. I like I've used this illustration over the years. It's kind of like playing chess. I like playing chess. I haven't played in years because I always lose, but I like playing. And it's kind of like playing chess against are you a chess player? Are you good? Well I'm not gonna play you then, but uh uh it's like playing a master. Let's let's let's imagine for a moment Brother Fox is a master chess player. Stretch our imaginations here a little bit and he's a master chess player. I'm gonna play him and I've got this plant I'm going to sacrifice that pawn. I'm going to put that rook up there. I'm going to move that bishop over here and boom, I'll get him. I've got it all planned out how this game's going to unfold. I make one move and he blows it. And Brother Fox is over on the other side. And he's got it, he's looking at everything, and he's watching what I'm doing. And maybe by some stroke of dumb luck, I'm able to take one of his key players. And I'm able to mess up his plan of attack somehow. I interfere with something. Everybody with me still? Yes. But he being a master chess player, he can take whatever move I make And he can maneuver around that and actually use that move that foiled his original plan. He can maneuver around that and still accomplish his end goal. And that's a lot what like what God is like. We do stupid things. Don't look at me like you don't know what I'm talking about. How many people here can testify we do stupid things? Not me, just personally, but all of us we do stupid things. Sure we do. And we think, good no, I messed up. What good can come out of this? But God is the master chess player. And He can take that stupid thing I've done. And if I'll trust him and just commit it to him, he can take that and work that around and bring some good out of it. Only God can do that. I look back over the years and I think what an idiot I've been. But how good God has been. Amen. And able to work that around, work that around, work that around. Sometimes I think, man alive, look what God's got to work with. It's like, how in the world does any church exist? God is in control. He is. And God is good. God is good. Um I like this one real quick. Let me give you the last couple here. Number four, I like this one, and this doesn't take a lot of explanation explanation. When things go good, don't get too high. And when things go bad, don't get too low. Just stay focused on Christ and committed to the gospel. In 20 years, I've seen Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church go up. I've seen it go down. We've had big days with high attendance. We've had some pretty low days with low attendance. We've had seasons where people are being saved and baptized on every hand. And then we've had seasons where it got pretty dry. We worked hard and tried to do. I've seen times when the offerings were just overflowing. I've seen times when those offerings were pretty thin. You know what I found out? When things are going good, don't get too high. When things are going bad, don't get too low. Just keep going forward. Just stay focused on Christ. Now rejoice in the good times and pray in the bad times, but don't let them derail you. I've seen prosperity ruin people because I got too excited about prosperity. Then when it was gone, they had nothing left. I've seen people get down, go through dry times, and get so discouraged by it, they quit. Well, let that happen. Just stay focused on Christ. Stay focused on Christ. I like what Isaiah 26, 3 says. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee. In other words, I'm not gonna get ra I'm not gonna get too big-headed when things are going great. I'm not gonna get too rattled when things are going bad. I'm just gonna keep my focus on Christ. I'm gonna stay focused on him, I'm gonna stay true and faithful to what I know is right. Number five, let me give you this one. And this is key. I've learned this. Personally, I've learned this. Obedience really is the very best thing. It really is. Twenty years pastoring Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, I've seen some people obey God. Twenty years I've seen some people disobey God. You know what my conclusion is? It's better to obey God than it is to disobey God. I'm convinced of that. Without exception, those that have obeyed God turned out better for them than those that disobeyed God. I wish I couldn't say this, but I have to. Last 20 years, there have been times I've obeyed God personally. I hate to say it, but there's been some times where I disobeyed God. You know what I learned? It's a whole lot better off for me to obey God than it is to disobey Him. It's a whole lot better. Amen. I found that nothing good has come out of me disobeying God. Ever. Any time. Right. Nothing good has come out of it. When I've obeyed God, even when it was hard, even when it didn't make sense to me, God has come through every time. And it's always been the best thing for me. I've seen other pastors, Brother Fox. I've seen other pastors obey God and God bless them. I've seen other pastors disobey God. And it destroys them. I've seen young people grow up and get out on their own, making their own decisions. And I've seen young people decide to obey God with their life. God bless them and help them. Twenty years I've seen young people disobey God. And it hurt them every time. I've seen husbands obey God, I've seen husbands disobey God. I've seen wives obey God, I've seen wives disobey God. Parents, children, Senior citizens And I've come to this conclusion, it's always better to obey God than it is to disobey God. Obedience to God is much better, and disobeying God is never good. Here's my last one, number six. I have about twenty-one others, but I'll save them for another time. All the blessings and all the victories at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church in the last 20 years are because of God's grace. Yes. I'm here to tell you this morning, and I appreciate the letters and the cards and people have been saying so kind things to me. I'm here to tell you this morning. Nothing good has come out of this church because of Dennis Leatherman. It has all come out because of the grace and goodness of God The Apostle Paul was the greatest Christian that ever lived, and he said this, in me, that is in my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing. He says, I am the chief of sinners. He says, by the grace of God, I am what I am. And every soul saved, and every every individual baptized, and every dollar given to missions, and every impact that this church may have had for God and his glory in this whole world was because of the grace of God upon this church. Amen. And we glorify Him. God choosing to use us. God choosing to stir in our hearts. I was jotting things down this week that God has done over these years. Do you realize over a million dollars in the last 20 years was given to foreign missions? Little church up here That's an amazing thing. Soul saved, people baptized. It's all because of the glory of God. I've come to this conclusion. Brother Fox, if God can use someone like me, and believe me, I know me better than any of y'all know me. One one time there was somebody was saying kind of nasty things about me years ago and saying I said, Brother, you don't know the half of it. You think you're disappointed with me? Well yeah, I know me. I mean you can you can't tell me how awful I am. I know me better than you are. You do. I come to this conclusion, if God can use me, he can use anybody. He can use anybody. Preacher, what's your greatest failure in 20 years pastoring Mount Lake Independent Bath? What was your greatest failure? That's easy to answer. My greatest failure has been not trusting God. I look back, times I did not trust God. That has been my greatest failure. It's things I wish I could look back, I wish I could say, you know, I wish I could go back and do that over and trust God this time. What was your greatest success in 20 years, preacher? What's your greatest? I'll tell you what, times I was smart enough to trust God. Let God have his way. I have never regretted trusting God. I've never regretted waiting on God. And my prayer this morning is this. And by the way, you can trust God. In your situation, as light throw things at you, just test God. Say, Lord, I want this. I want your will to be done in my life. This is what I'm asking God this morning. I'm asking God to do to me whatever needs to be done. For me to be the man he wants me to be. The other morning Kathy was at work, and before I came over to the office, I got on my knees. And I say, God, I am asking you to do to me whatever needs to be done. To make me the man you intend for me to be. I'm asking God to do this church Whatever needs to be done for us to be the church God intends for us to be. Now think about that. That may mean some things happening that we don't plan on or anticipate. That may mean God taking some things away from me that I might not really like to have taken away. It may be some responsibilities put on my shoulders that I really would rather not choose to have as my responsibility. But if that's what it takes for me to be the man God intends for me to be, then God I want you to do that. Are you with me? Does it make sense? Yes. Yes. Now here's here's my invitation. Here's my invitation. Would you pray that prayer with me? Is there anyone here this morning say, preacher? I want God to do to me whatever He needs to do to make me the person He wants me to be. And when my life is over, and I stand before Christ, I'm everything God intended for me to be. And it's God's grace that does that. We need God to work in our lives to make us that person. Now if you're here this morning and you don't know you're saved, that's the most important thing. You've got to get saved. You've got to trust Christ. Do not leave here not knowing for sure your sins are forgiven. You're on your way to heaven. That is the worst thing you could possibly do. Now, if you are saved, don't get too excited when things go good, and don't get too low when things go bad. Just stay right course, stay on course. Obey God. Obey God. Get involved in world missions. That's why we exist. And let's ask God to do whatever needs to be done. And our lives, take away whatever needs to be taken away, add to whatever needs to be added to, rearrange whatever needs rearranging. But God, I want to be the person you intend for me to be. I believe God will answer that prayer if we mean it. If we mean it. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.