If you would turn in your Bibles there. We're looking at the life of David. I'm enjoying this. And uh hope maybe others are getting something out of it. 1 Samuel 17. And I want to begin reading in verse number. If I can find my notes here. 12. 1 Samuel 17, verse number 12. And I'm going to read down through verse number 20. 1 Samuel 17, 12 through 20. The Bible says, Now David was the son of that Ephraith of Bethlehem, Judah, whose name was Jesse. And he had eight sons, and the man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul. And the three eldest sons of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battle And the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab, the firstborn, and next to him Abinadab, and the third Shema. And David was the youngest, and the three eldest followed Saul. But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem And the Philistine drew near, morning and evening, and presented himself forty days. And Jesse said unto David, his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched corn and these ten loaves, and run to the camp of thy brethren, and carry these ten cheeses unto the captain of their thousand, and look how the brethren fare, and take their pledge. Now Saul and they and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah fighting with the Philistines. And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with the keeper, and took and went as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the trench as the host was going forth to the fight and shouted for the battle. I'm calling this, and we're actually going to extend my thoughts here beyond just tonight to a f more verses. But um I'm calling this a battlefield visit. David is now showing up on the battlefield. We had all this previous stuff going on. Now David is coming on the scene. So let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word. I pray we could learn from David in this whole scenario. And I pray your Holy Spirit would apply some of these truths and the principles that are here that you would apply them to our lives. And I know a lot of what I'm preaching, Lord, applies to my own self. And so I pray your Holy Spirit would have your way. and help us to grow in our faith and have victory in our Christian lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. How many people ever read through this passage before? Anybody ever read this? Sometime in your devotions or whatever. How many people read through this passage I just read? You really didn't pay a whole lot of attention to it. This isn't the most exciting part of the story, right? When we read about David and Goliath, what do we get excited about? David and Goliath. You know that whole part. And I think uh I'm guilty of this, no doubt, and probably you are too, you just don't admit it. Um I read through here. I don't pay a whole lot of attention to this preliminary verses that are leading up to it. Well, I've been studying it now And I started to realize that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. Even these passages here that sometimes we don't pay a whole lot of attention, we're anticipating the big confrontation And uh I learned a number of things here in this. I think maybe they might be helpful. They've helped me. How many people recognize this name? I like to do this. How many people recognize this name? Florence Chadwick Florence Chadwick. How many people say it sounds vaguely familiar? How many people say I never heard it in my life? Florence Chadwick was a long-distance swimmer. Does that help you? Trivia here. Florence Chadwick back in the 50s swam the English Channel. She swam through the Strait of Gibraltar. And in 1952, she wanted to break a record and she was going to swim from Cantalina Island off the coast of California. into the California coast just below LA. Twenty-six miles. And so she was going to swim this and of course they had boats going alongside of her and and um uh escorts uh there along I'll just read to you her story. She was attempting to set a record for covering that distance, 26 miles, swimming. When she entered the water, a heavy fog settled itself on the path before her. Blinded by the fog, she became disoriented and discouraged and gave up. When she finally decided she couldn't go on anymore, her escorts in a boat helped her out of the water. Her escorts feared to tell her the truth. Florence was less than 300 yards from the shore, from her goal When they got her in and they told her what the situation was, this was her only response. She said, all I could see was hopelessness. I saw no way I could possibly do this. The fog had clouded her vision. She didn't know where she was going. She didn't know where she was at. And um It kept her from coming to victory. Now when I read that, I thought about Israel and King Saul. Here's uh uh Goliath out there in the Philistines. And they are so, their vision is so fogged by their fear of this champion that they fail to see that victory is right there. And their means for victory is now showing up on the battlefield. They don't know it. David doesn't know it. Nobody at this point but God knows it. But they are right there. And yet, nevertheless, they're scared to death. Their enemy, and I'm probably repeating a little bit as we go through this chapter, we'll get a little repetitious, but their enemy was not Goliath. That was not the enemy of Israel. The enemy of Israel was their dim view of God. Goliath's size and his speech hit was so intimidating They had their mind got fogged as to who their God was and what their God could do. And I put it this way: their fear of Goliath fogged their view of God's power. And so here they are, and we looked at this last week or whenever it was. Here they are, they're cowering in fear before this massive specimen of a man and this fighting machine And they're so intimidated and they're scared out of their minds of this guy. But nevertheless, God had a plan. And I like this thought. God always has a plan. God knows what he's doing. He knows what he's dealing with. And God has a plan. God never says this. Oh no And people are glad for that. He never says, oh no. He never God never says, uh oh. You ever you ever get your hair cut and the barber goes, uh oh What do you mean uh oh? God never says uh-oh. He never says oh me. He never says oh nah, oh oh no God always has a plan. Now I'm reading through this here, and let me give this to you. I kind of outlined, I kind of broke it down, verse 12 through verse 30, which we're not even going to get close to all of that But if you like this, if you like writing down little outlines, this is my outline I picked. We're going to look at the first two tonight. But this first thing I noticed, verse 12 through 16, is the setting Of David's visit to the battlefield, the setting. The drama is unfolding, and we see how God takes a number of verses here, and he kind of puts the setting here. The home, David getting here to the battlefield, the events that took place to get him to the battlefield. It's kind of interesting. The whole time He's telling us about Jesse and the household there and Jesse's age and the boys and they followed Saul and uh he's sending David. But did you notice in there he injects little statements of what's going on on the battlefield while he's telling us what's happening here. It's kind of like if you ever read a book or something, it'll jump back and forth to two different things. And that's what's taking place here. So he gives us the setting Of the situation before David actually gets here. Then I notice in verse 17 through 20 I put this descending of David to the battlefield and how he actually gets there And how that transpires, how does this kid that has phenomenal faith in God on the backside of a mountain, how does he end up out here on the battlefield? So that's descending. Verse 21 through 24, we have the situation that David found on the battlefield. When he gets there He sees what's going on. He sees the situation. And then verse 25 through 30, the stirring up of David when he gets the battlefield. Then he gets here, he sees the situation. And man, his heart is stirred. And then we'll go on from there. And I think we know a little bit what the story is. So we have the drama. The drama is being played out Um the drama is unfolding here. And uh we know the story. Uh we know we're anticipating what's coming. I'm reading this and I'm getting caught up in it. I'm studying it And there's a little bit of anticipation, there's a little bit of tension building, you know where this is going. And the drama's unfolding here on David's confrontation and encounter with a giant, a champion. Now I say that. I want to point out this isn't just a story. Right? We understand that. This is an actual historical event that took place. But I think it's pretty neat how God Conveys to us this event. And it is, to me, it's set up perfect for a play or a, you know, just some sort of drama, just the way God conveys it It's pretty neat. So let's look at the setting to David's arrival in the battlefield. What is the background here? What is the setting? Look at verse 12 again. It says, Now David was the son of that Ephraith of Bethlehem Judah, whose name was what? Jesse. Now look how much time he gets talking about Jesse and the family. He takes verse 12. He had eight sons, and the man, Jesse, went among men for an old man in the days of Saul. What does it mean he went among men as an old man in the days of Saul? What do you think that means? Yeah. It it really means pretty much what you think, I think. His old guy, everybody knew it. Everybody's home walking down. There's an old guy. He went as an old man. See w see how it's worded there? It says he went amongst men for an old man in the days of Saul. So he was elderly and everybody recognized that. And of course the respect that comes with it. And it says, And the three eldest sons of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battlefield. The names of the three sons that went to the battle were Eliab, firstborn, and next uh Abinadab, and then Shema. And so I got looking at that, and God's taking a couple of three verses here, two or three verses here, and he's you know spending a little bit of time of the eternal Word of God talking about the family. What does Jesse have anything to do with David defeating Goliath? What does this home setting? What does all of this have anything to do? Well, I think it has quite a bit to do with it. David's involvement with Goliath, David's tremendous victory, his great exercise and display of tremendous faith and confidence in God begins in the setting of a home, the setting of a family. This all starts with the family And I think God is emphasizing that to us here. Jesse, Jesse, his boys, David, they're at the home. Jesse's older. He's spending all this time telling us about the family. The family is important to God. The home is tremendously important to God. Now I put this statement down. This is mine. I put this down. The character of the next generation is determined by the quality of their homes they come out of The home is important. I think God is telling us here that much of David's development as a young man of faith, of tremendous faith. can be attributed perhaps to his father's influence and the home he grew up in. Now I want to be very, very cautious here A lot of good and great people can and do come out of terrible homes I think of a number of preachers that had profound influence on me that came out of dysfunctional homes, broken homes. And uh so uh we need to understand uh great men and women of faith and great people uh can come out of terrible situations. And that's one of the reasons I love our bus ministry so much. Is we can see young people come out of homes that are incredibly dysfunctional and very difficult And yet, if we expose them to the Word of God and we'll teach them the faith in God, they can still amount to something. God can take broken vessels and make great things out of them. Amen or not? Sure. And terrible people can come out of very good homes. Good mom and dad that love God and fear God, a Jesse type character. That does not guarantee necessarily there's going to be, uh they're going to turn out right. There's possible, I know some great men that I have tremendous respect for. And they had young people that children that one thinking of one in particular just is awful and just terrible in the world And so um uh so we it's not a hard and fast rule. I know what some folks are thinking. You're thinking about, what about that verse in Proverbs? That says, raise up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will what? Not depart from it. Is that verse promising, guaranteeing if we raise our kids right, they'll always turn out right I don't think that's what that say. Now this is my take on that verse, and I didn't mean to spend as much time on it, but this is my take on that verse Is that when a child gets older, you raise them up the way they're supposed to be, when they get older, they can never get away from that teaching and that influence. It will always be there. Now whether how they respond to it or not is up to them But they cannot escape that teaching that will always be there. Raise up a child when he is old, he will not depart from it. He can't get away from that. So I think that's my understanding of that verse. However, having said all that, a good home is the place to raise good kids We cannot diminish the importance of the home, the role of the home. And um and I think that's being emphasized here. I think before we see Before we see any of these tremendous exploits of faith on the part of David, God is kind of pointing out here as hey, he's coming out of this home, Jesse. and uh these boys. And so um I think it's significant. It's important to God. Now what do we know about Jesse? Anyone want to tell me what you know about this guy named Jesse? He's a good guy, really good guy. But we don't think much about him. How many people were thinking about Jesse yesterday? No, we don't give Jesse much thought, who is he? Let me tell you a few things about Jesse. His name means uh uh uh I couldn't find any consistent definition So his name means, among other things, apparently, to be very, very firm. Very firm. Unmoving. He's established. Consistency is incredibly important. When influencing others. Consistency. Consistency. Consistency. One of the great compliments that I as pastor get from our church when people come in, they'll say, oh, I visited tw fifteen years ago And uh we were up here vacationing, we came back, and everything's still the same. And they mean by our position and the songs we sing. And uh what is true in the church, I believe, is true in the home Is true in the home. So his name means firm or consistent, or one of the definitions was a gift. He's the son of Obed Hmm, Obed. Anybody know who Obed's daddy was? You do. Boaz. Anybody know who Boaz's wife was? Ruth was Ruth Jewish? No, she was a Moabite And so here you have David is coming from a lineage of some tremendous people. Boaz was an amazing man Tremendous leader and infinite leader in his community and a very wealthy and very man of character and integrity And so he had a tremendous lineage there. He was the father of eight sons. Of course, David was the youngest. Now, if you would, and this is just maybe a little trivia here, I thought it was interesting. Turn to Isaiah chapter 11 If you would. We're look we're talking about Jesse here a little bit. Anyone here ever hear this phrase, the root of Jesse? Anybody ever remember hearing that, hearing that? The root of Jesse. Isaiah 11 mentions two terms about Jesse that are very interesting. And again, it doesn't really tie into the story here, but since we're talking about Jesse, I think it's interesting. Isaiah chapter 11. Isaiah is in the Old Testament. Verse number one. Notice what it says here. And there shall come forth A rod out of the what? Stem of Jesse. Alright, there it says the stem of Jesse. Come down, if you would, to verse 10. And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse. Now what's the difference? Why does he mention a stem of Jesse and a root of Jesse in verse 10? I think there's a subtle difference. When he's referring to, again, this is really not anything to do with what we're talking about, but when he re- when he mentions the stem of Jesse, he's talking about his family. Let's look at it again. And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, or out of the family of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. Anybody notice anything interesting about the word branch? It's capitalized. Does anybody know who is being referred to by that term branch? It's the Lord Jesus Christ. And here is an early, early prophetic statement that out of Jesse's family, out of the family of Jesse, of course, through David is the star of the family. But out of Jesse's family is going to come the Savior of the world, the promised Messiah, the branch. Now, what does that tell you about Jesse? He's highly esteemed. That God would do that. Say, man, out of this man's family, the Savior of the world, the Messiah, the Son of God, is going to uh is the means of his entrance into humanity. I don't know about you, but that's amazing. Then when you get over to ten, and in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, and that is a reference, no doubt, to the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. So, um, as far as God's concerned, Jesse is a highly esteemed man, and that tells me he this is a man, a pretty godly man. A very spiritual man, a very godly man. I want to suggest to you a very disciplined man, very uh a man of tremendous integrity. And highly respected. And I think that reference that he walked among men as an old man is implying tremendous respect on the people that knew him. And so I'm telling you, and you know, most of us here, a few exceptions, most of us have raised our kids, but our kids need parents of integrity. They need spiritual parents. They need godly parents. They need uh uh uh of the caliber or at least in line with Jesse. I I was challenged in studying this man And I never really gave Jesse a whole lot of thought. Yeah, he's the father of David, whatever. But I got studying him and I thought, man, this guy's something else. He's an amazing, amazing man. Apparently he had great wealth. He had exalted position, as we said, highly respected in Bethlehem. The last reference of Jesse In the Old Testament is when David is, I believe it's when David is fleeing from Absalom, and his parents came out to see him, and he said, Listen, you guys don't be running around here with me. You're elderly and And so he had them go with the king of Moab, I believe it was, and said, Hey, will you take care of my folks for me while I'm running for my life? And so um uh so Jesse. Jesse is an old man. Now I've got looking at his boys. Let's come back here. 1 Samuel 17. And notice what it says about his boys. I learned a few things. And we noted in last part of verse 12. He's an older man. He's an old man at this point. And then verse 13, and the three eldest sons of Jesse, he had eight, the three oldest, went and followed Saul to the battle. And then if you come down, uh, verse 14, it says the three eldest followed Saul. That word followed caught my attention. What does that imply? I'll get you guys to get involved with me here a little bit. What does that imply? They followed Saul to the battle. They're part of the army? They support them? This is what I was thinking. Does it sound like they were drafted or they volunteered? Sounds like they volunteered to me. They didn't uh if I under- if I'm reading this correctly, they didn't have to be out there. They said, hey, we love our country. We want to do our part. We want to protect our homeland. We want to get out there. And just that fact that he used that word followed twice Caught my attention. That tells me a little bit about these boys. I think they were I think they were fairly responsible fellows And they said, listen, we want to do our part. We want to be in our place. They weren't running from the battle. They weren't running from responsibility. They weren't running from their civic duties They were following. They're out there after it. So here we had this tremendous man, Jesse, and you see at least his three oldest boys, and perhaps the others were too young to that, and they said, hey dad, we need to be out there with uh we're gonna go follow soul. We're gonna go And then we notice a few things about David. Look at verse 15. David was the youngest. Verse 15. But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem. So what does it mean he's returned from Saul? Was he out on the battlefield and came back? No. Where was David the last time we saw him? He was in the king's court. And he David uh Saul had recruited him that whenever he got in a bad mood or bad spirit, David would come and play Be Thou My Vision. Or something like that. He'd play some real nice song and it would calm him down. So that's where David was. But for whatever reason, David is back home now. And so I got thinking, I wonder why David went home. And we always wonder stuff the Bible doesn't tell us. And then it drives us nuts because the Bible doesn't tell us. I thought, well, why did David go home? What's it say? It said to Peter's fight of cheap. Okay, he came home to But what in the world did Saul let him go for? This is my theory. This is what I think. We'll find out when we get to heaven. I think Saul got caught had to go to fight. He says, all right, David, listen, I gotta this listen, these Philistines are driving me nuts. And we gotta go out and take care of this. You go on home, you're too young. Get on out of here. Get back to your family. I think that's what happened. And so here David is back here. So he comes back home, and uh, did anybody find this interesting like I do? I find this fascinating And so he gets back there, but let's look a little bit at the character of David. We know he's an amazing man, a young man. We're going to learn more about him. But look at the little things we pick up here that we notice David was the youngest, three oldest, but David went and returned from Saul, probably in my thinking, Saul sent him back, to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem. You know what that tells me about David? He was a pretty responsible kid. He came back to feed his father's sheep. Come over, if you would, to verse 34. in the same chapter. Now here this is jumping way ahead. David's in Saul's presence now and he's making his case to let him go out and deal with this giant. And he says, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion and a bear and took the lion out of the floor took a lamb out of the flock. And I went out after him and smote him and delivered him out of his mouth. And when he rose against me, I caught him by his beard and smote him and slew him. Whew. Now here's my question. Whose sheep are these? They're his father's sheep. They're not his sheep. So his motivation, as far as selfishness would be concerned, his motivation to risk his life to save these sheep would not be as high as if they were his own sheep. Right? So that tells me something about David. This guy's tremendously responsible. Even to the point where I am not letting any of my dad's sheep get stolen. And he's so stirred up about it, he goes out there and it sounds to me, now I could be wrong in this, it sounds to me he's punching this lion in the face. He took him by the beard and smote him. And my picture is this lion, right? Boom. And uh just a kid. And so I see tremendous responsibility on the part of Jesse's boys. Um and here's something I that came to mind. Um David's being responsible, his obedience to his father, his responsibility, I'm doing my job, my dad gave me a job, I'm going to do it no matter what. My job is to take care of these sheep. There ain't no lion, no bear going to take them. I'm going to do my responsibility. Him being responsible Put him in a position where God could develop him to be even greater You follow what I'm trying to get at here? Being responsible put him in a position where he could be developed If he'd have ran from those lions, he would have been useless years later on the battlefield, right? But because he was responsible, God was able to strengthen him and develop him even to a more usable vessel. Uh am I making sense? And what I what came to my mind was I don't know anybody in the Bible that became stronger in their faith and became more useful to God by being irresponsible I don't know anybody that's negligent and slothful in their responsibilities and negligent in their responsibilities, and out of that they came a strong man or woman for God. That never happens And so we see some of his character, the fact that he is a responsible young man, enabled him to be developed by God to become a hero. later on. So responsibility is a tremendous thing. And another area I noticed some responsibility. Come back to verse 20 again. Come back there. Now he's being sent off. Uh and uh look what it says. David rose up in the early in the morning and left the sheep and took and went. Is that what it says? No, what did he do? He left the sheep with a keeper. Again, does anybody see responsibility there? I can't just leave these here. I need somebody to take care of these. And so David at this young age is uh is uh quite a fellow. I don't see any negligence on the part of David in any area of the responsibilities he has. And again, I come back to Jesse And I see Jesse's influence, this tremendous man of faith, this tremendous man of integrity, that God highly, highly regards Now, so that's the setting. This is where it is. We got this amazing man, Jesse. He's got his boys. They're very, very responsible. And that's the setting. Now Jesse calls David and says, David I want you to go and check on the boys. And that is my second point. I'll try and give this as much as I can real quick. The sending of David to the battlefield. Notice here, David was not sent to the battlefield to fight It's not why he was sent there. He was sent there for two reasons. One was to make a delivery. He had a care package. And we just sent one to Brandon Dillsworth. We sent a care package. David has a care package from Daddy. Look at verse number 17. And Jesse said unto David, his son, take now for thy brethren an ephaf of this parched corn. These ten loaves, then come down to verse eighteen. Notice he says, Carry these chent ten cheeses unto the captain of their thousands, and look how look how thy brethren are going. So one of his Uh reasons he's being sent to the battlefield is take this care package. He's got he's got um he's got cornbread and cheese balls. Take these loaves of uh corn and uh these cheeses and so cornbread and cheese balls. Hey, I like cornbread. I like cheese balls. And so he's supposed to take these out to the boys on the battlefield. How many think those guys were glad to see some cornbread and cheese balls show up? Anything? They're out on the battlefield. But he had a second responsibility, he had a second duty. He was sent to make a delivery, but he was also sent to deliver a message What's the message David is being sent out there to deliver? Look at it carefully. I'll tell you, it doesn't expressly say it. It's implied. What's that? Check on your brothers. What does that tell us again about Jesse? He cares. He cares for his kids. His message getting out there, David's message when he got out there was basically this, hey guys, Dad wants you to know he cares about you. He's concerned about you. Here's some goodies, some cornbread and cheese balls, and uh dad sent me out here to get these things for you. Jesse cared deeply for his boys. He was very concerned. In fact, did you notice there it says run. Run. Now I got thinking, why did he tell 'em to run? Why would they were just go going out there against you know when you get it get a chance or whatever going out? Yeah, get there now. Why why do you think Jesse would want him to get out there right away? Now I don't know. This is speculation of my point. I'll tell you what I think. I think David got word I think Jesse got word about Goliath And it wasn't good. I think reports were coming back. Hey, this thing is bad. Our whole army's scared to death. Our great leader is cowering in fear. And maybe Jesse heard that. Now he's a man highly respected. He would know what's going on. And they're really not that far away. If I understood my meth figuring out how far it was only like, I want to say 12 miles at the most Well, he wasn't far away, so I'm pretty confident Jesse's getting word back that things are not good out in the battle with the Philistines. David, uh get in here. Here, take these goodies out to the boys. I'm concerned about them. And I want you to run out and get these goodies to them and see how they're doing it. And look what he says there at the end of verse number 17. Carry these ten cheeses to the captain of their thousands. I think he's giving some of that to the captain and say, hey, listen, take care of my boys You know, here's something for you. Just make sure you take care of them. Again, that I'm reading into it a little. But look what he says. And look how thy brethren fare. Make sure they're okay, David. And take their pledge. Now that threw me, what in the world is taking their pledge? I think what he's saying is, find out what they have to say. See if they have a message back for me. Jesse cared deeply for his boys. He loved his boys. And I found I'm getting older. My boys are grown. My young my oldest son turned 30. Now I know for some of you that's a hoot, but for me, my young my son's 30. I talked to Dr. Creed the other day last Wednesday and he said, how are things going good? I said, my oldest son turned 30 today. He laughed. He said, all my kids are senior citizens. I said, okay, never mind. But uh you know what I found out? The older I get, it's almost the more deeply I care about my kids. I always did. But man, I I was talking to my youngest son, it's been a little while ago. I said, I doubt three hours go by in the day where I don't think about you and pray for you And I think that's where Jesse was. And his boys are out there in a very dangerous situation, and the reports are not good. And he cares deeply for them. So God is using all of this, this whole setting, to get the one person in all of Israel that would be willing to trust him enough to bring this victory. And he uses Jesse in a tremendous way. I thought of uh when Jesse was sending David out there to check on the boys. Um I thought about my dad calls me every week. For years he wrote me every week. And now he calls me every week. He calls me on his cell phone, and if I don't answer, he'll leave a message, call me back when you get this. But the problem is as soon as he's done calling, he turns his cell phone off. I said Dad, I can't call you back if you turn the phone off And so um but uh I think I think that same thing with Jesse. He said, I want to I want to know how the boys are going. Now there's another thing I want to point out here real quick and then we're gonna quit. Look at verse 20 And David rose up early in the morning and left the sheep with a keeper, good kid. Dad trusts him. Dad could trust him. Left the sheep with the keeper and took the goodies and went as Jesse had commanded them. I put in the margin of my Bible, obedient to his father. And he came to the trench. Now look at this. God puts a statement in here that's revealing. And he came to the trench as the host was going forth to the fight. And shouted for the battle. Notice the timing here. David is showing up right when this daily scene is falling out, right when the Goliath is out there, make it eye defy. How many people think That it was a coincidence that David showed up right when all this was happening. How many people think that's a coincidence? No coincidences God had this all laid out, and he was getting there right exactly at the right time so his heart would get stirred and he'd get out there after it. Not only do we see God's ability to conquer giants through a submissive servant, but we also see his precise timing. God's timing is perfect. And I'll tell you what's uh what stirs my heart, and this is just from my perspective, but on Sunday mornings, Sunday nights or whatever, and I sit on a platform, And I see the crowd out there and I'm preaching, and I always, often I should say, I try to remind myself, it's not a coincidence that these people are here when this truth is being preached. God has a purpose. God has a timing and all of that. And God is teaching us and helping us. And God is working, putting the setting, all the setting in place for Him to do something. And um I just that word as that he showed up as all these things were unfolding God, here's another thought, and I'll and I'll have to quit. But here's another thought. At this point, nobody had any clue what God was going to do. In fact, I don't think David was even aware. Up to this point, I don't think David was even aware of Goliath's existence. I don't think he knew what the situation was. And the reason I say that we're going to see him a little bit because he's so amazed when he does find out what's going on So that implies to me he he shows up here. He had no idea there was a giant, he didn't know there was a champion, he didn't know there was this all this stuff going on. He shows up as this all unfolds and um He gets stirred up. God is active even when we don't see it. God is doing things even when we're not aware of it. So I put this last statement down in my notes. Don't let our fear fog our faith. And I come back to that lady swimming. And that fog had her had her so messed up she quit. And I think that's where Israel was. And we cannot let our fear Fog or faith, but trust God. His timing is perfect. He's already working. We don't know what the answer is. We don't know how it's going to play out. But God does, and I can trust him. Does that make sense? So I really enjoyed this pat this section that I never really paid a whole lot of attention to. But there's a tremendous lessons here for us And I think God can help us. Next time we'll find out how David got stirred up, and then it gets exciting. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, we need more Jesse's, and I need to be more like Jesse in my life. We need more Davids, people of that caliber, responsible, and faith, integrity. And Lord, we need to have faith in you and trust you that you are working in our lives. You're preparing us and leading us to have victory. So bless now. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher? And this is between you and God, I don't know. But you'd say, you know, sometimes fear clouds my faith a little bit. And I forget to trust God, and I forget God can and will. Do great things if I just trust him, if I just let him have his way. Is there any like that? Sometimes fear fogs my faith a little bit, clouds it. Yeah. We need to put that aside. And what time we're afraid, we need to trust in him Now Father, bless us and help us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together just for a few minutes and Catherine's playing a little invitation. And maybe just kneel in an old altar and say, Lord, I'm not going to let my fear dictate my actions. I'm going to trust you