Beautiful tips for the tongue. We don't think about our tongue as being attractive, but our tongue can attract people to us and to Christ, or it can turn people away. And of course, by the tongue we mean how we use our tongue, the things we say, the way we say them, who we say them to. We already looked and noticed in the first message the importance of the tongue. How many people here ever got yourself in a pinch because of things that you said? Anybody here? Come on now, be honest Uh how many folks here ever said something afterward you regretted it? How many people here never said something you wished you had? Yeah, or tongue It's incredibly important. Uh a person can gain or lose a job because of how they use their tongue. And so we talked about the importance of the tongue. Then we went on and we started giving some tips how this important organ in my body, the tongue, can be used for the glory of God and for good. And so the first tip we gave, and we suggested this, that a beautiful tongue is a silent tongue. How many people remember that message? How many people are here? How many people can't remember what we had last Sunday, let alone two months ago? That's what I figured. A beautiful tongue is a silent tongue. Now, if you remember, those that remember, we pointed out it doesn't mean it's always silent. But a silent tongue, a beautiful tongue knows when to be silent. And so we suggested that. Then we gave another tip the following week A beautiful tongue is a clean tongue. We live in a very dirty society, dirty language, dirty subjects. I believe a Christian ought to have a clean tongue. Our words ought to be clean and pure. If you agree with that, say amen. We ought to be clean in how we talk, no uh filthy language. And I've just crude language in my mind. has no place on the lips of a believer. And so a clean tongue. And then we suggested that a beautiful tongue, the nep next tip was this, was a contented tongue And by that we mean not complaining and griping, and we looked in the Old Testament how the children of Israel would murmur against Moses and against the Lord because things weren't exactly the way they wanted them to be. Things didn't play out exactly the way they envisioned they would play out. And they got murmuring and chiding the Lord. And God rebuked them sharply. In fact Uh in Numbers he suggests that w uh one of the reasons they wandered in the wilderness for forty years was because of a murmuring tongue. So I Beautiful tongue is a contented tongue. It doesn't gripe and complain and murmur. Then the last one we looked at was this a beautiful tongue is an honest tongue. Is an honest tongue Christians ought to be honest. And this is so important. A believer, a child of God, should never ever be dishonest. in their actions or in their words. We ought to be true. When we're honest, we're Christ-like. When we're honest, we are careful in what we say. We're confident in our words. Now we come To beauty tip, which one is it? One, two, three, four, five. Beauty tip number five. A beautiful tongue is a witnessing tongue. Are you here in Acts? Do you still got your Bible open? Acts chapter 1, there's a title given to the book of Acts, and I believe it's in most, if not all, Bibles. There's a title given to this book. Now, I want to stop and point this out. The titles of the books of the Bible are not part of the inspired Word of God The titles are man-given. At a later date, men put titles on these, and that's fine, and it's very, very helpful. But I want to suggest to you that the book of Acts in most Bibles is, in my opinion, mistitled. What is the title of the book of Acts in your Bible there? Somebody tell me. What's it say? The Acts of the Apostles. Now that is true to an extent, but here is my suggestion for whatever it's worth. I scratch out the word apostles in mind, and I put this the acts of the Holy Ghost. The book of Acts is an inspired record of what the Holy Spirit does in and through believers that are fully yielded to him. That's what the book of Acts is about. How God, the Holy Spirit of God, w filled his people, empowered them, and used them to be a witness of the gospel throughout the known world at that time. It is a powerful, powerful book. Acts reveals to us what the preaching of the gospel in the power of the Holy Spirit does. So the book of the Acts of the Holy Spirit, God filling and using his people to speak and to be a witness of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we look at Acts chapter 1, and I notice in verses 04 down through 6, 7, 8. I view this as what could possibly be the world's first missions conference The world's first missions conference. Look at verse number four. It says this. And being assembled together. And then you come down to verse number six. And when they therefore were what? Come together. They were assembled together. They came together. So here you have the believers, and this is the early stages, early development of the New Testament church. And we have an instance very early on. This is before the Lord ascended. It's after he's been crucified, buried, and risen again He's not yet ascended to heaven. And the believers of that day and that period that that area assembled together. They came together. What's that called when God's people, Christians, assemble together? That is called the what? That's the church. The word church means a called-out assembly, people assembling together. This building right here, and this property here, all around here, this is not the church How many people ever how many how many folks got up this morning and says, hey, we're going to church? Anybody say that this morning? How many people your spouse had to say, uh, get up, you're going to church. And um Actually, the church is not this building. The church is the believers assembling together, coming together. And so here we have, they congregated together. And uh they had a purpose for this gathering together And by the way, Hebrews tells us very clearly we ought not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together. As the manner of some is, but so much the more as we see the days approaching. And I always try to, I I try don't always get it, but I try to always uh recognize and appreciate folks that are vacationing up here in beautiful Garrett County and on their vacation they're faithful to church. That is a good testimony We don't take vacation from church. So those that are with us, God bless you, uh we appreciate your faithfulness to that, and that's very important. So The world's first missions conference. So they congregated together. They've gotten together here. And um and then I noticed the Lord corrected their focus. Look with me if you would, at verse number six, the first part. And when they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom of to Israel? And he, Jesus, said unto them It is not for you to know the times nor the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power. What were the disciples concerned about? What did their, if you're going to simplify and you're going to explain to somebody what their question, what they were asking the Lord, what was their concern? What was their question about? Somebody talk to me Yeah, they said, Will you at time at this time restore the kingdom? They were concerned about future prophetic events being fulfilled. Lord, is this when we get the kingdom? Is this when the swords will be beat into plowshares? Is this when all the nations of the world will be brought and submit to the Lord the Lordship and Kingship of the Lord Jesus Christ, is this when all these prophetic events we heard about, are they gonna all be fulfilled today? Now And the Lord corrected them. And he said to them in verse number 7, if you look at it very carefully, he said to them, now I'm putting this in my own words, he said something like this: that stuff is none of your business. Did you catch it? It is not for you to know the times or the seasons Listen, I want to make this very, very clear. We do not know when Jesus is coming back again We do not know that. We don't know the time. We don't know the day. We don't know the season. We have no idea when Jesus Christ is coming back again. There are no more signs that have to take place. There are no more prophecies to be fulfilled. In fact, the Apostle Paul, in his lifetime, anticipated The Lord Jesus Christ coming back again. We don't know when the Lord's coming back again. So these fellas that write books and every couple years somebody comes up with a date and a time that Jesus is going to come back, the rapture is going to play take place. I noticed something about all these gate setters. I noticed something all about these guys. Every single one of them was wrong. Anybody notice that? Not one of them. You know why? Because we don't know when the Lord's coming back. He told us very directly. And so if we're spending all our time and all our effort thinking, oh, I'm going to figure out when the Lord's coming back, I'm going to figure out when the Lord's coming back, the Lord says to us, hey, when I come back, it's none of your business. That is not to be your focus about when I'm coming back again. Now, question: Does the Lord tell us anything about his return? Does the Lord tell us anything about future events? The answer is what? Yes. He tells us a lot. We're given some, in some cases, tremendous detail about what future will hold and some future events. But the next event on God's timeline is the rapture of the church. And he says to us very clearly, when that happens is none of your business. That is not to what you're to be focused on. That is not what you're to dwell on. Now, should we study about events after the rapture? Sure. It's a big part of scripture. And after the rapture takes place? We know pretty much what's going to happen, the rise of the Antichrist and uh uh the tri the Great Tribulation Period and all the horrific events associated with that and then the battle of Armageddon, the return of Christ, uh the second advent, and then the millennial reign of Christ, and then the new heaven, new earth The judgment seat of Christ and the marriage supper of the Lamb and the rewards that are associated with that And then at the end, the great white throne judgment, when the dead and unsaved are raised again, they stand before God and sentence to eternity in the lake of fire. We know all about that. But our focus is not to be on, boy, when's the Lord coming back? When's that rapture taking place? That is in the Lord's hands. It's none of our business Then he corrects their focus. They're all caught up on that. And then he gives them their commission. And he says this in verse 8, and this is what I've been wanting to get to But ye, it's not for you to know, verse 7, the times or the seasons which the Father has put in his own power, but ye shall, here's something definite, here's something you need to be focused on. Here is your commission. Ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. Here it is. And ye shall be what? Witnesses unto me. Witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and unto the othermost part of the earth. He gives their commission. They were to go out, beginning in Jerusalem, unto the uttermost part of the earth, and be a witness unto him That is the commission of the church. And I'm suggesting to you, 2,000 years later, we still have that exact same commission. We are to be witnesses unto Christ, unto all the earth, starting locally here and spreading out throughout the whole world. I was thinking last night, I was going back over my notes a little bit And uh I got thinking last night. I think some churches, some people have, Christians have in their mind they uh they have a mistaken idea about our witness, our evangelism Some folks have this idea. Well, my responsibility is to be a witness to those around me, my neighbors, my community, try and get the gospel to everybody, try and bring them all to Christ, see them, say But they have little or no focus on the ends of the earth, the othermost parts of the earth. There's little or no concern for countries like Kazakhstan, have 17 million people and two independent Baptist missionaries that we're aware of, two or three maybe They have little or no concern. They don't give that any thought. They don't invest any time or effort, prayer, or finances into getting the gospel there or many, many other countries like that. But they're focused on their local area. Then on the other hand, we have some Christians, some churches that are very, very focused on the ends of the earth And boy, they're sending money out and they're trying to get missionaries out, but they do little or nothing for the people that live next door or across the street or their co-workers or their neighbors, their community. They have little or no witness there. I want to say to you, both of those is an unbalanced approach to evangelism. Is an unbalanced approach to the commission God has given our church. We are to do everything we possibly can to win Oakland and surrounding areas to the Lord Jesus Christ. To get the gospel into every home, to every individual, and seek to encourage them and persuade them to accept Christ as their Savior so they can have sins forgiven, eternal life, have a home in heaven. We're to do that. And at the same time We are to be trying to reach the far regions of the world. Sending finances and prayer and support and trips if we can and scriptures if we can and trying to reach the whole world. That's our commission. Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the uttermost parts of the earth. He's saying, Go everywhere and be a witness unto me. Now he uses the word witness You shall be a witness unto me. Now the question comes up, what is a witness? What is somebody who is a witness? I got looking it up and I looked it in different dictionaries and looked it in uh the the the Bible dictionaries and uh basically it means what you think it would mean. It means to testify to something A little more than that, it means to give an account of something I saw, something I heard, Or something I know to be true from personal experience. I am to be a witness. I am to be a witness to this world locally and around the globe to a truth. That I saw, I heard, or I personally experienced. To be a witness to be a witness. Now what is the subject of our witness? If if there was a car wreck downtown and God forbid but there'd be a terrible wreck and you were there and it all took place right in front of you and the police showed up And you're subpoenaed to come in to be a witness, maybe the uh the who was at fault was contested in court, and you were subpoenaed to come in and you were to tell You were to share with them, explain to them what you saw, what you heard, and what you personally experienced in this wreck to be a witness The subject of your witness would have been, in that scenario, the car wreck that you witnessed, that you observed, you saw took place in front of you. Now, what is our witness as Christians? What is he telling us in Acts chapter 1 and verse 8? We are to be witnesses unto what? Of what's it say? We're to be witnesses of Hello, anybody out there? What does it voice be unto him? Under Christ. In other words, we are to go into the world or neighborhoods around the world and we are to explain, tell folks. What we personally know to be true, maybe what we saw, we heard, or we personally experienced about the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I don't know about you, but in my mind, and I think I have scriptural support for this, the greatest experience a person has with the Lord Jesus Christ is trusting them as their personal Savior and being born again through faith in Christ, receiving eternal life, forgiveness of sins, and eternal home in heaven. There's no greater experience than that. And so if a person has trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior, they know for sure their sins are forgiven. They've been born again into the family of God by faith in Christ. They have eternal light. They have assurance of a home in heaven. They have assurance of forgiveness and salvation from hell Then we are to witness to that effect. We are to tell others of that truth. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen Then he isn't telling us that we are to witness of that truth and share it with others. And so that is our commission. He says, Witnesses unto me. That's the subject of our witness. Um I had somebody, Melissa was telling me this morning before Sunny's when church were back there, she came up and she says, Hey, one of the Fellows from my is it your aunt's church? She said my aunt's church downstate, he was up here at your sword conference. And oh, she said he was just raving about the meeting. It was so wonderful and the Food was great and the preaching was great and uh the singing, I just loved it up there is wonderful. I noticed he didn't say anything about the preacher, but um Talked about everything and uh oh he was witnessing as to the church. Now that's fine, that's wonderful, praise the Lord. And it's encouraging. I was glad to hear that. I thought it was a great meeting But the Lord is telling us we are not to witness to how great the church is. There's nothing wrong with that, but that's not our commission We're not to witness how great our Sunday school teacher is, or our preacher is, or the choir is, or the church folk are, or this person is, or that program is. We're to witness to how great Jesus is. We're to witness as to what he can do in the life of a sinner. What he can do to forgive a sinful life and transform it into a new creature And how God can cleanse us from all unrighteousness and take our sins and cast them in the deepest sea and free us from guilt and unbelief and disobedience and have a new life, a life of purpose and meaning and fulfillment and witness to this world what Christ can do for us. That's the subject of our witness. That is the purpose of our existence as believers, is to bring witness, to be an effective witness. You do not have to be, you don't necessarily have to be a highly educated theologian. You say, oh preacher, I don't know a lot about theology and all that. I don't know what kind of witness I I could be. I don't I don't know about the hypostatic union of Christ and the physical body and I don't understand all this Christocentric uh theological um uh soterology with eschatology and ecclesiology I'm trying to impress you with all my big words, I know. I do want to remind you I are a college student, gradu graduate. I squeezed five years, I've squeezed four years into five. But wait a minute. You say, I can't be much of a witness for the Lord. I've never been to Bible college. I don't know much about theology. All you need to know is Jesus saved your soul from sin and hell, and you can be a witness to the Lord Jesus Christ. I think of the woman at the well, living in sin, and a very, uh to put it mildly, a very loose living woman. All the lifestyle that goes along with that. And she encountered Jesus Christ and he confronted her. And to be honest, Jesus confronted her about her sin. You didn't overlook it or whitewash it. Go get your husband. Oh, I don't have a husband. You're right. You've had five, and you're living with a guy now. And he confronted her, but he loved her. And through his words and his sharing the truth, she came to trust him as her personal savior. And the very first thing she did, she went into town and she was come out and meet this Jesus. An amazing man. And she witnessed, she shared with them what she saw, heard, and knew personally to be true about the Lord Jesus Christ. She's a witness. Oh, I'm not much in theology. I'm not a great Bible student. If you're saved, you can be a witness. You don't have to be a skilled orator. You say, well, I'm not much at speaking in front of folks. I'm not much at getting up and ta you know, talking to people. I'm just not just not much about that. He doesn't say go into, he doesn't say you see power after the Holy Ghost come upon you and you'll be orators for me. He says, just go and tell what you know. Tell what you know in your words, the best you can. You tell other people what Jesus did for you, how he saved you, and what he can do for them. Just be a witness. I was thinking about Tom Sharon, uh works at the um down at the jail with the sheriff's department. Um I always tell them down there they keep him on the wrong side of the bars, I think, a bunch of the time But he's working there and uh but I remember years ago Tom would say to me, he says, I I am not much of a talker. I couldn't witness too much, I'm not much of a talker. Finally God got a hold of his heart. I'm telling you Tom has won many, many, many people to Christ. And God showed him, you don't have to be a great orator, you don't have to be a great speaker. Just share what you know is true. Just tell others what Christ has done for you. You don't have to be a great theologian, you don't have to be a great orator, you don't have to be a highly trained soul winner. Well, I got my little Soul Winner's New Testament. I don't have a Soul Winner's New Testament. I can't witness. I haven't been through the training course and I don't know what to say here. Listen, uh, you don't have to have all that to be a witness Hey, a little uh little fifth grader downstairs, a first, second, third grader that trusts Jesus as Savior, they can go out and tell other kids what Jesus did for them There's no reason in the world a teenager can't go into the schools and their teammates and on the ball field and tell others that Jesus saved them, that he can save them all that save them and can save others and witness to them. You don't have to highly be trained. Question, is it good to get a little training to be able to be more effective? Sure. Is it good to study the Bible, maybe have a little quote-unquote theology? Sure, we ought to be growing and understanding and studying the scriptures. We ought to be doing that. But that is not a requirement to be a witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. Simply telling others what we know over the years. We've had a number of kids off our buses that would come in and say, Oh, uh I had a kid on the bus and I was telling them I got saved in church and they prayed with me to trust the Lord as Savior. What a wonderful thing to share. Be a witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Romans chapter number 10. Romans chapter 10, it's a little bit, I don't know if it's down there, it's a little warm in here. One of our air conditioning units has been out all week. We've been working on that thing. And so Carol's comfortable, but everyone else is roasting. Carol's hot? Wow, it's really hot in here if she's hot. So Lord will, and you pray God heals that thing. Romans chapter ten. Look with me at verse 13. Great verse. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How many people agree with me? That's a great promise. Whosoever. Now look what he goes on and he expounds on that. He says, How then shall they call on him whom they have not believed? Can someone call on Christ if they don't believe in him? No, they wouldn't. Why would they do that? Then he says, how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? How can they hear about Christ if nobody tells them? The preacher there is not talking about the guy that pastors the church It's not talking about the guy that stands behind the pulpit and hollers and spits and yells and keeps you too long. It's talking about the individual Christian that goes to people and declares to them the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's always referring to. How shall they preach, verse 15, except they be sent, as it is written. I love this. How beautiful are the feet Of them that preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings of good things. That's referencing the gospel. He says, How beautiful are the what? Feet. You want to have beautiful feet? How many people want to have beautiful feet? Oh, mine are gorgeous. I'm not going to show them to you, but trust me by faith. How do you have beautiful feet? The Bible says the way to have beautiful feet is to give the gospel out. Good tidings. Share it with others. A beautiful thing. In God's sight, can I amend that? I'm just taking a little liberty here. Can I add to that? Not amend it. Can I add to that this? How beautiful is the tongue of those who bring good tidings of great things. Beauty tips for the tongue. Beautiful feet and the beautiful tongue is witnessing to the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't know. This is my imagination, but I would venture to say in heaven A tongue is considered beautiful when it's speaking about the Lord Jesus Christ. When it's sharing with unsaved people How that ge how Jesus Christ paid the price of their sin, took their judgment that they deserved for their sin upon himself, was buried. Rose again the third day, and through faith in Christ they can call on him and find forgiveness of sin and salvation. What a beautiful tongue that tells others of the Lord Jesus Christ. What a beautiful tongue that witnesses of who and what Jesus Christ is. Somebody said witnessing, are you listening? Somebody said witnessing is simply this One beggar telling another beggar where they can find some food. That's all it is. Let me let me word it this way. Witnessing soul winning is simply this. One sinner Telling another sinner where they can find forgiveness of sins and a home in heaven. That's all it is That's all it is. One sinner telling another sinner how they can be forgiven for their sins. A beautiful tongue is a witnessing tongue. Now I've got a few minutes. Let me give you. Here's our beauty tips for this week. A wit a beautiful tongue is a witnessing tongue. Number one, a witnessing tongue is a talking tongue. A talking tongue. Now we pointed out, you said, preacher, you said a few weeks ago, a beautiful tongue is a silent tongue. It knows when to be silent. But there are times when a tongue should speak up. In fact, God put a tongue in our mouth for that purpose to speak up. So a witnessing tongue is a talking tongue. I got looking through the gospels. Every time someone encountered the Lord Jesus Christ, they couldn't stop talking about him. Every time someone came in contact with Jesus Christ, when they left, they couldn't stop talking about him. They'd go everywhere. Oh, come and see this man. Oh, I was blind, but now I can see. I don't know if he's a prophet. I don't know anything about him. But I know this. I once was blind, but now I can see And all through the Gospels, everybody that encountered the Lord Jesus Christ, everybody that came in contact with the Lord Jesus Christ could not stop talking about Him They were excited. Even his enemies. They got so worked up, they convened together. We got to destroy this guy, this guy, oh, this guy, this Jesus guy. They couldn't even stop talking about him. So a witnessing tongue is a talking tongue. At least eight times in the Gospels, it mentions the fame of Jesus Christ spreading throughout that region. Everybody was talking about Jesus. They were telling what they experienced. They were telling what he did for them. They were telling, oh, I was lame and he spoke and I walked and My hand was shriveled up and palsy and he said, Step forth and man he spoke and made it well and all the all the uh I said almost said trustees, not the trustees, the um Pharisees were all mad. Pharisees, trustees, what's the difference? And uh I'm teasing. And uh uh oh uh uh and they couldn't stop talking about 'em and talking about 'em, and fame spread everywhere. Everybody was telling everything. Everybody, what Jesus did for them. I'll tell you what would do Oakland a heap of good if all saved people start going out here, start talking about what Jesus did for them, might turn this city around. I turn this country around. Everybody's all worked up. Kavanaugh, Kavanaugh, Kavanaugh, Kavanaugh. I'd say just drop that. Put Jesus. Jesus. Jesus. Jesus. J The most depressing place in the world is in the world. I watch the news and read the articles, and it's like, man, I want to shoot myself. And I opened my Bible and, oh, I remember what Jesus did for me. And everywhere they went, a witnessing tongue is a talking tongue, talks about Jesus. Is that all you can talk about is Jesus? Um, yeah. Talking about Jesus, talking about Jesus A witnessing tongue. A beautiful tongue is a witnessing tongue. And a witnessing tongue is a talking tongue. Would you turn to Mark chapter 5 with me? I love this story. Mark chapter five, verse number nineteen The little background, we we won't read the whole thing for sake of time, but uh Jesus showed up and there's a fellow, a maniac. And he lives of all places in in a cemetery among the tombs. And he's chained, he's a maniac, they can't contain him. They chain him down and he breaks the chains and uh he's running around naked and And uh just uh a horrible, horrible experience this man's light has devolved into being possessed by uh legions of demons And Jesus shows up. And he comes running down, and to make a longer story short, he Delivers him, he casts the demons out in the swine, and uh the guy is changed, he's clothed, he's in his right mind, and he says to the Lord Jesus, I want to follow you everywhere you go. Question, is that a bad thing? No. Disciple following the Lord Jesus Christ. But it's interesting what the Lord tells him. Verse number 18. Mark 5. And when he was come unto the ship, he that had been possessed with the devil prayed him that he might be with him. Howbeit, Jesus suffered him not. What in the world? You don't want him to follow you, be with you? Look what he said. But saith unto him, I love this. Go home to thy friends, and what? Tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee and hath had compassion on thee Go home to your friends and what? Tell them, say it with me. Tell them the great things the Lord had done for you. You know what he was telling? You go be a witness. You testify under oath, if necessary, as to what you saw and you heard and you experienced when you met the Lord Jesus Christ How he delivered you from a life of sin and bondage, how he delivered you from a life of emptiness and purposelessness, a life of fear and anger and frustration, and he cleansed you and he gave you a right mind. And he clothed you, and now your life has purpose and meaning and direction. You go tell them what I've done for you That's what this old world needs. Witnessing tongues. We have a world that is lost in sin. We have a world that is so angry, you can't watch the news without anger just gushing out of that. The world needs Jesus. And you and I have trusted him as our Savior, and we know what he's done for us. And we need to share that. With this old sinful world. This old sinful world. A witnessing tongue is a talking tongue. I think this old guy. Oh, look, look what it says. I ended too soon. Look at verse 20. I love this part. I love the Bible. And I love this part. And he departed, and he began to what? Publish in Decopolis how great things Jesus had done for him. And all men did marvel. He went out and just started to publish. The word publish there means to proclaim openly or to herald abroad. What's this guy doing? He's talking. They couldn't shut him up. Oh, you wouldn't believe what my life was like. You wouldn't believe how Jesus turned me around. Oh, it's amazing. He began to publish it. I got thinking, I got thinking about this beacon meeting this week with Brother Hummel and printing scriptures and printing gospel tracts. There's no doubt in my mind. If this guy could have got a printing press, he'd have set it up, started printing his testimony, printing the gospel, given out everywhere. Publishing it. Reminded me of a fellow, and I've shared this before, but a fellow back in Indianapolis was a youth pastor, Art Wilmouth. He got stirred up about soul winning, and we did a little soul winning class and some stuff. Man, he got stirred up about it. He wrote a little track. He said, I said it was pretty good. Had a little tomb on the front. Where will you be when you're here, when your your body's buried, and something like that? Had a planet. I said, that's pretty good, Art. He goes, I'm going to get me a printing press. I'm going to print them and give them out And he went out, bought a printing press, moved it in, put it in the living room. Moved all the furniture out, set it up in the living room, had to put braces underneath the floor to hold that thing up. I said, what does your wife think about that? Oh, she don't say much. I think she he ticked her off pretty much. Art started printing little gospel tracts by the hundreds of thousands. He had ink all over that living room, ink everywhere. He learned how to run that thing He started giving them out, and we started getting gospel tracts. We got one back from Kenya, Africa, a guy signed that he had prayed, trust the Lord as his Savior Publishing it, publishing it, publishing it. A witness is someone who talks, declares, tells people what the Lord Jesus Christ has done for them. Someone say God needs public defenders more than he needs a silent witness. Somebody says, I've had this said to me a number of times over the years. They say, Pastor Leatherman, my relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ is a very personal, private matter. I agree with that. Salvation is a personal relationship between me and my Creator Between me and my Savior. I personally accept Him as my Savior. And we have a very personal, private relationship. He walks with me and He talks with me. And I cast my care on him, and he gives me promises, and we have a very personal, intimate relationship between my Savior and myself. You're right, it is a very private, personal thing, but that's not all it is. It is also a very public relationship where other people see and know about Jesus Christ, what he's done for me. The way I illustrate it sometimes is like marriage. Would you agree with me? Marriage is a very personal private relationship between my spouse and I, correct? That's very personal It's between just the two of us. She walks with me and talks with me and sometimes she does what I say. And um we uh no, she always does. She's not here, is she? But it's very personal, private thing. But you know what? Our marriage is also very public. I want everybody to know I'm a married man. Or the wedding band. I want everybody to know this is my wife. We had preachers visiting this week and Brother Allison showed up. Hey, Brother Allison, I want you to meet my wife. So we have a very personal prior relationship, but it's also very public. I want other people to know who my wife is. I want other people to know that she's my wife. We have a relationship Hey, that's what witnessing is. I have a very personal, private relationship between my savior and I, but hey, I want to hey, I want you to meet my savior. Here, this is my this is the this is this is the Savior that forgave all my sin and uh gave me a new life and promised me a home in heaven. I want you to meet him, I want you to know him. So a witnessing tongue is a talking tongue. We can't do that without talking. Romans 10:14: how shall they believe of whom they have not heard? John 5, 24, he that heareth my word and believeth on him sent me. Mark 16, 15, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel. I want to submit to you, it's impossible to be a witness of the Lord Jesus Christ without talking about it. So I'll just be a silent witness. I'm just going to live it. Impossible. That's part of my witness, but I must at some point open my mouth. and tell people of the historical event that took place 2,000 years ago when the creator of all the universe became man And he died willingly of his own volition on a cross for my sins and your sins, was buried and rose again, and whoever turns to him and calls on him as their personal Savior will be forgiven and have eternal life I cannot live that, communicate that message simply by the way I live. I must verbalize it. Amen? Kabish. Did I say it right? Kabish. So a talking tongue, a talking tongue, and I gotta quit, a witnessing tongue is a true tongue. What do you mean by that? I mean it has to be credible. What I'm saying about the Lord Jesus Christ has to be credible. Now I just referenced the news, but we see in the news a lot of witnessing, testifying that in my mind doesn't appear very credible. This whole world likes to talk and say things that has no credibility. No credibility. Hey, when I'm speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ, I need to be credible There needs to be some verification. It needs to be legit. Say what do you mean by that? Well first of all, it needs to be based on scripture. I have no right to imagine a Jesus of my own making. The Jesus I need a witness to of this world has to be the Jesus of the Bible. There is no salvation apart from Bible salvation. There is no Savior other than the Savior that is presented in the Word of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. So I need to be sure that my witness is based upon the truth of Scripture, not some strange thing. We had a lady. Uh I've got so many stories. We got a lady. Down in Chattanooga when I was down there, we were knocking on doors. Randy Miller and I knocked on doors. She came to do it. I said, I'm Dennis Leatherman. This is uh Randy Miller. We're from Highland Park Baptist Church, just inviting folks to church. Can we leave an invitation? Sure Uh you go to church, oh yeah, do you know for sure you ever think about heaven and hell? Yeah. Uh sometimes do you know for sure you're going to heaven when you die? Oh yes, I know I'm going to heaven You don't hear that very often. We say, well, how do you know? What makes you so sure? What gives you that assurance? And I'm quoting her almost exactly. It all started right here. We stepped back. Psoriasis or what? I don't know. It all started here. And our our eyes got bigger and she made and it went down my neck. And it went and she started chinging like this. And it went down my back and down and out my heels. Oh she's going like this. Say, are you all right? Should we call somebody? And I don't mean to make fun of her, but her whole witness, her whole testimony of salvation was based upon this strange physical phenomenon that she experienced. Listen, maybe she experienced it. I don't know, but I know this, that's not biblical salvation. Biblical salvation has nothing to do with feelings. Or even experience it has everything to do with putting my faith and trust in Jesus Christ as the Bible presents him, and by faith receiving him into my heart and life as my Savior. I didn't mean to make fun of that lady. I'm sure she was very sincere and we were able to go through the gospel with her. But what I'm trying to say is this, what we share with others, our witness needs to be Bible-based. And it needs to be uh personally experienced. In other words, it's kind of hard for me to share salvation with others when I've never experienced it myself. I need to know that Jesus is my Savior myself. It must be based on Scripture and it must be, I put it this way, backed up by my lifestyle. It's going to be tough to witness to others if I'm not living a Christian life that God says a Christian should live. Somebody put it this way: your walk talks and your talk talks, but your walk talks more than your talk talks. You get it? We do need to talk. But what we're saying needs to be backed up by how we're living. And if there is anybody in the world that you and I cannot witness to, Because our testimony, our lifestyle is so contradictory to the gospel and to the Lord Jesus Christ that we can't witness to them, then we are not right with God. I am grieving the Holy Spirit of God. I am hindering the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. If I am living in sin and my lifestyle does not support what my lips are saying about salvation Then I am hurting and hindering the gospel. I need to get right with God. Amen or not. So it needs to be credible. It needs to be true. And a witnessing tongue is a trusting tongue. Trusting God. To lead me and direct me and use that witness to bring others. It's not me saving souls, it's simply me telling others of a Jesus that will save their soul. And I trust him. On Saturday, September 15th, 2001, at 2:30 in the morning, There was a tragedy between Port Isabel and Padre Island in Texas. There's a very long bridge goes across between the island and the land and the city there. And at 2. 30 in the morning, I believe if I remembered and if I understood the story correctly, the article, a tugboat, human error, a tugboat ran into one of the pilings of this great bridge. And they ran into such force that two sections of that bridge collapsed down. Instantly, immediately, unannounced. And the article goes on to say That it says since the earl since it was early in the morning and it was the darkest hour of the night, cars that were coming when they were going to the peak of the bridge did not see that the bridge was collapsed. And nine people drove off the edge to their death. Now I got thinking about that. I wonder if there had been somebody Who had seen and observed that bridge collapsing, that could have stood down the road a little ways and witnessed, testified. To what they knew to be true about the bridge. I wonder if those nine lives couldn't have been saved. If there would have just been a credible witness. To testify and warn. I thought about eternity. Laura sang about life racing by. I have plenty of time. I wonder how many people, Garrett County, surrounding areas of this whole world, if there would just be a Christian Who would take God's instructions seriously to be a witness? And we would speak up and say, hey, there is a heaven. There is a hell. There's only one way to be saved from hell. That's turning to Christ, trusting Christ. He'll forgive you, give you eternal life, and have a home in heaven. If only there would be a credible witness. If only there would be somebody with a witnessing tongue to tell this whole world Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us that know you as Savior to take this very seriously. Help us to be earnest and faithful and credible in our witness to this old world of who you are and what you can and will do. For anyone and everyone that'll turn to you. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many this morning would say, Pastor, I need to take seriously God's instruction for me to be a witness. I need taking seriously God's instruction for me to share with others what I know to be true about the gospel. And you'd say, pray with me, that I'll be faithful and diligent and earnest. About being a witness for the Lord. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I want to be that witness. I want to have that witnessing tongue, that beautiful tongue. How about it? Any others? A lot of hands raised I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I want to be a witness, but and I will be by God's grace, but there's some areas in my life that need to be a given attention. Maybe there's some decisions to be made. There's some adjustments that need to be made so that my witness is credible and my testimony supports What my words are saying. Is there any like that, preacher, there are some areas of my life I know need attention. I know need some adjustment. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. A number of hands are around. Let's be honest. It's a lifelong thing working at this. I wonder if there's some, say, preacher, there's somebody on my heart. When you were preaching, God placed them on my heart. I need to be a witness to them, an individual I'm specifically thinking of. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I'll be that witness to that person. They're heavy on my heart. I need to go and talk to them. Any like that, preacher, I'm thinking of someone heavy on my heart. God bless you. Hands all around. Let's ask the Lord to give us that boldness, that tact, that compassion, to witness to them effectively and compassionately and kindly. I want to ask one more question. Is there some here this morning say, Preacher, I'm not saved? I can't honestly say that I know for sure that Jesus has forgiven me and saved me from sin in hell. I need that settled in my own heart. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God would help me. Settle that matter in my own heart. But I can know for sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Any at all about it? Anybody? Now, Father, bless our invitation we ask. Have your way. Help us to be, trust you and obey you. Be submissive to your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed