D how many people agree that one was pretty terrible? That was terrible. Verse 28 of Proverbs chapter 17. Proverbs is a fantastic book of the Bible. Of course all Bible all scriptures given by inspiration of God and his prophet. But boy, Proverbs. I want to encourage you, I say this all the time, to read a chapter of Proverbs each day that corresponds to that day's date. Today would be the 19th. This morning I read Proverbs chapter 19. But look in verse 17, in chapter 17, in verse 28. I would like for us to read this together. Alright? 1728, altogether, ready? Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise. And he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding. Do you understand what that verse is telling us? That verse is telling us it's better to keep your mouth shut and be thought a fool than to open it up and remove all doubt. That's what it's saying. And we're studying, we began a series last week on beauty tips of the for the tongue. I'm curious how many folks this past week you looked in the mirror and stuck out your tongue. Anybody look at your tongue this week? Nobody. Well, that's probably just as well. But we're talking about beauty tips for the tongue and the importance of the tongue, particularly in the Christian life And so this morning's beauty tip, the first tip for our beauty tips for the tongue is a beautiful tongue is a silent tongue. A beautiful tongue is a silent tongue. Let's pray, and we'll share some of these tips with you. Father in heaven, I ask now you would bless our time and your word. Lord, we've uh taken a few weeks here and we want to zero in particularly on our tongues, our words, our conversation. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would work and challenge us and help us in this matter. I pray, Lord, that you would fill me With your Holy Spirit, and Lord, as best I can and know how, I present my body and my tongue to you, Lord, and that you would use my lips, my tongue, as simply a channel To communicate your word and your will for our lives from your word. I uh ask again, you'd fill me with your Spirit. Help us. I pray our words would be sweet. I pray they would be health. for those that hear us. I pray there would be life for those that that hear us. And so please help and challenge us. Father, if there's someone with us, That does not know the Lord Jesus Christ as personal Savior, I plead with you that today would be the day they trust you and settle that matter. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We live in a very noisy world. Anybody figure that out? Noise is everywhere. We have noisy cars. Right? Summertime, we we live right here on Broadford. The speed limit on Broadford is twenty-five. That means the average speed is about seventy uh going up there. And all hours of the night you can hear some cars going by, uh noisy cars, noisy motorcycles. Oh Chuck. And um We live in a noisy world. Noisy motor vehicles. We have noisy music Anybody notice that? Anybody here sit in your home and about two o'clock in the morning you start you're laying in bed and you start feeling this Anybody know what I'm talking about? About five minutes later a car comes driving down the road. Very noisy. Uh there's a football field just uh across the way here, not too far from a house and and probably, I don't know, quarter mile uh straight across. And the summertime a couple years ago I was sitting on the back deck there and I was doing studying it was a Saturday evening and there's a football game going on and I was fine with that. But they had that music cranked up so loud That literally the windows on our back room, I was on the on the deck, the windows on the back room were literally vibrating. A quarter mile away, I thought about Betty who lives right across the road. Her house must be collapsing. And uh walked down there and I said, listen guys, I live way up on Broadford Road. and my windows are literally rattling. Maybe you can back this down a little bit. We live in a noisy, noisy world. Noisy motor vehicles, noisy music, just loud. Um we live in a world that has noisy machines. A world with noisy mouths. A lot of talking going on. A lot of things said on the TV, on the radio, on social media. uh in our community, in our marketplaces, just a lot of noise, a lot of words being said. And that reinforces in my mind the importance of having a beautiful tongue. A tongue that is Pleasant, a tongue that is attractive, a tongue that operates as God designed it to operate. Last week we emphasized the importance of the tongue, giving attention to our words and how we speak And we gave three reasons why it's important. First of all, was because of the influence that our words have, the influence our tongues give. The Bible says in Proverbs that life and death are in the power of the tongue. And things we say, the words we use, and how we use them, and when we use them, have a profound influence on people around us. And so the tongue is very important and needs our attention because of the tremendous influence our tongue has. And we pointed out that we our tongue is important and needs our attention because the tongue is a very key indicator As to my spiritual well-being, my spiritual condition. Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth, what? Speaketh. No other organ in our body reveals the spiritual condition of our heart and soul like the tongue does. The words I use and how I use them and how I respond verbally to people and I conversation, what I talk about Is simply a profound indicator on my spiritual well-being, the spiritual condition of my heart And so we need to give attention to our tongue, our words, because of its influence, because of its indicator. And then we gave another one last week: it's important because of the iniquity of our tongue. James tells us that the tongue is a world of iniquity. And listen to this statement by James. Boy, what a what a what a picturesque words he uses. The tongue is a fire. Set on fire of hell. Some of the most strongest condemnation of our Lord and God has to do with the use of the tongue Words we say. Our tongue is sinful because our tongue is a direct connection to our heart and soul The Bible says we have a sinful heart. We have a sinful heart. So we're going to take these couple weeks now, and we're going to look at the time. We're going to consider how can I Have a more attractive tongue. How can my conversation, my words, the things I say, the way I say them, how can it be more pleasing to God? I'm a little ahead of myself here, but Jesus warned his disciples and he said that every idle word that is spoken, we're going to have to give an account to. Now it's interesting the words he used, every idol word. That's not the ones that we would consider real profound. I'm going to have this important conversation. God's going to hold me accountable for it. No. The Lord says even just the little idle things. We're standing around chit-chatting. Just little things that we don't give any thought to. It just comes out. We're after giving account to. Would you agree with me? God considers our words very important. If we're going to be held accountable for even the idle words we say, they're very important to the Lord, and we need to give attention. So today we want to look at this tip on a beautiful tongue is a silent tongue. Now, I want to say this right up front. A beautiful tongue is not always silent, but a beautiful tongue knows when to be silent. Knows when to be silent. I've been to a few mission trips and been to a number of countries where they speak other languages. Many of you all uh have uh done the same, been a lot of different languages. I can speak two languages, English and Pig Latin. It's the only two I know. And um and English I'm not that great at. But um I've learned, even though I can't speak a lot of these other languages in the world, I've learned how to be silent in at least 20 languages. I've learned in Kazakhstan where they're speaking Russian and some of the folks who are speaking Kazakh. I can be silent in that language. Down in Dominican, they speak Spanish. I learned I can be silent in that language. The importance of knowing how and knowing when To keep my mouth shut. I mean people agree, that's pretty important. It's pretty important. Um I want to give you and I want to encourage you to jot these down. This is more of a study, maybe, these next couple lessons than really a bombastic preaching type thing. But I want to give you four characteristics of a silent tongue. Four characteristics. And again, I want to encourage you maybe jot these down. We're going to look at a lot of verses, primarily in Proverbs, we're going to be most of the time. Uh if you have your Bible, keep it handy. We'll look through there. If not, I want to encourage you to jot these verses down, look them up. I really want to urge you to spend a little bit of time uh meditating on this and looking this and giving serious thought to what's presented and how I can apply it to my life Four characteristics of a silent tongue. Number one, a silent tongue is prudent. Take your Bible with me, if you would, and go to Proverbs chapter 10. And again, we're going to be jumping around here in Proverbs. A couple other places we may go to, but primarily in Proverbs chapter 10. And look with me, if you would at verse number 19. Proverbs chapter 10 and verse number 19. Our first characteristic of a silent tongue is that it is very prudent. And by prudent we mean it's wise, it has understanding, it understands the impact of words. Chapter 10, verse 19, the Bible says this: in the multitude of words, there wanteth not what? Sin. In the multitude of words, there wanteth not sin, but he that refraineth his lips is what? is wise, is wise. That phrase he uses there that God gives us the multitude of words It's kind of interesting the word it comes from, and it has this idea. It's more than just a lot of words. Boy, he said a lot of words. Boy, that was a long message. He said a lot of words It's more than that. It's as this idea. They just keep coming in the multitude of words. He uses the word multitude, not as a final tally. But the multitude, they just keep coming and coming and coming, and the more that come out, the more there are. The multitude of words, an unending stream of words coming out. And he says, wherever you have that. Wherever you have this unending stream of words, there lacketh not sin. There lacketh not sin I got w looking and studying that word multitude of words. And this is the picture I, as I was studying the meetings of it, this is the picture I got in my mind. Do you ever see a video clip or a cartoon or whatever? And some car goes off the road onto the sidewalk and he hits a fire hydrant and he knocks the top off the fire hydrant, and what happens? That water is just spraying up and they're trying to cap and they'll sit on it, you know. And uh I saw uh uh is John John I saw three stages and uh He's sitting on that thing trying to cap it, you know, and you just cannot shut that thing off. That's the idea, that's the picture behind this thing, uh this phrase, the multitude of words. It just keeps going And it says, there wanteth not sin. You're not going to come up short with sin. Unless controlled. Now get this. Unless we control it. Conversations tend to deteriorate. Anybody notice that? I mean, just stand around talking, and that conversation can start out as innocent and as pure as can be. Well, if we're not careful, one statement leads to another and leads to another and leads to another. And before we know it, if we don't control it, we're talking about things we ought not to be talking about. And we're saying things that ought not to be said. And maybe we're talking about people we ought not to be talking about. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? We've all been there I think that's uh at a preacher years ago that had a profound influence on me. And he said one of the reasons he doesn't go out to fellowship after the services in the evenings, he says so many times I get to places those conversations deteriorate and he says before it's said and done, the Holy Spirit of God is being grieved because we weren't careful and we weren't cautious about what we were saying and what we were talking about and how we were saying it. And he says, before we know it, we're saying things we never, never would have intended to say. And so silent, a silent tongue is very prudent. It has understanding. Notice he says here, he says, in a multitude of words there won and not sin. But here's the contrast, here's the beautiful tongue, he that what? Refraineth he that refraineth his lips. He holds that thing back. The word refraineth there means to hold back, to bridle Some of y'all, uh Derek of course works with horses. Uh where's Derek at? Somewhere around here. Thank you, think you went Oh, okay. But um figures, the day I use them for illustration, this day you had delete. But uh nevertheless he works with horses. Some of y'all ride horses You get those, uh, you're sitting on there, I'm not a big horse rider, but uh you get a hold of those reins and you pull back on that brider, and what do you say? Woo And the idea, the few times I rode, it didn't always work for me, John. But the idea behind that is when you re- when you pull back on that bridle, the horse is supposed to what? Stop. Usually it kicks me off, but uh that's the idea. And he says, he that refraineth his lips, he that the mouth is gone, that mouth starts gone, he says, whoa. I think it would be great sometime we're sitting around fellowship or whatever and start hearing people say woo in a conversation. You know what that's an indicator of? A wise tongue. Beautiful tongue. Anybody here you start to say something and you caught yourself and you bit your tongue. Anyone here know what I'm talking about? You start to say, hold on You know what that is? That's a characteristic of a beautiful tongue. It catches itself. It refrains it. It bridles it. It holds it back. He that refraineth his lips is wise. And the word wiser, that's where I got the word prudent. A beautiful tongue is A silent tongue is prudent. I got it from that word there, wise, which has the idea of being prudent. And what prudent means is this. Somebody that's very prudent, they understand what the consequences of this action is going to be. They understand a prudent man is wise. He has insight. And to what's going on. And he says, he that refrains his lips, that person has insight. He's wise. He understands that things that are said are going to have consequences The words that come out of my mouth without me being very, very careful and filtering them through the Word of God and the Spirit of God. And rather than just let them fly, I'm going to rein that back. Whoa! And I'm gonna hold them in. That person, he says the prudent person understands the importance of that. Am I making sense? So a beautiful tongue is a silent tongue. He restrains those words. He restrains those lips. Now, I got thinking about that. If our heart was pure, I tell you one of the things, let me ask this. How many folks here? I asked it in the Sunday school, how many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen. By the way, if you're not saved, if you can't honestly say amen there, please don't leave here today without letting us show you how to be saved. It's the most important issue in life. But uh for those of us that are saved, um uh one of the greatest things is going to be when we get to heaven. Heaven is a very real, literal place. Hell is just as real, just as literal. And the Bible says when we get to heaven, there's going to be a lot of wonderful things that will be true. We'll be in the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ. We'll see him with our eyes there. No more sickness, no more death, all these wonderful things. But one, in my mind, one of the most wonderful things about getting to heaven is I will no longer have a sinful heart. I will no longer have a sinful nature. How many folks here? Now let's be honest. This is counseling time. This is therapy. This is group therapy, okay? So let's be real honest. How many folks here uh you ever found yourself desiring something that you knew wasn't right? Come on now, therapy or group. We won't tell anyone. How many feel how many folks here ever found yourself a thought comes to mind and you think that's not right. I'm a Christian, that ought not to be there. Anybody? Come on, get a witness. How many folks ever thought I ain't raising my hand no matter what that preacher says? Say that? Sinful heart. We get to heaven, none of that's going to be there. Every thought is going to be pure. Every desire is going to be in line with God. No more struggle inside, no more battle between right and wrong, no more guilt, no more shame because of my sinful nature that wants things that it knows is wrong. Isn't that going to be wonderful? Just to be pure and free from this ongoing battle in my heart. Now, until that time, until we get there, we have sinful hearts. And because the tongue is directly tied to the heart, I have got to restrain that thing. I have got to bridle that thing. If we here and now did not have sinful hearts, what's Jeremiah 17, 9 say? Anyone know? But the heart is deceitful, and what Desperately wicked, that is not a pretty picture. Of our heart, of our nature What we are at our very core is sinful and deceitful and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Now, if our heart was pure, if we didn't have that sinful nature, We could just open the mouth and let it flow. Right? We could just be that hydrant, open up, and let the words come out because Our heart was pure and holy like it will be in heaven. There would be nothing to restrain, but we're not there, are we? We don't have pure hearts yet. We're forgiven. We have a new nature that makes that tension in our heart and soul between what pleases God and what pleases me. But until that's gone We have to restrain the heart. And a prudent, a silent tongue is a prudent tongue. It understands that, that my heart is deceitful, it's desperately wicked. I must restrain my lips. I must be very, very careful in what I say. How many people here ever something came out? And man, you didn't even think about it and you said it. And immediately after saying it, your heart smote you. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Spirit of God convicted us. And that's what the Bible is talking about. So a beautiful tongue is a silent tongue is prudent. Four characteristics of a silent tongue. It's prudent. Somebody said this. I like this. This is apparently some ancient proverb from China or Arabia or somewhere. But it's a great statement and it lines up with scripture. It's this: don't speak Unless you can improve upon the silence. Do you get it? Don't speak unless you can improve upon the silence. And a prudent tongue, a wise man, a wise woman, a wise teenager understands that, you know, what I say. Is going to influence things. I need to be very, very careful because my heart is sinful. And these words are directly tied to my heart. So I need to be very, very careful. I need to rein that in. So, number one, I hope you wrote that down. A silent tongue is prudent. First characteristic of a silent tongue. Number two, a silent tongue is proper A proper is proper. Now, if you have your Bibles, turn with me. We're going to go out of Proverbs. We're going to go to the book of Ecclesiastes. Just towards the back of your Bible there. You have Proverbs, and you have the Song of Solomon. I'm sorry, Proverbs, you have Ecclesiastes, then the Song of Solomon. Go to Ecclesiastes chapter 3. And I want to read verse number seven. Now, pro Ecclesiastes chapter three is a classic portion of scripture. In fact, even the world takes this passage and they like to make songs and poems and reference it And it goes down through and says at certain times that things are appropriate and certain times they're not. Certain times that various things are necessary and other times they're not Verse 1, he says, To everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under heaven. And he goes down through a time to be born, a time to die, a time to plant, a time to pluck up that which is planted, a time to kill, a time to heal, a time to break down, a time to build up. Time to weep, a time to laugh, a time to mourn, a time to dance, a time to cast away stones, a time to gather stones together, a time to embrace, a time to refrain from embracing. And he comes down and you get to verse number seven And he makes a very important statement. He says, a time to rend, tear apart, and a time to sow. Now look at this. Would you underscore this in your Bible? A time to keep what? silence and a time to speak. There's a time to keep silent and there's a time to speak. A large part of wisdom is knowing what not to say and when not to say it. Knowing what not to say and when not to say it. Be careful of the words you say, to keep them soft and sweet. You never know from day to day Which ones you'll have to eat? Prudent. Proper. My mom used to say to me when we were young, and no doubt you've heard this, and no doubt you've said it, I've said it. If you don't have anything nice to say about somebody, finish it with me. Don't say nothing or anything. This is a stinky part about pastoring a church that had teachers in it. If you don't have anything nice to say about anybody, don't say anything. Is it time to speak? There's time to be silent. And when I can't say something nice about somebody, or I can't say something that's true, or I can't say something that pleases the Lord, or I can't say something that's in line with Scripture. Then I need to be wise enough. I need to be prudent enough to know this is not the proper time to open my mouth. To keep silent. Keep silent. Number one, a silent tongue is prudent. Number two, a silent tongue is proper. Number three, a silent tongue is peaceful. Is peaceful. By not responding to rude words or unkind words or ignorant words, that promotes peace. How many people ever s ever had somebody say something rude to you? Anybody here at all? Um I I hope not since you've been at church. Anybody here ever have somebody say something to you that was unkind? Anybody here at all? Anybody say something to you that was ignorant? Turn the TV on, you're gonna get it. But a silent tongue doesn't respond back to that. A silent tongue just keeps its mouth shut. And you know what I found? It's a whole lot more peace. Now, since we're confessing our sins, how many people hear somebody said something rude to you and without thinking you said something rude right back? I feel that escalated and peace dissolved and went away. You know, usually the best thing to do when somebody talks like that, the best thing to do is just shut my mouth and walk away. Walk away. I've learned too late in life, and I haven't completely learned it yet. I haven't perfected this, but I'm starting to learn that I really don't have to respond to everything. I really don't have to give my two cents on everything that comes across my way. And I've found the more I can do that, the more I can incorporate that into my life, the more peaceful my life is. You know, in our homes, in our marriages, I think there'd be a little more peace in the home. Here's a good advice. If you just drop it. Get what I'm saying? Just drop it. Let it go. Is sacrificing the peace in a church or in a relationship or in a friendship or in a workplace Is it really worth winning an argument over? I can win the argument and lose the peace. By the way, I've found out the hard way. I can scar my testimony. With just responding in an inappropriate way to something that was said or done. Huh? You and I can work hard for years to establish a good Christian testimony and blow it like that By not being careful of how I respond. A silent tongue is peaceful, is peaceful. Over and over, God tells us: be still. Be still. Be still. I was tempted to go through and look at all the passages where God tells us to be still And um it would take forever. He does it over and over all through Old and New Testament. But a lot of those, I think, if I was going to put it in Dennis Leatherman translation It would be this. Oh shut up. Be still. Do you ever do this to your kids? Anybody ever do that? What are you telling them? Still that tongue. Oh shut it. Right? Be quiet God says, listen, you want some peace in your life? You want some peace in your home? You want some peace in your environment? Just learn. Learn to be silent. Learn to be quiet. Let me give you a last characteristic of a quiet tongue. A silent tongue. A silent tongue is patient. Is patient. Now we won't take time to turn there, but would you write this down? James chapter 1, verse 19 and 20. He said every man be swift to hear. But slow to what? Speak. Be slow to speak. So we have to hear, this is an old cliche, but it's true. God created our bodies. He made us this way. And he gave us two ears. And one what? Mouth. And I don't think that was just by coincidence or just no purpose to it. I think there was actually a very powerful message to us behind our creation, our design, is we ought to be more quick to hear than to speak. We ought to listen twice as much as we speak. And a silent tongue is very, very patient. It's slow to please. Just don't react. All through Proverbs. And it's amazing to me the more I'm studying this series is how much Proverbs talks about the tongue, the lips, the mouth. And over and over he says, he tells us in Proverbs, don't answer a matter before you, and I'm putting this in my own words, don't answer an issue, don't answer a matter before you know all the facts. Before you've thought that thing through. And so a silent tongue statement is made, a situation comes up, an issue is presented And rather than immediately opening my mouth and immediately giving my opinion and immediately giving my assessment and immediately giving my judgment of that A beautiful tongue, a silent tongue, steps back and says, wait a minute. Before I respond, I want to make sure I have all the facts. Before I respond, I want to make sure I've thought this thing through and then I'm coming to this thing with the right approach. I've learned something early on in the ministry. There are two sides to every story Found somebody comes by on one side and they tell me this, and I get when they're done. This person is the greatest Christian since the Apostle Paul, and the other one in the situation is the devil incarnate. And then I talk to this person, and lo and behold, the roles are completely reversed. And I've learned It's a good thing. Just not respond. Be slow to speak. So four characteristics of a silent tongue. It's prudent It's patient. It's proper. It's peaceful. Now I want to real quickly, I've got a few minutes here. Let me give you six consequences of a silent tongue. I want to encourage you to jot these down. What happens when I learn to control my tongue? What happens when I learn to say, whoa, before I open that mouth and get that tongue flapping? What happens? Number one, it protects me from danger. It protects me from danger. If you would, back in Proverbs, come to chapter 13 of Proverbs. Everybody doing alright? Everybody getting caught up on arrest? Praise the Lord. I'm glad we can help. And uh how many people are rather be here than in jail? Alright, how many people would rather be here than in um where's another bad place? Uh a hospital Yes, Amen. Let me give you a little advice here. They did a study years ago about where people die. A lot of people die at home. You know where the places most people die? The hospital. You know the places the least number of people die? Church Less people die in church than in any other building. So when you're sick, don't go to the hospital, go to church. You're making a terrible mistake. It protects from danger. Proverbs chapter 13, look at verse number 3. He that keepeth his mouth, what? Keepeth his life. But he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction. That word keep means this. It means hold back, restrain, bridle it. The word destruction means ruin or dismay. Tell you what, uncontrolled lips have produced a lot of unhappy lives. Uncontrolled lips have produced a lot of happy lives. Come over to chapter 18, if you would. Proverbs. And verse number six. Here we go. Lips, a fool's lips enter into what? Contention. And his mouth calleth for strokes. A fool's mouth is his destruction, and his lips are the snare of his soul. A fool who cannot control his mouth and just runs his mouth and spouts off is going to find himself in a lot of quarrels. His mouth, you get that? His enter into contention. When I can't when I am unable to keep my tongue under control, I cannot learn to uh that to uh have a silent tongue to keep silent when I need to keep silent I'm gonna find myself in a lot of arguments Some people are in constant arguments with folks. They're in constant arguments with people. They're constantly at fight. There's some sort of fight going on all the time. And Proverbs tells us, one of the reasons for that is we need to learn we need we're unable to control our tongue. And we need to bring that thing in check, and we need to learn to stop that. One of the characteristics of a silent tongue, one of the consequences is it protects us from danger. Uncontrolled lips have destroyed many lives. I think David, King David, understood this. In Psalms 141, verse 3, he said, This set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth, and keep the doors of my lips. David understood, Lord, I need you. Help me watch my words. Number two, a consequence of a silent tongue, it puts away gossip. Are we there in chapter 18? Come over to verse number 8 if you would. The words of a tailbearer, that's a gossiper, talking about others, telling tales about others. Have you heard about Sister So-and-So? No, I haven't. What is it? Oh my word, I can't believe it! Right? The words of the tailbearer, look at this, are as what? Wooze. Are you there? 188 The words of the tailbearer are as wounds. They go down into the innermost parts of the belly. I wrote on the margin of my Bible, gossip hurts deeply. Deeply. When I cannot control my tongue and I'm gossiping and saying things about others, that has none of my business, I have no part in the situation whatsoever. I just want to let somebody else know how terrible somebody is. When I'm doing that, I am hurting people deeply. It's not an innocent exercise. It hurts people. Chapter 26 and verse 22 says the same thing. Gossip hurts deeply. Gossip helps nobody. It must stop. It must stop. If I don't say anything, nobody can repeat it. Right? Did anybody ever come up to you and say this? Don't tell anyone, I'm telling you this, but Anybody ever hear you're not gonna admit it. Don't tell anybody. Don't don't tell anyone I said. This is my version of it. If you repeat this, I'll deny it. That's my version. You know what the best thing to do when that comes up is just say, ha! Whoa! Stop right there. We're not going that way. Not going that way. So if I don't say something about someone, it can't be repeated. It can't be repeated. Number three, a silent tongue promotes harmony. It's our words that divide us. Our words divide us more often than our ideas divide us. Would you agree with me? We live in a divided nation. We just had our culture conference. We live in a divided nation. We live in a divided culture. I mean people can't even speak nicely to each other. There was a day I would like to believe There was a day in America where people could have two opposing ideas, have two completely different perspectives on any given issue in our country, and be and be feel strongly about it, and yet be civil. In their conversation with each other. I was reading some history books, and back in the early days of our country, and even not that long ago, politicians on both sides of the aisle who had very differing perspectives and very strong opinions about that nevertheless could go out to dinner afterward and enjoy each other's company and enjoy each other's conversation. But in today our words are so venomous and our words are so hateful Our country is completely divided, not by ideas, but by the words we use towards each other It is possible for me to disagree with somebody, but yet be civil with that person. I don't have to agree with it, and I don't have to accept it, and I don't have to endorse it. But at least I can learn to control my words and refrain my lips. The media is killing us. My wife had turned on the news a little bit last evening, and I said, I'm so disgusted even looking at it. It's not news, it's just personal attacks on both sides Calling names and making unreal uh uh outlandish accusations My Bible says that's not right. And for that to come into the church, and for that to be in a Christian home, That's ugly. That's ugly. A beautiful tongue is a silent tongue, and a silent tongue promotes harmony. We can get along with people who don't agree with us. I uh uh this is the way I approach it. Listen, you don't have to agree with me. You can be wrong if you want. You know? If I agreed with you, we'd both be wrong. So Promotes harmony. Number four, it produces respect. That was our text this morning, chapter 17. Verse 27, He that hath knowledge spareth his words, and a man of understanding is an excellent spirit. Even a fool, when he holds his peace, is counted wise. And he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding. There's some respect there. I found that sometimes if there's something going on and I just quietly stand there and listen, folks will think, boy, old Leatherman, he really knows his stuff. I have no idea what they're talking about. I just I don't know. I like what uh one preacher said uh he was flying and he was beside some chemist physic physic uh physicist, chemical something. The guy's a genius. And he said he started telling him all this stuff and he's interested and he's listening there. And the guy gave him this big long formula in theory. He says, what do you think of that? And he goes, Well I agree with the good in that and I disagree with the bad. The guy said, put her there, man, you understand where I'm coming from Good listeners are more loved than good talkers. Listening is a needed ministry, isn't it? And that's my fifth point. A silent tongue provides a ministry. You know what happens? Matt and I will get talking and we'll be talking about bass fishing. We like fishing. And um uh we'll get talking and he'll be telling me his fish story. You know, he caught this one down at Savage and all this. What am I thinking while he's telling me his fish story? I'm thinking about my fish story. I want to tell as soon as I'm thinking, hurry up and get done. I want to tell you my story. Right? And then while I'm telling my story, and I don't know if this is true, I'm sure this is not true of him. He's thinking of his story that he wants to tell. Aren't we that way? And a lot of times we don't even pay any attention to what the person's saying. We're just thinking of what we're going to say in response. You know what this world needs? Needs some people who just listen. Just listen to them. We live in a world of terror of sinners lost in darkness. And I get out soul-winning. I've kind of changed my approach a little bit over the years, but sometimes I've just asked folks and I'll let them tell me their story And just listen to them. And I found when I listen to others, keep my mouth shut and listen to them They're more willing to listen to maybe what I have to say. What I have to say. And we've got the most important message in the world. That's the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to suggest to you, listening is a tremendous ministry. I'm not a counselor, I'm a preacher. I consider my counseling takes place from the pulpit here, from the Word of God. Sometimes I'll sit down with folks and counsel and try and help them work through some things. And I found a lot of times if I'll just sit there and let them talk, just listen to them I don't even say two words. I'm thinking of one situation. Years ago, a couple came in and I said, well, what's the story? What's your and what's your? And they just talked, I don't think I said 25 words. And we were done. I said, well, uh by the done, they poured their hearts out and they said their things, and next thing you know, oh they're and they're going on. I'm just sitting there Listening to them. And I said, well, let's pray. And they got up, oh Pastor Leatherman, you helped us so much. I hardly say five words But I listened to him. Produces a ministry, a silent tongue produces a ministry, and it improves our relationship with the Lord. Some of the best devotions I've ever had has been when I was quiet. Quiet. I get the most we get the most out of a sermon when we aren't talking during the sermon and listening. That's where I would say amen. That was profound statement. I I get on the young people sometimes For talking during church. And it's young people, you know. I I can't sit with my wife in church. I end up talking to her during the service, so I have to be careful. That's why she don't sit up here with me because I'd be talking to home. The reason I do that isn't because I have something profound to say, but because not because I'm profound, but because the subject is profound. And when we're talking I can't, the Holy Spirit can't speak to me. Am I making sense? When my mouth is running, I'm hindering the Spirit of God speaking to my heart. And so the best way to get something out of a sermon, as long as it's a Bible sermon, regardless of who's preaching, one of the best ways to get something out of it is to close my mouth and listen to what's being said. And by the way, let me throw this in, and turn the phone off. Texting is a form of talking. And the Holy Spirit of God is going to have a hard time speaking in my heart if I'm texting other people or playing a video game or something while the word of God is being preached. Amen. I'm glad I got that off my chest. I've never seen anyone at the altar Responding to the Holy Spirit dealing with their heart when they were talking the whole church service. I've never seen that ever. Thirty-five years in the ministry. I've never Seen somebody at an altar broken before God who was either talking or texting while the sermon was being preached. And I'll tell you who I've seen, Spirit of God dealing with their heart and convicting them and challenging them and helping them. It's folks who've quieted down and opened their heart and mind. Amen? There's so much more the Bible says about the tongue. There's some cautions for a silent tongue. Doesn't mean we should be quiet all the time. Sometimes silence isn't golden. Sometimes it's yellow. Sometimes we don't open our mouth simply because we're cowards. And we're too afraid to speak up. When I'm silent, I need to be careful that I'm not agreeing with something that's wrong. If somebody is saying stuff that isn't right and wrong and I don't speak up sometimes, I need wisdom, but I don't speak up sometimes, I'm giving the implication Oh that oh yeah that's okay I'm in agreement with that. When Nazism was rising up in Germany And it was being infiltrated through the media and through the political processes, and it was being pushed on the on the society, on the and on the uh uh citizens of Germany Looking back now, we find that so many pulpits were silent about what was taking place. And out of fear of retribution and out of fear of persecution, they refuse to speak out against the sins of their society. We saw how that went. Now listen, we're not in any even remotely like Nazi Germany, but we live in a society that is going downhill awfully fast. And I want to say to you, though silence is beautiful, and a beautiful tongue is a silent tongue. A silent tongue sometimes knows I need to speak up about what is happening around us. I'll tell you what, I I wouldn't give you two cents for a preacher who wouldn't preach against the sins of what is taking place in the society around him. Years ago, they banned Bibles from our schools. And one woman Who became so outspoken, affected an entire nation, and removed the Bibles From our schools. And I wonder, where were the pulpits at? Why were people not crying out? Why were people not confronting that? Why were we silent? Silence is beautiful, but sometimes it needs to be broken. And our voices need to rise against the sins we see around us. Abortion What in the world killing infants in the wombs of their mothers? And silent. Now I'm glad for folks that do speak up, and we ought to preach on this and so many others. Same-sex marriage and all these things. We wait until it's after it takes place, and then we cry out. Silence isn't always beautiful. Sometimes it implies an agreement with something that is wrong. Sometimes silence covers up a crime. Something takes place, and I know, and I can give some information that would help. Solve that crime. I ought to give it out. And last of all, this is what I want to get to, and I'll end with this. Sometimes silence is wrong when it withholds the gospel. When it withholds the gospel. I tell you what grieves my heart. I go to big conferences and I go to meetings and they're wonderful, and I'm not trying to be critical at all. But I remember back early in my Christianity when I was getting to some of the big meetings in the Independent Fundamental Baptist, and you know what they preached on? They preached on soul winning, soul winning, soul winning, soul winning, get the gospel to the loss, get the gospel to the laws. I'll be very honest with you, I don't hear that as much. And we're so wrapped up in ourselves and we're so wrapped up doing our own little things. And we're not out telling lost people how to be saved from sin in hell, how to know for sure they're going to heaven. We're just letting them go and we're quiet. I'm telling you, if I understand my Bible right, if I have the right perspective on scriptures, the Church of Jesus Christ ought to be rising up with a uh a unified, overwhelming voice. Ye must be born again. You need to be saved Sometimes we're just quiet and we're silent. And it's nothing more than the locked jaw of fear. Afraid of what people will say. We're afraid of what people will think. That will be the least of our concerns. There's a world dying on its way to hell, and you and I have the one single message that can keep people out of hell and give them a new life and take them to heaven, and we don't say a word. God have mercy. God have mercy. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, I pray that you would help us and challenge us. Give us wisdom. Lord, these old tongues, I know mine gets me in so much trouble, causes so many problems, and it can be so positive and can be so So positive. And I pray you'd help us and give us wisdom to be able to control our tongues and be yielded to your Holy Spirit. That you can use us to be a voice of God. That the word of God can flow through us to this old sinful world. We can build up and help encourage one another. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, along with me? Preacher, God's word has convicted me and challenged me. And I need to apply a little more restraint and not let that old tongue just run loose. And I need to bring that thing. under control. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher of God's Holy Spirit? I'm my hand's raised. It's ongoing, constant thing. Maybe we just need to kneel at an altar and say, Lord, here's my body, here's my tongue. Please take me. Holy Spirit, enable me to know when to speak, when not, to know what to say, what not to say. And God will help us. This is his is a great concern of his. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, my tongue is just part of various areas of my life that are not where they ought to be spiritually as a Christian. And I need God to revive my heart. I need God to renew my walk with him and not just the tongue, but across the borders or any like that. Preacher, pray for me. I need revival in my heart. God bless you, hands all around. There's some here this morning to say, preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. You say I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven, that God has forgiven me. And you'd say, pray for me that God will help me settle that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. God bless you. How about it? Any others? I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Now, Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised. You know our hearts. And I pray now as we give the invitation, folks find a place old altar. And we just humble ourselves before you and let you take us and change us and fill us and use us to be a testimony of this whole world with a beautiful, beautiful tongue. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the imitation song