Numbers chapter 14. I want you to participate with me here a little bit. I want to look at verse number 27. Now, this is Israel under the leadership of Moses at the instructions of God Have come out of Egypt. They've experienced some amazing things. They've seen some miraculous events that God did on their behalf. And uh they're approaching, they're they're at the point where they are to go into the promised land. That's the whole point of leaving Egypt, was to get to the promised land. And um They come up with an issue here. And notice verse number 27. Moses, the Lord is speaking unto Moses. He says, This, how long shall I bear with you Now, this is the children of Israel, and God loves. He just rescued them from bondage in Egypt. Now look what he says. How long shall I bear with this evil congregation, which what? The next look at those three words, they do what? They what? Murmur against me. Now the Lord says this. Now think about what he's saying. I have heard the what? Murmuring of the children of Israel, which they murmur against me. Verse 29: Your carcasses shall fall in this wilderness And all that were numbered of you, according to your whole number, from twenty years old and upward, which have what? Murmured against me. Murmured against me. We're doing a little series on Sunday mornings, and I don't normally do a series on Sunday mornings, but we're doing one now on beauty tips for the tongue How to have a beautiful tongue. We talked about the importance of the tongue. We've talked about that a beautiful tongue is a clean tongue. This morning's topic is this. This morning's beauty tip for the tongue is this: a beautiful tongue is a contented tongue. A contented tongue. Let's pray. Father in heaven, as we look at this topic throughout Scripture, I pray that you would challenge us and convict us. I know you already have me as I prepared this. I pray, Lord, that you would give us beautiful tongues, that what we say and the way we say it would be attractive. That it would draw people to Christ, that it would strengthen their faith. I pray, Lord, that you would help me to be true to your word Lord, I I have Lord, I'm just a sinner like everybody else, and so I have my own tongue that I need to deal with. So Lord, I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me. And that you would speak through me to each of our hearts and our minds the truths that are presented in your word, that it would be you, Lord, speaking through me And I present my body anew, my tongue. I yield my will to you, and pray, Lord, that you would again fill me with your spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's a very rich, successful entrepreneur, I guess you'd call him, was down by the docks where the fishing boats came in, and it was early in the day, and he saw a fisherman Sitting beside his boat, just lazy as can be, just sitting beside his boat, gazing out onto the ocean. And this businessman, this very, very successful driven businessman He said to this fisherman sitting there, he says, Why are you not out fishing? The day is early. There's many fish to be caught. The fisherman just sat there without moving too much. He says, I've already caught enough for today. He said, Why don't you go out and catch more? Fisherman's Sittinaire says, why would I do that? What would I do with them? He goes, well you could sell them. You'd get more money. And if you got more money, you could get a bigger, better boat. And you could go out farther and you could fish deeper and you get better equipment. And you could catch even more fish and sell them and make even more money, and soon you could have a fleet of boats and you'd be a rich man like me. The fisherman said, Then what would I do? He goes, well you could relax and sit down and enjoy life. He said, What do you think I'm doing right now? Contentment. Contentment. Did you notice here in our text that we read Pastor Matt read, and then we just looked at it again here. Did you notice that the whole reason? Now no doubt there were other factors, but according to this passage, the primary reason Israel did not enter into the promised land As God intended for them to enter in, was the fact that they did what? They murmured. He uses that word four or five times there. You murmured, you murmured, you murmured, you murmured against me. And because of that, Because you were not content with what I was doing, because you were not satisfied with how this was going to play out, what my plan was, what my will was, because you were not content. You're going to spend 40 years wandering through this wilderness. Every one of you, from 20 years old and up, is going to be buried. Out in this wilderness, and not till the next generation will you experience the plan and purpose I have for your life. Discontentment cost Israel dearly. Would you turn with me back to Numbers chapter 11? Same book, just a few chapters earlier. Numbers chapter 11. I want to read just one verse, the first verse. Now I have this verse underlined in red in my Bible. I have it highlighted and bracketed in. This is an important verse. Numbers chapter 11, verse number one. Notice it says this. And when the people did what? In fact, tell you what, let's read this verse together in unison. Do you got it there? Ready, here we go. Ready, ver uh chapter 11, verse 1, all together. And when the people complained, it displeased the Lord, and the Lord heard it, and his anger was kindled. And the fire of the Lord burnt among them and consumed them that were in the uttermost parts of the camp. I put in the margin of my Bible how to displease God. I wonder how many folks are interested in how I can make God mad at me. Well it's very simple. According to this, murmur, complain, be discontented. Israel, according to these two passages, the Israelites had very, very ugly tongues. Complaining, murmuring, not contented, not satisfied They lost God's blessing. They displeased the Lord. They made God angry. God heard it. And he was very displeased. I think murmuring affects all classes of people. Rich people murmur. Poor people murmur. Educated people murmur. Uneducated people complain. People that are in the pew at church complain and are dissatisfied. I see you. I see you out there. It's hot. It's freezing. I'm I'm trying to get revenge here this morning Hey, I got news for you. Dissatisfaction and complaining and murmuring isn't limited to the pew. It also happens with the folks standing behind the pulpit. I've been in enough preachers' fellowships. I've been around preachers enough to tell you The church pew has no corner on complaining. This morning in my devotions, I was reading uh in Ecclesia in uh Ezekiel. And I tell you, God pierced my heart. Where again, this is later after Israel has been in the land for many years and are about to go into captivity, and God And this was just my devotions. I didn't plan the message in my devotions at all. It was God dealing with my heart. And God rebuked them once again very sharply Because they were not satisfied. They were not content. They complained. And God convicted me. So, murmuring and complaining, and the ugly tongue of discontentment is not limited to any class of people or any category of people. And it's not limited to any specific group of Christians. It's a common affliction. And part of our fallen nature, one of the characteristics of our sinful fallen nature, is a dissatisfaction, no matter what our circumstances. Dissatisfaction. Take your Bible with me if you would and go to the New Testament book of Philippians. Philippians is a fantastic book. It's hard to say what your favorite book is. I always say this: my favorite book of the Bible is whatever I happen to be studying at that time. But I'll tell you, Philippians is up there on the list. And Philippians is a letter, actually, it was a letter penned by the Apostle Paul, of course, under the inspiration of God. To a church that God had used him to establish in the city of Philippi. It was a very good church, very strong church, a very missions-minded church. And in chapter 4, he deals with some doctrinal issues and Christian life issues earlier in the book. And you get to chapter 4, and it's kind of, he gets, he kind of gets personal with them. And he is addressing his personal relationship with the people that made up that church there. Now, I don't really have to say this. We understand a church is not a building, right? We understand that. We say we're going to church. Technically, this isn't the church. This is the meeting house where the church meets. The church is people. And Paul loved the church at Philippi. He loved the people at Philippi. And he speaks very highly of them. They were not perfect. In fact, the first part of chapter 4, he has addressed a couple ladies that weren't getting along. He takes a kind of a back-handed shot at that while he's talking other things in. Listen, ladies, get that straightened out. And uh he comes down and he's he's addressing some personal issues with them And when we get to verse number 10, he makes some interesting statements. Philippians chapter 4. Notice what it says. He says, But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly. That now at the last your care of me has flourished again. They supported Paul financially. They supported him as a missionary. And they were hindered for a little while. They couldn't get the money to them. Of course, it was a different setting then. Traveling and sending materials were were more of a challenge. He says, but now at the last your care of me has flourished again. Wherein you were also careful, but you lacked opportunity. That's where they couldn't get it to them. Verse 11. Now look what he says. Not that I speak in respect of want. Now, this next statement is very important. In fact, would you read this next statement with me? Let's read it together. For I have learned, in whatever state I am, therewith to be content I have learnt in whatever state I am therewith to be content. Then he expands on that verse 12. He says, I know both how to obey how I know both how to be abased and And I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and suffer need. Verse 13 is that great statement. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Paul was a deeply grateful Christian. He mentions what I see here, particularly in verse number 10, I see two things he's very, very grateful for. One, he's grateful for the generosity that they showed him. He's out there on the mission field. He's gone from city to city, starting churches, he's on this missionary trip. He had started the church back in Philippi, of course God did it through him, and the church was established, he goes on, and the church there made the decision I would say similar to our faith promise type thing Hey Paul, we're going to send support to you as you're out there and you can focus on this church planning. You can focus on developing leadership within the church and then going on, we're going to support you And as he's traveling, he writes this letter back to the church at Philippi and he expresses his great, great gratitude for the generosity that they had showed him in supporting him like that. Now, I don't know what you think of when you think of the Apostle Paul. If I were to ask you to think of what are you what characteristics and those that are familiar with Paul and what we study of him in Scripture And I would say, what characteristics stands out in your mind about Paul? Now someone would ask me that If they would say, what characteristic, when you picture Paul in your mind, what you understand of him from Scripture, what characteristic stands out in your mind? I would think I would use the term zeal Paul was intensely zealous. His commitment to Christ and his commitment to the gospel was par null. He said on several occasions, he said, I'm willing to die for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ He says, I know what it means to lose all for the purpose of the ministry, establishing churches and taking the gospel to every human being. And the commitment of Paul and the devotion of Paul to the gospel of Christ and to Jesus Christ was outstanding. But the more I study Paul, I'm coming to the conclusion as powerful as his devotion was I see another characteristic that almost overshadows that, and it was this, gratitude. Paul was an intensely grateful Christian. And you read his writings, and if you pay attention, particularly at the end of the different books that God used him to record. He expresses gratitude, gratitude, gratitude, gratitude. I don't know about you, but that challenges me. I believe you and I, as a Christian, of all people on planet Earth. You and I as Christians, we ought to be grateful people. Our tongues ought to be characterized by gratitude. Gratitude. And so Paul was writing back to these believers at Philippi, the folks that made up the church there, and he's express expressing his great gratitude. For their generosity that they showed him. And Paul absolutely had an attitude of gratitude. It permeated his thinking and his ministry. So he's grateful for the generosity they showed him. But I also, and maybe I'm reading into this a little bit, but I think here he's also expressing gratitude not just for what they had done for him But he's expressing gratitude for what he sees to be true in their lives as believers And that is this. I think he's expressing gratitude for the fact that the Philippian believers had grown and had developed and matured to the point That they were eager to give of themselves generously. I tell you, one of the indicators, one of the characteristics of a mature Christian. It's not just gratitude, but it is also generosity. Generosity. Selfishness is childishness Immaturity is characterized by selfishness. What's one of the first words a baby learns when they're growing, a little toddler? What's one of the first words they learn? Mine. Mine. When we moved to Indianapolis, both our boys were very small. Dan was just a few months old. Sam was a couple years, year and a half, two years old. We moved there and uh we were going to have a friend of mine that started the church here we were helping and uh they were gonna come over, they had some kids, and um I think that was it, some kids were gonna come over and we thought, we're gonna practice with the boys. On how to share. How many people raised kids here? Anyone? You are now or you already have raised kids. How many people noticed you don't have to teach a child to be selfish? You don't have to teach them that. That comes what? Natural. You don't say, all right, Sam, here's how you're selfish. You don't do that. So we're going to teach them how to be generous. We're going to teach them how to share it. So we practice. We sit down in the living room. Here boys, you have this toy, and daddy's a little boy that's visiting, and I'd like to play with that toy and you share it with them. And they'd say, oh, here you go And my no my name is Bobby. Okay. Sh Daniel, share with Bobby your toy, and he'd hand it to me. And I mean we had it down. Those boys were the most generous, unselfish kids that have ever lived. Ideal, perfect pastors kids. Then the other kids showed up. Mine! That's mine! Give it to me! And we had an all-out brawl in the living room there. My point I'm trying to make is this. Selfishness is what? Childishness. It's immaturity. Immaturity is characterized by selfishness. And Paul is writing back to these Philippian believers, and he's saying to them, I'm so grateful for the generosity you showed me and enables me to advance the gospel and do my ministry more effectively. But I'm also very, very grateful for the fact that you have grown and you have developed and you have matured to the point That you are willing to give, and not only give, but give generously and sacrificially for the cause of Christ, the advancement of the gospel. He says something very similar to that to the church at Thessalonica He says, in your poverty you gave generously to the cause of Christ. And he's very grateful for this spiritual maturity, this spiritual development, the grace of God that was obvious. In these believers. And so Paul was one of the characteristics of Paul that the more I study his life, the more it stands out is this attitude of gratitude. What he sees in others and how God's providing through them for his needs. And then he makes an interesting statement. Verse 11, he says, not that I speak in respect of one. I'm not thanking you for all this because I want anything. And let me explain why. It's not that I want something. And look at verse 11. We read it together. Notice he says, For I have, and I underlined and circled that next word. For I have what? Learned. In whatever state I am therewith to be content. And I noted this. Contentment is something that must be learned. It is something that must be learned. If anybody had something to murmur about, It would have been the Apostle Paul. How many times was he falsely accused? How many times was he stoned and imprisoned and beaten? For no other reason than simply telling people how they can find forgiveness of sins and eternal life For no other reason than simply declaring the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And yet he's beaten, he's falsely accused, he's stoned, he's left for dead He's banished, he's ridiculed, he's mocked. If anybody had a reason to murmur, Paul could have set up. Sit up and say, Listen, my life has not been fair. But you don't he doesn't do that. You don't find that anywhere. Because he learned. He learned. How to be content. How to be content. What does it mean to be content? We say a beautiful tongue is a contented tongue. To be content, I just, there's a ton of definitions out there. I just put it this way. To be fully satisfied I'm satisfied. Paul, what do you need? I'm satisfied. Paul, what do you want changed? I'm fine. Oh, you're in prison, shackled to the wall, falsely accused and beaten mercilessly. What do you mean? Oh, I think I'll sing praises to God and pray Paul had gotten to the point he had learned through a series of lessons, through testing and trials, failure and success, Paul had learned. To be content. To be content. His contentment was not based upon his possessions. Most of the time he had nothing. His contentment was not based upon his circumstances. Did you notice in verse 12? He says, I know how to be abased, and I know how to abound. I know how to go with nothing. And I know how to be wealthy. I've been in both situations. His contentment was not based on his circumstance or his situations. Everywhere in all things I'm instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and suffer need. His contentment was not based on the on his paycheck, how big his paycheck was. His contentment was not based upon how nice his house was or how fancy his car was. It wasn't based upon the name inside the label of his suit. His contentment was found in his relationship with Jesus Christ. He says, I can do all things. What's the next two words? Through Christ. Rich or poor, prison or free, on a shipwreck or in a palace I'm satisfied. I'm content either place because my contentment is found in my relationship with Christ. My contentment is found in the possess uh the presence of Christ in my life. My contentment is found in the promises of God. Not in my circumstances or situation or the size of my wallet. Not in my health. But in Christ, but in Christ, it's something he had learned. God loved him. God loved him. And that was good enough for him. God he was safe, he was secure. And that was good enough. That was enough. His contentment was not based upon his possessions, his circumstances, his situation. It was based upon his relationship with Christ, that God loved him and saved him, secured him, was providing for him. I'm fully satisfied. His contentment was something he learned, and I emphasize that, and that stands out in my mind. Contentment, as I tried to point out here a little bit ago, does not come naturally I notice the first thing a baby does when they're born is what? They cry. Oh, I want to be back in the womb. It's warm and it's secure. You got me out here. And um I don't I don't know what the deal was, but when I was born, first thing they did was slap me. I don't know what that was about Contentment does not come naturally. It has to be developed. Would you agree with me on this? See if I can get you to agree with me on something. Would you agree with me on this? If I'm going to learn something, I need to be willing to be taught. If someone's not willing to be taught something, they're not going to learn much. In fact, one of the attributes of wisdom is the willingness to learn, the willingness to be taught. So if you want to be a simpleton knucklehead ignoramus, don't be taught. Don't let yourself be taught anything. I thought that was a profound statement right there. So Paul says, I learned to be content. That tells me something about Paul. He was willing to let God teach him to get to that point. And I've found in my experience, 58 years, I've found my experience is a lot of times teaching is not necessarily pleasant. Sometimes you have to go through some difficult things to learn something, right? I don't know about you. I did not enjoy taking tests in school. That was not a pleasant experience, but it was a necessary part of me to learn something. So I think one of the reasons Paul says there, I know both how to abound and to be abase. To be full and suffer hunger. What he I think what he was referencing is the fact was this process that he had been going through in his life These lessons that God had been trying to teach him, these tests that God had been giving him, both extremes on the scale of provision So that he could get to the point where he can say, Hey! And no matter what the circumstance situation is, I'm fully satisfied in Christ. I'm content in my relationship with God. And if the worst thing that happens to me is I die some horrible death, if that's the worst thing, that's the worst thing that possibly happened to me, hey, I go to heaven, which is gain. He was fully content, fully satisfied, but he had to go through a series of trials. He had to learn, he had to be abased, and he had to be abound. He had to go through all these things to get to the point where he could learn that. Learning contentment requires paying attention. I found out that I don't learn much when I don't pay attention. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I remember sitting back in school, I sat there staring out the window, daydreaming. I'd always daydreamed that I was the superhero, something bad was going on in the classroom. And I'd I'd come in, I'd be the superhero, I'd rescue everybody, all the pretty girls, I'd rescue them, and they'd all say, Yay, Dennis, yay. Then the teacher would say, What do you think, Dennis? Huh? And learn a thing. And pay attention. And so Paul says, you know, I had to pay attention to what was happening in my life. I had to be willing to be tested and stretched and tried. I had to put some effort into this. I'm a little ahead of myself in my notes, but I want to make this statement here. The easiest thing in the world to do is to complain. It's simple. It requires no character. It requires no integrity. There's no discipline involved. It just Alright, I'm determined I'm going to complain all day today. I'm going to commit myself to it. I'm going to put effort and energy into being a murmurer today. Nobody does that. It just what? Comes naturally. But if I want to have a beautiful tongue, if I want to have a contented tongue I'm going to have to pay attention. I'm going to have to put some effort in. It's going to require a little bit of character. It's going to require a little bit of discipline. It's going to require sometimes a lot of effort. On my part. To have a beautiful tongue. A contented tongue. Required attention and effort. If you would, take your Bible and turn over to Timothy, chap 1 Timothy chapter 6. We're in Philippians, so go towards the back of your Bible a little bit. You hit Thessalonians Then you get to Timothy chapter 6, and find verse 6. 1 Timothy chapter 6 and verse 6. First Timothy six, six. This is another one of those verses, good one to underscore in your Bible. I don't have to say a whole lot about this. I think it's pretty clear after all we've said. Notice what the Bible says. But godliness with what? Contentment is what? Great gain. Now this don't try and be spiritual on me here now. Just be yourself. How many people would like great games? Sure. Come on now. Not me, I'm content. Oh brother. Paul's writing to Timothy, a young preacher boy, and he says, Listen, you want great gain? Let me can I use a synonym for that phrase great gain? You want to be prosperous? Here's how. Here's the formula for prosperity. Godliness with contentment. And that equals great gain. That equals prosperity. Prosperity. Here's the thing. God's definition of prosperity and the world's definition of prosperity are two very different things. Godliness with contentment is great gain. Biblical prosperity is godliness and contentment. How many people ever heard or you heard of what we refer to as prosperity preachers? Prosperity gospel. They get on T V, they're they they love television and I'm not trying to be unkind and I'm not trying to be critical completely. But I do want to be true to the Word of God and let the chips fall where they may But when somebody stands up in front of thousands and through the medium of TV and social media in front of millions And they make an unscriptural and false claim that if you give money to them, then God will make them very, very prosperous. I'm here to tell you, that is not of God. If I if everybody gives money to them, they will become prosperous I tell you, biblical prosperity is living a godly, pure life. Pure godliness. And contentment, that is biblical prosperity. And as I studied this and I got thinking about some of these claims that are being made out there in the world by these quote-unquote preachers. And as I evaluate what they're saying, as I analyze their message, I come to this conclusion What they are preaching is not biblical prosperity. What they are preaching is biblical covetousness A bigger house, a nicer car, fancier clothes, a bigger budget. You know what that is? That's not Biblical prosperity. That's not contentment. That's covetousness. It is the clearest evidence of covetousness there is Now, does God forbid us improving ourselves? No. Abraham was very wealthy. At some point he had worn earned and Saved and invested or whatever. Abraham was tremendously wealthy. Solomon was tremendously wealthy. A lot of the ancient the Old Testament biblical saints of God were tremendously wealthy But what God is saying is, we need to learn to be content. And if God blesses us and if God prospers us, give Him the glory and use it for His glory and for His cause. But when that begins to eat us up, and I have to have more, and it has to be bigger, and it has to be greater, and it has to be more expensive and fancier. Why my tongue gets awfully ugly because contentment dies away and covetousness takes over. And Paul is telling Timothy, don't fall for that. Don't get into the idea. That you have to have more and bigger and better and uh and richer. If God gives that to you, praise the Lord for it. Work hard, be smart. But be content in all of it. Godliness with contentment is God's definition of biblical prosperity. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Hebrews chapter 13. Again, just a simple statement doesn't need a lot of explanation, I don't believe. You're in Timothy, 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, Titus, Philemon, Hebrews. Go to the last chapter of the book of Hebrews. And look with me, if you would, at verse number five. Now this ties right into what Paul told Timothy. Now I think Paul is a human penman of Hebrews, in my opinion. And verse 5 he says this: Let your conversation, that's your lifestyle he's talking about, not just what you say, but how you live. Let your conversation be without what? Be without covetousness. And be what? Content with such things as ye have. For he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee Here we see again, contentment is not rooted in my possessions, in my circumstances. It's rooted in Christ's faithfulness to me. Christ will never leave me. Christ keeps his word. Christ is faithful to me. And that's good enough for me. I'm fully satisfied. Turn over to James right there, the next book in your Bible, and go to chapter 4, if you would Last second last chapter of James, chapter 4. I want to begin reading in verse 1. Notice he says, From whence come wars and fightings among you. Where's all this fussing coming from? Come they not hence, even of your what? Lusts, desires, discontentment. Covetousness. Your lusts that war in your members. Ye lust and you and ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have And cannot obtain. Ye fight and war, yet ye have not because you ask not. Then he goes awful. Then he goes on that. You ask and receive not, because you ask amiss, that you may consume it upon your lusts. An ugly, complaining, discontented tongue produces fighting and wars. Discontentment produces discord in homes. You never do this for me. You're not treating me good enough. I deserve better than this. Give me that. Stop taking this. Right or wrong. You got war. Discontentment. Discontentment. Come on now, guilty or not. Y'all look at me so pious. Huh? I don't know what you're talking about, preacher. It produces discontentment produces discord, not just in our homes, but in our society. Did anybody notice? Our society's messed up. Anybody agree with me? Our society, there is discord in our society. You know what James tells us the root of that is? Covetousness, lust, discontentment, fightings and wars in our homes, in our society, and in our churches. In our churches. I'm so grateful for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I cannot tell you how grateful I am for this church and to be a part of it. What an honor. But I'm telling you, I've been around long enough, and I've noticed that discontentment, covetousness, and selfishness has destroyed more churches than false doctrine has. Has destroyed more ministries than liberalism has. This old selfish, self-centered, covetous, dissatisfied, sinful nature Causes discord and fuss and division as much, if not more, than anything else What was Satan's problem? His pride. How was it expressed? I will be like the Most High God You read Isaiah chapter 14, study it carefully. Everything that Satan had issue with, it was simply he was not content with how God had created him and the purpose God had given to him for his existence. Discontentment. And it produced a spiritual warfare that you and I are dealing with today and will be dealt with until the return of Christ, the new heaven, new earth. Discontentment. James says the whole thing behind fighting and wars and all of that is discontentment. An ugly tongue. One more passage, I'm going to make two statements. No, I'm going to go home and eat chicken. And I'm satisfied with that. Jude. The last book of the Bible is Revelation. The second last book of the Bible is Jude. There's no chapters in Jude. It's just one chapter with a slew of verses. Or you could say it doesn't have any verses. It has 25 very, very short chapters. However you want to view it. But Jude and verse number 15 and 16. Now this is, he makes some strong statements here, and we're not going to deal with the whole context. I want to get a principle, draw it out of here. Verse 15, he says this. Well, verse 14, the last part, he says, Behold, the Lord cometh with 10,000 of his saints, talking about the second advent of Christ. To execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among them of their ungodly deeds, which they have ungodly committed. And of all their hard speeches, which ungodly sinners have spoken against him, what kind of people is he talking about here? Ungodly people. Then verse sixteen, these are murmurers and complainers, walking after their own loss. And their mouth speaketh great swelling words, having men's persons in admiration because of advantage. These murmurers and complainers Those that are dealt most harshly with, at least in this passage, are people who are murmurers and complainers. And he uses that term ungodly in this context three or four times, ungodly, ungodly, ungodly. Murmurs and complainers. You know what he's telling us? He's telling us that a murmuring, complaining, discontented tongue is ugly. Is ugly. A beautiful tongue is content, satisfied, satisfied in my relationship with Christ, satisfied And what who Christ is and what he is. A murmuring, complaining tongue is ugly. A grateful, contented tongue is beautiful. I give you two statements. Number one, a contented tongue is a strong tongue. A strong tongue. The easiest thing in the world to do is complain. The easiest thing in the world to do is express dissatisfaction. You know when we stand around and we can't think of something to talk about? What do we talk about? The weather. Right? Oh, we've been getting a lot of rain. Oh. You know why? Because we're not strong enough to think of up something else to talk about. And even when somebody says, boy, it's really been nice, yeah, but it sure rained a lot leading up to it. Right? I wish I could say you never hear me doing that. Or we'll say, man, this weather is beautiful. We're going to pay for it in three weeks. Right or wrong. And some of you put it's beautiful out. And you put a picture of January on the on the social media of twenty feet of snow. It's like, oh, that's a blessing. A contented tongue is strong. It's easy to complain. It's easy to express dissatisfaction. It requires no strength, no character, no discipline. But I tell you what, I put my trust in God, and my faith in God is strong. Boy, it doesn't matter what's going on, I can express gratitude. I can sit in a Philippian prison, beaten, bloody, and nastiest of conditions, and at midnight sing praises to God and rejoice. That's what Paul did. He had a beautiful tongue. A contented tongue is a strong tongue. A weak tongue wants to tell everybody how bad it is. How you feeling? Oh it's terrible. Um Weak tongue wants everyone to know how awful things are. A strong tongue may be going through a terrible trial, terrible difficulty. Says, you know, God's good to me. God's blessing me. Now, am I suggesting we ought never to share a burden with somebody or say, boy, would you pray for me? I I I just No, the Bible says we're to bear one another's burdens. Amen? And there's a place for that. But the easiest thing in the world is, hey, how are you doing? Oh, I got this awful headache and my heel is just killing me. And oh, there's something in the side here. I think it's cancer. I don't know. Um, God bless you. Have a good day That's easy to do. And and again I I want to be very careful here. There is a place to share our burns, our needs. We have a prayer meeting, we we want that. But just to complain. I mentioned this lady a number of times over the years. She's had such a profound impact in my Christian life. It's it's amazing. Well we worked in Chattanooga and we worked on the bus route for five years down there. I worked in the in this one particular part of the inner city. And there was this dear lady I was introduced to, her name was Anna Nixon Tate. This would have been like 1981, 82, in there somewhere. And um she lived in the inner city projects, unbelievable poverty, unbelievable crime, gangs, drugs, prostitution, you name it, it was just In fact, to walk in there, we would uh carry a big Bible so that everybody knew we were preachers and not drug agents or somebody like that coming in because you get shot. So they said carry a big Bible. So I ordered from Lesterola, ordered this huge family Bible and walk around. I'm a preacher. I'm a preacher And we came to Anna Nixon Tate, just this little house, just a little, it was row houses, government housing, and just We'd find needles in the yard, I mean beer. It was just exactly what you would picture in an inner city setting. We'd walk into there, and it was like the presence of God. In that dear lady's house. A sofa, I can still see it. You walk in, there's a sofa here, a chair there, her little dining area is a round table with four chairs, a little kitchen area there Her bedroom was back there in the bathroom. And it was as bare as can be, no rugs, no lamps, just a light. I'm telling you, she was one of the happiest Christians, one of the happiest people I've ever met my wife. My wife ever met in my life. My wife knows her. She met her many, many times. I'd go in there and visit her and she'd say and she could hardly see. She'd say, Pastor, uh, she'd call me Mr. Denny. Don't you dare Oh Mr. Danny, come on in. She'd blink. I'd say, Miss Tate, how you doing? Oh, Lord's been good. Jesus, now before you leave, turn to Psalm 69. I'm going to see if I can quote it right. I said, alright, I get my Bible out, or as usually it was her Bible, I'd find it. Alright, go ahead. And she'd start quoting that. Verb verse verbatim. That whole chapter. I said, Ms. Kate, you got it perfectly right. And she just laughed. She said, now pray before you go, pray. She grew up in South Alabama, picked cotton or thirt. Three husbands died. She had nothing. She was the most contented person I ever met in my life. A contented tongue is strong. It's character. It displays integrity. My last statement is this: a contented tongue is a constructive tongue. And by that I mean this. When our tongue is expresses gratitude, when there's contentment comes off our tongue, it builds up. It improves, it promotes. The word constructive is very similar to the Bible term exhort. An ugly, complaining, murmuring, discontented tongue discourages people. It beats down people. It disheartens people. It beats down and discourages a church and a home and a society. It's one of the things you ought to be careful about watching so much news. Just runs you down. I'm telling you, we we've got a lot of news. There's a ton of good news right in here. But a contented tongue that rejoices and is grateful in God's blessings, God's goodness, encourages, it builds up, it strengthens. I think one of the best things, and I'm preaching to myself as much as anybody, but one of the best things that we can do for the well-being of our home is learn to be grateful. Express gratitude, express contentment, express satisfaction. What God has done for us, what God has given to us, the promises we have, the future that Christ assures us of. One of the best things we can do to build up our church and strengthen our church is to be grateful and rejoicing, to be content. That's why I like Sunday night. Sunday night, I would say this uh Wednesday night is the most important service of the week when we pray for God's power. Sunday night, I think, for me is the most enjoyable service of the week. I enjoy Sunday nights. And one of the things I enjoy about it is testimony time. When we get up and say, God's been awfully good to me. And God did this for me. And God blessed me with this. And God spoke to my heart through this verse. And we express praise and rejoicing. And we express contentment. On who God is and what he means to us. And it builds the church. It strengthens the church. I want to challenge you in the next seven, eight days. Write down a list of some things that you are going to express your gratitude and your contentment about on a daily basis. Write down or make a determination, maybe at an old-fashioned altar before God, that in the next seven, eight days, about God's help, I am going to determine, put effort into, not complaining. Not graming, not expressing dissatisfaction, but working on a beautiful tongue that is contented. Benjamin Franklin said, Contentment makes poor men rich, and discontentment makes rich men poor. There was a fellow in the fifth century, Arenius was his name, and he wanted to live for God. He wanted to be a good Christian. He lived in Egypt. And there was so much around him that discouraged him. There's so much around him that drew him down that he went out into the desert for a while just to get alone. And get alone with God. And he would come back in periodically. And they said whenever he would visit the great city of Alexandria, he would go to the bazaars. It would be like our marketplaces today, where they had everything for sale And he would spend his time walking through the bazaars, and somebody asked him one time, why do you do that? And he says, he says, so that my heart can rejoice at the sight of all the things I don't need. I hate going to Cabela's because all of a sudden I find out all this stuff I need that I didn't even know existed an hour earlier. But when we get contended minds, when we get a contended worldview, when we get a contended frame of mind, we look at stuff and say, Praise God, I don't need that. I'm happy without it. I'm satisfied without it. We should be contented with what we have. I wish I had more time, but we should never be contented with what we are. I always want to grow. I want to be more satisfied. I want to be less like this world. I want to be more godly. I want to be more grateful. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell, you ought never to be satisfied with being in that condition. You ought to be willing to do whatever is necessary to make sure of your soul's salvation that when you die, you do not go to the devil's hell. That you have a home in the presence of Christ, that you have eternal life. Do not be satisfied with being an unsaved person. Come to Christ. Turn to him. Trust him. He'll forgive you and save you from sin in hell. And you'll find a contentment in your soul you never knew existed. Hey, if you're saved, you're a Christian, we ought to never be contented with being an immature young baby Christian. We always want to grow. I want to be more like Christ. Paul said, I'm pressing towards the mark. I'm not attained yet. He is the most contented man in the New Testament, but he was not satisfied with his spiritual development. He wanted to be more like Christ. And that ought to be our desire. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray you challenge us and help us. Give us beautiful tongues. Lord, I pray you teach us to have beautiful tongues, contented tongues. And help us to be willing to let you do that. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many with me Would say, preacher, I know I'm saved, I know I'm saved, but this matter of contentment, this matter of satisfaction, this matter of gratitude needs my attention I need God to help me develop a contented, beautiful tongue. And you join me in that prayer. How many like that? How many? Uplifted hand. Let's ask God to do that for us. Would you? Would you join me in asking God, teach me, help me to learn, to be whatever state I am, therewith be content. And put away murmuring, put away complaining. Have a beautiful tongue. How many would say, preacher, having said that, I'm not satisfied where I'm at spiritually, though? I need to grow. I need my faith to be stronger. Any like that like would join me? I I I want to be content, but I'm not satisfied where I'm spiritually. God bless you. Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die? And I don't want to be satisfied with that. I need to know that I'm saved. I need to know that. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. I need that settled. How about it? Any at all? Any at all. Now Father in heaven, you know our hearts. And we need you. So help us to make good decisions this morning. Help us take a step forward in this matter of a beautiful tongue. And let you teach us contentment in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing our invitation song. Now's the time, I'll just flip on out that this old-fashioned