If you would, in Proverbs chapter number 12, we got several passages, a couple verses here I would like for us to read together in unison. Proverbs chapter twelve. And notice with me verse number 17. Find it there, Proverbs 12, verse 17. Let's read that together in unison. Ready? Here we go. He that speaketh truth showeth forth righteousness, but a false witness deceit. Now, if you would, come to verse 19. Let's read that one together The lip of truth shall be established forever, but a lying tongue is but for a moment. One more verse, 22, altogether. Ready? Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord, but they that deal truly are his delight. First part of verse 22 says, lying lips are what? Abomination to the Lord. That is a strong, strong word. An abomination to the Lord We have a series going on Sunday mornings. Beauty Tips for the Tongue. And today's tip is: a beautiful tongue is an honest tongue. An honest tongue. Let's pray together. Father, we bow before you this morning with our Bibles open. Lord, we believe with all our hearts that this is your word. You've given it given us your word for our benefit, for our correction, instruction, that we can live righteous. And that our lives, when it's all said and done, would be pleasing to you. Believe you created us for the purpose of living for your glory, for your pleasure. And Lord, that's where we find our joy and our happiness. So I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew to you. I yield my will as best I am able to you. I pray you'd speak through me and challenge us on this matter of being honest. Lord, challenge us on this matter of being true. Can I ask this in Jesus' name? Amen. Beauty tips for the tongue. We don't think of the tongue as being an attractive part of our body. But nevertheless, the tongue can attract people, or what's the opposite of attract? Drive them away. Or deter people. The tongue is very important. You remember a few weeks ago we brought a message on the importance of the tongue because of its influence. Words we say, life and death, are in the power of the tongue. Our tongue, our words, are important not just because of their influence, but because of the iniquity that lies within our tongues. James says That the tongue is set on fire of hell. It is a world of iniquity, our tongue. And so when we're talking about our tongue, our words, our conversation, we're talking about something that is incredibly potent. Both for good and for evil. Thus we've been talking about how to have beautiful how to have tips to have a beautiful tongue. The words I say are pleasing to the Lord. That are attractive and draw people to Christ and to godliness. Our first tip was that was if you remember, was a beautiful tongue, is a silent tongue. A silent tongue. Silence is often golden. Now, if you remember, we pointed out that a silent tongue doesn't mean necessarily that it's always silent, but it knows when to be silent. How many people wish you had learned earlier when to shut up? How many people ever said this? I wish I'd have just kept my mouth shut. Beautiful tongue is a silent tongue. The next one we looked at was a beautiful tongue is a clean tongue. We live in a world of filthy language. And as Christians, our tongues ought to be clean. Our words ought to be pure and clean. And then the next week we looked at a contented tongue. A beautiful tongue is a contented tongue last week. contented, not graving and moaning and groaning and whining about rain and um uh I asked the Sunday school classes, how many folks, three days ago, you were complaining about the hot, dry weather? Now you got something new to complain about. A contented tongue. A beautiful tongue is a contented tongue. And now today we want to look at what I believe perhaps is one of the most important tips. Beauty tips for the tongue, and that is this. A beautiful tongue is an honest tongue. An honest tongue. As believers, we are fundamentally different than the people of the world that we live in. As very clearly taught in Scripture. When a person accepts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, there is a supernatural event that takes place. Not necessarily always visible to the eyes, but it takes place in the heart and soul. When a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, they are given by God a new nature 2 Corinthians 5 17 says that we become new creatures. Peter tells us that we are given a divine nature. And when a person genuinely and sincerely accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, there is a profound and a fundamental change that takes place in their very nature. Causing us to be different than the world that does not have that new nature, that is not made into a new creature. And so it's important to understand that the salvation, being a child of God, being saved, is not just some lip service I give, it's not such some lifestyle I live, it is not just some uh a name I tack on as an identity for me. It is a absolute miraculous supernatural change of my very being A new creature. New creature. And that miracle salvation makes me different. Than all the rest of the unsaved world, fundamentally different in my very nature, in my very makeup. And as children of God, the Bible clearly teaches, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, folks that have been born from above, born of the Spirit. We have a different set of values than what the unsaved world has. How many people, how many folks here this morning you're saved and you know it? Say amen. How many would testify that my values after I got saved, the things that were important to me after I got saved are different were different than what were important to me before I got saved? Can anybody give me a witness? Sure. Why is that? Because we've been changed. We've been born anew. And so we're different. We're fundamentally different than the world in our values. In our perspective of the world and life and reality, we see it completely different than the world does. We have a completely different worldview. Than what the unsaved world does. As a believer, my world becomes, I'm going to use a word, I do this every now and then just to impress you and remind you of how educated I am We have a Christocentric worldview. I thought it was more impressive than that. Come on, I worked on that word all week. What does that mean? It means our our our life, Christ is the center of everything now. We see it differently. We have a different perspective than the world does. We have a different values than the world does. We have different priorities than the world does. When a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, there is a fundamental change takes place. They are altered in their very nature. And a process begins that is conforming us into the image of Christ. And as a believer, we also have a very different set of values. Than what the world has. A different set of standards than the world has. We live in a dishonest world. How many of you agree with me? That's an understatement. That's probably one of the most obvious statements, perhaps, I've ever made. We live in a dishonest world. And as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, as someone who has accepted Jesus Christ as Savior and has been given a new nature with new values, new perspective, new priorities. Different than the world. Believers ought to stand out or to be distinguished by our honesty. In a very dishonest world. We're different. I say it so often. You say, well preacher, I know people that were saved and they claim to be saved anyway, and they really a lot of their values and standards and practices and perspective isn't much different than the world. And I agree with you. And we see that in Scripture. There's a many instances in Scripture of people of God. We're genuinely saved. We're righteous. And yet they did not live by that new standard, those new values that God instilled in them, and they continued or they at some point adopted again The values, priorities of the world, Lot being one of them. You read the life of Lot in the book of the Bi in the Bible, and if I'd never read the Bible before, if I didn't know anything about the Bible, I'm just reading through And I'd read the story of Lot in the Old Testament, I would be convinced he was an unsaved man on his way to hell. But I get to the New Testament and Peter and I find out that Lotz had a righteous soul That was a saved man, but he was living by the principles and priorities and the values and the standards of the ungodly world he was in. But the Bible says his righteous soul was what? Vexed. He was miserable. And he and would you agree with me? Lot, the end of Lot was disastrous. Disastrous. I thought of Demas. Demas was, by all appearance, as far as we can tell, he was a saved man. He was one of Paul's right-hand men. But he said, demons has forsaken me, having loved this present world. And Demas, assuming he was a saved man, fell in love with the world, adapted the priorities, the values of the world, and he became useless in the cause of Christ. So as a saved person, when a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, there is a fundamental change takes place. And by the way, I'm I meant to mention this. We had one of the young ladies and teens This morning between Sunday school and church, while we were shaking hands, trusting Christ as Savior this morning. So he praised the Lord for that. And when a person does that, when a person accepts Jesus Christ the Savior, this change takes place, this new nature is instilled, this new creature is born within them, this new person, this new nature. And whenever we adopt, as a believer, I adopt the values of the old life, of the world, it has, will you mark this down? It has disastrous consequences. And so when I as a believer, when I as a child of God, when I as one who has been given by God supernaturally a new nature at the moment of salvation When I begin to live or speak dishonestly as the world Rather than as the child of God, when I adopt that standard of the world, that lying and dishonesty, I'm telling you, it has disastrous consequences Disastrous consequences. I read a little clip about um Theodore Roosevelt And he was a rancher and had a uh large ranch out I guess out west and um he was hiring uh he had a bunch of guys, they were out and they were rounding up the cows. They were cow punching, as they said Now I've never punched a cow. I've twisted their tails a few times, milking them, and I've been kicked a few times, but I never punched a cow. So anyway, they're go lassoing up these steer and that had gotten loose and they were just out running around. They're they're not branded. And they got him in and they lit a fire and one of his cow hands, one of his cowboys, was getting the brand hot in the fire, the branding iron. And he was about to brand the k the the some of these steers that they had brought in, and he says, wait a minute, where where did you get those steers at? And he says, I got them over on the next rancher's property. They were just running loose, they're wild steer and just anybody can get them. And Theodore Roosevelt said, listen, the law is whatever property these Maverick steer are on, that is owned by that property owner. They're that property owners. He says, What brand are you putting on that? He says, He said, Mr. Roosevelt, I'm putting your brand on it. And he goes, No, no, no, you're not going to do that. He says, They will never know. And Theodore Roosevelt said, you drop that brand, you go back to the the uh the place where we're staying. You pack your things and you're gone. You're not working for me. And he made this statement. He said, anybody that will lie for me will lie to me. And that is a profound statement. And I want to suggest to you: anybody that will lie for us will lie to us, and anybody that will lie to us will lie about us. I want to give you a few thoughts about an honest tongue. A beautiful tongue is an honest tongue. In a dishonest world, an honest tongue is beautiful and it is unique. Number one, I encourage you, maybe jot some of these thoughts down. They might be helpful. My first tip for an honest tongue is this. Number one, an honest tongue is a Christ-like tongue. An honest tongue is a Christ-like tongue. Now I have a couple thoughts underneath that point. A Christ-like tongue. Number one, under that, is this: God has designed our tongues To be honest, God is the one that designed our body. God is the one that created us as we are. And he created every part of our being, every makeup of our body. He created for very specific purposes. Our ears were created by God to hear that which is right and true and honest He warns us over and over about be careful what we hear. Remember that little song we used to sing? We used to sing it on the buses with the kids. Oh, be careful, little ears, what you hear. God has created our ears to hear and listen to very specific things we should be very careful to. There are some things a child of God ought not to listen to. God created our eyes for very specific purposes. And there are some things that a child of God ought not to look at. Amen or not? Bible says, David says, I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. God did not desire. He did not create this amazing, miraculous high tech item in our heads called an eyeball. It's unbelievable. The technology involved in that The complexity and design, miraculous, a stupendous design of an eyeball. God didn't create that. Look at filth. Look at ungodliness. He created to view his world and see people for his glory. And God has created our tongues. And he has designed our tongues for the purpose of honesty. And when I speak dishonest, when I lie And I speak untruth. I am using my tongue for something it was never designed to be used for. And God speaks very, very strongly About honesty. If you would, we're here in Proverbs. Now keep your place at chapter 12. Come back to chapter 6 with me. Proverbs chapter 6. We're going to look at a number of passages. And my point is this: God has designed our tongues to be honest. And we use our tongue in a dishonest way, we're using it in a way it is not designed to be used, and it has horrendous consequences. Proverbs chapter number six, and follow along as I begin reading in verse 16. I have this underscored in my Bible and bracketed in my Bible. I put in the margin of my Bible beside verse 16 God's hate list. How many when you were in junior high, you had a list of uh hate list? I hate these people and have their own names written down. How many people did that? Nobody. You're amazing. Well, this is God's hate list. By the way, I do not have a hate list, so don't think. But this is God's hate list. Now, verse 16: These six things doth the Lord what? Hate! Yea, seven are what? An abomination unto him. We're going to talk about that word abomination here in a little bit. How many people reading verse sixteen, how many people get the impression impression there's some things here God doesn't like? He hates it. It's an abomination What are they? Verse 1, verse 17, a proud look. By the way, if God's telling us something that he hates and it's an abomination to him, I believe we ought to pay attention. We ought to pay attention to that. A proud look. Look at this next one. What is it? A what? A lying tongue. God hates it. It's an abomination. Hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief. Look at verse 19. What's the first one? A what? That speaketh lies. Twice. He goes on. He says, He that soweth discord among brethren. Out of the seven items on God's hate list. Two of them deal with dishonesty. Two of them deal with lying. He hates it. It's an abomination. Come over, come back to chapter twelve again. We've read it, brother uh Pastor Matt read it, and then we read it together, but verse twenty-two, he reiterates God's absolute disgust With dishonesty. Verse 22, Proverbs 12, lying lips are a what? Abomination unto the Lord. The word abomination there means something that is absolutely horrible. I worded it this way in my putting together a definition for the word abomination. Intensely repulsive. When somebody says something that is not true are you with me? Are you listening When somebody, particularly a child of God, says something that is not true, comes off my lips to my spouse, to my child, to a parent, to my employer. To somebody at a store, business person, a neighbor, when I speak something that is not true to them, God is intensely repulsed by that. He says that is an abomination to me. Why? Because our tongues were not created by God to be dishonest. They're designed to be honest. If you would, come over to chapter nineteen of Proverbs with me And I doubt seriously that this message is anything new to anybody. In our very conscience, we know that dishonesty is wrong, particularly as a child of God. But yet we live in such a dishonest world. And I have to say this: and dishonesty, dishonesty has crept into the church. Crept nothing, it's kicked the front doors open and came barging in. Dishonesty. Among God's people. Look at Proverbs chapter 19 and verse 22. The desire of a man is his kindness. That's an interesting statement. That would be something good to preach on sometime. But look at this next statement. And a poor man is better than a liar. Now we live in a world that we are fundamentally different than. We serve a God. We live in a reality. That is fundamentally different than the make-believe world that Satan has set up in society. And the unbelieving world, society Has an exact opposite view of life than what that statement right there is. The world would say it is better to be rich and lie if I need to. Wealth, riches, prosperity, possessions are of higher value, are of higher priority Than honesty. And the world will sacrifice honesty and integrity for wealth at the drop of a hat. But as a child of God, as a believer, it is better for me to live in poverty, to live in a tar paper shack, and be a man or a woman of integrity and honesty. Than to live in a mansion and be a liar. Be a liar. My point is this An honest tongue is Christ-like. God has designed our tongues to be honest. And when we use them in a dishonest way It is ugly. It's not what they're designed to be used for. When we were when I had the Sunday school bus down in Chattanooga and Bible College, we run it there and we had this the thing I uh and uh One thing I found is, I learned early on in my ministry with children, kids are liars. Did you ever notice that? Say not mine. That's why in Bible time we use heart-shaped punches. Anybody been to Bible time? We register them, we punch out. Why don't you just use a regular one? Because kids are liars, they'll find it. So we've got to get a unique one and do it that. So anyway. I just insulted all your kids, but um I forget where I was going with this. Oh, we were doing the bus route and uh I had a big banner in the front of the bus. A poor man is better than a liar. I tried to drill it into these kids, the importance of integrity, the importance of honestness. In Exodus chapter 16, we won't turn there. The ninth commandment demands an honest tongue. Thou shalt not bear false witness. Don't lie. Don't lie. God hates it when the tongue is used for anything other than sin. Would you mark this down? This may be an understatement, this may be incredibly obvious, but it's so important. Lying is sin. Period. Sin So God designed our tongues to be honest. My second point under the first one: honest tongue is Christ-like tongue. God's designed our tongues to be honest. God's character demands honesty. John chapter 14 and verse 6, Jesus made a powerful statement. He says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh under the Father but by me. That is a profound statement. That is a powerful statement. Jesus is the only way to escape hell, to gain eternal life, and to make it to heaven. Only through Jesus. Not the church, not the baptistry, not good works, not the offerings, not nothing. Only Jesus. But he says, I am the way, and then he says this statement: I am Think about the wording here. I am the truth. He doesn't say I speak the truth. He didn't say I have the truth. He didn't say I know the truth. He says, I what? I am. God is truth. It is his very nature. God's character is truth. Then in John 17:17, Jesus said that his word is truth. There's one thing in existence that God has exalted above his very name. We talked about this a couple weeks ago. We all understand, right, it's sin to take God's name in vain, right? That is a serious sin to use God's name in an empty, vain way. Not just speaking about blasphemy, but just vain. But there is one thing in existence that God says that he is magnified above his own name. And that is what? His word. And he says, My word is truth. Jesus Christ is truth. The word of God is truth. And we're told in 1 John 5, 6 that the Holy Spirit is truth. So God's very character is truth. God is truth. He speaks nothing but truth. He acts in no other way than an honest, truthful way. Our God is truth. And so that very character of our God and our Creator demands of us truth. In Numbers 23, 19, the Bible says God is not a man that he should lie. God doesn't lie to people, God doesn't trick people, he doesn't fool people, he is true. He does not lie. Titus 1, 2, God that cannot lie. It is impossible for God to lie. Now, as I was preparing this and working this over and studying, thinking this through. If God is truth, that is true. That means, in my thinking anyway, one of, if not the most Ungodly thing a person can do is to be dishonest. Right? Ungodly, not God, not of God, not like God. And if God is truth, then one of, if not the most ungodly thing I can possibly do is to speak a lie, is to speak untruth Oh, preacher, it's not that big a deal. It was just a little lie. It is an absolute affront to the character of God. It is an abomination. To our God to speak untruth. It flies in his very nature. I think it's interesting that the enemy of God, the one being that is everything God is not, Satan Is described by Jesus Christ in John chapter 8 and verse 44 as a liar and the father of lies. The most opposite being of God in existence, Satan himself, is truth characteristic, is that a liar. God is truth, Satan is a liar. And he's the father of lies. He promotes it. He he propagates lies It's interesting in Genesis you have Satan's very first interaction with mankind. The one being that is created in the image of God, Satan's very first interaction with with mankind involves a blanket lie. Thou shalt not surely die. I put in the margin of my Bible big bold letters. Lie And you and I are sinners today by nature, and all of mankind is drowning in the darkness of sin. Because our created parents believed a lie, a lie A lie is what brought sin into mankind. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Revelation chapter number 21. And notice with me verse number eight. This is a great verse, uh important verse, they all are of course, but we use it in soul winning sometimes. And Revelation chapter 21 and verse number 8, all the way at the back of your Bible, just about the end of the book of Revelation, second last chapter, verse 8 says this. But the fearful and unbelieving and the abominable that's a strong word And murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and I circle the next two words. Say it with me. All liars. Shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Look at the crowd, look at the look at the characters that liars are associated with in God's mind. Abominable, whoremongers, murderers. Listen, you can't believe the Bible and not believe and know that God hates dishonesty. He takes it very, very seriously. God's very nature is repulsed by dishonesty Our honest tongue is a Christ-like tongue. God has designed our tongues to be honest. God's character demands honesty. And dishonesty is one of the worst forms of moral ugliness. Moral ugliness. Dishonesty ruins relationships. You want to destroy your relationship with your spouse? Start lying to them. You want to destroy your relationship with your children? Lie to them It destroys. You want to destroy your relationship with your parents? Lie to them. I just can't get along with my parents. Maybe even lying to them. Might be a factor. Trust is the basis. God has designed us in such a way that we interact with each other on the basis of trust. And lying, dishonesty destroys that foundation of trust God hates it. And it is the it is the exact opposite of Christ-likeness. Dishonesty is one of the worst forms of moral ugliness. It ruins relationships. It ruins mankind. Eve believes Satan's lie. It destroys marriages, it destroys ministries, it destroys careers. I wish we had time and we don't Would you jot down Acts chapter 5, verse 1 through 11? You have two folks that, as far as we know, were saved people. Nothing suggests otherwise. They're part of the church. Apparently they're stirred up and the church was uh you know it's growing, it's booming, there's a lot of needs in the church, and some people started selling properties that they had. Apparently there were some fairly wealthy people in the church They were selling some properties they have and giving it to the church to be used for the advancement of the gospel and the good of the church. And a couple, a husband and his wife, got caught up in that, and they stole some property. They were free to do that, there was no requirement, there was no command, I don't even know that there was even a request They did they sell their property and give the money to the church, but they got stirred up, they sold their property, were not told all their reasoning But they came to the church and they said, this is the amount of money we sold the property for. And just for the sake of ill just to be able to grasp it, we'll say they we came and we sold this property for $250,000. And we're donating all that money to the church. The problem was, now that figure, don't hold that. I'm not saying that figure is that I'm just trying to help us grasp what took place. The problem with that was they actually sold the property for $350,000. And they kept back part of the price. And we're going to keep $100,000 for ourselves. But we're going to lie to the church. We're going to lie to God and say we sold it for this much and give that. And I can see in your modern church today probably something, oh, we had someone in the church gave $250,000 to our building fund and over there, yay! Sometimes people said, amen. And that's, I mean, given that a chunk of money, that's great. Praise the Lord. That's very, very helpful. The problem was they were lying about it. And God took it so seriously, he gave Peter discernment, and Peter realized that this isn't true. And he came and he said, Did you sell the property for 250,000? And Anias says, Oh yeah, that's what we sold it for. Drops dead on the spot. They haul him out, his wife comes, shows up, they just barely have his body out of the building. His wife shows up, not knowing anything happened. Peter says to her, Did Sapphire, did you guys sell that property for two hundred and fifty thousand dollars? She goes, Oh yeah, absolutely. We gave every penny what we got to it to the church, all of it. Dead. You know what that tells me? God takes this honesty very, very seriously. You say, preacher, everybody that lies in church is going to drop dead, no. But God set a precedent. God says, here is the way I see it. This is the seriousness of it. And so it is affront to God's very nature. It is affront to his very character, is the worst form of moral dishonesty. Now that's my message. That's the bulk of my message. I've got a few other tips I want to throw out real quick. Number two, here's the second tip: an honest tongue is crystal clear. And I get that from James chapter 5, verse 12. It says, Let your yea be yea, and your nay be y nay, lest ye fall into temptation. You know it's possible to lie by telling the truth. It's called telling a half truth. It is using a portion of truth to give a deceptive message And it is as bad as blatantly lying. Teenager pulls in the driveway with their dad's car, and there's a big smash in the back quarter panel. And dad says, son. Well, I should say, daughter. What happened? Oh Dad, it was terrible. Some big truck came and smashed right into the back of it. Oh, sweetheart, I'm sorry. Are you okay? Well a truck smashed in the back of it, but what she didn't tell him was she ran a red light. And she gave a completely different message than what really happened. You follow what I'm saying? A half-truth. We have to be very, very careful about that. And I'll tell you what, if we get if we put away this matter of telling half-truths, that would kill Probably a hundred percent of gossip. Gossip. Have you heard about so and so? And it's usually just a little element of truth, but is presented in such a way it sends a dishonest message. And a beautiful tongue is honest. It's true. And I want to suggest to you: God hates half-truths. He hates blanton lies. And he hates half-truths. God hates anything that is deceptive. Number three, here's my third tip real quick. An honest tongue is very careful. Now, I know myself and I know some people have been around for a little while, 58 years And sometimes we can use truth in such a way, we are honest, we're telling the truth, but we do it in such a way that is very, very hurtful. You've heard in the news the last couple years they've been talking about weaponizing information and weaponizing this. Well, I'm telling you, mankind is very good at weaponizing the truth. And saying something that is true is true, but it's said in such a way at such a time that it really, really hurts. And we need to be very, very careful in using the truth. The truth is a powerful, powerful thing Ephesians 4:15 says, speaking the truth in love. I'm a pastor, I know some things about people. And I could stand up here and I could say some true things about people sitting in this auditorium right now and would hurt them deeply. And there are people that know me and know some true things about me, and they could stand up and say some truth. It's true But boy, it could hurt deeply. You know what anybody know what I'm talking about? You know things about people, people know things about you that are absolutely true. But just because it's true does not mean it needs to be spoken. In fact, I got a little acronym, it's nothing original with me. You've probably seen it or heard it somewhere. But before I speak I ought to think T H I N K. Would you jot this down real quick? I think it would help you. P-H-I-N-K, number one, is it true? That's our point. Everything we say ought to be true. Yes or no? It's not true, don't say it. If you're not sure, then keep your mouth shut. I think he robbed that bank. Well don't say that unless you know. And even then, is it true? Number one, is it true? Number uh uh letter T, is it true? H, is it helpful? If it doesn't help, don't say it. Just because it's true does not mean it's helpful. Again, that would eliminate a lot of gossip right there. Doesn't help. Let me ask you a question. Me gossiping to Dale about something I know true about Brian, how does that help Brian? Come on, talk to me. Is anybody still awake? Anybody still with me here? It doesn't. Doesn't help. How does that help? And you gotta watch out for this on prayer requests. Oh, I got a prayer request about Derek. Huh? Yeah, you wouldn't believe it. You gotta pray for it. What's going on? Yeah, I found this out Follow what I'm saying? Is it helpful? Is it helpful? Uh I, is it inspiring? One of our responsibilities as Christians is to exhort one another, build up, help, strengthen. Will this help another? Will it strengthen their faith? Will it point them to Christ? Will it edify them? Think about it, just because it's true doesn't necessarily mean it's going to inspire or help anything. And is it necessary? K. Is it kind? Is it kind? Truth sometimes hurts. And sometimes truth has to be spoken even if it does hurt. Right? I think a preacher ought to preach what is true no matter what. Amen or not? I wouldn't go to a church where a preacher didn't preach the Bible, didn't preach the truth. If something is sin, the preacher ought to preach on it. But he ought to be preached on it in a kind, compassionate way. The old story, I've used it many times. One preacher is candidating church, he preaches a message on hell, and he's screaming and yelling, he's angry, and he's telling everybody he's going to hell. Next week another candidate comes in. He preaches the exact same message, unbeknownst, but this time he's preaching it and tears are streaming down his cheeks. And he's pleading with people not to go to hell, come to Christ. People respond. Both messages true, but one was with compassion and kindness And we have to be careful about weaponizing truth and using something that's true to hurt people. But be kind, be kind. An honest tongue, last of all, is a competent tongue. Is a competent tongue. A lie has no legs. It needs more lies and more lies and more lies and more lies. Somebody said, if you're going to be a liar, you better have a good memory. Right? Because you're going to have to remember what that story was. Mom comes home and the cookies are gone. Sonny, did you eat the cookies? No. What happened to them? Uh the cat got 'em. I took the cat to the vet, the cat wasn't here. Well the cat the dog got him when the cat was here and did this. You follow what I'm saying? It's just one lie leads to another lie, leads to another lie, leads to another lie. And eventually that house of cards, that house of lies just comes smashing down. A lying tongue is but for a moment. A lie has no legs, it needs more lies. I put this down, the dumbest form of lie uh uh the most The dumbest form of lying is lying to God. Lie to God. That's dumb. God knows what the truth is. How many people here think you're going to fool God? Raise your hand. You think you're going to fool God. No, we're not going to fool God. What kind of knucklehead thinks they're going to fool God? Don't lie to God. Oh God, if you get me out of this, I'll do this. No intention of doing it. So the dumbest form of lying is lying to God. A destructive form of lying is lying to others. If I lie to Brother Jerry, I'm gonna hurt my relationship with Brother Jerry. That foundation of trust is corrupt is a is cracked and broken and man it destroys that relationship. I lie to my spouse, I lie to my kids, my parents. It's destructive. But I'll tell you the most dangerous form of lying. This is what I want to end with. The most dangerous form of lying is lying to myself. And the bad thing is, a lot of times people believe their own lies. And they convince themselves that what is not true is really true. Sometimes Christians will lie to themselves about their own spiritual condition. Been in this I've been doing this a long time, folks. And I've seen it. A Christian living in sin, blanton, obvious sin. And they will absolutely convince themselves that it's okay I mean living a lifestyle that is contrary to the Bible as you can get And they convince themselves and they look in the mirror and they say, Yes, you're okay, it doesn't matter. And they believe that. We were singing the hymn this morning, holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. And I thought of so much of mankind that claims the name of the Lord and yet lives in sin and lies to themselves about it and convinces themselves that this thrice-holy God that cannot look upon sin. Sin somehow approve of their blant sin here on earth And I'm telling you, there's a day coming, an awakening coming, when there's a lot of God's people stand before God and find out I was a fool. Am I right or wrong? Lying to myself about my own condition, justifying my sin, excusing my rebellion, justifying my iniquity. To myself and convincing myself I can live this way, I can talk this way, I can act this way, and God will never react to it. And it's a lie. And then lying about my salvation. Oh, you're saved. You're saved. Oh, yeah, you're saved. And I've never trusting Christ as Savior. Jesus said, Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, I did this and I did that. So not everybody says to me, Lord, Lord, say that is the kingdom of heaven. And they convinced themselves that somehow they were good enough, and somehow they were this and somehow they were that. And he makes this one of the most tragic statements in all the scripture. He says, Depart from me, I Never knew you. You convinced yourself, you lied to yourself so much about your salvation. And I never even knew you. You never trusted Christ. You were never born again. It was just a facade. It was just a lie. And they believed their own lies. When I was became youth pastor in Indianapolis, 1987, we got married in February. We moved to Indianapolis in April. I became youth pastor. I was there for four years. The first message I preached from the pulpit. We got there, it was there a couple weeks past, said, I want you to preach Sunday night. I said, okay. And I don't remember what the whole message was. I I think I was preaching on hell. I don't remember the whole message, but I do remember this. I referenced Revelation 21, verse 12. And all liars shall have their part in the lake of fire, which burneth with brim fire and brimstone, which is the second death. And I read that and that little phrase, all liars shall have their part in the lake of fire, which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. I was just preaching a message, gave me the invitation, folks came to the altar, all over. And there were two young girls, they were twins, they were probably about 12, 13 years old, they rode the bus in, Bobby and Amy. I didn't know them. I just been there a couple weeks just getting to know the kids. And I gave the invitation and folks came to the altar and Bobby and Amy slipped down. And they were at the altar. I still remember the church was similar, a little bigger than this, but same layout. And they were here at the altar. The door went out to the fellowship hall out that way. They were here And they were absolutely sobbing, sobbing, sobbing out loud. A couple of the counselors came up and took them. They slipped out and talked to them. And after it was all over, we're shaking hands, and finally they came up and they're, I think it was out of crime. I said, Bobby and Amy, are you okay? And they said, Pastor Dennis, we got saved tonight. So Bobby and Amy, that's wonderful. And they began crying. And they said, when you said that all liars shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death, we knew that we were on our way to hell. And we needed to be saved. Isn't that something? I'm telling you, God takes lying very, very seriously. And God demands of you and I honesty. And I'll tell you, one of the ugliest tongues in the world is a dishonest tongue. Nobody respects it, nobody trusts it. How many people can think of a politician that you don't trust them one bit because they've lied so much? I think about forty right now. You know what? There are preachers in that same condition. Christians, neighbors, co-workers. Let's ask God to cleanse, cleanse our tongue of dishonesty. And yield ourselves to the Lord and say, Lord, I want to be an honest person True and kind, integrity, and confess the sin of dishonesty. If you're not saved, you ought to get saved. If you are saved, you ought to be honest. We ought to be honest. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use this Maybe dark message a little bit to challenge and convict us and understand that we are fundamentally different than a dishonest world. And our words, our conversation, our communication, Lord, we need you to help us to be honest. Completely. Yay, yay, nay, nay. No question, no cloud, no shadow, just true. Pray you challenge us. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say this morning, preacher, God's Holy Spirit has challenged my heart? Convicted me maybe of the of being an honest Christian in a dishonest world and committing myself by God's grace and with his help to be honest. In all aspects of my life. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, young and old, how about it? I'm going to be an honest Christian. True. God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe many others. God bless you. I just can't imagine a Christian not determining to be an honest person. I wonder if there's some this morning, I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand, but I'm going to ask you to respond to God's Spirit. I wonder if there's some this morning, God's Holy Spirit has convicted you about being dishonest to yourself. And convincing yourself that your disobedience to God and His Word is somehow okay, is somehow your exception, somehow God approves of it. God's word is very, very clear. He does not plead with you. Yield back to Christ. Trust him. Acknowledge it. Confess it. And maybe there's some here this morning to say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm on my way to heaven. So I'm concerned about that. I'd like to pray with you that God would help me. Is there any at all this morning? Say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. I need that settled. Is there any at all like that by the uplifted hand? How about it? Any at all Now, Father in heaven, we ask you to use your word to mold us, conform us, convict us into the image of Christ, and help us to be submissive and yielded to you. In Jesus' name, amen.