Psalm nineteen, verse fourteen, all together. Ready? You have it? Let's all together. Here we go Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. We're speaking of series. We have a series going on here, beauty tips for the tongue. And today's tip is this: a beautiful tongue is a clean tongue. A beautiful tongue is a clean tongue. Let's pray, Father. I ask you bless now our time in your word. Lord, I believe these um The subject here is one, it strikes close home to all of us, our tongue, our words, part of our major part of our life is communication. Lord, I believe that as Christians, you clearly teach us in your word that we give an account for the words we use and how we use them. So I pray that your Holy Spirit, with all my heart, I pray that your Holy Spirit would challenge us today to consider our tongues, consider our words, consider our conversation. And be sure that what we say and how we say it and who we say it to would be pleasing in your sight. Lord, we need your Holy Spirit to do that. I can't change anybody, even myself. So we need your Holy Spirit's presence here today, Lord, and I yield my will and present my body. And I plead with you, Lord, with all my heart, you fill me with your spirit, and that you speak through me and help us. Help us make good decisions Lord, help us right at the beginning here to open our hearts and decide that what you speak to us about, we're going to trust you and obey you and apply it to our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. What do we mean by beauty tips for the tongue? And making a big deal about this. This is our third message into it. And simply what we mean, when I say we have beauty tips for the tongue, what I mean by that is this. We want to work very, very hard, God helping us. That the words we say and how we say them first of all bring glory to our God and our Father The words we say bring glory to God. But when we talk about beauty tips for the tongue, by that I mean this: that the words we say and how we say them point people to the Lord Jesus Christ. That our conversation, the way we talk, what we talk about, the words we use, reflect, accurately reflect the presence of Christ within us. God's word is clear. The words we use should never contradict the character of the Christ that dwells within us. You follow what I'm saying? The way we talk, what we talk should never, should never um uh misrepresent The Spirit of Christ that dwells in you and I as a believer. And I'm talking to believers this morning, folks that have trusted Christ as Savior. Our words, our conversation, our our our speech. Should be an accurate representation of the Spirit of Christ who dwells within a believer. Now, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, you do have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling in you. The moment you got saved, we're talking about that in Sunday school. Now, if you're here this morning and you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ, the Savior, if you've never accepted him as your personal Savior, you don't have the Holy Spirit of God. And that's the highest priority in your life to accept Christ and know for sure that He's uh forgiven and saved you from sin in hell But beauty tips for wrong. It ought to, by that we mean that the words we say and how we use them should build up the faith of others. Did you ever get around a Christian and just their spirit and and their conversation, you walked away and you just felt refreshed in your faith. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody you just get around them and boy their faith. is so evident in their conversation and how they talk and what they say. And boy, you walk away and you just feel like you had a little bit of revival. Have you ever been around someone and the way they talk and what they say, and you feel like hanging yourself when you walk away? A beautiful tongue. It is a tongue that uses conversation in such a way that it builds the faith of those around, it draws them to Christ. It is a representation of the presence of Christ. That dwells within us. I think David, King David, understood the importance of words. I think he understood the importance of tongue and not only our words, but our thought processes Back here in Psalms 19 and verse number 14, notice what he says. He says, Let the words of my mouth Now, why would he say the words of my mouth? Where else would there be words except in our mouth? The fact of the matter is, the words of our mouth there, he's talking about our utterance, our speak. The words, when he says the words of our mouth, he's talking about the words that come out of our mouth I'm talking right now. There are words coming out of my mouth. And people knew that. Words coming out. So the words of my mouth. Let the words of my mouth. And then he says, the meditations of my heart. What are the meditations of our heart? That are the words that before they come out of our mouth, they're where? In our hearts and minds. The heart and mind is often used interchangeably. So at the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart, here's the thing: we think in words. Think in words. How many people ever walked around, you're doing something, or you're mowing grass, you're doing something, and you have full conversations going on in your head. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Do you ever do that and they start coming out of your mouth and you don't know it, and you're just talking and all of a sudden, oop Come on. Two people are honest. Our one son used to mow grass around the church when they were small. He'd run them at lawnmower. And how many times He's just talking away, he'd be out there just going on talking. David understood the importance not just of the words that escape through our lips. We understood the importance of the words that are going through our mind, the thoughts that are going. And the thoughts, the words in our mind is the source For the words that come out of our mouth. We already looked at this passage in previous messages, but in Matthew 12, 34, the Lord Jesus Christ said, For out of the abundance of the heart, That includes the mind. Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. The mind, the heart is the source, the fountainhead. Of the stream of words that comes out our mouth. Comes out our mouth. So David was very, very concerned. That not only the words of my mouth are acceptable in God's sight, but the words in my mind, the words in my heart. Before they ever get to my mouth. Our words originate in our meditations. Our words reflect our meditations. I looked at Psalm 19, verse number 14, and I noticed a few things by way of introduction. I noticed that controlling our thoughts and minds is extremely important. Key word there: controlling. Our thoughts and minds. Our thoughts and words, I should say. Controlling our thoughts and our words is extremely important. Controlling them. Listen, very seldom do we have to work up words, work up thoughts. They're there. It's constant. Constant. It's just going on and on and on. Do you ever look at somebody and there's just You look in their eyes and there's just nothing there. You don't talk about the lights on but no one's home. Generally, folks, there's constantly thoughts going through our mind. There's constantly words. That brain is just chugging away, chik, chik, chroducing words, producing thoughts. And if we don't control it, if we don't if we don't restrain that, if we don't filter that. Boy, awful stuff can come out our mouth. Awful stuff. And so David understands that the importance of controlling Our thoughts and words. Were you ever sitting maybe in church? And out of nowhere, some blasphemous thought comes to your mind. Anybody know some terrible thing comes to your mind. You're sitting there and out of nowhere, boom. And he said, where did that come from? Tell you where it comes from, our own deceitful, sinful heart. We had, I was telling Matt Pastor Matt we had years ago a person was speaking, and um they were, and I don't uh I'm not trying to be unkind. I just got everybody's attention right there. But they were saying, you know, there's there's TV waves going through the air. You know that uh what do you call them? TV Signals, C T V signals going through the air. Right now they're all and radio and all that rock music and ungodly stuff that's on all the radios except for 88. 7 But all these signals are going through air. And this person said, where do you get these terrible thoughts come from out of nowhere? She suggested that they that your brain picked up these radio signals in the air and these TV signals and picking up and then they would produce it and come out of there. And uh I said, that is dead wrong. If that was the case, all we need was aluminum helmets. We wouldn't have bad thoughts. It'd be great. But it doesn't come from radio TV signals, where does it come from? Our own wicked heart. Our own wicked heart And so David in Psalm fourteen verse uh in Psalm nineteen verse fourteen he's saying, listen, it's incredibly, incredibly important. That these thoughts in our hearts and minds, and these words that come out of our mouth, we need to control them. The second thing I notice here that God is able to transform the way we think and speak. Anybody here ever disappointed with something you said? You said something afterward and you think, oh, what's the matter with me? Why do I talk like that? Do you ever have some words come out of your mouth and you think, oh man, I'm a Christian. I shouldn't be saying that. Come on now. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sure. David is telling us, he says, let the words of my mouth, meditation, heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord. He's saying, he's implying here that God is able to transform the way we think. God is able to change those words that go through our mind and transform them. I love Romans 12, 1 and 2. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy acceptum of God. which is your reasonable service, and be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. He said, God can and will change the way we think. And when the way we think is transformed, the way we talk is transformed. I got saved May 7, 1979, Monday night. All day let the Monday I'd taken off from work and my friend Denny Swartley who passed away A couple years later, we're out, and I'm ashamed to say this, but we're just out living in sin all day long. I mean wickedness, drunkenness Of drugs all day it was the day after my birthday, and we just pulled out all the stops and did everything And man, some of the language, some of the words and the language I used that day and the years leading up to that day. Just unbelievably dirty and shamefully filthy words coming out of my mouth because they're in my heart and mind. And that night as I knelt by my bed and I called out to God to save me, come in my life and save me. I want Him to save me from the sin that was destroying me. And you know, within 12 hours that next morning I got up and I went to work outwardly, not a lot of change and appearance at that point yet But I tell you that next day I still remember very clearly it was a Tuesday. I was at the meat packing plant. Boy, I said a few words That I had used the day before. And the day before they did not bother me. The day before, never gave it. I thought it was just But now Christ had saved my soul. Now he had given me a new nature. Now instantaneously the Holy Spirit of God was dwelling in me. And when those words came out of my mouth, my heart was smitten. And I thought, God have mercy. Why would I say that? See, God is able to change us and over a period of brief period of time. He began changing that and changing that and changing that and cleaning things up. Here, what I'm trying to say is this. God is able to change us. He can take us a poor, rotten, wicked, dirty sinner. And he can take us and transform us into someone clean and good and pure and ripe. Not perfect. We still have that old struggle going on, but I'm telling you, God changes sinners when they trust him. And give our hearts and lives to Him. And so David is recognizing that. He's looking to the Lord To enable him to be transformed in the way he thinks, in the way he speaks. And by the way, when the way we think is transformed, not only will our speech be changed, transformed, but our lifestyle will be also. Because our heart and mind is the is the is the uh computer behind everything, is the what is what's the word I want? The mastermind is the Heart of what we're saying. You follow what I'm trying to say? Those words are not in my brain. I'm trying to find them and get them to come out. A third thing I notice here, again, this is by way of introduction, the desire and request for a pure and clean thoughts and words is a strong indication of spiritual growth and spiritual maturity. When you get someone, whether it's a young teenager or an old person Regardless of what of age we are, when we get to the point and we are concerned about our words And our meditations of our heart, the words of our mouth, meditations of our heart, when we get concerned like David is, that's a good indicator that we're growing spiritually. That's a good indicator that I'm maturing in my faith. Lord, I want my words to be pure and right. God, I want my thoughts to be pure and right. God, please, that's what I want. That's my desire. And that's an indicator of spiritual life and spiritual growth and spiritual maturity. Brother Juri will remember Mr. Lyons. Remember Rusty's daddy. They've down there above Kittsmiller and on the right in an old trailer. And I was with hospice at the time and it's a it's a fun story, but it's lengthy, so I'll abbreviate it. The old Mr. Lions, and I can't remember his first name, was it Charles? I don't remember his first name. I just called him Mr. Lyons They had a nickname for him, but um I don't know how else to describe it, but the guy was an old cuss. You know what I mean? He was just an old cuss. And I went down to visit him. I don't want to see no preacher. Rusty came. I said, preach uh Rusty, I'm here to visit your daddy. Rusty and his kids rode our bus. And uh he said, let me go tell him. He went back. He said he don't want to see no preacher I said, all right. So I went home, Kathy, I had Kathy make a bunch of chocolate chip cookies. I was with hospice at the time, so the next week I came down, knocked on the door, Rusty King said, preacher, I don't think he's going to want to see you I said, well don't tell him I'm the preacher. Tell him I'm a volunteer with hospice and I got chocolate chip cookies. He came back. Daddy said, come on back. So over a period of time we began witnessing to him told him he had a little bottle of whiskey had s stashed down beside the hospital bed. He was dying. Had a little bottle of whiskey stashed there. You could see the top of it sticking out the blanket And uh I began to witness to him, and finally, over a period of time, up in the hospital here, Mr. Lyons bowed his head and trusted Christ as Savior. Prayed with me earnestly. Sweet things. The family was all around. And lo, they thought he was dying that night. Lo and behold, he lived. Several months later, he came home and lived for a while. And you know, you know, I don't try and make judgment on that. God knows if he meant it or not. But things started happening. He got rid of the whiskey bottle and all of that. Rusty told me, I went to visit one time, he pulled me aside, he said, Pastor, Daddy's doing some different things. I said, like what? He was at night. We can hear him in there talking and he's and he says this, now I lay me down to sleep. I pray the Lord, my soul to keep. If I should die before I awake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. This is an old cuss. Never prayed. You know what that told me? God did something in his heart The Spirit of God was there. And Rusty told me, he said, Daddy will, man, he'll do something, and I'll get mad and cuss and I'll go like this. Oop I'm sorry, God. I'm sorry, God. He said he never did that before. I said, Rusty, that's an indicator of spiritual growth. Spiritual growth. And the old boy died and went to heaven before he had a chance to grow and mature to be a real strong Christian. But there was a clear change in the way he thought. And even how he spoke. And when we get to the point where where our words of our mouth When we want them to be acceptable to God, we want them to be clean and pure and right. When we get to that point, that's a good indicator That we're growing spiritually, that we're maturing spiritually. Now, if somebody claims to be saved and they can just run off cuss words and profanity, and it doesn't bother them. And there's no conviction, there's no remorse over that. At best, there's something wrong. There's something seriously wrong there. David said, I want the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart to be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. We live in a profane society. We live in a dirty world. From the ghettos of sh I mean profane, bad words, dirty, nasty language filthy words from the ghettos of Chicago to the White House in Washington, D. C. There is filthy language all around. And listen, I uh I appreciate maybe you know a number of things that our president is doing, but I'm absolutely ashamed. When the leader of this great nation uses language that is dirty and filthy, and that is a shame. And that's just as wrong as the kid in the streets of the city to use dirty bad language. We live in a profane society. From Hollywood. I'm telling you, we got you can't even watch garbage on TV anymore. It's just filthy. The words they use. From Hollywood to Head Start. Nasty words. My wife worked downtown at Community Action for many years and they had a head start section there. All little kids would go by her desk. She was receptionist All the little kids would go by, and she said some of the words that would come out of little four and five-year-old kids' mouths would absolutely make a sailor blush. Excuse me, Ken. Chuck. Do you follow what I'm saying? We live in a filthy world. Filthy words. Dirty, nasty words. From Hollywood to head start, from gas stations to governor's mansions. hardly fill up the gas tank and without hearing some of the most vile language you could possibly hear, just standing there trying to fill up your language. Fill up your gas tank. Is anybody else, the longer I'm around, the less I feel like I'm fitting in this old world. You just come back so greedy, you feel like you need to wash your ears Gas stations to Governor's Mansion from Walmart. This was twenty years ago probably. There's a guy in Walmart and he had a t shirt on. and had across the front of his t-shirt just the most vile word I think there is in existence. And he's just walking around, little kids there, ladies, just walking around with that filthy word across his t-shirt, real big. Man, that grieved me. And I was there finally, I pulled him aside and I said, listen, I don't know who you are, but I am deeply, deeply offended. That shirt you were wearing. I said, that is filthy. He just walked off. I think, this is my opinion, I think if we spoke up about that garbage more, we might not see it so much. out uh fishing years ago. Well just just a month or two ago I was down at Savage Reservoir. I like to fish down there. I took my canoe I'm down until an evening. There's one or two other boats. I mean They're probably a half mile up the lake from me. And it's still and it's quiet. And you know, that's the conversation just carries across that water. Those guys, you think down here there's I feel like I'm in a I feel like I'm in the movie Bambi when I'm down there It's a little butterfly flying around my canoe. There's a deer over here. It's a bald eagle. You know, there's nice water. I'm like, oh this is amazing. And across the water, I hear this filthy, filthy language. You can't get away from it. We live in a filthy, dirty society. And here's the tragedy. It's creeping into our churches. And even God's people are starting to use dirty, dirty language. I was watching a preacher on TV years ago, and again, these guys on TV, you just watch, I don't I don't even do it anymore, but I used to watch them, I was staying in Sunday school, I used to watch them just see what they're up to. What are these guys doing now? And there's one guy, if I said his name, maybe a lot of you would know him. He's a dynamic speaker, tremendously powerful speaker. And he was talking to a group of ladies And from the pulpit on a television in front of tens of thousands of these ladies, he said a word. And I said to my wife, did he just say what I think he did? And then he repeated it And I thought, God have mercy when filthy, dirty language is being used from pulpits. I'm telling you, that is ugly. That's an ugly tongue. A tongue that uses Bad language, a tongue that uses dirty words, a tongue that talks about nasty, dirty things, is an ugly tongue. Is an ugly tongue But a beautiful tongue is clean. It's pure Profanity has made its way into our pulpits, our youth groups, our church fellowships, crude, inappropriate, dirty language, crude words. I've heard I was go to preachers fellowship, I hear preachers talking around, and it's not a necessarily a cuss word. Do you know what I mean? It's just crude. Anybody, you know what I'm talking about? Just words that are not in and of themselves, it's just crude, it's not necessary. Why do we have to talk that way? Why do I have to use those words? What am I trying to accomplish? I I'm I'm way ahead of myself, but I heard a preacher say one time, he says, he said, dirty words come from weak brains. I thought, boy, that's the truth. Why do we have to use crude language? What children of the king were indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God? Matthew 5, 15, 11, Jesus said, Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man, but that which cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a man. A beautiful tongue is a clean tongue. Let me give you a few real quick some characteristics of a clean tongue. Number one, a clean tongue shows reverence to God. A clean tongue shows reverence to God. If you have your Bible, now turn with me now. Now we're going to get the ball rolling here. Exodus chapter 20. Turn back there real quickly with me if you would. Genesis, Exodus, second book of the Bible. Chapter 20, right after chapter 19. And in Exodus chapter 20, we have what we understand as the Ten Commandments. These are what God says we are to do and things we are not to do. And in Exodus chapter 20, in verse number 7, he gives us the third commandment. This is from our Creator. This is the God that designed us. And he's saying to us, these are what I require of you. And he says in verse 7, Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. For the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. How many people agree with me? That's pretty clear. It's pretty clear. Thou shalt not Take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. The word vain there means this, in an empty, meaningless way. In other words, to just use God's name flippantly. And you know, there's so many ways we could illustrate. I don't even want to do that from the pulpit. But we need to stop and think. Wait a minute, when that name comes off my lips, that name represents the holiness. That represents every characteristic of the God that created me. The word vain means to be to use in a disrespectful or a dishonoring way. A dishonest way. A clean tongue refuses to abuse the holy and sacred name of the Lord our God. Refuses. I am not going to use God's name that way. God says, don't do that. God's name is not just a name. It's not just to distinguish him from other false gods. God's name represents all that he is: his holiness and his pure character. And a clean tongue does not use God's names loosely. A clean tongue uses God's name reverently, carefully, deliberately The name of God. The name of God. We live in a day, and I hate to say it, even in our pulpits and our churches, the name of God is thrown around so flippantly and so carelessly And so vainly, God says he's not going to hold us guiltless for that. So a clean tongue is very, very reverent in its use of the name of God. Number two, a clean tongue shows respect. If you would, again, turn to Proverbs chapter 8. We're going to jump around here a little bit. Come with me, if you would, to Proverbs. I'm going to encourage you to turn in your Bible to Proverbs chapter 8. And I want to read verse 6, 7, 8, and 9. Proverbs chapter 8, verse 6, 7, 8, and 9. And I put in the margin of my Bible beside verse number 4 how to talk. And here are several verses where God, through King Solomon, in sharing this wisdom with us. Is telling us how to talk. And look at verse number 6, Proverbs chapter 8. Now my thought is this: a clean tongue shows respect. Verse 6, here, for I will speak of what? Excellent things, and the opening of my lips shall be what? Right things. For my mouth shall speak what? Truth, and wickedness is an abomination to my lips. All the words of my mouth are in righteousness. There is nothing froward or perverse in them. They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge. How to talk. A clean tongue is pure. It shows reverence for the name of God. It shows respect. To those whom it is addressing. Verse 6, that phrase he says, I will speak of excellent things. That phrase, excellent things, has this idea: honorable, noble. Things that had the highest regard and the highest respect. He says, The opening of my lips shall be right things. That is the idea of upright and respectable. I'm telling you, some Christians talk about nasty stuff. Disrespectful. No, no. He says my lips are going to be excellent. They're going to be respectful, honorable, the words that I use. Look at verse 8. He says, all the words of my mouth are unrighteous. There is nothing forward, forward, or perverse in them. That word forward and perverse are very similar words. They have almost identical meaning And they mean this, twisted or perverted or dirty. He's saying this, when I talk dirty, when I talk nasty, when I say perverted, twisted things. That is not honorable. That is not respectful. That is disrespectful. It is dishonorable and shameful. And a beautiful tongue is clean and it is respectful. Now, without getting into specifics, but a clean tongue shows respect for the God-designed intimacy between a husband and wife That is not something that is to be taught dirty. In fact, I want to suggest it is not even to be taught publicly. About the intimacy that God has designed. And we live in such a filthy, filthy, perverse world These sacred intimacies of a husband and wife are just plastered like dirt and mud slung around. And that is nothing but disrespect. For the design that God has created for a husband and wife. Am I right or wrong? I know I'm right. And a clean tongue doesn't talk that way. Doesn't discuss that stuff. Some of the things that go on in the workplace Out in the ball fields, the jokes that are told and the comments that are made have no place on the tongue of a child of God. Now, somebody help me. I'm getting lonely up here. A clean tongue shows respect for that intimacy. It's not a joke. Hey, we are not animals We don't talk like it. We don't act like it. We're children of Almighty God. We've been created in the image of God. We're indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. We've been given the divine nature of God. What in the world are we doing talking? So filthy. Respect. Shows respect for the realities of heaven and hell and the judgment of God. Can I be very dogmatic with you? A child of God should never joke about hell. Should never joke or or uh speak lightly about the judgment of God We live in a world that just throws around asking God to damn people. This, that, and the other? Do you know what you're saying? I had a person tell me in a church, claimed to be a Christian. She said, Preacher, you and this church can go to hell. Christian. Said that to me about our church. I just responded. I said, I'm sorry, but that cannot and will not ever happen. We're saved, we're kept by the spirit and power and grace of God. Why would a Christian talk that way? Why would a Christian say that? That's ugly. So a pure tongue, a beautiful tongue is a clean tongue, and it shows reverence for the name of God. It shows respect. For the way God has created us and designed us and the realities of heaven and hell and the judgment of God, we don't force around us Listen, I I wanna I like to enjoy, I like to laugh, I like to horse around, I like to tell Mary's corny jokes There's one thing I don't ever want to do is joke around about hell. I don't ever want to joke around about the judgment of God. Or even some of the jokes that are said about heaven. Heaven is the presence of Almighty God. Some of the things that are said. We have to be very, very careful. Beautiful tongue. Let me move on. A clean tongue reveals strength of character. The ability to communicate is a gift from God. God has given us this ability to communicate And it is character, it is strong character that use that uses that gift correctly Proverbs 4. 23 says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. The word keep means to hold captive, restrain, handcuff it. Out of the heart are the words of my mouth, and it requires character to restrain the wickedness that can come out of my heart. 2 Corinthians 10 5, and I wanted to turn there, but for sake of time we won't. Paul said, I'll bring into captivity every thought and intent of the heart. I'm going to put it in prison. I'm going to put it in handcuffs. Any numbskull can sweat can swear. Let me say that again. Any numbskull can square. Wait, I still didn't get it right. Any numbskull can swear. I have a nickname for our dog, Bone Brain. Any bone brain can use dirty language. Think about this to use bad words To use dirty words doesn't take any character, doesn't take any intelligence, doesn't take any integrity. The most uneducated, ignorant, undisciplined person in the world can use bad words But you have somebody that is keeps their words pure and clean. That requires a little character. That requires a little integrity. That requires a little bit of discipline. And when you have somebody who claims to be a Christian and they have a pure, clean tongue, that reveals the fact that they have some character to them. Man, we live in a world, is it and I I hate to dwell on this, but you get some circles, every other word is the most filthy word in existence. And it doesn't even make sense The sentence makes no sense. Somebody said that dirty words come from dirty minds. Filthy words reveal weak minds and weak character. But a clean tongue reveals strong character. And last of all, I am with this. A clean tongue reinforces our witness. A clean tongue reinforces our witness. It's amazing we live in such a filthy society that the absence of profanity stands out You get a group, and I'm I know I don't know I'm not trying to pick on the young people, but you get a group of young people together, and if they're not cussing, you think, man, what's up what's up with those kids? You get on a workshop or a lunch break and all the guys are working, and even my wife working with a lot of ladies in the one office there a number of years ago, she said the ladies' l mouths were as filthy as the men And there was one lady that worked there that had a clean tongue. And everybody noticed it. It stood out. A clean tongue reinforces our witness. We claim to be saved, we claim to want people to be saved, we try to share the gospel with people, and yet out of the same mouth proceed also filthy Nasty words. I like this statement. I encourage you to jot it down. Our tongue should be as clean and pure as the gospel that it proclaims. Our tongues are designed by God to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ, not to be a profane, filthy, dirty mud hole. When I was I'm I'm ninety-nine percent certain it was when I was in second grade. You're seven years old in second grade, right? Is that correct? Right around there I'm almost certain it was in second grade. School was in session. One day at school, and I remember this very clearly, and you're going to know why here in just a moment. But somebody in this my class had said a word that I had never heard before. I had no idea what it was. They just said that word. And it got in my head. So the next morning at breakfast, this is why I remember it. I said, Mom, this is when I'm real little. I said, Mom, what does mean? That was the word I'm not going to say. What does, and I said the word, what does that mean? The whole place went silent. The tension immediately. What did you say? I knew immediately it wasn't a good word I said, uh, and I said it. She went and got a bar soap. She said, you come over, this is the truth. If I ever point out the truth, if I ever say the truth, I'll point it out. This is the truth. She took me over the saint. You stick your tongue out. She got that soap bar all wet, and she just went back and forth on my tongue, stuck it down inside my mouth. She goes, you don't ever say that word again I said this man, I don't think so coming out. Here, rinse your mouth out. Now go finish your cornflakes. That was the sudsiest cornflakes I ever had in my life. But I learned something. I learned that our tongue ought to be clean. Our words ought to be clean and pure. Say, preacher, no one else out there is. Probably not. But as a child of God, you and I ought to have clean, beautiful tongues. By the way, just because everybody else is all dirty and muddy and nasty, doesn't mean I need to be that way. Right? So I'm praying. I hope you're praying with me. I've been asking the Lord to really challenge us this and convict us And our words would be clean, that we would reverence the name of God, that we would speak respectfully about the realities of the world we're in. That we would have character. And that our words would reinforce the gospel we proclaim. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would help us in this matter of our words. We want to be clean. We want to be upright. Father, I'd like to believe that the overwhelming majority of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church would have clean, pure tongues. But Lord, we know our own hearts are so wicked. And we have to keep that heart with all diligence. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I and this is between you and God, and I understand that. I would never in a in a million years want to put anybody on the spot. But you say, preacher, I need to be a little more careful. I need to be a little more careful about the words I use. Any like that? Uplifted hand. Young and old, how about it? I need to be a little bit more careful in that. God bless you. And there's probably a lot of us should raise our hands and aren't. We're self-conscious. We're worried, but I tell you, we need to come clean with God. There's some here say, preacher, I'm not sharing that gospel like I should. Maybe the way I'm talking is hindering me from being able to share the gospel. And if I change the way I talk, maybe I'd be a little more I'd be uh able to share the gospel a little more freely. Is there any like that, preacher? I need to share the gospel a little more than what I have been Be a little more bold, a little more confident in sharing Christ with others. Any like that by the uplifted hand? Maybe there's some thinking of somebody in particular. I really need to speak to them about Christ. I tell you, an old order is a good place to pray for them. So there's someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. Say, I don't want to go to hell. I want to joke around about that. I want that settled. I want to know that my sins are forgiven. I have a home in heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to horse around without that. I want to take that seriously and get that settled. Any at all? Any at all? Father in heaven, bless thou our invitation, I ask. We give our tongues to you, our bodies. Present them to you, holy acceptable. I pray you'd help us to keep them clean in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, Isaac