Bible's an amazing book, isn't it? Man, I'm telling you, uh I'm just it it's been seventy-nine, so what's that, thirty-six years now? Thirty-six years ago. Lord saved me. Been reading my Bible just about every day since then. And um, you know, you read a portion of scripture, you read everyone, you don't think much of it You just read it and it's there and you appreciate it. And then certain circumstances are set up in your life and all of a sudden that thing jumps off the page and it is like it's written that day. Anybody know what I'm talking about And it's like man this addresses the my situation. Hold on, gang, here we go. All right. Lift off. Good. And you read that and all of a sudden circumstances, situations, and that scripture applies as if God wrote it that day. I've seen it in my own life. Many of you have. I've seen it in the church life. And, you know, you preach a message and don't you know it's just a Bible message and man people come up say that was exactly what I'm going through and uh I was just today I was just I was reading my Bible earlier and I thought man this is an amazing Amazing, amazing book. We're looking at the Sermon on the Mount, kind of get caught back up. We've been away from this for a few weeks. And we're down at verse number 38. I believe I've already preached, I think, two messages. from this section. I want to bring one more. I'm not really going to dissect the verses like I like to do. I'm just going to kind of summarize a little bit here. I think You'll see what I'm doing here. But verse number thirty-eight, the Bible says, Ye have heard that it hath been said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. But I say unto you that ye resist not evil. Whosoever shall smite thee on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if any man will sue thee at the law, take and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee, turn thou not away. And so let's pray. And my I've entitled the message this, A Biblical View of Myself. And I think you'll see how this fits in here in a little bit. Let's pray together. Father, I ask now you'd bless uh our time in your word here. I pray you Lord you'd help me push out of my heart and mind concerns of this world and my schedule and all that And help all of us, Lord, focus onto your word and your will for our lives. I pray you'd open all of our hearts, open all of our minds to your leadership and your Holy Spirit speaking. I present my body anew, Lord, at this hour. I yield my will to you with all my heart. God, I ask again that you fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you speak through And help us to be receptive. Lord, help us to be submissive to the Word of God so that you can revive us and revive our church and uh make us the Christians you saved us to be. Help us, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This whole section, chapter 5, chapter 6, chapter 7, we're up to verse 42 and chapter 5. This whole three chapters here are what we call the Sermon on the Mount. We've been working our way through the Beatitudes there at the beginning part is what I said, if you remember, I presented them as the introduction to Jesus message. Uh it's actually a sermon that he's preaching. And uh he's coming down through here, and I got looking at this again. I just kind of I wanted to back up sometimes uh and I don't know if you could relate to this or not, but studying scriptures to teach it and preach it. Sometimes you get so focused in on the details that sometimes you don't fully appreciate the whole message that's being said. You you understand what I'm saying? I think there's a saying you miss the forest for the trees. Something along those lines. You get all caught up in the details and you and you need to uh step back a little bit and say, all right, what is he saying? And I kind of did that this week as I just looked at this whole sermon, what we've preached so far And what we've covered so far and where we're at. And I kind of came back and I came to this conclusion. I think this message, I think what the Lord Jesus is doing, He is preaching a message, He is discipling His disciples. Now what do we mean when we say we're going to disciple somebody? What do you think of? When we say, oh, we're going to disciple someone. What comes to mind? All right, you're going to teach them. Who do you think of generally when you think about discipling someone? You think of a new Christian. They just got saved. In fact, we have a discipleship uh program put in place and uh when folks get saved we try to get them in and get them working on discipling. Well I think that's what the Lord is doing here with his disciples. This whole message is a message on discipleship This is very early on in his ministry, and uh the disciples are new believers. They've committed themselves to follow him. He has called them. And they've left their jobs and whatnot, and their nets and whatnot, and they're following the Lord Jesus Christ. Now he is sitting down with his disciples, and it's kind of like this. He's kind of explaining to them, this is what it means To be a disciple. This is what it means to be a follower of me. And I think that's what the Sermon on the Mount is. He's telling them, remember back here in uh uh the the Beatitudes there, verse 3 down through verse 12 I think what he's doing, he's saying this is this is what it means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. You're poor in spirit. You mourn over your sin. You're meek You hunger and thirst after righteousness. You're very merciful. You make sure your heart is pure. You're a peacemaker. You bless those that revile you. This is what it means to be a my disciple. This is this is how you behave. Then he comes and he talks about salt of the earth and the light of the world. I think he's telling him, listen, if you're my disciple, this is what your role is in the world. Your salt and your light. As a disciple of mine, that's what your role is. And then as a disciple of Christ, this is how you interact with others. He talks about a disciple of mine. This is how a disciple of mine handles anger. If you're going to be my disciple. And he teaches them about murder and anger and the role. And he's contrasting The Pharisees teaching on it. And he says, but if you're my disciple, this is the way you interact with other people. And he talks about adultery and lust. And he comes down through there about marriage. If you're my disciple, this is how you address marriage. If you're my disciple, this is your integrity. Your yay is yay, and your nay is nay. You tell the truth. How you view others. And so he's going through here. And he's basically saying this. Now get this. If you are the Christian you claim to be. Then this is how you behave. You claim to be a disciple of Jesus Christ, then this is how you behave. This is how you treat other people. This is how you handle anger. This is how you handle integrity. And he goes on through the next few chapters. And he's bringing, he's discipling his disciples. And my conclusion as I came to this, and it really stands out in, I believe, in verse 38 through 42, is this. If I'm going to be a disciple of Jesus Christ, if I'm going to be that person that God wants me to be, that He's working in my life to develop me and to be, then one thing has to take place. It has to be this. I have got to die to self. The call to Christian living Is a call to dying to myself. The surrender to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. Now, and there's a difference between simply being saved and being a disciple. If I want to be a disciple of Jesus Christ, the very first aspect of the call to discipleship or the willingness to say I want to be a disciple of Jesus Christ, there must be death to self. If I'm going to be the person God has saved me to be, if I'm going to live the Christian life as God intends for the Christian life to be lived, Then I've got to get a correct view of myself and put myself in its place. You follow what I'm saying? Now we're very good, and the world is very good, and a lot of people spend a lot of time and effort making sure other people are put in their place. Right? We're awfully good at that. We want to make sure they're put in their place. We want to make sure they're taken care of. But God says, listen, He's telling us here: listen, if you're going to be my disciple, if you are the Christian you claim to be Then you've got to understand and have a correct biblical view of yourself. And that self has to die, has to be put out of the picture. This whole passage, in fact, I'm suggesting the whole chapter, the whole sermon, all three chapters, if you look at it in that light. God is dealing with us having a right view of myself in my relationship with God. Do I see myself clearly? in my relationship with God and do I see myself clearly in my relationship with others? The whole sermon is those two. My relationship with God, my relationship with others. My relationship with God, my relationship with others. Those two Four are are in in are um interconnected are inseparable is the word I want. My relationship with God affects my relationship with others and my relationship with others affects my relationship with God. First John's very, very clear. If I'm not right with my brother or sister in Christ, I'm not right with God. And if I'm not right with God, then I'm not going to be right with my brother and sister in Christ. The two are inseparable. And you look at this chapter, you look at his sermon, the whole thing is talking about my interaction with other people. And seeing myself, my role, what I am in my interaction with other people. Um No one can live the life that God has laid out for us until we come to the end of ourselves. Until we get to the point where we die to ourselves. I have got to, this is what I'm trying to say. I've got to get to the point in my Christian life. If I am going to grow, if I'm going to be that disciple that I like to think that I am, that I claim to be, if I'm going to be that disciple, I have got to get to the point where I die to self, I die to my own rights I die to my will. I die to my understanding. The Bible over and over and over addresses all three of those areas. What did Jesus say? And I'm getting ahead of myself here, but what did Jesus say? He says, not my will, but thy will be done. You know what he did? He died to his self-will. Now, if I'm going to be a Christian in the true sense of the word, if I'm going to be a disciple of Jesus Christ, a follower of Jesus Christ, then I've got to die to my will. I'm going to say not my will, but thy will be done. Die to our our own understanding. Here's the problem with a lot of us, a lot of us, we we live our lives by our own understanding. Our own wisdom. Proverbs says, trust the Lord with all thy heart and lean not unto thine own understanding. I've got to die to my own understanding. I've got to see myself correctly and the role that this self-understanding, the self-will, this selfishness that's part of me What role that plays in my relationship with God, my relationship with others, and the role it plays is I've got to get it out. Because here's the truth, and this is a very simple concept, and this was taught to me early on And I wish I could tell you I got a total handle on it, but I don't yet. And that is this. There is only one throne. In the heart of the kingdom of my heart and life. It's only one throne. And one of two people sits on that throne in authority. It's either myself or Christ. Only one throne. And I've got to decide whether I'm going to sit on that throne and run my life, or it's going to be Christ. And this whole sermon, this whole sermon on the mount is dealing with get yourself off of that throne and put Christ back in the position he's supposed to be. That's the whole thing. That's what being a disciple is. So I've got to see myself. I've got to view myself as God says I am, as I really am. And when I see myself as I really am, I'll say, listen, I do not want that person running my life. And the Bible term is die to self. There's also the term mortify yourself, crucify self. And put Christ on that throne and let him be the authority. of these thoughts down. I think they'll be very helpful. But let me illustrate what I'm trying to say. Look at verse 38 there of Matthew chapter 5. I just read it, but let's look at it again. Ye have heard that it hath been said an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. But I say unto you, question, who's Jesus talking to? His disciples go back to the beginning of the chapter. He's got his disciples around. These are people who believe they're disciples. They're the they're the followers of him. He says, I'm saying to you. Those ye claim to be my disciples, that ye resist not evil, but whosoever shall smite thee on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. So who's doing the smiting here? The disciple or somebody else? Somebody else. Look at the next one. And if any man will sue thee at the law, take away and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also. Who's doing the suing here? The disciple or somebody else? You never find Jesus directing his disciples to smite somebody else. He's always teaching them how to respond to being smitten. You never find Jesus teaching his disciples to sue somebody else. Never He always says, this is how you respond when somebody else sues you. In fact, 1 Corinthians is extremely clear. A Christian ought to never, ever sue another Christian in a court of law. He strongly rebukes them for that. So he's saying, listen, if you're the disciple you claim to be Then you've got to die to self. Look what he got. Let's go on down here. And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. Who's doing the compelling here? The disciple or somebody else? Somebody else is compelling this topic. You don't find Jesus ever instructing disciples to go and force other people to do something. Now, throughout scripture, you find the disciples of Christ being forced by others, the world. You find disciples being sued by the world and cast into prison. You find them being smitten by the world, but you never find Jesus. instructing them. You know what he's teaching us here? He's teaching we have got to die to self. We don't pursue our agenda. We don't go and we don't we are not vindictive We are not out after others. And so he's very, very clear here. We have got to understand the role that self has in this matter of being a disciple of Jesus Christ, and the only role it has, it's crucified, it's dead. Now the world out there, the outside world, they're gonna live by self and they're gonna be smiting and they're gonna be suing and they're gonna be compelling and they're gonna be a E' for stuff. And out after what ye have But the disciple of Christ dies to self, and that is not a factor in his Christian life. So This matter of dying to self, you've heard me say it often. I learned it from Dr. Lee Robertson. I mean he used that phrase almost every sermon, I want to say. Probably it wasn't, but it sounded like it Die to self, die to self, die to self. Let me talk about that a little bit because I really believe that's what the Lord is teaching us here. Number one, I want to encourage you to jot this down. Number one, dying to self is challenging. Challenging. And by that I mean this. To die to self is one of the most difficult endeavors in life. To die to self. It is not easy. You get self, if I allow myself to get on the throne of my life, I have got a battle on my hands. To get that self off of that throne. He does not go easy. You don't come to your old sinful nature, selfish nature, and say, hey, you know what? I'd kind of like for you to step off the throne. I'd like for Jesus to be there. You know what myself says to me when I say that to myself? Drop dead. There's not how many people here talk to yourself? Anyone? here. Anybody answer yourself? Anyone get in arguments with yourself? I tell you, I tell you when it gets bad, when you start interrupting yourself during an argument with yourself, that's when you're gone. Now, my point is this: to die to self, to get self off the throne and out of the authority of my life is challenging. To uproot that self-love, to uproot that self-will. Is very, very difficult. Now I've seen that. I've experienced in my own life. I've been around Christian now for what did I say, 36 years. I think I have a little bit of experience behind me. I can speak with authority. And I've seen it in others. It doesn't matter what stage I am at in the Christian life, whether I'm a new believer or whether I'm a seasoned believer of decades. That old sinful nature is tough to get out of that throne. New Christians struggle with that sinful nature, that self. I've found that old senior citizens that have known the Lord for years, you know what I've seen? They struggle with that old sinful self. I've found that people 55 years old struggle with that old sinful self. Every stage of the Christian life, every stage of Christian growth, dying to self is a difficult, difficult thing. If dying to self If getting a right view of myself and getting it off the throne so that I can live the way Jesus is instructing us here to live If that was easy, everybody would be spiritual, strong, mature Christians. That's not easy. It's tough. It's challenging. Somebody said this, and I agree with this wholeheartedly, all of our troubles in life stem from a faulty view of ourself. Now I first read that quote. I was reading some quotes about self and whatnot. Now I first read that quote and I took issue with it in my mind. I said, I don't think all of my troubles Are the result of my own sinful nature, of my own self-will and self-love. The more I thought about it, the more I come to the conclusion I think the guy's right. Because even if somebody does injustice to me, even if somebody does smite me, even if somebody does compel me to go a mile, how I respond to that indicates whether I'm on the throne or Christ is on the throne. And so, my trouble is when somebody does something that they ought not to do, and they do one of these things he references here And I respond to that in a self with myself, I'm going to have trouble. There's going to be fuss. Only by pride self cometh contention. And so if somebody does me wrong and I'm gonna take issue with that and I'm gonna fuss with them about that and I'm gonna get in a fight with them of that, that tells me pride self is on the throne. Because only by pride cometh contention. And so all of our troubles, and you can apply that across the board, all of our troubles stem from a faulty view of ourselves, an exalted view of ourselves. I deserve better than this. Turn with me, if you would, in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 50. I think we referenced this in another message Sunday morning a couple weeks ago. In my opinion, Joseph is one of the most spiritually mature men in the Bible. He is an amazing, amazing man. Strong spiritually. He had a maturity about him. Very few people in the Bible had, very few people in history had. He had spiritual insight That uh a lot of people uh uh miss. And here it is, it's at the he's in Egypt, he's the number two in charge. Egypt has gone through seven years of plenty, you know the story, and God had raised him up through a series of injustices. That uh he responded exactly the way Jesus says we should respond in Matthew 5, 38 through 42 He didn't retaliate. He didn't seek vengeance. He trusted God. And now he's number two. God has exalted him. He's used him to save millions of lives. His father has died. His brothers come up to him and they lie to him. And they said uh they say to him, uh verse 16 16, thy father did command before he died, saying that so shalt thou say to Joseph, Forgive, I pray thee now the trespass of thy brethren. They go on down, they're lying to them. Their father never said that. They're just scared and guilty. Look how Joseph responds in verse number 19. Now you look at this and think about who's on the throne of Joseph's life. Is it Joseph or is it the Lord? Look how he responds. You talk about injustice. They sold him as a slave. They took everything he had. They were going to kill him and lied about him for decades. Now look how he responds. Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God But as for you, ye thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good to bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. Now therefore, fear ye not. I will nourish you and your little ones. And he comforted them and he spake what? Kindly to them. What spiritual maturity that is lacking in our churches today? Think of your average church member. If somebody would treat that church member the way Joseph's brothers treated him, how would they respond to that brother? Oh man, they'd split that church wide open over that. They wouldn't talk to that person for years the way he treated me. Jesus says, if you're the disciple you claim to be, that's not the way you act. It's not the way you behave. Your average church member would have sued their pants off. He'd have gone and got an Egyptian lawyer and taken them to court and sued them for everything they owned. Jesus says, you want to be my disciple. You claim to be my disciple. You don't act that way. You die to self. You trust God. Be merciful and kind. So dying to self is challenging. How many people agree with me that how many people agree with me that'd be tough? That'd be hard to respond the way Joseph did. Yeah it is. I get mad when they cut me off at cheap. You know, I mean we get upset about ridiculous stuff. And here, Joseph, what a what a what maturity, what insight. No retaliation. You know what Joseph was saying? This is what the Lord's teaching us in The Sermon on the Mount. You know what Joseph is saying? He's saying, this life isn't about me. It's not what I get. It's not how I'm treated Everything in life is about God's will and God being glorified and the cause of Christ being advanced. That is what it's all about. But we get so petty and we get so self-centered and we put self on the throne and everything becomes about us. I want it my way, I'm getting what's due to me. I'm going to make sure they pay for that. And the Lord says, no, no, no. And then he says, that's challenging. That is not easy. That's difficult. Now listen, we can pursue vengeance if we want. And we can retaliate and we can get our day in court if we want. But if we do that, we pursue that, we'll sacrifice all of our influence for God, and we'll sacrifice every ounce of Christian respect we've ever had. Let me ask you this. Would Joseph had any influence if he'd have had a vindictive spirit towards his brothers? No. Not one of us here would be talking about Joseph's maturity. We would be talking about how self-centered and carnal and terrible Christian he was. We can put self on the throne. Listen, we can put self on the throne of our lives if we want, but if we do, there is a price to pay. Now this world exalts selfishness. He gets his way. He's a go-getter. He gets what he wants. He doesn't take no, he's just going after that. Boy, the world exalts us. But I'll tell you, God exalts, nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. We'll show you some other verses here in a minute. So what this is what I'm trying to say. It's tough. That is not easy. That goes against our grain. But there's a price to pay when we put self on the throat. Or we can do what is difficult, and we can die to self. And in so doing, we experience God's presence in our life. We experience God's power and God's influence and God will use us to advance the gospel. But I gotta decide. Myself on the throne or Christ on the throne? And it is not easy. It is challenging to get self off the throne. Let me give you my second thought here real quickly. Number one, my first thought was this. Dying to self is challenging. Number two Dying to self is crucial. It's crucial. If I'm going to grow spiritually, I have got to die to self. I've got to get self-off of the throne. If I'm going to develop in my spiritual life and be mature in the Lord and have a spiritual influence on this old sinful world. I have got to die to self, get self off the throne, and put Christ back on there. I will never grow as a Christian when self is calling the shots. I will never be effective as a Christian when self is in authority. I've got to get self off, put Christ there, then I can grow, then I can develop, then I have influence. Under that thought I put this: self-will is responsible for the fall of mankind. Now think about this. For the sake of time, we won't go back to Genesis where Eve is confronted by Satan. You know the story. And what did the serpent convince Eve of? He convinced her that God was not doing what? God was not being honest, or God was not being fair to her. God knows that in the day you eat thereof you'll know the difference, good and evil. God's not being fair to you. You're not being treated right. And Eve starts thinking, you know what? I'm not being treated right. I am going to take charge here. I am going to do what I think is best. I'm not going to do what God says And self brought humanity into a sinful condition. Self-will, self-understanding. Rather than trusting, you know, God says we shouldn't do that. I'm just going to trust God. Rather than that, oh yeah, you're right. God isn't treating us right. This isn't fair. Self, Satan convinced Eve she was being treated unfair, she was being ripped off. And so God says she says, all right, self takes over. Now listen, let me ask you a question. If we can trust God for the destiny of our soul, do you think we can trust God for the issues of life? Sure. How'd you get saved? How'd I get saved? By taking God at His word, trusting what He said was so, and following His instructions and putting my faith and trust in Jesus Christ, right? That's how we got saved, by doing what God says, by believing that what God says is so. Now, why don't we do that in the rest of our life? Why don't we live our lives that way? Well this is what God this is how God says I should behave, this is how God says I should respond. This is how God says I should interact, how I should deal with anger and lust and marriage and all these other areas, integrity, this is how God says. Listen, if we can trust God with the destiny of our soul that he'll take us to heaven and save us from hell, I'm telling you, we can trust him in the issues of life. It's crucial that we get self off the throne and put Christ on there. Until we learn to do that, we will never grow spiritually. So self-will is responsible for the fall of mankind. I also put this down under that second heading. Self-will is the reason for all unhappiness. Genuine biblical spiritual happiness is a result of being in communion with God, with being in fellowship with God. Genuine spiritual happiness is a result of being submissive to my Lord. Regardless of what the circumstances are, regardless of what the situation is, I'm going to submit to the Lord, I'm going to maintain my fellowship with God. But when self gets on the throne, that communion with God is broken. That submission to God is broken. When self is in charge, and you know what happens? That joy is gone. I've experienced it, I hate to say this, I wish you had a better pastor than you do, but I hate to say it, but I've experienced it in my own life. When I took things in my own hands and said, you know, I'm going to do this the way I think. And you know what I found out? Joy vanishes like a vapor. Now some of y'all know what I'm talking about. You've been in that same situation. Self steals our happiness. When I get self off the throne, I die to self and I put Christ in charge. And he's running the show, doesn't matter what my circumstances, doesn't matter what my financial standing is, doesn't matter what my health is I still experience the presence and the joy of the Lord in my heart and life. I've seen it in so many people. I've experienced it myself. When I'm submissive to Christ, I've died to self, I've mortified the deeds of the flesh. I'm not thinking according to this world, but mine has been transformed. And I experience the joy of the Lord even when things are terrible, even when the circumstances are not what they ought to be. So, number one, dying to self is challenging. It is not easy, it is a lifelong struggle Number two, dying to self is crucial. I cannot grow. I cannot have the joy of the Lord in my life. I cannot be what God wants me to be. I cannot be the disciple I claim to be until I learn to die to self Number three, my third and last point is this: dying to self is Christ-like. Is Christ-like. Now, this next statement sounds a little strong, but bear with me. The most satanic thing I can do is to exalt myself. The most satanic thing I can do is put self on the throne. You say, preacher, that's not true. Most satanic thing you can do is worship the devil. No, no, no. You don't have to worship the devil to do exactly what Satan wants us to do. You say, where do you come up that exalting self is the most satanic thing you can do? I get it from Isaiah chapter 14, where Satan said five four times Five times he says, I will be like the Most High. I will exalt myself to the sides of the north. I will, I will, I will, I will So when I say I will, I'm doing exactly what Satan did. I'm falling right in with him. Jesus prayed, nevertheless not my will, but thy will be done. You know what we pray? We don't pray this, but you know what we do? We? Know what we do? Nevertheless, not thy will. But my will be done. That's exactly what the devil said. So my state my strong statement is this. The most satanic thing I can do is exalt myself, put myself in charge of my life, put myself on the throne of my heart and life. But let me reverse that around. Let's look at the other side of that coin. The most Christ-like thing I can do is die to self. Take self off my throne. The very now think with me a little bit. You're gonna have to think here. Is everybody doing all right? Everybody with me? Think with me a little bit. What was the very first stage in the process Jesus went through to provide salvation for you and I? The very first thing he had to do was to leave his throne in glory, right? Until he did that, there would be no salvation. Uh turn with me if you would to Philippians chapter two So my point is this, well first of all, dying to self is challenging. It's not easy. Number two, it's crucial. I can't grow and be the Christian I need to be until I die to self. And thirdly, it's Christ-like. If I don't, if I put self on the throne, I'm being satanic in a very real way By Christ on the throne, I'm being Christ-like when I die to self. Look at Philippians chapter 2. I want to begin reading in verse number 2. Fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord and of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. Now look at this. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Now here we go Let this mind be in you, this attitude, this way of thinking, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. He's right there, he's on the throne with God. But made himself of no reputation, took upon him the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of men. He got off the throne and came down. He, being in found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Let me ask you this: did Jesus deserve to die on that cross? No. He was innocent. He could have demanded his rights. He could have demanded justice. Nobody would have been saved. We die to self. We're like Christ. Wherefore, God hath highly exalted him and given name above every name Luke chapter 22 verse 42, I quoted it several times. Jesus prayed, nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. What is he saying? I'll die to self. Lord, your will wants your will to be done. So salvation begins with Jesus getting off the throne, dying to self, coming down here. It continues, it's carried out through him maintaining that attitude, that mine, not my will, but thy will be done. Turn with me if you would. I got two more verses and we're going to end. If you would go to 1 Peter chapter 2 This ties right in with Matthew 5, verse 38 to 42. Somebody smites you on the cheek, turn the other cheek. Look at chapter 2 and verse 23 of 1 Peter. First Peter two and verse twenty-three Speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ, verse 22 says, He did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. Now look at verse 23. See if this doesn't remind you of our text in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5, who when he was reviled, reviled right back. Nah. Who when he's reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. You know, when I do that, I'm being just like Jesus When I follow Matthew chapter 20, Matthew chapter 5, verse 38 through 42, somebody smites me in the cheek, I turn the other, they compel me to go a mile, I go to, they sue me for my coat, I give them my cloak, they ask of me, I give it to them. When I do that, I am being Christ-like. That's exactly what Jesus did. One more passage, 2 Corinthians chapter 5 Now maybe I'm stirred up about this a little bit because it applies to me so much. It hits home. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse number 15 is a good verse to underscore in your Bible, by the way. 2 Corinthians 5, 15. And that he died for all, of course, speaking of the Lord Jesus. That he died for all, that they which live, those that have trusted him and gotten saved, that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth what? Live unto themselves. What would be the opposite of living unto yourself? Dying unto myself, right? But unto him which died that he died for all, that they should which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and remote again. You know what he's saying here? This is what I've been trying to say this whole message. He's saying if you're a follower of Jesus Christ, if you're the disciple you claim to be You get self off the throne, you're no longer living for self. Now Christ is on the throne, and I'm living for Christ And I'm living for his glory, not my glory. I'm living for his gain, not my gain. I'm living for his reputation, not my reputation. I'm living for his agenda, not my agenda And that's what Jesus is saying in the Sermon on the Mound. The Pharisees put on a big show, but they were on the throne of their lives. He says, your righteousness has got to exceed that. You've got to get yourself off of that throne and live for Christ. Let him call the shots. Let him be the authority. Uh got a little quote here. It's a it's a little uh lengthy quote, but it it's of John Payton. What an amazing man, missionary, to the New Hebrides Island. I think that's Papua New Guinea today, I believe He says, as we look at the example of Christ's humble act of dying, we are made aware that the call to follow him involves a call to die to self. That leads me to the life of John Payton. Now listen to this. Bear with me, please. In November of 1839, that's a long time ago. The London Missionary Society missionary John Williams sent out for Ermango Island off the New Hebrides Williams' previous ventures into the South Pacific had resulted in great success. After a two-week journey, Williams, along with his native volunteers, reached the island and were met by natives on the shore, eager to receive the gifts That William brought with him. William and two other missionaries waded ashore and began to walk with the natives to their village when, without provocation. The natives attacked him and began to beat them with clubs. One of the missionaries was able to make it back to the boat, but Williams was killed and eaten along with the other missionary. But this did not halt the missionary efforts in the New Hebrides. But it certainly guaranteed that whoever went was going to be committed to the work. That's an understatement. Williams was followed by a fellow by the name of John Getty. Getty was described as a tough-minded, humorless, and incredibly brave. He and his wife landed on another island and spent their lives translating the scriptures, conducting evangelism, trading native workers. An inscription on one of the churches on uh that he had established commemorated his influence with this. When he landed in 1848, there were no Christians here. When he left in 1872, there were no heathen. His success fostered the interest of other men, including John Payton. Peyton grew up in Scotland in a poor family. He was raised in the Presbyterian church, but it wasn't until 17 that he was converted. By the way, on the way, on the boat to the islands, he converted and became a Baptist. His conversion was a life-changing experience that set his sights on full-time Christian service. In his early 20s, he became a missionary for the Glasgow City Mission. He worked in the ghettos of Glasgow with most sin-hardened people in all of Scotland. After 10 years in his ministry, he heard the great need for missionaries in the South Pacific and answered the call. Now, this is what I was getting at. The depth of Peyton's call is seen in his response to a Mr. Dickers Dixon who was seeking to discourage Peyton from going to the New Hebrides Islands. He said, those cannibals, you will be eaten by the cannibals. This is how Peyton responded. You tell me he was on the throne of his heart. You tell me what kind of disciple this man was. To this Peyton responded, Mr. Dixon, you are advanced in years now. And your own prospect is soon to be laid in the grave, and there you will be eaten by the worms. I confess to you that if I can but live and die serving and honoring the Lord Jesus, it will make no difference to me whether I am eaten by cannibals or by worms. And in the great day, my resurrection body will rise as fair as yours in the likeness of our risen Savior. Isn't that amazing? Goes on, there's a lot more there. He goes on and basically says this: listen, doesn't matter whether I die on that island or not, because I've already died to self. It's no longer I living, but Christ lives in me. So if they kill me, I'm already dead. Now why do we have such a hard time implementing That same mentality that the Lord is teaching us here on the simple little scale that we live in. We can't handle somebody being rude to us across the counter at McDonald's. We go off. How in the world can we say, um, how in the world can I say I'm a disciple of Jesus Christ? How in the world can I say that Christ rules on my throne? When somebody slaps me, and I'm gonna slap them back harder. Jesus says, that's not the way you operate. That's not the way we operate. Anyway, I went too long. I'm asking God to challenge me and help me be a genuine disciple of Jesus Christ and get up in the morning and the first I like what Lester Rolf said. He said the most difficult funeral I do is every morning when I wake up, my own funeral for myself. We've got to die to self folks. We've got to die to self. It does not fit in this world. It does not function. It is not it's so foreign to this world's thinking But I'm telling you, that's what God honors, and that's where God's presence is, and that's where God's blessing is. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Help me, Lord. Help us to see this. Help us to have a correct view of ourselves and the trouble our own self causes for our own lives. And help us to die to self and dethrone self. And Lord, Holy Spirit, help us put Christ in its place. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need God to help me. You're right, this is not easy. I need God to help me to die to self and live for Christ. Is there any like that? I need this. God has spoken in my heart. God bless you. Bunch of hands around. Now it's up to us. God does not force his way on that throne We yield it to him. We submit it to him. We crawl off and we crucify that self and we put Christ in its place. Father, help us. Give us the victory, Lord, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand against