That was a pastor. He's trying to encourage them on how the church ought to behave. He writes a lot of things in First Timothy. And then when he comes to the book of 2 Timothy, it begins to unveil to him the importance of the church being what it needs to be in the great day of apostasy. And he tells us, beginning at verse number one of 2 Timothy 3, this know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection. Truthmakers, false accusers, incontinent fierce despisers of those that are good. Traitors Heavy High-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof from such turn away I want to bring a message this morning from this passage of Scripture and other portions of Scripture this morning that I've entitled A Bible Look at the Last Days. Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. A loving Father, as we come to you this morning, we're thankful, grateful for the opportunity to be in the house of the Lord. I pray as we open our Bibles today, the Holy Spirit Would lead us and direct us and help us in all that we do and say, that it might bring honor and glory to your precious name We thank you, dear Lord, for what has been accomplished over this weekend, for the folks that turned out for the assembly, for the booklets that were put together And the ongoing ministry, the fingerprint ministry that is ongoing in this church, we're thankful, Lord, for their cooperation, endeavoring to reach this world for Jesus Christ. Now I pray you'd open our hearts to receive what you have for us. Save the lost, encourage and bless your children, and we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, may be seated. When you come to this book of 2 Timothy and primarily in the verses of Scripture That I read for you this morning, the Apostle Paul is beginning to unfold for us a description of what is going to characterize these last days. There's no doubt in my mind that we are living in those days prior to the coming again of the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul tells us in this passage of Scripture that the character of humanity is going to be deplorable. And not only is the character of the last days going to be deplorable, but the conduct is going to open the door for difficult and hard days to stand up for the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible says that there'll be perilous days, troublesome days, hard days that God's people are going to struggle with. When I read this passage of Scripture, I come to the conclusion that this will be the common practice of individuals. Before Jesus comes again. It's certainly not a pretty picture. And it certainly depicts the days in which we live. You said, but preacher, these things have always Than the conduct of individuals. But it's not the amount that we see today These are growing times, deplorable conditions that Paul is talking about. It's going to be widespread and it's going to be tolerated and common conduct Among many. There's no doubt when I look at this passage of Scripture, this is a mess age in which we live. Would you say amen to that? When when I look at that, I I see the embarrassment that these days bring to the people of God. When I read that passage of Scripture, it reminds me And places upon my heart the importance of standing up for the Lord because of the trouble we're going to encounter in these last days. This does not depict the way the children of God are to live. This depicts for you and for me the way the world Is going to conduct their affairs and the way that they're going to manifest their character in these days in which we live They're called troublesome days, confusing days, difficult and hard days that are going to be upon us. I'm sure that you would agree with me as you read the newspaper and you listen to the newscasters of our day. This age in which we live has been described as the atomic age Not only that, it's been described as the space age. It has also been described as the age of Aquarius. It's been described as the information age. There's never been a time that information was so readily available as what you find today You can just about discover anything that you want on the internet. You have a question? You just say, do you know the answer to this? And there's some voice on the other end of that phone that tells you the answer to that. Except when Brother Stroop says, You're stupid. And the voice comes back and says, I was just trying to help you. This indeed is the information age, the computer age, the age of technology, but I call it the message. The message. We have a social mess that surrounds us today. Not only do we have a social mess, but we have a political mess. That surrounds us today. You say, well, I think things are going pretty well, then you're not in touch with reality. Not only do we have a political mess, but we've got a religious mess that we encounter in these days in which we live I don't think I've ever seen a time when there was so much apathy as we discover among God's people as what we discover today. This is the age of apostasy. This is the day of apostasy, and religious deception and falsehoods are abounding all across this globe in which we live. It's a religious mess. It's an international mess. When you think of the terrorism and you think of the tension, And the turmoil that is present in our world, you have to come to the conclusion that there's an inner national mess that surrounds us. But I also am mindful this morning that it's a moral mess. Never have I seen a day when abortion was so rampant as what it is now. Never have I seen a day that sodomy was so accepted and tolerated as what it is now If I read my Bible correctly, sodomy is an abomination unto God Almighty. You can dress it up and call it what you want. But the Bible says, in an abomination, and invokes the judgment of God Almighty against a people and against a nation that embraces that kind of a lifestyle. Do you ever think that you'd see the day that same-sex marriage was promoted in our country as we now are promoting it? It is a moral mess that surrounds us. And the remedy for this mess that we are encountering in this day in which we live is not solved by socialism. The same in church. It's not solved by organizationalism. It is absolutely not resolved by reformation But it's going to be solved by worldwide evangelization. That's why we're here. That's why we spent this weekend working on these scripture booklets. That's why we leave booklets with you to put together, to travel the world, to tell people about the Lord Jesus Christ. And we have come to stir you up and to get you involved in reaching this world for the Lord Jesus Christ. This mess age can only be helped as we distribute the precious word of God and souls are saved and converted to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we want to stir you up. You can work on these booklets and you can put them together and you can provide them for others that they can distribute them in the languages of the world to win the loss to Jesus Christ. You might not be able to go to Haiti, you might not be able to go to South America, you might not be able to go to Russia or China or some place like that. But you can put your fingerprints on a book or a Bible and send it there in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ for the salvation of souls. So we're here to stir you up When the preacher gets up here and he announces that this coming Tuesday or this coming Thursday or what night or what day you put your booklets together, if you're available, you ought to show up. Let me run that by you one more time. I'm not sure you caught that one. When the day is declared and the announcement is made. And the job is before you. If it's at all possible, you ought to show up and get involved in reaching the world for Christ. I'm here to stir you up. And not only am I here to stir you up, but we're here to enlist you and engage you. in one of the most, if not the most, important activities that is necessary in this world we live, world evangelization. Telling the world about Jesus. It's a task that every one of us that name the name of Jesus had been assigned to. Not sure you caught that one either. If I have to I I've told you before if I have to do the preaching and the amen and it costs twice as much. So make up your mind. The ticker is a running. And Brother Ed's keeping track. I'm here to engage you in the task that has been assigned to you if you know Christ as your personal Savior. And so I challenge you and I ask you, what involvement do you have in reaching the world for Christ? You have faith promise here. Every born-again believer ought to be taking part in that. He said, but I don't I just don't have what it takes in order to do any more than what I'm doing. Ask God for it. Ask God for it. Lord, if you would give me five dollars, I'll put it in faith promise. You better be ready to give it if God gives it to you. And if I know anything about God and I know anything about this book that I hold in my hand, the Bible. I know if you're genuine, you're sincere, and you want to do something about it, and you're asking God to do that through you, he'll find a way to get that job done. So we're here to stir you up. We're here to enlist you, engage you in that task and responsibility that has been assigned to us. And I remind you, it's a task that has been sadly neglected by independent fundamental Baptist churches all around the world. We are here to uplift the name of Jesus. So when we look at these conditions, when we look at these needs When we look at the urgency of the hour, the last days, what kind of a message does God have for this age in which we live? I'm glad you asked me that question. Because I'd like to tell you. When I read my Bible, I believe God does have a message for this horrible day in which we live. The first thing that I would remind you is that God has a message of truth for an age of air. Not every steeple on a church necessarily means that's a good place to be. Not every preacher that tucks the Bible under his arm necessarily is a good preacher to listen to and a good preacher to follow. This is a terrible day in which we live. And God says, I've got a message for you, and that message is for you in this age of tremendous error. When I read my Bible and I go to the book of John, I believe God has an answer there. And John begins to reveal to us exactly what we need to know for this day. When I read in John chapter 13, the condition that the disciples were in the followers of Jesus and prior to his departure from this world, the first thing that I see, the concern that troubled them He tells us in verse number 36 of John chapter 13, Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither thou goest? Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now, but thou shalt follow me afterwards. Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake. That's genuine concern, isn't it? Can you imagine they they gave up their responsibilities, their occupations, their personal employments? They gave that all up to follow Jesus, and now he said, I'm leaving. They were expecting a kingdom. And concern was written across their hearts, just as concern is written across the hearts and minds of God's people today. But then I see the comfort that he gave. Don't let your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself. So their concern was addressed by his comfort And then I also see in this passage of Scripture the confusion that it caused. The Bible tells us in verse number 4 of the 14th chapter: whether I go, ye know, and the way you know. And Thomas said unto him, Lord We know not whither thou goest, and how can we know the way? And then I see this, the clarity that Jesus gave to them. He said, I am the way, the truth, the life. No man comes to the Father but by me. Do we really believe that? Do we honestly sincerely believe that? That there's not a Baptist way to heaven, there's not a Methodist way to heaven, there's not a Catholic way to heaven, there's not a Muslim way to heaven, there's not a Hindu way to There's not an atheistic way to heaven. Do we honestly believe that when Jesus said, I am the way The only way, the only hope, the only answer for this horrible day in which we live is the message that Jesus shared with his disciples. I am the way, the truth. No man, no man comes to the Father but by me. Did I say to you this morning that he and he alone It's the only way to the portals of glory. And I feel a shout coming on right now. You can join the church, but that'll send you to hell. You can be dipped in the pool of baptism, but that'll send you to hell You can do the best that you can and give a little more in the offering plate, but that will send you to hell. If that's what you're trusting on to get you to heaven, you'll be lost for all eternity. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, the life. No man comes to the Father but by me. Neither is there salvation given among men whereby we must be saved. Must be saved. Must be saved. He alone Is the way. He alone is the truth. The Bible tells us in John 1 and 14, and the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. We beheld it, the glory of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and full of truth. He's not only the way, but he is the truth. The only truth. That truth is what indicts sinners to a crisis eternity. And that truth is the only thing that addresses the need of sinners He alone possesses eternal life. What he's offering to us is not a temporary fix. Are you hearing me, Church? It's not a temporary fix It's not something that'll just satisfy you for a little while and you lay it aside and go to some other new way. This is eternal life. This is what will last for all the ceaseless, endless ages of eternity. John 5 and 26 says the Father hath life in himself, so hath he given So is he given to the Son to have life in him? I like John 3 and 36, do you? The Bible says this. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. So if you believed him, he's given you everlasting life. You believe that? That's what he's given. But that verse doesn't stop there. He said, He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not the Son. Shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. Sometimes we fail to paint the picture. Of God's wrath. It's a horrible thing. When God levels his wrath against those that are unbelievers and refuse to embrace the gospel. That too is everlasting. They are consigned to a place where the worm never dies and the fire is never quenched They are consigned to a place where things are going to be horrible throughout all eternity. God will level his anger and his wrath, his displeasure and vengeance against those who refuse to believe his message So God has a message for this day in which we live of truth in the midst of all this air. I also believe that God has a message of warning for disobedient people and disbelieving people that refuse to heed what he said. In the book of Revelation, chapter 20. The book of Revelation, chapter 20, we are presented with some horrible and unbelievable pictures. Revelation 20, and beginning with verse number 11, the Bible says, And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them. Verse number 12, and I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. The sea gave up the dead which were in it. Death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. And they were judged every man according to their works, and death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. That certainly is a serious warning, isn't it? Not only is it a serious warning, but it's a sobering reminder. If you don't heed what God said, here's your destiny. The final dupe that is presented in this passage of Scripture is what you and I are endeavoring to combat. When we send these booklets out, we're reminding people there is a way to everlasting life. There is a way to escape the eternal damnation and judgment and wrath of Almighty God. If you put your faith and trust in the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. As as we send out these books and As we take part in faith promise missions, as we get involved in the soul-winning program of the church, and we distribute gospel tracts everywhere we go. We are reminding the world there's a way to escape the eternal doom and fate that you find yourself in if you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. When I look at this passage of Scripture, it's a scene that I know I'll never experience. But it's also a scene that I know. People are going to experience if they continue on the same path that they're on now. The summon is presented to us that the small and the great are going to be summoned to come And stand before God. Every word is going to be recorded, every thought and every deed is going to be put out in display. It's a record that is perfect. It's a record that is absolutely accurate. It's a record that God has put down that is comprehensive and will stand. In judgment against those that stand before him. Each person individually will stand there alone. No advocate to come to their defense. No parole will be offered. Their eternal destiny has already been decided. The sentence is leveled And whosoever was not found recorded in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. That ought to make us weep. That ought to place such a burden upon our hearts that it would compel us and involve us in this matter of worldwide evangelization. That Redville Place is a place of darkness. Isolated From everyone else. I don't know if you've ever been in a place or experienced how dark, dark can really be. When you can't see a thing around you, and your eyes won't adjust to what is piercing you. Dark. That's what hell is like Can you imagine being in a place like that and hearing the screams that's going to be present and not able to do anything about it? Hearing the sounds that will be in that place of eternal damnation and not being able to help in any way A place of darkness, a place where the worm never dies, a place of eternal banishment from any help that God could ever give you. Today is the day of salvation. We can offer that. We can offer that. And share the good news with people here, there, and everywhere. That you don't have to experience that horrible day of damnation. There's a way to escape, and the way is Jesus and Jesus alone. Amen. It's a place of unending sorrow and pain. There are people in this room that know a little bit about pain. Pain that is with you when you try to lay your head down on the pillow at night and where pills don't seem to do anything to help. A pain that confronts you when you try to crawl out of bed in the morning, and it accompanies you throughout the day. And in those cherished moments Where just a simple moment of relief invades your body are exciting moments of thanksgiving. But in hell there's no such experience. There's nothing that relieves the sorrow. There's nothing that lets up on the intense suffering. It's a day of sorrow and great pain that cannot be helped. Only one way. And Jesus said, I'm that way. But there's a final thing that I would share with you. There is a message of hope for discouraged people. What does God have for us in these last days? There's a message of truth for this age of air. There's a message of warning. For those that have not heeded. And there is a message of hope for those that get discouraged. When you really begin to survey the situation that surrounds us, it can be discouraging, to say the least. The moral decay that we seem to encounter. I never thought I'd see the day when a man wanted to be a woman or a woman wanted to be a man. That's discouraging to me. I I I don't think uh uh I ever thought I'd see the day when such moral corruption was so prevalent and prominent and was main street activity When you begin to see the hardness of people's hearts today, and it doesn't have to be those that have never trusted Christ, the hard hearts of saved people can be extremely discouraging to the people of God. I was recently preaching in a church and a man and a woman come forward in that church and made some decisions that night and the preacher said to me, those folks have been saved for years, and I've never seen them bow their knee at an altar the entire time that they've been in our church What do you account for that? Hard, hardened hearts that will not allow the Word of God to penetrate them. That can be discouraging. Well, I I think about the animosity that we encounter when you try to tell people about the love of God, the true salvation's plan. And that love that brought it down to man, and there's animosity, and there's rejection to that message, that message of hope, that message of deliverance, that message of eternal life, that can be discouraging. When you see the animosity that people have against the Bible today, against Christianity today, when you see the animosity they have toward the gospel today, that can be discouraging and disappointing to the people of God. But I'm here to tell you this morning, the Bible says, Look up, church, look up Church, don't get your chin dragging on the ground, don't get your lower lip out of s uh out of straight. Look up, your redemption goeth out. Boy, I feel a shout coming on right now The Lord Jesus said, Come unto me all ye that labor under heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Well, I read in the Bible in Isaiah 41 and verse number 10, fear thou not, for I am with thee. Does that grip your heart and excite your soul? I mean, the Lord said, when you go out those doors, if you know me, I am with you. You don't have a thing to fear outside these walls. You don't have a thing to fear inside these walls. Jesus said, I am with you. I am with you. I am your God. And what an awesome, great, and wonderful God. We serve this morning. He's the one that made all of this. He's the one. He's the one that sustains all of this. And he's the one that has grace provided for all of this. We have a great God. It is wonderful and to be praised from the very depths of our soul. He says, I will help thee. Well, ain't that good news? You don't have to go it alone. You don't have to face it alone. You don't have to endure it alone. I am your God. I will be with you and I will help you. I will uphold you. That's what Isaiah 41. 10 says. That's a message of hope For the child of God. God's people have every reason to be encouraged and to be filled with hope and to be confident in these days in which we live. Don't give up church. Keep on keeping on. You you you said I did have a lot of time here this way, right? Yeah. Are you ready? I want you to think about this. I want you to think about the Savior's declaration. Let not your heart be troubled, you believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. I go to prepare a place for you. I will come again and receive you unto myself, so that where I am, there you can be also. That's what the Savior declared. And then I want you to think about this. These the angels' confirmation. This same Jesus that you see being taken up from you shall so come in like manner. Are you with me, Church? The Savior declared it. The angels confirmed it. And the Apostle Paul explained it. When he said, the Lord himself shall descend. And when he descends, the archangel is going to shout. That kind of reminds me that that Archangel's not baptism. Hello? And Paul went on to further explain and tell us that not only when the Lord descends is the archangel going to shout, but the trumpet's going to blow. If you know anything about the Bible, you know one of the things that the trumpet was used for was to summon Israel, to call them together. And when Jesus descends and the archangel shouts and the trumpet sounds, he is gathering his people together to come on home. We're going home to a feast. It's called the Mary's Supper of the Lamb. That's one feast that I can't hardly wait to lay into. All calories extracted. Weight Watchers will not be needed there. Jenny Craig don't need you there. Who's that other one that is on TV telling us that she lost fifty pounds? Whoever. I'm just here to tell you this morning that we're going to sit down to a feast like you've never seen before, called the Mary Supper of the Lamb. No calories will be counted, and you can feast to your heart's content I can't hardly walk by a piece of pie without gaining five pounds and I didn't even buy into it. The Lord Himself is coming back. That is an incentive for you and I to be watching and looking and ready. That is an incentive for you and I to separate from the wickedness and ungodliness of this world. That is an incentive for you and I to be patient and to carry on in the work of the Lord. That and that alone is an incentive for you and I never to quit. Never to throw in the towel, but to keep on keeping on because Jesus is coming again, and we need to abide in him so that when he does appear, we'll not be ashamed before him at his coming. So what kind of a message do you need today? Do you need a message of truth for the air that you believed and embraced? Do you need a message of warning because of the delay you've put off in trusting Jesus? Or do you need a message of hope because you've been a little bit down and discouraged? in this day in which we live. God has a message for everyone in this building today. Listen to it. Heed it. Embrace it. Because it's just for you and me. Stand with me, please, with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. Every head is bowed and every eye is closed. We're gonna have a song of invitation in just a moment. I wonder how many here this morning could say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. I know I'm born again. I know that I'm on my way to heaven. Could I see your hand if that's your testimony? This morning. I know that I know that I know I'm saved. God bless you can put down your hands. Maybe you're here this morning, you'd say, Preacher, I couldn't raise my hands with the others, and I'd ask you to pray for me. I want to be sure of my eternal destiny. Please pray for me. Could I do that this morning? We're not here to embarrass you or single you out. In all sincerity and genuineness, we want to pray for you. Is there someone like that this morning? I'm just not sure, preacher. Please pray for me. Yes, thank you. Thank you. Maybe you're here this morning. You say I'm a saved preacher, but If the Lord were to come today, I'm just not as ready as I'd like to be. Maybe there's Something that you've allowed to take over in your life that has deprived you of really being all that Jesus wants you to be Maybe there's some secret sin that you've held on to that no one else knows about, but you know, and God knows. Maybe there's things that you I know I should be doing it, but I just I've just lagged behind Please pray for me. Here's my hand preacher. That's me. Please pray for me. Yes. God bless you. And you. You. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Whatever God is speaking to you about this morning is something that needs to be addressed and addressed today. You're amongst people that love you and care about you and want to be a blessing to you. And as we have this on the invitation this morning, if God is speaking to you, this old-time altar is open and we invite you to come. Make that decision that you need to make this morning Make that correction that needs to be made.