That may be what you get is a twenty minute or I I'm not really sure. What? What do you mean, amen? Was that nam said that Nan has a uh she has a stopwatch in her purse and she would as soon as I start, I mean as soon as I stop, and then I get the rundown after, you know, I've critiqued them at the end of the service. All right. Take your Bible and turn with me to the book of uh First Corinthians, chapter 9, if you would please. It's good to be back up in the mountaintop and uh we uh of course the past couple days we just kind of stayed in. I've had a touch of uh I guess a cold or whatever it is. And uh I was today's the first nice day and we was able to get out tomorrow morning or tomorrow afternoon. I'm hoping to go out and and see if I can shoot Bambi. And uh maybe Friday afternoon I get a chance. I don't go out in the mornings anymore. That is that is for young bucks that likes to get out there and you know to not not any I used to do that and I found that uh along about well shif i you know if you go y you have to get up like four thirty in the morning to get out early and uh I found that by by seven fifteen I'd usually fall asleep anyway. So And in a tree stand that's not good. So I just uh decide that we'll probably uh just uh do the afternoon things from now on. And I and I've been getting most of my dear the afternoon. Maybe because I sleep most of the morning. Alright, we're in uh in uh first Corinthians chapter nine And uh I'll just I'll allow her to remain seated. They're gonna read a few verses there is beginning in in verse one He said, Am I not an apostle? Am I not free? Have I not seen Jesus Christ, our Lord? Are not ye my work in the Lord? If I be not an apostle unto others, yet doubtless I am to you, for the seal of mine apostleship are ye in the Lord. Mine answer to them that do examine me is this. Have we not power to eat and to drink? Have we not power to lead about a sister or a wife, as well as other apostles? as the brethren of the Lord and of Cephas? Or I only and Barnabas, have not we power to forbear working? Who goeth warfare any time at his own charges? Who planteth a vineyard and eateth not of the fruit thereof? Or who feedeth a flock and eateth not of the milk of the flock? Say I these things as a man, or saith not the law the same also? For it is written in the law of Moses, thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. God take care uh for oxen Or saith he it also for our sakes? For our sakes, no doubt this is written, that he that plougheth should plough in hope, and he that thrasheth in the hope should be partaker of his hope. If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great thing if we shall reap your carnal things? If others are partakers of this power over you, are not we rather nevertheless we have not used this power, but suffer all things lest we should hinder the gospel of Christ. Let's pray. Our Father, we bow before you to ask for your help. And uh uh your filling. I pray, Lord, that you'd clear our thoughts and our minds and help us to focus now upon the Word of God and and only say those things which would bring honor to you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen In this ninth chapter here, we're all familiar with the church at uh at Korea. Corinth. Corinth was a was a worldly city. It was a city that was very prosperous. It was in a position where in a place where there was a lot of commerce because it was right close to the uh the uh the sea there and so they there was a lot of commerce there. As a result there were uh it was a rich city But it was also a very immoral city, and it was uh uh but it has uh you know a number of religions. So the Apostle Paul uh he comes into the city and and He uh uh uh uh gets with uh uh Quilla and and uh whatever uh Qu uh Quillan Priscilla, I guess it is. And uh stays with them for a while and and uh he builds a church there. But during this time, of course, he's dealt with a lot of problems. As you know, there was there was the problems of division within the Corinthian church and uh there was problems with immorality within the Corinthian church. In other words, all the things that was that the the the city of Corinth was involved with wouldn't These people got saved, why a lot of those things came into the city, it came into the church, which caused uh the apostle Paul a lot of problems. He had to deal with him, and so the letter of uh first and second Corinthians But one of the other things that he had to deal with was those who came in and began to question his apostleship, that he really was not an apostle. And so he in in chapter 9 here has had to defend his position as an apostle. He's had to uh explain why he was one and had to you know, actually defend himself. Now you wouldn't think one who who uh earlier wrote in in some place in uh in the earlier chapters there where he says uh He said, I've planted Apollos water and God gave the increase. You know, you'd have thought that uh uh this would have you know, they would have just said, This is the Apostle Paul and been done with it, but that apparently was not the case I notice in verse 3 it says, mine answer to them that do examine me is this. And so he uh uh he gives an answer to those who examine. In other words, These people that were questioning his apostleship was actually, you know, putting him under the spotlight and really examining uh him as an individual and him as a as a moral person and him as a you know his doctrine, whatever it was, but they were really uh after him to destroy him. So the Apostle Paul He begins to to lay out three things in this this one chapter here in chapter nine, three things that authenticate his apostleship. And as I read these things and and did some study and research on it, I find that these are these are things really that that also characterize a Christian who is sold out to God. So we can learn from this example here in 1 Corinthians chapter 9 from the Apostle Paul. We can learn these three things. Perhaps it'll show us where we are spiritually. We may not like what we what we uh see as we uh uh look at these things. But I think it's important that we at least are aware of them so that the Lord can speak to our hearts about them and and perhaps we can make some changes. I uh I was thinking of uh uh two uh two preachers that were kind of talking about uh about how how frail the human uh human uh uh uh man how frail man is and the one says he said I'm so so glad that uh that God knows that we're weak and They were just made of dust. And the other one said, Yes, but I'm sure that he probably wishes we weren't as dusty as we are. And I think it's probably true We may be made of dust, but we don't necessarily have to be as dusty as what we are, spiritually speaking. And so I think the Apostle Paul will hit on some of this as we get into our study. The first thing that I notice in the way of the marks of authenticity in the Apostle Paul's life is the renunciation of lawful rights. Now that may be a long point, but but the truth is that the Apostle Paul, you'll notice as he says in verse 3, mine answer to them that do examine me is this And then he starts down the list. And it's it's uh several verses there. We're not going to read them all, but we will read some of them. Where he says in verse 4, he says, have we not power to eat and to drink? Now, when he says power, he's not saying, well You know, I'm just barely strong enough to that's not what he's saying. It it speaks of of uh the right. He said, Do we not have a right to eat Have we not the right to lead about a sister or wife? These are just common things that everybody had uh you know had a right to have. You know, we live in a society today where where people's rights, you know, children have rights, uh, dogs have rights, cats have rights, and You know, everybody has their rights and we're uh you know, it just seems like it's it's there's no end to it. And it's even got to a place where it's ridiculous. But the point is that there are some rights that that we have. We have a right to you know to to eat and we have a right to have a job and to be paid a fair uh fair uh uh wage for the time that we we work. We have you know there are some things that we have a right. And the Apostle Paul it just goes down the list and he points out a lot of the rights that he has But it's interesting, as he continues on down there, he he deals with this matter of of the preacher being paid, you know, whether whether a preacher ought to work and and uh do that. Uh there's one uh one church that we we go to that uh uh where I know at least uh one of the people in there uh he wouldn't even go to that church if the pastor did not have a job. He he he said pastors ought to work for you know but uh it clearly states in the word of God that uh uh it's just a r it's It's a rightful thing for if a pastor works or a pastor preaches and he presents to you spiritual truths and and he feeds you spiritually that you should So that's just that's just uh one of the things that's uh uh that's brought out here in these verses. Um verse nine uh verse nine says, For it is written in the law that thou shalt not muzzle the The mouth, the ox that treadeth out the corn. Does God take care of the oxen? Then he goes on and so forth. in into that anymore. But the the point that we're getting at here is the Apostle Paul it points out all these these rights that he has. He has a right to do this, a right to do that and and every one of them you'd have to say, well yeah he has a right to right to that. He has a right to eat and to live. He has a right. And then he says this, and this is the point that we're trying to make here, and this is what he's getting at. But he says in verse 12, notice this, in verse 12, after he lays out all of this rights that he has, he says, if others be partakers of this power over you, Are not we rather? Nevertheless, we have not used this power, but suffer all things lest we should hinder the gospel of Christ. Now look down at verse 15. Even so hath the Lord ordained that they which preach the gospel should live by the gospel. But he said uh uh and and now let me go back and Remember he's all these rights he's got. Now verse 15. But I have used none of these things. I've had all these rights, but I have forgone the rights in order that the gospel of Christ might be preached in this purity. You know, we don't think a whole lot about it, I don't suppose as Christians, but because I think of the way we live We have so much. I cannot help but think of of the young man that's over in uh in I uh Iran, uh Yusuf, uh I think I have his name here. Uh N the darken the darkening anyway, Youssef, I know that one. And Yusuf is is uh is a Christian preacher. He's a a preacher of the gospel over in Iran. Of course Iran is in is uh is all Muslim. And the Christian religion over there is looked at as a heresy and as something to be put down. And those who believe in it uh are uh you know uh are persecuted. And Yusuf is uh is a preacher of the gospel in Iran, and he refuses to renounce Christianity, and as a result, he's under the penalty of death. Now, he had he has a right to life. And Yusuf, if all he would have to do in order to live, It's just simply say, okay, I renounce Christianity. And he can go home, sleep in his bed that night, and uh raise his children, live uh you know a normal you know Muslim life, I suppose you'd say But he has forgone that right, the right to live, the right to life itself in favor of the gospel. Do you see what the Apostle Paul's getting at here? I have the rights, he says, to do all these things and to live all this a different way. But he says, I give all that up And another place he said, I just counted as dung that I might win Christ. And I believe that we Christians have we have lost. We have lost That particular part of what it takes to be a Christian. Our churches today we We're so indulgent in ourselves and and we're so conscious of our own rights. I have a right to to say what I want to say, I have a right to do what I want to do, I have You know, you can, I have freedom in Christ, I have liberty in Christ, I can do what, but listen, the the one who the The mark of an authentic, spirit-filled Christian is the one who willingly gives up his rights or renounces those rights for the cause of Christ. Do I have a choice left or right here? Thank you. There may be things that uh you have to say You have to say no to. Things that that are normal and right. For the sake of your Lord, though, you renounce renounce your claim on those things You know, I think of a missionary, and I I thank the Lord for for this church. Our my church's home is like this. It's a very mission-minded church. We're conscious of the needs of the missionaries that come in. Take a missionary and he uh He may be called to some foreign country that that is totally the the culture and customs and the language is so totally different that that it takes him years to prepare just to get on the field. So he goes to college and he educates himself and he gets his theological degrees and and so forth and and then he prep begins to prepare for the uh for the mission field and uh he uh uh goes on deputation and he's on deputation for a year, two years, sometimes three years, just to get enough money to live by. He's had to sell his house and then do the deputation. He's had to uh uh to learn a foreign language in and and then has has to take his children out of school and and uh he has to you know go into a place that that uh most of us would not want to take our children but he takes his family there and there he lives And he has foregone all the rights that are his. He had the right to stay home. He had the right to not sell his house and and just to stay there and raise his family and enjoy life. But he he foregoes those rights in order that the cause of Christ may be forwarded. Do you see how see how the Apostle Paul is dealing with this thing? He says, one of the things that you can tell that I'm an apostle And I can say, one of the things you can tell that I am a Christian, listen, we are all being examined. We all are being examined by people who are lost. There's people who are watching your life, each one of us. And they're judging us by by maybe this one this very thing, whether we just take our rights and go with them, or whether we forego our rights and renounce our rights in favor of of the gospel of Christ. Amen? I get an Amen somewhere. All right. It may be that it may be friendships It could be opportunities. I know that I know people who have who have quit particular jobs And taking a job that paid less because that job did not interfere with their church life. They did it on purpose. They forego the right to have more money in order to that the cause of Christ might be greater fulfilled. Do we see that characteristic in our life? That's what we have to ask ourselves. Do we look at our life and say, does it cost me anything to be a Christian? Huh? You have to answer that Does it cost you anything? And what is the cost? And really when you start stacking up against uh Yussef over in Iran? Uh does it really measure up or do we just hang our head and say, well, I guess it really doesn't cost me a whole lot to be a Christian here in the United States. Because it doesn't. It doesn't cost us a whole lot. But if the cause of Christ is going to go forward in the United States, or in Gear County, or in Oakland, Maryland then it's going to take Christians who have a willingness to forego their rights and begin to to see that it's important to forego the their their lawful rights in favor of the cause of Christ. The Apostle Paul he says let's see Whereas it uh um he speaks of his reward. Uh let me see, verse seventeen For if I do this thing willingly, he's talking about preaching the gospel. He says, if I do this thing willingly, I have a reward. But if against my will a dispensation of the gospel is committed unto me, what is my reward then? He said, What is my reward for me foregoing all these rights that I have for which I have not taken advantage of? He said, I didn't take any money. I built tents and I patched tents. That was what I did. Why? Well That the people could not look at the Apostle Paul and say the Apostle Paul is in it for the money. I I still don't understand how if anybody reads their Bible Can send a nickel or a dime to some of these TV evangelists that are out there that are living off the fat of the land. Off of the fat of of Uh let's see, I have to be nice about it. You know what I'm talking about. They have two or three nice uh uh places in different places all over the United States and then across the lake or across the sea. and and uh uh they haven't given up anything. All they're doing is raking in the the dough from people who are uh ignorant enough to send them money. It's tragic, tragic. Has anybody ever heard of um Marjo. Forget what the last name is it? Marjo Reynolds. Marjo. Do you remember what the last name is? Okay. Does anyone know what Marjo who Marjo is? One guy. I'm not going to explain it. Since you know I won't have to do it. Mark Joseph is an a w uh uh was an evangelist In the charismatic movement, uh, years ago, not too many years ago, like what, fifteen or twenty years ago ago maybe? I don't that started out preaching when he was about four years old. And he could preach up a storm. And the whole the I have a C D on his on his whole life that that he did himself exposing that that movement to show that the the the s the insincerity and the the The uh fakery of the whole thing, the healing thing and the tongues thing and that whole mess. And uh uh I c I can't help but uh since I saw that thing it made me sick just to watch the C D Because of of how gullible people are. Have you seen the C D, is that where you Okay. It was on TV. It was an expose by either ABC or CBS or NBC, one of those organizations. They did this expose and he's the one that headed up because he got feeling bad about taking all this money from these people. And so he did the expose himself. So he's exposing the movement. uh through his own life. And it's uh it's something. He's later went into the movies and T V and you I've seen him on different uh uh T V shows and you know booys and stuff like that. Um and he's he just uh I guess the closest thing to an atheist, I suppose, is what he is now But uh anyway, but there that was he there's a fake. There was no no self-imposed uh you know discipline in his life And so, but anyway, all right, let's get into something else here. So anyway, uh it could be uh uh uh It could be friendships, opportunities, it could be hobbies, recreation. You know, there's things that that I we was uh down in uh Knoxville, Tennessee last week. Um uh preaching a church down there for the week. And the pastor down there, he and I got to talking and you know I enjoy hunting. I I hunt get to hunt Maybe a week or two weeks in the fall and that's that's about it. I can remember a time when I spent as much time in the woods as I did anywhere else. That was before I got saved though. So I was talking to Brother Napier and he was we were talking about hunting and he said he said well he said I he said I used to just he said I loved squirrel hunting. He said just uh you know I just enjoyed getting out in the woods that time of the year and everything. And uh he I I said, the b sounds like you're saying you don't do that much anymore. He said, No, he said, I uh he said, it's just something that uh was less important than the work of the Lord. That's one way to look at it. But that's what we're talking about. That's the very thing we're talking about. There's things in our life that that w that would be better off if we just let 'em go. Are they legal? Are they good? Are they I mean, is there anything wrong with doing certain things? No. And nothing wrong with having hobbies and nothing wrong with with enjoying recreation and things. like that. But it's it's it's what we what we're not doing that's the dangerous part. And it may be that some of these things need to be to be laid aside, and we need to forego or renounce our rights to some of these activities that we get involved with so that the cause of Christ can go forward. We could be more effective in the work of God. The Apostle Paul, he had uh uh Uh of course uh he gave his uh he gave his testimony here and then later on in Philippians chapter three He said this, and this is 30 years later that he wrote these words. He says, but what things were gained to me Those I count at loss for Christ. Yea, doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ. Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dumb, that I may win Christ. That was 30 years later, which brings us to our next point. The first one being the renouncing of lawful rights. that we have. And the second one, a consistent and unblemished testimony. That's a second mark of a uh uh of the apostle that uh and and for the christian who's uh living close to the lord in the the the walking with christ For 30 years his his testimony was unblemished, was consistent, was clean Verse 19 says, For though I am free from all men, yet I have made myself servant to all, that I might gain the more His testimony, reaching the loss for Christ. He became whatever was necessary for him to win somebody Now we have to be careful when we get into this because some people take those words where the Apostle Paul says, I became all things to all men that by my some means I win some. And they say, well, okay, that means that that I ought to go into a beer joint, you know, and sit next to a guy and have a have a beer with him while I witness to him about Christ. That's not what it's talking about. The the the the uh We there has there there cannot be compromise in this thing of being all things to all people What the Apostle Paul is talking about is uh uh you go to the house of somebody and you're gonna win to the Lord and or you you want to talk to 'em about the Lord and they they they're sitting there drinking a beer And so uh they say to you, uh, well hey, pull up a chair and I'll I'll pop a beer for you. And you say, no thanks. Uh if you got a Coke, I'll drink a Coke. And so you'll sit there and maybe drink a Coke as you witness to them The compromise would be, of course, to have the beer. You're not going to do that. You cannot compromise. You can't do good in order to do evil in order to accomplish good. That's just a basic principle. But Paul's uh I think I'm I'm almost running over my twenty minutes there. We're almost done. Don't worry. Is there a ballgame on tonight? No? Oh, okay. Nobody knows, so I guess that's a good sign. This is done without compromise in the sight of heaven. But uh he went along with their their need and sin to win them to Christ. Now I I wrote that right out of the something that I had there and and And uh it's it sounded so good, I just thought I'd write it as it was. So he crossed over, but here's the thing. He crossed over the borders of prejudice and race in order to reach people for the Lord I see the uh I see the good Samaritan. He's walking down this this road of sin there between us uh Jericho and Jerusalem and they see somebody uh over on the side of the road and his he flails his arm and he's it's all bloody and the guy's all beat up and the the Levite and the priest have already passed him by, didn't want to get involved with his life. But the Good Samaritan stops by and he and he takes the the oil and the wine and and he wraps him up and he cleans him up and he dresses these wounds and he he takes care of him. And here's a Samaritan dealing with a with a Jew It's crossing the crossing the borders. And we as Christians need to get to that place. You know one of the sad things that I'm seeing in our churches today is that in and and it all of us I think are guilty of it to a certain degree. And that is that we have our own circle that we're in, our circle of influence, but it does not touch the circles of the unsaved anywhere We t our circle touches the circle of our church people all around us. We can our our uh area of influence, we we can get into the lives of them because we see them every day. But we don't get involved in people who are unsaved. Their circle is over here, and ours is very conveniently just short of reaching over and touching it. When the reality of it is we need to cross the line. And get involved in people who are lost. How else do we grow? How else do we reach the lost if we're not involved in their lives? The Apostle Paul, obviously, when you read everything anything about the Apostle Paul, there's one thing about it. He was very aggressive. in this matter of of witnessing to people and meeting people who are lost because those are the ones who need to get saved. I'm telling you, these folks are getting so quiet. He says, I made all things to all men that I might by all means save some. Woe is me if I preach not the gospel. Yep, that was his that was his grace. concerned. And we have one more thing. It'll just take a few minutes. And the message you preached. And And we may overlap a little bit, but it won't hurt anything to be reminded once again, and it may not, so we'll just see where it goes. But the third thing, the first thing is that is the to to be willing to renounce the rights that we have and just give it to God. Say, okay, God, here it is, a blank check on my life and whatever you want, I'll do. And I'm yours. That's the attitude of a bond slave. That's what the Apostle Paul called himself often. The second thing is this matter of having a consistent, unblemished uh testimony before the world. And then the third thing is is this disciplined life. Let's read starting at verse 25. And every man that strive, striveth for the mastery Is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we am incorruptible. I therefore do so run not as uncertainty So I fight not as one that beateth the air, but I keep under my body and bring it into subjection. Lest by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway. I really believe that one of the things the Apostle Paul feared more than anything else was to be a castaway. And he's not talking about he's not talking about being lost there. I mean this is the same guy that said, I'm confident of this very thing, he which hath begun a good work in me. shall perform it till the day of Christ and and what shall separate me from the love of God, you know, and he goes through all that. So he's not talking about getting lost here in this thing. This this whole chapter is dealing with service, see? So the context has to do with service in the matter of of the uh uh the cast being a castaway No, what it means is being set up on the shelf or being set aside or being rejected for service or being put in a position where you can no longer, in his case, preach the gospel. And this was a great fear in his heart. And as and and what he did to offset that to so that he would not have to have to worry about that so much was that he kept under his body. So it's obvious that that what he's dealing with here is this this this spiritual fight, warfare that is constantly going on in the believers uh life between the old nature and the new nature. That's what he's talking about. And he says, I uh he said, I I don't I I'm not fighting this war just beating the air. And when it says that, he says It's the same as saying, uh no, I'm fighting this thing for real. I'm black in eyes, I'm bloody in noses, I'm busting lips, I'm doing I'm I'm fighting this. This is a serious thing And I don't believe that we today understand the seriousness of having a disciplined life A disciplined life. Discipline in how went in the Army, I've told you before I didn't like the Army. And like people telling me what to do, all right. And uh I didn't care for it. And and uh and I'll be honest with you, though I didn't care for it at that time I w I would give anything if I could go back and relive it the way it should have been lit. And I would not have uh been so careless with my military life as I was. I I just didn't I just hated it. But the one thing that that I learned in the army was just a matter of discipline. Everything was done with discipline With discipline. Even when I went on KP, it was all done with discipline and by the numbers. Take a string and make sure that all with uh the forty different tables going back through and every ketchup bottle had to be right on uh touching that string all the way back through there Every mustard bottle had to be exactly in line. Every every sugar bottle had to be just in line. Every table, if you pull that string tight, and every table had to be just perfectly in line. Everything was lined up. D discipline. Discipline. And then they they wake up at three in the morning and and you're standing outside in your undies and and they take you on a forced march for a in uh five or ten miles and you know everything was disciplined. It's no wonder I hated it But the Christian life, if the Christian life, if if we do not want to be a castaway, there has to be a life of discipline There has to be a a time to read your Bible, a time to spend time in prayer, a time you know to to be alone with God, a time to witness, a time to you know to be in church, a time to that that is a disciplined life. And the Apostle Paul, he understood what it meant. And he was so so concerned about this being a castaway. I mean, isn't it amazing that someone who who wrote some 13 books in the New Testament had all this godly wisdom, personal contact with Jesus Christ? Leadership of the Holy Spirit, filled with the Spirit of God, would be concerned about being a castaway, being rejected of the Lord And you and I live our lives and don't give a second thought to it. I think there's something wrong, isn't there? There ought to be that concern. There ought to be that discipline. Well, we've taken our 20 minutes, plus a few, but let me read these verses Let me say this first of all. It is possible. For a child of God to be indwelt by the Holy Spirit, but mastered by the flesh, that is possible. For appetites and excesses to rule the life of the child of God. And if we're not careful, that'll take place unless we can forego the rights that we have Have a spotless, unblemished testimony before the world, and live a life that has some discipline to it. a life that Christ can bless. Wherefore let him that thinketh, he standeth Take heed lest he falls. That's over in the tenth chapter. By the way, the tenth chapter has well has some other interesting stuff. We can't get into that though But that verse there tells us that stand he that thinketh he standeth, take heed lest he fall, is written because uh We need to be careful. Oh, it can't happen to me. The Apostle Paul was worried about it. He's worried about it. It can happen to us. And then the final verse is the one that the pastor mentioned and was on Sunday morning. And there hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful, will not suffer you to be tempted to be able to resist, but will the temptation make a way to escape that you might be able to I'm glad that that He expects us to live a spirit-filled life, but He gives us everything that we need to do it. And that's the Holy Spirit. Spirit within the promises of the Word of God without. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Heavenly Father, I thank you, Lord, for this time that we've had around your word. Lord, I pray that you'd uh you'd Convict us of our slothfulness, Lord. I'm guilty myself, Lord, and I have to acknowledge that fact that I need more discipline. I need a desire to waive some of the rights that I have in favor of the gospel. Pray, Lord, that you'd help us today to remember these three Three things and to implement them in our life that we might glorify you in Christ's name. Amen.