Proverbs chapter 31, if you would, find your place there. And I heard that they're opening a discount store for Legos up in Grantsville. Legos up in Grantsville. And they opened this week, I think they said they were lined up for blocks, waiting there to get in the Lego department store. They were lined up for blocks. That was your Mother's Day special. Psalm or Proverbs chapter 31, I'd like for us to notice, if you would, verse number 28. Proverbs 31, verse 28. Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praiseth her. Psalm 31, most of the chapter except a few verses at the beginning, is God's portrayal, God's picture Of the ideal woman. This is what I believe God created Eve and all womanhood. This is the ideal He gives us here. Included in this virtuous woman, this what I'm calling ideal woman, he touches on her role as a mother. And he says here, her children rise up and call her blessed. This virtuous woman, or you could say virtuous mother, and her husband also, he praiseth her. And so I want to speak this morning. I understand we have a full have a full schedule, and so my time's a little limited. I'll respect that. But I want to talk about a biblical mother, a biblical mother. So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us and see what the Bible says on this. Father, we ask now, as we have our Bibles open before us, that you would speak to us and teach us and challenge and encourage We pray particularly, as we already have, we pray again particularly for the mothers that make up Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and others that are with us. We ask that you would show us from your word, your plan, your design, your resources that are available to be a biblical mother. And those of us who would be in supporting roles of the mother, the father, husband, child, that you would help us do our part and be what we ought to be. And so we can see a generation reached for the Lord and and live lives that in are in line with your will and please you. God, we need you. And so I yield myself to you, my will, I present my body anew. With all my heart, I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me and take the Word of God and speak through my lips to each of our hearts and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You can't read the scripture and not come to the conclusion that mothers are important to God. You study what the Bible says about motherhood, and you find out that a mother has tremendous influence not only on her immediate home, immediate family. But mothers have a tremendous influence on society as a whole. A community is influenced by the conduct of the mothers that raise the children in that community. Now, they're not the only ones that have an influence. Of course, fathers do, and and we all do, but mothers have a significant role and a significant influence in community. Now, that influence can be either good or bad. And we look in Scripture and we find both. We find examples of godly, good, godly mothers that had a profound, positive uh influence, a lasting eternal influence on their children and their community. We don't have time to look at all of these, but uh in 2 Timothy, uh Paul, in writing to this young man Timothy, a young preacher, And he ends up being used of God in profound ways, but he references his grandmother Lois and his mother Eunice. And And uh he uh uh uh uh he mentions the fact that his grandmother, Lois, Eunice, his mother, had profound, had great faith in God. And they taught Timothy to trust God. Through their example and their instructions, their teaching, their daily living, Timothy saw in his mother and in his grandmother an example of what it means to live by faith. And they taught him the scriptures, it says, that from a child he knew the holy scriptures. And so here we have a tremendous influence of a mother. On a young man, and that young man ends up being used of God in tremendous, tremendous ways. But we also have examples of bad mamas A number of years ago I was canoeing down on Savage Reservoir and I found a little baby bear. This is a true story. If I ever if any of my stories are ever true, I'll point them out to you. And I'm canoeing and here's this little baby bear drowning out in the lake, out in the middle of the lake. And I grabbed it with my bare hands. You can go out and say, my preacher grabs bears by the bare hand. And I got it, and I rescued the little bear and I turned it into the DNR and it was quite an event And I said, What happened? And they said, We think the bear had a bad mama. Their first year having cubs and she didn't know how to take care of them and I guess got overwhelmed and abandoned The little babies, there's another one right in the area they found was dead. So there are bad mamas, not just in bears. But we find some bad mamas in the Bible. There's several mentioned. The probably most notorious is Jezebel. We're all familiar with that name at least, and what a wicked mother she was. And she deliberately took her son. And led him to worship false gods. I mean wicked, ungodly lifestyle, perverse. And deliberately rejected the true and living God and the righteousness, the goodness, the godliness of God, and led her child to rebel against God and to live in wickedness. Would you agree that's a tragedy that a mother would use her influence in such a perverse way, such a vile way, to influence her child And so motherhood has a profound influence. I don't think we're going to know till we get to heaven the full impact that mothers had On our lives, on our homes, and in our communities, in our churches. Mothers are profound and have a tremendous influence in our church I think we'll won't know till eternity the full extent of that. But motherhood is God's plan. God designed This position of a mother when he created Adam and Eve. In fact, Eve's name came from Adam when he named her Eve because she is the mother of all living. And right from the get-go, we have God's design, God's purpose, and God's plan for motherhood. Mothers are dear to God. Mothers are highly valued by God. I got looking in scripture and I found that God gives from pretty uh clear instructions on how mothers are to be treated by their children The fifth commandment of the ten God gave Moses on Mount Sinai, the fifth one says that we are to honor our fathers and our mothers. Mothers are to be honored by their children. Honored. It's interesting, again, we could spend a lot of time on this, but this first four commandments have to do with our relationship with God. Have no other gods before him. Make no graven image. Remember the Sabbath day. Don't take his name in vain. And it goes right directly from our responsibility to our Creator God To our relationship with our father and our mother, and our treatment of our mother. We are to honor God instructs us, commands us to honor our mother's honor. And we could talk about what that means. How we talk to them, how we talk about them, how we treat them, the respect we show, or the honor. God makes it very, very clear. He requires us, instructs us to honor our fathers and our mothers. Again, in Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 1, in Colossians chapter 3 and verse 20, we're told to obey. Children are told to obey. their parents, their mothers. Children ought to obey their mother. And all the mothers said, Young child says, what's God's will for me? It's very simple. Obey your parents. Do what mama says. Obey your parents. Again, in Proverbs chapter 23. We're here in Proverbs. Just come back. I want you to see this. Come back to chapter 23, just a few pages back here. And in verse number twenty two Proverbs 23, verse 22. Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and look at this, and despise not thy mother when she is old. We are told that mothers are not to be despised. Now he says when she's old, I would suggest, and I think the implication here, at any age. Mother ought not to be despised, especially when she gets older and needy and helpful. Now the question is what's the opposite of despising your mother? What would the opposite be? To exalt her, I put down cherish. Highly value. Cherry, if I despise someone, there's no value to me, it's no interest of mine. But he says, don't do that to your mother, especially when she's old. Cherish her, value her, show interest, concern for her well-being. Take care of your mother. Mark chapter 7, verse 11 and 13. We don't have time to go to all these, but we're told to love and care for our mother. You think of mothers, you think of them loving their children. You think of them caring and investing all their resources, all their strength, all their heart. Into the lives of their children and meeting the needs and caring for them. But God says that we're to make sure we turn around and we love and care for our mothers. Do what we can to help them. Would you agree with me? A child ought to love their mother. Would you agree they ought to care for their mother? Mama, can I help you? What can I do for you? And so God values motherhood tremendously. It's ve it it's very highly esteemed that responsibility by God. And he gives some very clear instructions in Scripture how children Are to respond and treat their mothers. But not only children, but also the fathers of the mother's child. How the fathers are to treat the mothers. Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 25 says, Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. By application, that would be husbands, love the mother of your children. Give yourself for her. Love her just like Jesus loved the church. You say, Preacher, you don't know my you don't know my wife. Maybe not, but I know I know what you and I are. Jesus still loved us enough to give himself for us. The best thing, I put this down, the best thing a father can do for his child, a father, and Mother's Day, but let me say a word to the fathers. The best thing, man, you and I can do as fathers for our children is number one, love God with all our heart. Love God. And number two is like unto it, love, the mother of our children, like Jesus, loves the church. Give yourself for her, care for her, take care of her. 1 Peter 3 and verse 7, Colossians 3 and verse 19 teach us that fathers are to treat the mother of their children with honor and kindness. A father is to be faithful to his vows, to the mother of his children. So the point I'm trying to make, and what I see in scripture as I study this subject, I see a God in heaven that views mothers as somebody very, very precious, very, very valuable, and very important. In the well-being of a family and in the well-being of a community. And you and I, regardless of what our station life, we all have a responsibility to love and care and honor and help mother. And help them. So, what is a biblical mother? I got three thoughts I want to give to you very quickly. Number one, I want us to consider the heart of a mother. The heart of the mother. Biblical motherhood begins in the heart. It's not, biblical motherhood is not dependent upon my financial standing. It's not dependent upon my popularity in a community. It's not dependent on a national culture. What I'm trying to say is a mother can be a biblical mother regardless of where she lives and how much money she has. Because biblical motherhood begins in the heart. Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 23. And again, I have to buzz through these quicker than I would like. But it says, keep thine heart with all diligence. For out of it my heart are the issues of life. And motherhood is an issue of life, right or wrong. And it comes from the heart. Comes from the heart. Proverbs 23, verse 7 says, For as he or a person thinketh in his heart, so is he. It is the condition of my heart that determines the quality of my life. It is the condition of the heart that determines the caliber of motherhood. How was my heart? Out of the heart. For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. Jesus said this. Jesus. In Matthew chapter 12, verse 34, he said, Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh Now we're talking about mothers this morning, but applies across the board to teenagers and husbands and grandfathers and any category Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. Kind words off of the lips of a person come from a kind heart. Loving words are the result of a loving heart. Hard, harsh, condemning words. Are the fruit of a hard, harsh, condemning heart. Motherhood begins in the heart. That is where our attention needs to be. Whether a mother or father, regardless, as a believer, our attention needs to be on our heart. Our heart. A biblical mother, if a mother is going to be a biblical mother, she needs to have a converted heart. Ezekiel chapter 36, verse 26, the Lord said, I will give you a new heart. Say, preacher, if you knew my heart, if you knew the sinfulness of my heart, if you knew how hard my heart is, and for various reasons, and we can come up with all kinds of reasons why our heart is hard and cold and wicked. But God says, if you'll let me, if you'll trust me, I'll give you a new heart. I'll give you a new heart. Take your Bible with me if you would. Now keep your place here, and I might run out of time before we get all this, but come with me back to the book of Romans in the New Testament, Romans chapter number 10. And he's talking about this matter of salvation, being saved. And many of us are very, very familiar with these passages, but I want us to look at verse 9 and 10 of Romans chapter number 10. A converted heart. If I'm going to be a biblical mother, I need to have a converted heart. It begins in my heart. And by the way, by application, if I'm going to be a biblical father, I need to have a converted heart. I'm going to be a biblical young person. Child, I've got to have a converted heart. Look at Romans chapter 10, verse 9. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, Confess everything he is and what he's done for you and our condition, and shall believe in thine Heart. That God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. And with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. A converted heart, a heart that is received Jesus Christ as personal Savior, sincerely, genuinely, and God gives me a new heart. God gives you a new heart. It's more than just biblical Christianity is more than just going through rituals and ceremonies and Baptisms and attendances and all of that. It's more than that. It is a heart matter between me and the living God. And I trust him with all my heart. I say it too often, but this past Thursday, May 7th, 1030 at night, we were down at the men's getaway. At ten thirty, I was in my room. The other guys, I don't know what they are, they were out partying, I don't know what they were doing. I got on my knees and I said, Thank you, Lord. For giving me a new heart, for coming in my heart and life 47 years ago, Thursday night at 1030. God gave me a new heart. So a biblical mother, it begins in the heart, the heart of a biblical mother. It needs to be a converted heart. Every child needs a saved mother. Every child needs a mother that's been born again, that knows Jesus Christ as Savior, that has a new heart. The heart of a mother. A biblical mother needs a consecrated heart. You're in Romans here. Come over to chapter 12. Consecrate. The word consecrate means to set apart. It means to be set my heart apart to the Lord. I give the Lord my heart, my love, my loyalty, my devotion. Look at verse 12, chapter 12, verse 1. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy Acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. And the mind and the heart are synonymous in Scripture By the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. A consecrated heart, a heart that is dedicated to the Lord Jesus. I believe a godly, dedicated mother will do more for a child than all the riches in the world will ever do for that child. All the fame and worldly success does not come close to what a humble, godly mother Can give to her child. It leads to blessings of God. It leads to eternal life. Billy Sunday, the great evangelist of a hundred years ago, he said there's not enough devils in hell To pull a boy out of the arms of a godly, dedicated mother. A converted heart, a consecrated heart, number three, a compassionate heart. In Isaiah chapter 66 and verse 13, God compares his love to that of a mother's love for her child. Loving, loving. Be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you Compassion. Compassion's missing in our world today, am I right or wrong? Violence, anger. This morning I was downtown I had to get something. I pulled in, I was a little at an angle, I was just running in, coming right out. Some guy saw me park the way I did And you could see in his eyes he was all worked up. He's coming over here over to get me. So I quick ran in and came out before he got there and left. I didn't want to beat him up. We live in a world that is hard and angry, that desperately needs compassion. I wish this wasn't true, but we're at a point now where our homes are hard and angry. Yell and fight and hate and bitter I tell you, a biblical mother has a compassionate heart. By the way, a biblical father has a compassionate heart. Loving and kind and patient and long-suffering. And then a biblical mother has a consistent heart. Psalm chapter 40, David speaking here. He's a man, of course, but it applies to motherhood. He says, I waited patiently, Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and he set my feet upon a rock, and he established my goings. What David was saying was the Lord set my feet, gave me stability in my life, gave me direction in my life, and consistency. A biblical mother is consistent in her walk with God. It's not up one day and down the other, and godly one day, and ungodly the next. Now that takes what I'm saying isn't easy. I understand that. But we ought to work at being consistent. Amen? I tell you, one of the great to me is the great compliments we get at our church here. Folks visit us maybe 10, 15, 20 years or more ago, and they come back and visit and they'll say something like this, Brother Letterman, your church hadn't changed one bit. He's talking about our emphasis and our spirit and our position, our doctrines. And we have no intention of changing We want to be consistent, consistent, consistent. Biblical mother, it all begins in the heart, the heart of a mother. A converted heart, a consecrated heart, set apart to the Lord, compassionate and consistent. Stay in the same, stay in the same. There's not a perfect person in the world. There's not a perfect mother in the world. But we can be faithful. We can be consistent. When we fall, we get back up. When we fail, we apologize, we confess it, we make things right, and we get up and we go on. May not have a super IQ. You may not be the richest person in the county or the most popular. But I tell you, we can be faithful and we can be consistent to our Lord. So the heart of a mother, a biblical mother, the heart of the mother, the second thing I want us to consider very quickly is the help of a mother. Motherhood can be overwhelming. There are demands on motherhood. There are physical demands on motherhood that can be overwhelming. Sleepless nights. Um challenging days, trying to keep up with those little rascals running everywhere The demands draw, drain mothers physically. The drama of life drains mothers emotionally. Would you agree with me? Now we we've raised two boys. I'm talking to the mothers now, but I wonder how many mothers agree with me. Raising children can be heartbreaking. It can wring your heart out. And it drains. It can be draining emotionally for a mother. Motherhood can be overwhelming. The demands of raising children drain mothers physically. The drama of raising children drains mothers emotionally. And the devil's attacks on mothers. Can drain a mother spiritually. Devil, the devil, I'm here to tell you, the devil is against biblical motherhood. Why do you think he has convinced entire nations to abort their babies before they're ever even born? Someone said they did a statistic, they said the most dangerous place in the world for a person in New York City is in the womb of their mother. More are killed and aborted in the wombs of their mothers than any other cause of death in all the city. Now I'm not here to preach on abortion, but I'm simply saying this: the devil is against motherhood. And if he can destroy a mother, if he can discourage a mother, if he can distract a mother, if he can derail a mother. It affects the whole next generation. It affects the life of a child. The help, you say, preacher, that's overwhelming. I know it. But there's help. We have the person of the Holy Spirit. If you know Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit of God dwells in your body right now. He empowers us. In Acts chapter 1, verse 8, Jesus said this. He said, Ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. Mothers, there is strength available to you from within, in the indwelling person of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit empowers. The Holy Spirit directs and gives wisdom. Lord, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do in this situation. I can come to God, Holy Spirit, Holy Spirit, give me wisdom, lead me. Help me to know what to do. The Holy Spirit encourages and comforts. I tell you, motherhood and raising children can be so discouraging. God bless you, single mothers. God bless you. I'm here to tell you there's somebody inside your body that cares about you. There's a s the Holy Spirit of God. that loves you and cares about you and he will help you. You'll trust him. Let him So it can be overwhelming, but we have help. God, as a believer, He's given us the Holy Spirit of God. Then also we have the help of prayer at God's throne We have the person, the Holy Spirit. We can go to God's throne in prayer. Hebrews chapter 4, verse 16. Let us come boldly to the throne of grace, that we can find grace to help in the time of need. God will help you learn to pray. God give us praying mammas. Pray for their children and ask God for help and wisdom. Ask God to help you. Ask God to guide you. God will help you. The heart of a mother, the help of a mother, the person of the Holy Spirit dwelling within the believer. By the way, if if you're here this morning, And you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, I urge you with every ounce of my being, trust Jesus Christ, get that settled. Spirit of God will come in your life. He'll help you. Not only save your soul, he'll help you in your life. And then prayers at God's threat. Let me give you a third help. The partners at church. I believe the church is designed by God. To help believers, mothers, fathers, young people, help us live for the Lord like we should. The church, the local church, our church is necessary for a close, consistent walk with God. We cannot neglect the body of Christ to be all that God intends for us to be. The church provides for mothers, particularly, provides older mentors. I'm telling you, we have here in churches like ours all around the world. There are in our church older mothers that have raised children, and in some cases raising grandchildren. They got great grandchildren. I'm telling you, they are a tremendous resource for you They have years and years of experience, both what to do and what not to do. Godly women that love the Lord. That are here, part of our church can help a young mother learn and mentor them in raising their children. Amen? I mean, we're told, I think it's in Peter, he says, ye aged women, teach the younger women to love their husbands and love their children. We have the partnership of church here. We have the support of one another and the mentorship of older ladies can help, older mothers. We have examples of training and examples can teach younger children. And so the heart of the mother, the health of the mother, and I'll end with this, the harvest. of a biblical mother. Mother, trust Jesus Christ the Savior. She's got that settled. She gives her heart and life to Christ. She's consecrated, set apart. And uh she God gives her compassion. The love of God is shed abroad in her heart. She's very compassionate And she's consistent. She learns to walk with God on a daily basis and do what she needs to do to be faithful and consistent and stable. And then she looks to God for help, and the Holy Spirit empowers her, and she goes to God in prayer, and he answers her prayers and he leads her. And she comes to church and she finds believers that rally round her and love her and support her and help her. And then there's a harvest for that. I put this down. God blesses faithfulness. You say, preacher, I'm sowing in tears. I know, but you stay faithful and you'll reap enjoy. You'll reap enjoy the harvest. The motherhood involves tears, but it also involves blessings and reward. What's the harvest of a biblical mother? Number one, I put this down: the praise and respect of her family. If you would come back to Proverbs. I hope you kept your place there, chapter 31. I want to end in this passage. A biblical mother. Oh, not perfect. Far from it. That learns to get up and learns to trust God and learns to stay at it. And notice, if you would, verse number 28. Her children rise up and call her blessed. Her husband also, and he praiseth her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all. Look at this. Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain. Look at this. But a woman that feareth the Lord. Can I put it in the context of today's message? A mother that feareth the Lord, she shall be what? Praised. Praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands and let her own works praise her in the gates. May not always show it. Children may not always show it. But I think in the end, a godly biblical mother, the children will respect her. Respect her. Don't confuse popularity with respect. Sometimes parents and fathers are guilty of this as much as mothers, but sometimes we'll just become buddy buddy with our kids. And we'll just become a peer, just another friend to them. And as far as it goes, that's okay. They need more than a friend, they need a parent. Need a mother, need a father to give them direction and structure and guidelines and perimeters for their life. When we do that, in the end, I believe they'll respect us. They may not always follow our advice. They may not always turn out the way we intend for them. If we do right and we stay faithful, I believe in the end they'll respect us. So there's praise and respect the mother harvests if she's a biblical mother. I put this down: there's the perseverance of influence. I like Proverbs 22, 6, train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it You say, preacher, is that promising that our kids are every time are going to turn out right if we do right? No, that's not what that's promising. I've known some parents that were exceptional, some of the best parents I've ever met in my life, and they've had kids turn out out of the will of God. You see, here's the thing. Every child has a free will. They go out of the house, they make their decisions. But what I do think that passage is teaching is this. And I think there's a principle there. If we do right, for the most part, the kids will turn out right. But the principle is this, I think. Raise up a child and away he should go, and when he's old, he will not depart from it. I think what it's suggesting is that he will not get away from knowing what was right. They might not do it, they might not live it out, but it will ring in their hearts and their ears and their minds their whole life. Mama loved God and walked with God. And I think many times we'll see like that old prodigal son, at some point they'll come back. Are you with me? The harvest of a biblical mother, the praise and respect, the perseverance of influence, they cannot get away from the testimony of a godly mother, a godly mother. And then pass on their faith to their influence. I mentioned. Pass on their faith to their offspring I mentioned Lois and Eunice in 2 Timothy chapter 1 and how their faith in God and their love for the scriptures influenced Timothy. God used them in a great way. There's many a great men of faith owe their faith and their life to a godly mother, a humble, faithful, godly mother. I've known preachers, great men of God. I could name them, some of them you'd recognize the name, who were raised by a single mother. I'm thinking one fellow in particular. He used to have God, he's with the Lord now, a drunkard, violent, drunkard father. Never in the house, unfaithful. But his mother was godly. She walked with God, consistent, humble, pure. That was passed on. The boy got a hold of that. He went, God used him in great, great ways. The influence of a mother. Years ago, and I've shared this before, but many years ago I came across, as far as I know, it's an accurate account. Of a mother had a small little girl, just an infant. She was raising it and the baby was sleeping and she was in a nice suburban neighborhood and the neighbor had called and said she had some questions or whatever. They were cooking. Wondered if she could uh come and help her for a moment. Mother checked on the baby and she was sound asleep. Everything was good and she goes, I'll just be a minute She slipped out and ran over to the neighbor's house. She was there just a moment or two, and to her horror, she looked out, and the house had caught fire somehow. In the second story bedroom where little baby was was just engulfed in flames. She screamed, and the record goes she ran and Burst through the door and flames all around her and fought her way up the steps, catching on fire, her hair's burned off. She fights her way into the room where the baby is, and she takes the baby and covers it and runs out and saves the baby's life. And in so doing, she was burned and scarred severely, severely, spent months in the hospital, skin grabs She finally recovered and came and years went by and the little girl grew. She went to school, got older, and Nothing ever said about her mother's horrific scars, her ears about burned off, not much left of her ears, scars on her face, her hands. Not much was ever said about that One day in junior high, I guess it was, or high school, the the girl was there and they were waiting after class and parents were picking them up and this mother with all the scars was standing there waiting for her daughter. The daughter was there and they were all talking about who their mother is and one of the girls there was hateful. Looked over and saw her mother, not knowing it was her mother, and said, Uh, look at that lady Another one said, that's the ugliest woman I've ever seen in my life. Look at her face, look at her ears. They said, who is she? Who is she? And the daughter said, Oh no, I don't know who that is. She denied her mother because everybody in the world thought she was ugly. Later on a family member had heard about that. Mother, of course, was crushed. Family members came to that girl and said, Do you know what your mother did to get those scars? She goes, I don't know. She never told me. She said, she saved your life. She risked her own life and gave up her beauty so that you could live. God broke that girl's heart. She came to her mother sobbing. I'm sorry, mama. I'm sorry, mama. I'm sorry, mama. We ought to love our mothers, amen. They pay a horrific price so a child can grow up and be what God intends for him to be. By the way, what that mother did for that daughter, our Savior did for you and me. Eaten beyond recognition. Suffered unimaginable spiritual and physical judgment of God so that you and I can have eternal life. Oh, what a savior. Oh, what a savior. Father, I ask you to challenge us now on this Mother's Day, Sunday. You'd teach us as husbands, fathers, and children to love our mothers, to honor them, be kind to them, and take care of them. Respect them. I pray you bless our mothers in God and strengthen and encourage them. Be godly, biblical mothers. And Lord, I pray that every person on the sound of my voice would know Jesus as Savior. And if that's not the case, I pray today would be the day. They trust the Lord and get a new heart and an eternal life. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder, let me say just a word to the mothers to begin with. I wonder how many mothers would say, preacher, God's given me a great responsibility. I need Him to help me. And I want Him to guide me. I need his wisdom, I need his strength, his direction. Is there any mothers like that say, preacher, pray with me? That's what I want as a believer. God bless you. Hands all around. What mother wouldn't want that? I say you have help. You're a believer, you have the Holy Spirit, you have a prayer, you have a church. God will help you. God will help you. I wonder how many of us fathers But say, preacher, pray with me that I'll be a better husband to the wife, to the mother of my children. I'll treat her the way Jesus treats the church, and I'll be what she I'll be to her what God instructs me. Anything like that. How about it? How about it, Dads? God bless you. Heads all around. And then our young people I wonder how many young people say, preacher, I'm going to commit myself to love and honor and respect my mother. I'm going to be that child that she would be proud of. Oh be kind and gracious. Speak respectfully. Is there any like that? Any young people? God bless you, young young people all around. How about it, young people? Seriously I want to honor my mother. God bless you. Would there happen to be someone here this morning? Say, preacher, I don't know for sure. And when I die, I go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. And I need to get this matter settled of my salvation and know Jesus as my Savior. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? How about it? Young or old, preacher, pray for me I need to get this matter settled. Father in heaven, by the hands raised, you know our hearts. Help us, Lord, in Jesus' name