One thing you find the Lord Jesus Christ doing through the Gospels is rebuking his disciples for having a lack of faith. In fact, sometimes you get the impression he is speaking very, very sharply to them when they do not have the faith in him that he expected them to have. And again, he rebukes them very, very sharply. I found that one of the greatest struggles in the Christian life is simply having faith in God, just trusting Him. In these situations of life, just simply trusting him and following his leadership, just having faith in him I look back over my life and I think I can honestly say the greatest mistakes I've made in life have been mistakes of simply trusting God. Simply having faith in God. And some of the greatest victories I've seen God do in my life have been victories as a result of simply letting God have his way. Simply putting it in his hands, trusting him and obeying him. So faith is so important. I believe that having faith in God is one of the primary factors in Christian growth. We want to grow as a Christian When we accept Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, it's the beginning of a new life. It's the beginning of eternal life. It's the beginning of spiritual life. And that life is developed. We grow and mature as Christians as we exercise faith in God, trusting Him, allowing Him to lead us. Following his directions. So again, one of the primary factors in my Christian growth is exercising faith in God. Now this woman approaches the Lord Jesus Christ here. She's in a crisis situation. We'll notice in a moment. And the Lord makes a powerful statement to her as they interact a little bit, kind of awkward some of this here. Some of it seems almost unlike the Lord Jesus and the way he reacts to her. We'll see here in a moment. But he says to her, O woman, great is thy faith. I looked at that pretty carefully. I can't find anywhere that Jesus ever said to Peter, Great is thy faith. I can't find anywhere that Jesus ever said to James or John, Great is thy faith. In fact, I only find two people in the New Testament. That Jesus says expressly to them, great is thy faith. And you know what's interesting about that? Both of them were Gentiles One was a centurion who came to the Lord Jesus Christ on behalf of one of his servants, and he's asking the Lord to intervene in the health of his servant. And uh the Lord says, I'll come and heal him. And the centurion says, No, no, no, no. I'm a man of great authority, and I can simply say to this man, go, and to this man Come and they'll do what I say. He says, You are the ultimate authority. All you have to do is speak the word, and my servant will be fine. And Jesus says to him, Great is thy faith. Now here we have this woman. And she approaches the Lord Jesus Christ on behalf of her daughter. And the Bible says that her daughter, she tells the Lord that her daughter is vexed by an evil spirit. Notice there in verse number 23, or verse 22. She says, Have mercy on me, O Lord. Thou son of David, my daughter is grievously vexed with the devil. And Jesus, we go through the process here that we're going to break it down. And Jesus says to her, Great is thy faith, woman, great is thy faith. Two Gentiles, two outcasts in society Yet Jesus singled these two folks out, one a Roman soldier, another an unknown woman, Gentile woman, and he says to them, He observes their response to him, he observes their faith in him, he says, Great is thy faith. I would never have dreamed you'd find great faith coming from these two people. Sometimes faith is found in unlikely places. You might find a little rundown ghetto apartment in the inner city of Chattanooga, and there you find a daughter of a slave. Pick cotton in Alabama for years. And you find great, great faith. Mrs. Anna Mae Nixon, I've talked about her many times as we would visit her house when I would live down there and the bus route would come through. What great faith. That dear precious elderly black woman had in the Lord Jesus Christ. Sometimes it's unlikely places you find faith. Sometimes faith is found in unlikely people. Never dreamed someone like a centurion would receive from the Lord Jesus Christ a great compliment, great is thy faith. I wouldn't have expected in a man like that, a hard man, a fighting man But nevertheless, a man of great faith. Verse 28, as I pointed out here a moment ago, he says to this woman, who he says, Great is thy faith, and then He immediately follows up with that with be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And to me, that reads like a blank check. Jesus is handing there. Your faith is great. Therefore I'm giving you this blank check. Now what is what do we mean by a blank check? I think most of us here understand what we mean when we use the term a blank check. Basically, a literal blank check is when someone takes a check. They fill out the date, they sign their name to it, and then they let you fill in the amount of the check. How many people could handle that? I've never had that happen to me, but um that's what a blank check is Now, a blank check implies, when someone offers to another person, they present to them a blank check, it implies, first of all, that the resources are in place In other words, here I offer to you a blank check. It's signed, it's ready to go, everything's in place. All you've got to do is put in the amount, take it to the bank, and the resources are in place Now there are some people, if they gave me a blank check, I wouldn't get too excited. If I give you a blank check, don't don't don't call home, alright? It's wouldn't be that thrilling But when God gives you a blank check, you can't exhaust those resources God has more available for you and I than we could ever consume in a life in a thousand lifetimes. The resources are there for this woman. There's no doubt about it. There's no problem with the check going bad. Be it as thou wilt. A blank check implies that, first of all, their resources are in place. They're there. And I'm telling you this morning, when we come to God with our needs, listen to me When we come to God with our needs and our problems and our situations, I'm here to tell you, God is able to handle them. God can solve our problems. God can answer our questions. God can direct us through the darkest nights. The resources are available. Woman, great is thy faith. Be it unto thee even as thou wilt. The resource in place, but also a blank check tells me there's a means to transfer those resources. It's one thing for God to have the things I need in heaven. It's another thing to get them into my life. God is all wise. God is the absolute perfection of wisdom Now, God's wisdom there in heaven and my situations and my problems here on earth, I need to transfer that wisdom of God from him into my life and my situation so I can deal with it. Follow what I'm saying? God is all powerful. God is uh uh uh uh is uh all-sufficient He can provide for us. He can direct us. He can help us. And not only can he do that, everything is in place for him to transfer that to us. Let me put it this way, every blessing that comes from God comes only through the Lord Jesus Christ. I must know Jesus Christ as my personal Savior if I am going to see God operate on my behalf I must have my faith in Jesus Christ for that check, the resources to be transferred to me. What was it about this woman that prompted the Lord Jesus Christ to make such an over-the-top promise? What was it about this woman that Jesus would, so to speak, pull out his checkbook, sign a blank check, tear it out, and say, Here you go, ma'am, whatever it is, whatever you will, it's yours. What was it about her? I don't see him doing that to a lot of other people. But this woman Got a blank check from the Lord Jesus Christ. Can I suggest to you the answer to that question? What was it about her is told in this very verse. O woman, great is thy faith. I'm here to tell you this morning, faith in God can do amazing things. Faith in God can change lives. Faith in God can save a soul from eternity in hell. Faith in God can send revival to a church. Faith in God can send revival to a nation. Great is thy faith. Great is thy faith. Now I want to look at this woman here for a little bit. The Lord says to her, Be unto thee even as thou wilt. Blank check for you. What is it about her? I put a few observations down here and I'm going to try really hard to be right to the point. So promise you we will be out of here by two. I promise you that for sure. Consider this woman that the promise is given to. Number one, I notice, first of all, she's overwhelmed by her situation. She is overwhelmed. Look at verse 22 again with me. And behold, a woman of Canaan. There you go, this is a Gentile woman. A woman of Canaan came out of the same coast. And cried unto him. I mean, she's not just asking them, he's not, sir, do you have a moment? It's not, uh, pardon me, excuse me, wasn't any of that at all? She is absolutely desperate. Her situation has absolutely overwhelmed her, and she cries unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord. Thou son of David, my daughter, is grievously vexed with the devil. She had a situation on her hands that there was absolutely nothing she could do about it herself. She was powerless. To deliver her daughter from this vexation of the devil. She was powerless to deliver her daughter from the torments that Satan was putting on her daughter. She could do nothing about it herself. It was overwhelming. No doubt she had gone to friends and family and asked for help and asked for advice. No doubt She had sought out people to come and help me, my daughter. And we don't know the specifics of how this all played out, but no doubt she had sought her friends and family to help her with this situation. I love my daughter And the devil is just destroying her life and the devil is eating her alive, so to speak. Can anybody do anything for me? Maybe she called her mother and went, Mother, can you please help me? Maybe her brothers and sisters, her neighbors, her friends. Nobody could do anything for her. They were powerless. She could do nothing herself. No doubt she had sort of friends and family. They could do nothing. And I want to suggest to you all the money in the world. could not deliver her daughter from the devil's assault. We got this idea in our heads That if we're going to be able to do anything for God, if we're going to see any kind of uh results in people's lives as far as far as godliness and spirituality and salvation, We have to somehow have more money. I'm telling you, more money is not the answer. Greater faith is the answer. All the money in the world wasn't going to save her daughter from the devil's attacks. All the friends and people in her town wasn't going to change a thing. She could do nothing herself. She is absolutely overwhelmed. There's a situation that only God could solve. I read verse 25, and my heart is almost torn out of my chest. We'll look at verse 23 and 24 here in a bit. And then verse 25, then she came and worshipped him. Say, Lord, help me. Ain't a lot. Can you feel the desperation? Can you hear the desperation in her voice? Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David, my daughter is grievously vexed with the devil. He answers her not her word. The disciples said, tried to push her away. And when it says she came and worshiped him, I picture in my mind her simply falling prostrate at his feet and saying, Lord, help me. Lord, help me I wonder how many of us have ever been to the situ been in a situation in life or came to a point where it seemed like there was no one in the world that would help, that could help, or that even cared. And the only thing we could do was fall before God and say, Lord, help me. It's where she's at. She is absolutely overwhelmed at the end of herself. There are situations in life. I'm telling you, there are situations in life where no other human being can help us. There are situations in life that all the money in Bill Gates account cannot help us. There are situations in life, no matter how strong of a personality we may have, no matter how strong our disposition may be. We cannot pull ourselves up by the bootstraps. We face situations in life where only God can help us. And that's where she was She had a daughter that was vexed by the devil. Apparently, this daughter is unsaved. Apparently, this daughter is being tormented. And her heart is crying out to God, help me. Maybe it's a matter of salvation of a soul As I read of this woman and studied it and tried to picture this event taking place in my mind, and I see her falling prostrate at the feet of the Lord, and no doubt tears streaming from her eyes. Lord help me My mind went back to 1979 when I was a sinner wretch. Under the conviction of the Holy Spirit of God, I was trying to change my life. I was trying to get out of the sin that dominated me. I wanted to be free from it. So bad. Finally I came to the point, God, you've got to help me. I can't save my soul. I can't deliver myself from sin. Lord help me. Maybe you're here this morning. You're unsaved. You know you're a sinner, you know you're under the judgment of God. And maybe you're looking for some way to find salvation and you've been going to this church and that church and you've been doing this and giving that and trying this and And trying that and quitting this and starting that and you say nothing brings peace to my heart. Nothing is bringing uh uh bringing uh forgiveness of my sins. You can go to the priest downtown every day of the week and confess your sins. You're not gonna find peace and forgiveness through another man. You're here this morning, you say, Preacher, I'm a lost soul. I'm under the judgment of God. I need forgiveness of God. I need peace in my heart and soul. I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ, the only one that can give that to you. Maybe you're saved. And maybe you find yourself in a situation where a sin, even as a Christian, a sin has gotten hold of your life And you fought that thing, and you fought that thing, and you fought that thing, and you've tried everything in your own power to have victory, and victory never comes. I want to suggest to you, even as a child of God, we need to come to the Lord Jesus Christ and say, Jesus, I need you to deliver me from this sin. We folks all across this auditorium could stand and testify that even after they were saved there was some sinful habit, some sinful thing was part of their life, and they fought it and fought it and fought it until they came to the point of total desperation I can't beat this thing, God. I'm going to look to you and trust you to give me victory. And God sent victory. Might be a little tobacco cigarette. Might be a little uh uh liquor uh sinful thing. Could be any number of things that even can dominate even a Christian life, but God is able to give victory God is able. She is absolutely overwhelmed in her situation, and we find those same type of situations, maybe in the salvation of our soul, maybe in victory over sin, maybe a broken heart. You know, sometimes a broken heart's a tough thing to get over. And that thing can eat away at us and eat away in us and bitterness settle in. And suddenly, before we know it, we are vexed by bitterness and anger over that person that hurt me. We find ourselves defeated, and only God can heal a broken heart. Say, Lord, help me. Lord help me. This woman comes the Lord Jesus Christ completely overwhelmed. Completely overwhelmed and concerned for her daughter. And I'll say this: her daughter was in desperate situation. That was a bad place to be. And she comes the Lord Jesus Christ. First thing I notice about this woman, she's overwhelmed by her situation. Second thing I notice about this woman, and it gets even worse, she's ostracized by those around her. Now what do we mean she was ostracized? By that we mean she was excluded. It means to be banished or pushed aside Now this is where it bothers me a little bit. There's a few statements here that are a little bit disturbing, to be honest with you. Look with me at verse 25. Now verse 24 she comes and says Mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David, my daughter is grievously vexed with the devil. Now in my mind, I would picture Jesus saying We'll bring her to me. Take me to her. We'll help you. We'll settle this. That's the way I picture, the Lord responded. But look at verse 25. But he, Jesus, look at this, answered her not a word. What? And then the disciples step up, and his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away, for she crieth after us. Jesus, she's a pain. She's a nuisance. She's annoying to us. God pity Christians. When we start pushing away people who have problems and sins that they're struggling with, when we have been delivered from the very same thing ourselves. And here she is, ostracized. She was a Gentile. The Jews despised her. Now I can understand the Jews despising her. They had gotten so far from God and they established such a proud, self-righteous religion that was so far from the truth It was hypocritical and Jesus rebuked them. I can understand that. But God's people, the disciples behaving this way And even Jesus seems to ignore her. He answered her not a word. How many people find that out of character of what you picture the Lord Jesus Christ? Anybody? I sure do. I mean this is the this is the Savior that said, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden. I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall find rest. And here he answers her not a word. Now without going into a great theological dissertation here, let me just say this. Jesus knew exactly what he was doing. He knew exactly where this was leading. He had a direction he was going. He had a purpose for his behavior. And he knew how it was going to end up. So before we stand in judgment of Jesus Christ here, let's back up and remember a moment. He is all-knowing, he is perfectly good, he is not being unkind, he is not making a mistake. Have you ever been in that situation? God, what are you doing? God, I don't understand. Lord, you're making a mistake. Come on now. How many people would say, yeah, I've been in. Maybe we didn't express it that way, but that's kind of the way. Anybody at all? Sure, we've been there. Lord Sometimes great faith, as I said, is found in unexpected people and unexpected places. Here's a despised woman outcast by the Jews. She's from a different culture. She was raised in a different godless religion She was raised by different values and different standards, and now she's here nagging us. And I can hear some of the disciples say, Look, no wonder, look at the culture she's out of, no wonder her child's vexed with the devil. But yet she ends up being complimented the Lord with great faith. Sometimes great faith, as I said, is found in unexpected people and unexpected places. How many people in that recognize the name Gypsy Smith? Anyone recognize that name? Gypsy Smith was a great evangelist in London of years gone by. God used him to reach hundreds of thousands of people with the gospel. But Gypsy Smith, as his name implies, was a gypsy. And gypsies were hated even to this day in many parts of Europe. Despised, they were nasty, they were thieves, they were dishonest. But Ira Senke, traveling with D. L. Moody, had gone into a gypsy camp and had preached the gospel. And a young 14-15-year-old boy Who later became known as Gypsy Smith, heard the gospel. And he trusted Jesus Christ as his Savior. And God touched that young boy's heart, and he learned to trust God. And he learned that regardless of how other people may or might may not treat him, God was good. And regardless of what other people thought about him and how low they lowly they looked down on him, he could still be used of God. And God did an amazing thing, honoring that young boy's faith, and raised him up out of that gypsy camp whom everybody hated and used him to bring glory to God You may not think you're much of anything. You may have family members that criticize you and ridicule you because you're trying to live for God and do right I'm here to tell you, don't let other people's actions cause you to misjudge how the goodness of God It doesn't take a great person to have great faith. I've said this many times. I heard a preacher last year say it, and boy, I've kind of I wished I wished he hadn't said I wish I'd have thought of it without him having said it. But I like it and and I've I just cling to it. I may not be the sharpest knife in the drawer, but praise God I'm in the drawer. I like that Just a simple man, simple woman, a simple child, willing to take God at his word and trust him completely. God can do some great things. God can do some great things. How many of us would have approached that band, Jesus Christ and his twelve disciples? And came up and said, Lord Jesus, and said, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David. My daughter is grievously vexed with the devil. And Jesus just keeps on walking, doesn't answer. The disciples start saying, Get away, you're annoying, you're a pain, get out of here. How many of us would have taken offense and say, what kind of Christianity is that? What kind of church is that that would treat me that way? And walk away from God and see her daughter end up in hell? Not this woman. First of all, she was overwhelmed by her situation. Second of all, she was ostracized by the people that should have helped her. I thought about um How many people remember the story of Naaman in the Old Testament? Syrian captain of the Syrian army? Pagan? Hard man, killer? Leader of a powerful, powerful, violent army. And they invaded Israel, and as they came back, they brought prisoners as they always did, and they auction those prisoners off in various parts of society and people would buy them as servants and slaves. And Naaman, someone in his household, buys just this little gal, this little Jewish gal, that was captured in the battle, brought her back. And she's working in Naaman's house. Lo and behold, Naaman developed leprosy. There was not a cure on planet Earth at that time for leprosy. He was a dead man walking. There was nothing anybody could do. All the money in the Syrian army could all the money in the Syrian government could not help him All the weapons in the Syrian army could not make him well. Not one person, not one thing on planet Earth could make him well. But there's a little maid there that believed God And she says, Oh, that my master were in Israel. And she says, in so many words, the true God of Israel could make him well. A woman despised, a servant, respected by no one, yet she had great faith, and Naaman ends up getting saved. Number one, this woman was overwhelmed by her situation. Number two, she was ostracized by those around her. Number three, I put this down. She was obstinate in her prayers. I like this about this woman. She would not quit. Those folks can be rude to me. They can be unkind to me. It may even seem like God is ignoring me. But I am not going to stop praying for my daughter. I am not going to stop seeking the spiritual well-being of my child. I am not going to walk away. I'm going to stay at this and stay at this or die trying. Look at verse 25. Then she came. This is after she's been ostracized. Then she came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me. Now look what the Lord says. And he answered and said, It is not me to take the children's bread and cast it to dogs. Now be honest. How many of us would have been a little offended by that How how how many if you come into a church you go to the pastor and say, Pastor, I got this need, my child, uh can you show them uh how to be saved? They have all these spiritual problems and can you show them some verses? And they said, uh it's It's not right to take the word of God and cast it to a dog. I think people would be a little offended by that. Now the Lord, again, before we stand in judgment of God, remember the Lord knows what he's doing. He's teaching. He's leading. He's directing. He's showing something here But where most of us would have walked away at that, this woman presses it even more. Presses it even more. In fact, she humbles herself greatly. Look at this, and she says, truth, Lord. Yet the dogs eat of crumbs which fall from their master's table. You know I wrote a margin of my Bible, I wrote humility. You know what would be good for the church? You know what would be good for our church and other churches like ours? A good dose of humility. Lord, you're right. We are sinners. God, you're right. We have fallen so short. I'm telling you, we are in a world that is increasingly judging God by the world's standards rather than humbling ourselves by the Lord and judging ourselves by God's standards. We send out emails and information on the internet, and almost without fail, I'll get responses back, people telling me uh ungodly people telling me how unjust God is and how hateful the Bible is and how uh and how wrong God is in Christianity is. And you know what that is? That's simply sinners judging a holy God and they're wrong. And this woman recognized that. Lord, you're right. I don't deserve. I don't deserve your attention. I don't deserve your blessings. I don't deserve your mercy. In fact, the very definition of mercy is getting something I do not deserve. And be good for you and I to remember we are sinners, and God is holy. She does not quit. She just keeps coming. She just keeps coming. Yay, Lord! Even yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their master's table. Now this is the way I picture it in my mind. Now I don't know that it played out this way, but I see the Lord, the disciples around him Disciples are all indignant that this woman is doing this. Oh, this is so embarrassing. This woman is so annoying. And the Lord's just kind of ignoring her, but I tell you one thing, you can s you can pick it out in this His ear is open to her. He's hearing her. He's teaching a lesson. And he's going along, and in this woman who has pled with him, Finally says, yay Lord, but even the dogs eat from the crumbs. You know what I see happening? This is the way I see it in my mind. Suddenly the Lord stops. And he turns and he looks at her. And I don't, this is me. This is Leatherman, alright? But I see a twinkle in his eye at this point. And I see a half a smile on his face, and he looks at her and he says, Great is thy faith, woman. Here's a blank check for you. That's what he was looking for. An expression of faith. An expression of humility. Her faith was tested like very few other people. Other people came to the Lord Jesus Christ. Boom, he took care of it right then and there. Blind man comes. Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. What do you want? I'd like to see. Your faith has made thee whole. Boom! He goes on. But this woman For reasons that God has, he tests her and tests her and tests her faith, and her faith proves true And she stays that persistent, obstinate in her prayers. And God heard her and answered. People are going to fail us. How many people have found that to be true? People are going to fail us. Now before we get too worked up about that, let's remember that it goes the other way. We failed people also, alright? People fail people. Sometimes it even seems like God is silent. Have you ever been there? Have you ever gone? It seems like the Christian, as you grow in your Christian life, it seems like there are seasons of life we go through where we pray and we seek God, and it almost seems like the heavens are made of brass. It seems like God, where are you? Do you not hear me? Do you not care? And in those times when it's when the people were treating us the worst and heaven seemed so silent That is the time not to quit. That is the time to exercise greater faith. And Lord, I trust you. God, I believe in you. You promised you would answer prayer. You told me to come in prayer. What do you do when God is silent? What do you do when you pray and God answers you not a word? Let me give you a few thoughts real quickly. This is just a little aside. Number one, when God doesn't answer a prayer, when God is silent to us, number one, keep trusting Him, keep looking to Him. Don't stop. Just keep on praying, keep on trusting her. Do what this woman does. Just keep on coming back. Just keep on coming back God, maybe you're not going to answer me. Lord, maybe you'll turn a deaf ear to me, but I am not going to quit pounding the gates of heaven with this prayer. Don't quit. Number two, I put this down. Take personal inventory. Stop and think. Wait a minute, is there something in my life? God is holy. Maybe, Lord, maybe I need to stop. Maybe there's something not right here. Maybe there's some pride in my heart and life. Maybe there's some sin I'm holding on to and it's And God will not hear me because of that. And something I need to confess and repent. Maybe somebody I need to go to and make things right with. And then maybe that will open the windows of heaven again. The Lord says, uh it's not right, take the meat and give it to the dogs, and she goes, Lord, even the dogs to get the crumbs I think she stopped and saying, Lord, listen, I have nothing to offer you. I have no righteousness of my own, I have no goodness of my own, I have nothing to offer you but humility and desperation. So, number one, don't quit praying. Don't quit looking to the Lord. Don't stop trusting God. Number two, take personal inventory. And number three, I put this down: yield my will to the Lord's. Now we know it was God's will for this girl to be delivered. There's no doubt about that, and we see how it plays out But sometimes we get something that we want from God, we feel like we need for God, or maybe we have a situation in our mind, we figure out what the answer is And God's solution may be different than what my imagined solution is. You follow what I'm saying And I'm hammering heaven and hammering in heaven and hammering heaven and saying, this is the solution, Lord, when God has a different solution. And maybe what I need to do, if it seems silent, God is being silent, maybe I need to stop and say, Nevertheless, Lord, not my will, but thy will be done. Lord, you deal with this however you see fit. So she is obstinate in her prayers. She does not give up. This woman, overwhelmed by her situation. Number two, ostracized by those around her. Number three, she's obstinate in her prayers. Now we want to look at the promise in closing. We've looked at this woman, and when you stop and look at her, she's a pretty amazing mom, huh? What a mom She is coming and humbling herself, humiliating herself before the disciples and the Lord Jesus Christ on behalf of her daughter. What a mother! Now she gets a promise. Now what My first thought when I read that, woman, be thou unto thee even as thou wilt, I thought, man, giving a blank checkout, uh, that could be a little dangerous. How many people here go around giving blank checks out to people? I don't. Don't see me afterward, Bill. You ain't getting one, all right? Wouldn't do you much good anyway, but That's a dangerous thing. Alright, here's the check. It's blank. Fill out whatever you need. Boy, I hope they don't write more than 100 bucks on that thing. Huh? And so what was it about this woman that would prompt the Lord to make such an amazing promise like that? Well, two things. One She agreed with the Lord. Again, verse 27. Truth, Lord. You're right, Lord. She didn't take offense. She didn't argue with him. She wasn't quarreling with him. She said, You're right, God, you are right. Can I tell you how to get things from God? Can I tell you how to get God to answer our prayers? Stop fussing with the Lord and start agreeing with him. Just agree with God. You're right, Lord, in no matter whatever whatever the Word of God says, you agree with that. That's the truth. And when she agreed with God, God starts getting his pen. When she agrees with the Lord, he starts getting his pen out. Alright, now we're on the same page. Agree with God. Agree with God. I like this statement. When I am fully yielded to the Lord, the Lord will yield to me. Did you get that? When my will is fully yielded to the Lord's will, then the Lord will yield to me. In other words, when I'm asking, when my request is in line with the will of God, then God will answer that prayer. Number one, she humbly agreed with the Lord. And number two, her will was a godly will. Now, we didn't point this out, but it's very obvious. She was asking for a good thing. Right? How many people agree with me the salvation of a child is a good thing? Good grief. Of course it is. She's asking God to deliver her daughter, this child, from the torments of the devil That's a good thing to pray for. That's a good thing to work towards. That's a good thing to sacrifice for. We just went through a week in Neighborhood Bible time two weeks ago. People worked hard. People gave sacrificially. Why? So that little children could come to know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. That's a good thing. And what she was wanting from the Lord, what she wilt have, was the salvation of her daughter. And when you and I come and start seeking God for good things, we can be sure That God will step in and operate on our behalf. Am I right or wrong? She doesn't come and say, Lord, I'd like a new Maserati. Oh Lord please even dogs drive Maseratis. Oh okay, sure, whatever. You don't find him pr You don't find anyone coming to the Lord asking for carnal, ungodly things, and the Lord saying, okay, you can have whatever you want. You don't find that in the Bible. You find people come to the Lord asking for the right thing. Listen, today somebody's here and you're struggling, you're working on, you're struggling with, you've got an issue, it's between right and wrong. And you decide, I want to go do what's right, I want to be right with God, I want that which is good, and you seek the Lord for that which is good, I can tell you right now, you've got God on your side. But if we're fighting the will of God and we're trying to press forward in our own will and we're not yielding to the Lord and we're seeking our own selfish desire. You're not going to have God step in and get your way. Oh, may come to the point like he told Israel, he gave them the desires of their heart, but he sent leanness to their soul. Sometimes God says, all right, if that's what you want so bad, then you can have it, but boy, it's going to cost you. But when we ask God for good things, I'm talking to some parents this morning. And you've got kids either unsaved or away from God. I'm telling you, when we humble ourselves before God and we seek God on their behalf, we've got God on our side. We've got the ear of the Lord. So she agreed with the Lord. Her will was a godly will, one of the greatest things I can do. is devote myself to the spiritual well-being of others. And she received deliverance of her daughter. I think my message, I close it out with an appeal to parents this morning. Moms and dads. Maybe grandparents could fall into this. We have children Why don't we take the attitude of this dear woman and say, Lord, I am going to pray I am going to devote myself to the spiritual well-being of my child, and I am not going to quit, and I will humble myself before you. Lord, I will agree to whatever you say But God have mercy on my child. God, whatever you require, whatever is demanded of me, if there are some things I need to put out of my life. If there is somebody I have to go to and apologize, if there's something I need to start doing, God, whatever it is, I am asking you on behalf of my child that you intervene in their life and make things right. And until parents get that concern for the spiritual well-being of their children, I'm afraid we're not going to see much change in the coming generations. Am I right or wrong? There was a day when moms and dads would gather the family together every evening. And bow on their knees before God with an open Bible and say, God, bless our family. God, lead our family. God, teach us what is right. And now we live in a day and age when everybody goes to their own room with their iPads and their cable TV and everybody's rocking out and perverting out. And we wonder why our nation is in the condition. God, give us some parents that care enough about their kids to humble themselves before the Lord and agree with God What a woman. What a mother. Be it all unto thee, even as thy will. How about Sunday school teachers and bus workers? Wasn't that a blessing? You know, there's a lot of there's hundreds, I want to say thousands of kids in our community. I'm not trying to be judgmental. I'm just we've been around long enough, we know. Hundreds, maybe thousands of kids in our community have no Christian mommy, no Christian daddy, nobody reads the Bible to them at home, nobody prays for them And God raise up maybe some Christians in our church and maybe other churches like it that would get a burden and say, you know, I want to invest myself in the spiritual well-being of these children. I'm going to Pray for them. I'm going to do whatever God leads and directs and God teaches me to do. And I want to have an impact in their lives and see them find the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior and be able to grow up with a decent, good, godly life. Sunday school teachers and bus workers and church members, families and friends giving ourselves I had a friend in Bible college. We were best buddies. He pastors down outside of Roanoke, Virginia, right now, Mark Manning. He was a missionary in Dominican for a while, was able to on our first trip to go down and preach for him His wife got sick. They had to come back to the States. Mark Manning made a profession of faith as a young teenage boy. He went through the motions. He was nominal Christian in the youth group and kind of just went along and wasn't real stirred up about anything spiritually. He graduated, he started college, and he, very good trumpet player, very gifted. He got in with some rock band playing trumpet He got out of church and they began playing in bars around uh he was out of South Carolina, playing in bars down in the area where he was at and he'd go out Friday night, Saturday night all night long Rocking and rolling and jazz and drinking and dancing. His mom and dad were good godly Christian parents And he told me we were in college, we'd talk about our past and everything, and he said every Friday night I'd come flying in from work and change. I'm going to head out to the bars and play my trumpet. He said my mother would say as I'd go out the door, she'd say, Mark! Be sure your sin will find you out. Saturday, somewhere around, start getting ready to go out Saturday night. She'd say, hey Mark, before you go out. You show your sin, I'll find you out. He said his mama the whole time he'd standing in that smoke-filled bar room All that ungodliness, his mother be at home on her knees beside her bed praying, Oh God, have mercy on my son, save his soul. Mark said, finally, I couldn't take it. He said I'd be up there playing that trumpet under such conviction. He said, I got saved. I won through the motions before. I'd made a profession. I just played the game. He said, but now I meant business. I got saved God changed his life, and for all these years he's been preaching the gospel all because a mother believed that God could change her son's life Amen. Isn't that good? Think about my daddy praying for me. I don't have time, but I have the story I'll have to use another time. DeWitt Talmage. Anybody recognize that name? DeWitt Talmadge. Brian? Old preacher back in New York, years back, late 1800s. He was contemporary of Spurgeon. Powerful preacher of the Word of God. Very similar story. He had a mother that prayed for him, prayed for him, prayed for him. And God did a great work. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. I pray you'd stir us and challenge us this morning to have faith in you. Lord, stare us and challenge this morning in the situations of life to come to the throne of God and hold on with all our heart and humble ourselves. And God, we want you to help us I know I'm talking to parents. I know I am. That have kids that are away from God. Some are unsaved. I'm talking to some young people that have moms and dads, family members that are lost. Lord, I pray you'd stir our hearts that we would get such a burden that this woman had that we would refuse to give up praying, we would refuse to have our own way, we'd humble ourselves before you and seek your face. And Lord, that you would save our loved ones. Or maybe some of us have situations in our own lives that we're vexed. And we need you to help us, God, teach us. I wonder with our heads back