Proverbs chapter eleven. We're going to read uh just three verses tonight. Verse nine through eleven. Nine, ten, and eleven. Proverbs chapter eleven, verse nine. Let's just dive right into it. An hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbor, but through knowledge shall the just be delivered. Now I want to spend most of my time here on verses 10 and 11. It says, When it goeth well with the righteous the city rejoiceth, and when the wicked perish there is shouting. By the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted, but it is overthrown By the mouth of the wicked. Let's pray and then uh the message this evening. Heavenly Father, Lord, it's it's just been good just to just to be a part of the church today, Lord, and just to see you work And Lord, we ask now that you would bless the service tonight. Lord, I ask that you would completely take over. Lord, I ask that you would just completely fill me with your spirit And have just full control over me now, Lord. Hide me behind yourself, and I ask that uh you would be glorified. Lord, I ask that you would bring conviction, but Lord also I ask that you would bring encouragement. Lord, and I ask that you would uh uh just revive each and every one of us so that we'd be ready to uh uh face the world this week. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen Now, I'm going to spend most of my time here in verse 10 and 11. Again, I'll read them one more time. It says, When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth. And when the wicked perish, there is shouting. Verse 11 just really popped out to me the other day. By the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted. But is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. Now, if you know, if you're around this church for any period of time, if you're around our pastor, if you're around um any of the members here and I know I'm talking to the Sunday night crowd so most of us know each other very well. But you would agree with the statement that if someone were to come in and be around us for any period of time. that we love the Lord. Our desire is that they would say, uh we're Christians that want to please the Lord. And that kind of goes along with what I was saying this morning, that we like to read the Bible and then uh do what it says. And if you spend it much more time around us, and this is a secondary thing I understand, but if you spend much more time here You'll understand that we love the Lord, but also we love our nation. We love our country. We have throughout the year we have many big events that are patriotic in nature. Fourth of July, we have a big thing And then also Veterans Day and throughout the year. Now, again, we have to make sure that that is a secondary thing. Our love for the Lord comes first and it should. But if you spend much time here, you'll understand that we love the Lord and that we love our country. We love America. We pray for it. We pray for those in office. We pray for our military. And uh we thank the Lord that we have the privilege to be born here, to to live here, and to be a citizen here. Um one reason that we enjoy it so much is because of the freedoms that go with it We're not worried right now about being arrested for being here. Um we didn't have to look over our shoulder when we were out soul winning this afternoon And that's a privilege, and it's f that we have that freedom to do what God has called us to do. And by the way, if all we had freedom for was just to do what we wanted, then God wouldn't really need to give it to us, would he? The reason we have freedoms is so we can do what he wants us to do. So we have freedom to serve the Lord And the moment we stop serving the Lord, freedom is soon gonna stop. Freedom will cease very shortly after that. But again, I think it's evident that if you spend any time around us There are those that would say that you can't be a Christian and a patriot at the same time, but I I would disagree with that. I would say that you could be both. And I can truly say that I'm I'm I'm proud to be an American. Um first and foremost, I'm a Christian. I understand that But also I love our nation. Now there's some things that we need to understand. Obviously, if you look around our country right now, it's there's there's a mess, and I encourage you not to watch the news. I encourage you not to look at that. Should we be aware of things happening? Sure, but you can get so wrapped up and become rather depressed very quickly. And that is not a good thing to muse on. Remember, we talked about that this morning. We need to spend more time in our Bible than we do watching the news, that's for sure. So anyway, um there are many things. When we say America is a great nation, I believe it is. I believe it was started Great, and I believe it's been great ever since. Obviously there's some things going on that are are taking away from its greatness, but I still believe it is a just a wonderful place to be. Now and um I did some well I was doing some studying for this. There you'd be surprised at what people have said make this country Great. What make it wonderful? What make it exalted? Again the word you would use. Exalted. And there was someone that said the reason that America was exalted was because of its natural resources. Okay. Natural resources, I believe, are a blessing, but I don't believe that's a source of our greatness There's other places that have good natural resources and and they haven't been exalted. There's people that have said all kinds of things. They would say our military is a source of our greatness Well, when we were started, we didn't exactly have the greatest military, right? We were s we were a bunch of uh militia and farmers that faced the greatest military on the world and Of course, that was God that did that. That was God that did that. And so again, I believe that we do have a great military, but that's a blessing, not the reason, not the cause. That's the effect, not the cause. But as you study that people will attribute all kinds of things our great wealth, again, I think that's a that's a blessing, not the cause of the blessing. But um i i uh y you could do a a search on it your own and you would say people you would see people attribute um America's greatness to all kinds of things And those things may be good in and of themselves, but that is not where we get our blessing from. Now we understand that. We understand that. I want to read a quote This is from um Alexis de Tocqueville. Does that name sound familiar to anyone, Alexis de Tocqueville? He um came to America in 1831 from France to see where America's greatness came from. And this is a quote. He said, I sought for the greatness of the United States in her commodious harbors, her ample rivers. her fertile fields and boundless forest, and it was not there. I sought for in her rich minds, her vast world comments commerce her public school systems and her institutions of higher learning, and it was not there. I looked for it in her Democratic Congress and her matchless constitution, and it was not there Not until I went into the churches of America and heard her pulpits flame with righteousness did I understand the secret of her genius and power. America, he said, America is great because America is good, and if America ever ceases to be good, America will cease to be great. So here's a person from another country that comes over looking to see what makes us so great And he found it when he went to church. He found it when he went to church. Now I'm a uh again I'm I'm a Christian first and foremost, and when if if my country strays away from the Bible, then I stay with the Bible and not my country. I understand that. But I believe that this nation was was founded on the Bible. And I don't think you can uh if you do any if you study history at all you you you can't ignore that fact. If you take a trip to Washington, you can't ignore that fact. It's all over the Capitol Our Christian heritage. And as I was thinking about that, I was thinking about and thinking about these verses here. Verse 11 just really popped out to me. By the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted. And then verse 10 as well: when it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoices, rejoiceth. The first thing I really wanted to point out, and again it's so plain here in Scripture, when Christians do well, when the righteous do well, The city benefits. City benefits. Was everybody that was alive in the 1700s in the colonies, were they all saved? Well, no. But there's some that were. And God blessed them. And as a result, many more got to benefit from the blessing. As a result, the city was exalted. The city was exalted because of godly men that God blessed. Now, what does it mean, goeth well with the righteous? It means when the righteous are acting the way the righteous are supposed to act, when they're going the way that they're supposed to go. It kind of goes, and I kind of meant for this to be this way, but it goes a little bit with the message this morning. When we do what the Bible says, We have success. We mentioned that this morning. If you uh do what the Bible says in regards to marriage, you'll have a successful marriage. When you do what the Bible says in regards to friendship, you'll have a successful friendship. And Joshua 1. 8 is pretty clear on that. Why would it be different with the success of a nation? When we do what we're supposed to do, God will bless us. God will bless us. And you can look at our history and see the blessings of God, and we are still benefiting. Our city is still benefiting. From the blessings that God blessed our founding fathers with. Godly men, God bless them, and we're benefiting from it When Christians do what Christians are supposed to do, when it goeth well with the righteous, the city's happy, the city rejoices, and the city's exalted. By God blessing those that seek to follow Him. Christians and Christianity is responsible for the prosperity of our nation. There's no way around that. You can't argue that fact that the reason God has blessed the reason we are blessed is because God has blessed His people here in America. Our nation has been blessed by the upright. Verse 11 says, by the blessing of the upright. The idea of upright try it has the idea of trying to live right, trying to live righteously It's one thing to be saved. That's important. That's the main thing. Knowing for sure you have a home in heaven. That's the main thing. But you can be declared righteous but not live upright. And when the righteous don't live upright, the city will suffer from it. But when the righteous do live upright, they're blessed, and then the community is blessed as well. I was reading the commentary and I forgot to write down which one it was. I have it there in my office. If anyone wants to know, I can go find it. But uh he said uh God uh he said God blesses the uh the upright, and in doing so he blesses the community. God blesses uh the community. He's um he he he said that he extend that God extends, here's my quote, I'm sorry, and the blessings often extend to the community in which the just live, to quote him exactly. God almost spared Sodom because there if there would have been just a few righteous. If you hold your place here, go to Genesis chapter 18, and we'll look at that specifically. In verse 26, and the Lord said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare All the place for their sakes. All the place. He said he would spare it if there was fifty righteous. Now, I don't know what the population is and people will say, oh, that's a percentage and all this stuff. I don't know. But I do know that God was willing to at least spare the city if there would have been some righteous there. And you go all the way down to uh verse 32. And he said, Oh, let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak yet, but this once perventure ten shall be there. And he said, I will not destroy it for ten's sake. So there is a principle that God will bless a city for the righteous that are in it. Again, hold your place in Proverbs and go to Genesis chapter 30. Genesis chapter thirty, and look at verse twenty-seven This is Laban talking to Jacob. And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found favor in thine eyes, tarry, for I have learned by experience that the Lord has blessed me for thy sake. Laban's saying, because of you, God's blessed me, so can you stay. That's what he's saying. So there is a principle here in Scripture that, yes, even though there is wickedness in the city, God will still bless the righteous. Now, just like with Sodom, it will get to a point where God says, no, this is the limit, this is the cutoff. God has to deal with sin. God has to judge it. But we understand that he also blesses the righteous and that those around the righteous are benefited from the blessing of the righteous. Does that make sense? Does that make sense? So God blesses the commun oftentimes blesses the community that the righteous is in. I think uh this would apply just on such a basic level. There are many homes that have been blessed. because of one or two saved members of the family. And that God will bless that one person and the rest of the family gets to benefit From those blessings. And we've seen cases like this. We've seen instances of this. There might be There might be a classroom that God will bless. There might be a business that God will bless because of the of the of the Christian business owner. So we we see this. In this principle, it comes up oftentimes throughout Scripture how that God will bless someone for the sake of someone else, and how others will benefit from the blessings of God. On his people. And again, you can't you can't in talking in terms of our nation, this is so evident God blessed godly preachers, godly founding fathers, godly men that sought him, that prayed and fasted and asked for his guidance and asked for his help And appeal to heaven. And God blessed them. And we're still benefiting from those blessings. We still are. Our city has been exalted because of God's blessing on the upright, whether this city knows it or not. Now, is it true that there are many, many, probably the majority of people would not attribute our success to the Lord? Well, sure. Most most most uh curriculums, most entertainment, most Media, however you want to say it, most of the driving force and driving education from any area does not give credit to the Lord for our success. But that doesn't change reality. We have been blessed, and it is because of God's blessing on the upright. On the upright, on the righteous. By the blessing of the upright, our city has been exalted. The Christians that that lived here before us, they were upright. They tr they chose to uh and they strove to follow God the best they could. They were dedicated to God's word and to doing what it says. Again, we looked at that this morning. And as a result, God blessed our nation. I firmly believe that. Our prosperity is a result of this. Now, the verse says this: by the blessing of the upright the city is exalted, but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. It is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. And I don't want to spend too much time on this. I don't want this to be a uh uh you know a a depressing message at all but we d we we don't have to look too far to see wickedness. Like let's just be real. It's everywhere It's best just to keep your TV off. It's best just to avoid avoid the world's contact as much as you can. There's things we have to do, right? But yeah, you don't have to look far to see the wickedness that's around. You I mean you you'll you you just go to the grocery store and you see it. Um you you go to Little Caesars and it's right there in the car next to you. It's oh my goodness. Um it it it's everywhere. We get that So should we give up? Should we just say, oh, wickedness is everywhere, America's doomed? Well, we had our run. Well, no. Christians still need to live like Christians. The righteous still need to live upright. God will still bless those that do right. I don't know how much longer America will be here. I I hope it's for a long time, but it might not be. But I do know that God still wants to bless those that do right. And that other people might benefit from it as well. When the wicked take over, the nation is overthrown. And again, you don't have to look far, you're seeing that. People seek to erase the hand of God from our history. They seek to take the Bible out of every institution we have. They seek to promote evil. But that doesn't mean we should just throw in the towel and give up. It doesn't. We need to keep doing what God's called us to do. We need to keep reading our Bible and keep doing what it says. You know, if if Christians did what Christians were supposed to do, maybe we wouldn't be in this predicament. Maybe we could get out of this predicament. Maybe we'll be here a little bit longer. You know, the reason people do what they do is because they don't know the Lord. And as Christians, we're supposed to tell them about the Lord. How many, how many people Would have voted differently if they knew the Lord? How many people would um not have caused so much destruction actual physical destruction to property and attacking police officers. How many people would not do that if they were saved, right? But that's what that's what we're supposed to do. We're supposed to tell them about Christ. We're supposed to do what righteous are supposed to do. We've got called us to go in the whole world preach the gospel. That's like our our main job as Christians. But for so long It hasn't been going well with the righteous. While it was, our nation was blessed as a result. And we're still benefiting from blessings of previous generations. I don't think it's time to give up, and I don't think it ever would be. I don't think it's time to throw in the tail. I think it's time to uh keep doing what God's called us to do I love what Pastor did with those yard signs. That's just the coolest thing. I mean I just love that. Why? Because it's it's getting the gospel out more. That's what we're supposed to do. That's what we're supposed to do. Keep passing out tracts. That's what we're supposed to do People will get saved. And when when when God uh when when God saves somebody, he changes their heart and he changes their thinking That's what we're supposed to do. I'm all for uh I'm all for campaigning and I'm all for getting involved with politics, but that's not the primary that's not the primary weapon The main thing we're supposed to be doing is winning folks to the Lord. Every way we can. Love that radio station. The pastor refers to it as a sprinkler to sprinkle of the gospel around. That's great. Putting the ad in the paper. That's just awesome. Going soul winning. Leading someone to the Lord on a Sunday afternoon. That's it. That's it. That's it. I met uh I met a man the other day. Um I went and did uh some bus visiting with uh with Nate this week. And uh while he was talking to uh one of the kids, I saw another guy and started talking. I thought I'm gonna, you know, try to witness to this guy. He started witnessing to me. I was like, praise the Lord, this is great You want to make sure I was saved, want to make sure Nate was saved, and it was just great. And then he was saying, Yeah, I was down there fishing and I was I was witnessing to the guy that was next to me fishing. I'm like, this is awesome This I mean that's what we're supposed to be doing. That's what we're supposed to be doing. When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth. When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth. And by the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted. It is the responsibility of the upright, of the righteous to do well. By doing well, we'll be blessed But not only us, our city, our state, our nation. And it will be exalted. It will be made great. And then then people will rejoice. There'll be joy. You ever have you noticed, I don't know if you've sensed it, but everywhere you go, the like the joy is like pfft, like it's left people. Have has anyone noticed that? Like like people used to like be friendly and smile. Well they might still be. I don't know. But peop people I mean people would would be friendly, smile and talk to you but a lot i i and here it's still kinda that way to an extent, you know, but But you I mean you get to some places and people are just downright hostile. The joy is left. We can have the joy back The city can rejoice again if it goes well with the righteous. If we do what we're supposed to do. I only should let the wicked take control of our nation. Because if we do so, it'll be overthrown at the mouth and in the hand of the wicked. So, so the qu here's the question. Well, a few questions. Are you doing well? Because we can say, oh, that's right, Christians. They're supposed to live like Christians. Bless God, y'all need to get right. Well, you're a Christian. If you've accepted Christ as your Savior, right? You're a Christian. How how are you doing? How are you doing? Do we collectively Need to have revival, absolutely. But we're not going to unless we do individually. You follow me? It's so easy to say, oh yeah, as a society, we've gone so far from God, we need to get back to God, we need to get right. When's the last time you told someone about Christ? When's the last time you spent some time reading his word, praying for your nation, praying for your your home? When's the last time you did fill in the blank? Did you follow me? It's so easy to say, oh, we need we we need to get back to God as a nation, and all these Christians out here aren't even doing right Are you? If every Christian looks at all the rest and says, y'all need to do right, then no one would. Right? We need to individu if we individually make up our minds, I am gonna do what I'm supposed to do. I'm gonna read the Bible And then do what it says. And tonight we're talking about in the in the area of a successful nation. I'm going to read the Bible and do what it says. And if every Christian had that attitude, boy, it'd be different, wouldn't it? It'd be different. Are you living like a Christian? I I I say this all the time, but it are you even reading your Bible? Because if if you're not, then you can just Nothing else will even matter. You won't even You won't even get the instruction. You won't even know what to do. You won't be filled with the Spirit. You won't You gotta read your Bible. Are you even praying? Are you praying? Are you tithing? Are you soul-winning? Are you living separated? We get mad at the way the world is, but we're right there with them? You follow me? Are you separated? Are you allowing sin to control you, your desires to control you? Or are you allowing Christ to control you? See, it's so basic, it's so simple. When it goeth well with the righteous When we do what we're supposed to do. When we do what we're supposed to do. Are you acting like a Christian? Whether or not the city or nation, your town, your home, your state, whatever, is blessed or overthrown It there's a there's a there there's a relationship there between the way the nation goes and the way the Christian goes. The way the Christian goes. If we give up, and I s and we see this attitude a lot, If we if we're we can get this way ourselves if we're not careful. Man, it's a lost cause. It's a sinking ship. It's going downhill Uh it's over. Well, that doesn't mean we're supposed to stop. Right? People can still get saved. God can still turn it around. And if you don't think he can Well, he can. He can. So anyway, are you doing what you're supposed to be doing? You know, this morning we looked at the formula for success. When we said, you know, hearing the formula for success in Joshua 1-8, read the Bible, meditate on it, do what it says. If you know if you want a successful marriage, you want a successful friendship, you want a successful business, job, whatever, just do what it says. It's the same thing with the nation. The reason our nation has had success is because of men of God that read the Bible and did what it said. That's it. That's it. They sought God's will on it. They sought what God's Word had to say on things, and they did their best to do it. Our Bible says that righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. That's Proverbs 14, 34. Our Bible also says that when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice, but when the wicked bear rule, the people mourn. Proverbs 29, 2. Our Bible also says that if we want our land to be healed Alright, now this is where it hits close to home, right? Reading the Bible and then doing what it says. That's when the success comes. So this is what the Bible says to do. We want our land to be healed, to humble ourselves and pray, seek his face, turn from our wicked ways That's 2 Chronicles 7. 14. Do you want your land healed? Do you want to see your country restored? Do you want to see your nation great? Do read the Bible and do what it says. Says to tell people about Christ. It says to pray. It says to humble yourself. See his face. Again, I don't know how long we're going to be here as a nation, but I do know that if we say it's a lost cause, America's gone gone, then it will be. So let's keep doing what God's called us to do. Find someone tomorrow to just tell them about Jesus. Amen. Find someone tomorrow. Give them a track. That's just gonna be the greatest thing ever. Spend some time in the Bible tonight, tomorrow morning. Spend some time in prayer. Keep doing what Christians are supposed to be doing. Allow God to bless you. And who knows, the nation around might be blessed as a result. It'll be fun. It'll be good. So, are you living right? Are you living well? Is it going well with you? If it's going well with you as an individual, then it's more likely it's going well with the righteous. So, are you seeking God's face? Is it going well with the righteous? I kind of wanted to just really I wanted to be encouraging to everyone tonight. I really did. We look around everywhere and we see doom, gloom, misery, and we're we're tempted. I don't know about you. I have been tempted to say, it's over. I quit. I give up. No one's getting saved anymore. We're done. Well, of course they won't if we act like that. Right? Let's keep going. Let's keep doing what we're supposed to do. When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth. Right? Amen