Exodus chapter number four. And uh we're looking at verse number at the end of the chapter. I want to read verse number twenty-nine. down through the end of the oh actually into the next chapter, chapter five and verse one. Exodus twenty-four. Exodus chapter four. Verse 29 down through chapter 5 verse 1. Notice the Bible says, And Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of the children of Israel. And Aaron spake unto all the words which the Lord had spoken unto Moses, and did the signs in the sight of the people And the people believed. And when they heard that the Lord had visited, and when they heard that the Lord had visited the children of Israel and that he had looked upon their affliction Then they bowed their heads and worshipped. Then verse 1 of chapter 5. And afterward Moses and Aaron went in. And told Pharaoh, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, let my people go, that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness. Um I don't I changed the title, Jamie, again from what's in the bulletin. I've entitled it a bold entrance. Let's pray, and then we'll look at this here this evening. Father, thank you again for the Word of God I thank you particularly this life of Moses that you've recorded and preserved for us, the lessons we can learn from this. Lord, I believe there's some lessons in these few verses we looked at tonight, some principles there and some illustrations and challenges for us. So I ask that your Holy Spirit Would please fill me and draw from this passage lessons for each and every one of us, wherever we're at in our Christian life, whatever our spiritual well-being may be or may not be. I ask you would use this tonight to help us grow and go forward. And so I yield myself to you new in this hour and pray your blessing. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We know the story, we know the situation. Moses has yielded to the Lord's call. He's accepted the commission. He's on his way down There was some modifications, we might say, to what God's initial plan was. Aaron's now in the works. I don't think that was God's initial plan. If you remember a couple weeks ago as he's en route to Egypt from the wilderness, a bloody issue comes up. His wife Um Zaporah confronts him about the circumcision of their son and uh they get that resolved. We looked at that, the bloody issue. Then there was a bl brotherly alliance. We looked at that last week In verse number 27 of chapter 4, where uh Aaron now unites up with Moses And uh they have this alliance between the two of them, and this is God's doing when Moses had um objected that he can't talk good, he can't do this fine somebody else And God says, all right, I'll get Aaron. He'll come down, he'll be your spokesman, and we'll see how that plays out. And now we're at this bold entrance. They actually arrive in Egypt. And they are taking the first steps of carrying out this commission that God has given to Moses and draw them out of there. I found it interesting in verse 29 it says, and Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of Israel. I found it interesting that they didn't horse around. When they got down to Egypt, they got right down to business. Now I don't know about you. If that had been my home, that's where he grew up. He spent 40 years there. In the palace, in the in the whole uh society of Egypt. Uh his brothers and sisters were living there, his brothers with him now, but he's got family there Um I is there anybody I grew up outside of Philly, just north of Philly. When I go back home, if I had the time, I like to drive around and look at the old neighborhood. Anybody here ever do that if you live somewhere that there You're you're not where you grew up. Go back and look at the neighborhood. And I take some time, go and try and see if I can find some uh folks that uh uh I knew growing up and maybe visit some family While we're there. So Moses has been gone for forty years. I would imagine you finally get back to Egypt where it's safe again to come back You would want to maybe just take a day or so or a little bit of time and do some reminiscing, look up some old friends, some reunions, and but they don't do any of that They get immediately to the work. They get down there, they jump right in, they get right down to business. And I got thinking about that. That's a good example for you and I, I believe When God gives us something to do, the best thing to do is get right to it. And there's a time to rest and there's a time to work. And there's a time for our own personal business. We can do our own little personal things. There's a time to do God's work. I was challenged through Bible college by Matthew chapter 6 and verse 33, and no doubt many of us are very familiar with that passage. I kind of held to it a bit for a few years in the beginning of my Bible college. I clung to that verse quite a bit, still do. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. So again, I think there's a good lesson here. for us. And when God gives us something to do, let's make that a priority on our list and get about it and get it done. And don't put our desires and our agenda ahead of God's. Keep God's agenda first. I like the way Patch the Pirate. How many people are familiar with Patch the Pirate? Who who doesn't know about Patch the Pirate? Probably some folks, maybe. Uh I like the the way Patch the Pirate put it. He said, finish the job, finish the job, get it done. Finish the job, finish the job, then have fun. It's a good principle for you and I. I think success in ministry If we're going to be successful in our ministries, we have to have right priorities, right? We have to have right priorities. Teach a Sunday school class. If we're not careful, We can let our own agenda and the busyness of the week and the busyness of our schedule crowd out our preparations for our Sunday school. And in reality, teaching the Word of God in my mind, if God has called me to teach the Word of God, then that is one of the most important things on my agenda. And that ought to be very high in my priorities to fulfill and prepare and do what God has instructed me, called me, or commissioned me to do. And it's true in the Christian life, keeping our priorities there. I like having devotions first thing in the morning. Get up and get about God's business. Get up and spend time. If we're not careful, we get gone doing all this other stuff, and next thing we know, we never spend any time with the Lord. And so again, I think there's a good example for us in ministry and in our personal lives, having the right priorities. As individuals, keeping our priorities right. In fact, one of the keys to living a successful Christian life is the ability to know what my priorities are and then to keep at them One of the things employers talk about some of the men in our church, folks in our church that have employees, and one of the hard they say one of the challenging things is you never know if they're going to show up or not You don't hear a word from them sometimes. And a couple days may go by you haven't a word from haven't heard a word from your employee. And so I don't want to be that way to God. Amen If God's commissioned me, if God's given me something to do, I want to be in my place on time, getting at it, and not dilly-dallying around and horsing around. And Moses and Aaron got down there. They got right to business. By the way That's important for a church also. A church can horse around with peripheral stuff and never really get to business about why the purpose of the church is there. I'm convinced the longer I'm doing this, the ministry, pastoring, and serving the Lord, the more convinced I am the purpose of our church is to get the gospel into all the world. That is our commission. And so often churches get horsing around, get downing around, and there's fine, there's fun, there's other stuff we can do. We do fun stuff, men's get away and little picnics and stuff like that But first things have to be first. I like the way Tom Wallace put it. He says, keep the main thing, the main thing, and make it a priority. And so I was just challenged by Moses and Aaron doesn't really highlight that here, but nevertheless you look at it, they got down to Egypt, and Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of the children of Israel. They got down to business and they got things going. And so I want to be careful as a pastor to lead our church to do that. And I want to challenge all of us to keep our priorities right and be where we are when we ought to be there, doing what God's called us to do. I have three observations here in this In these passages, we're going to get to two of them tonight. The first thing is I notice the assembly of the Hebrews. We'll talk about that here in a little bit. And then in verse 31, the acceptance by the Hebrews, and then verse chapter 5, verse 1 is the uh entrance into Pharaoh. So the the assembly of the Hebrews. Look at verse 29. First thing Moses and Aaron do, they get down there, and I put it this way. When they get this assembly talking about this assembly together, first thing they do is they summon the elders. Look at verse 29. And Moses and Aaron went and gathered together All the elders of the children of Israel. That word gathered together has this idea. And it's a lot in the meaning, the definition. There's quite a few. Aspects to the definition has the idea of sending out a call to everybody. Sending out a call And then along that it means to gather together is you send this call out, in this case to the elders, and then you gather them all together in one location. So what they did was they didn't go to the elders of Israel and just sit down one-on-one, say, alright, I want to get with you, I want to talk to you, tell you what God's called us to do. I want to tell you, alright, get with another one Good night, that could take months. I don't know how many elders there were, but there was more than a few. And so that could take an extended period of time, repeat it. Word gets out. It's best thing to do. Get them all together and talk about this here. So he puts this summons out and they gather everyone together. Now this is a high-level meeting And put ourselves in the position here, this is high-level stuff. It's not just out there to the congregation of the Hebrews in general. He's calling the elders. Now, what is an elder? Who's an elder? An elder in this context would have been would have been any recognized leader. When you hear the word elder, you think of what? Old, old people. We got a lot of elders here. Um uh well it would involve an older men, particularly, again in this context here, we've been older men. But it was more not just not just old, age-wise, but these are men that have some experience. They've been around for a while, they've interacted, and they've become recognized leaders. Some people are just naturally leaders. They rise to the top. Personality, abilities, or whatever. God gifts, I think, people that way. And so these would have been men who would have the the people of the Hebrews, the people of Israel, would have recognized these men. They're older, they've been around for a while And they've proven themselves to provide good, reliable leadership. These are men who are trusted by the people of Israel. They're not just popular. There's a difference between us. They're not just popular, they're respected. Right? Are you following me? It is possible to be very popular, but not be very respected. Okay? There's people who will do things, shameful things. To become popular, and a lot of people know their name. A lot of people you can say their name, and oh yeah, everybody knows them. That does don't confuse attention with respect And he and it's important for young people to understand. They think, boy, if I get a lot of attention, then I have a lot of then people respect me. There's two different things. I could name people that we all know the name, but I doubt any of us here would respect them very much. And so these are men that aren't, it's not just popularity, it's not just well-known. These are men have been around for a while. They've proven themselves. They're respected. They are no doubt influential. These are men who have influence. And so Moses, this may have been the leadership of the Lord, we're not told. It may have been his experience in his training in the military. Whatever the case is, he gets down there with Aaron, and the first thing they do is they gather together, they summons These men who are highly respected and very influential. Now why would he why would they target these these types of fellows Because of their influence, right. Because these are men that the people will follow. And so they have this, they they gather this together, this high-level meeting And with the thinking is this, if we can have the if I can gain the support of the elders who are respected, they have influence, then I have the support of who? The congregation as a whole, the population as a whole. So it's very wise. It's a leadership technique on Moses' part I've often felt that Moses is one of the greatest leaders who's ever lived this planet apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. And we see that come out in so many ways. And so he meets with these elders, and uh he he works through the leadership. And by the way, God works through leadership. God has established leadership in every area of society, in the home, in the church, in the government. in in in society, that you have government as leadership. And of course, you know, man's able to corrupt it, but nevertheless, it's God's principle. It's God's pattern. Dr. Lee Robertson, you've heard heard me quote this many times, but his famous quote was: everything rises and falls on leadership. That's by design of God. Leadership. And so that's what they're doing there. Now I got thinking about this, these elders, why would they just alright some two guys come out of the wilderness and say, all right, we want to meet with all you elders, respected leaders. Why in the world would they take the time and and risk their their necks to meet with these two guys out of the wilderness? I think There's two reasons here. Again, we're not told directly, but I would assume that Aaron was known to all the leaders of the Hebrews. Now they're slaves, they're they're slaves here in Egypt, and they're this subculture in the Egyptian uh hierarchy here, they're just this subculture in the country But I'm confident every one of these fellows knew exactly who Aaron was. He's 83 years old. He'd been around for a while. He comes from a very highly respected family, as far as we can tell. His parents were godly parents, God-fearing parents. And so I have no doubt in my mind, there's no way to prove it or disprove it, I have no doubt in my mind every one of those leaders knew who Aaron was. Oh, Aaron wants to meet with us And then I don't know if they knew who Moses was, but I'm pretty confident they had heard of Moses. Now it's been 40 years since he's shown his face. But I'm telling you, he made quite a stir When he left, when he killed that Egyptian, and that that was quite a ruckus. He had to flee for his life. And uh I have little qu little doubt in my mind that among the Hebrews there was a stir. When Moses left and I think I think it's a very str likely likely that these people had heard of Moses And now they get this out of the blue, out of nowhere, as far as they're concerned, just once today shows up, they get this message. Aaron wants to meet with us, and his brother Moses is here. Moses, I've heard of him. And so there's a real reason, a real attraction for the leadership of the Hebrews to gather together and meet with these two men. They're not just strangers showing up. So again, this is a high-level meeting. We've called this together, a high-level meeting. Now I'm injecting some of my imagination here, so I want to make that clear. It's not that big of a deal. But I think it's a highly secretive meeting. I'm assuming that. I would think that the Egyptian authorities would frown On the Hebrews assembling together, especially when you've got all the elders all of a sudden out of the blue, they're all meeting together. They're already paranoid, the Egyptians They're already concerned. These Hebrews are multiplying like rabbits. I mean, there's a million there at this point there's We we s we estimate there's a million plus Hebrews that are being killed under the strong arm of the Egyptians. But it's getting harder and harder for them to control those types of numbers. And so they're already concerned, they're already expressed that they're killing the babies, maybe they still are, we don't know, to keep them from multiplying anymore. And they get wind that the elders are meeting together for whatever reason, I would venture to say, um, they would at the very least Have somebody planted in there to try and find out what this is about. So my guess is my Speculation is that this is probably a very secretive meeting. So it's a high-level meeting. It's a very secretive meeting. So first thing I notice, verse 29, this summonsing of the elders, gathering them together Then I noticed the spokesman for Moses. Look again at verse number thirty. And Aaron spake all the words which the Lord had spoken unto Moses. So Aaron's the spokesman here. God tells Moses what's to be said. Moses goes to Aaron and tells Aaron What is to be said to the elders. Now why in the world would they do that? Anybody Take a shot. Why is God telling Moses? Moses telling Aaron, Aaron's telling the elders. Why is Aaron the spokesman? What's that? Chain of command? Alright, that's part of it. Go back to verse 15. This was the agreement That God and Moses had set up because Moses kept complaining, I can't do this, I can't do this. Finally, God, I don't know that God gets frustrated, but if it was me, I would have Says, alright, already. Aaron can talk good. I'll put him as spokesman. Go look at verse 15. This is God. Remember he got mad at, God got angry at Moses. And then God finally says this, verse 15, speaking of Aaron, and thou, Moses, shalt speak unto him, Aaron, and put words in his mouth. And I will be his with his mouth and I will be with thy mouth and with his mouth and will teach you what ye shall do, and he shall be thy spokesman unto the people And he shall be, even he shall be to thee instead of a mouth, and thou shalt be to him instead of God. This is God accommodating Moses being a knucklehead. Now if you notice we looked at this earlier, this only lasts for a little while. And finally Moses starts speaking up more and more and more the way God I think originally, well I know, God originally intended. So they're doing what God laid out for them, this agreement that God had made with Moses, that um that that Aaron would do the speaking. Moses, you tell him what I say, and then he'll say it to the elders. You know, whenever we get involved in God's plan, it tends to complicate things. Anyone notice that? We think we, well, God, we uh and um you know and we tend to uh God's biggest liability isn't his message God's biggest liability is what? The messengers. And so they make this a little difficult and it kind of works itself out a little later. But right now they're doing They're doing they're not only doing what God told them to do, but they're doing it the way God laid it out. They got down there and said, all right, this is the way God laid it out. We'll do it this way I'm wondering, again, I like to speculate a lot here. I'm wondering if Moses isn't starting to think in his mind, you know, maybe it'd be better if I just did this. Maybe what God had in mind initially is actually a better plan than what this came up with. So I don't know. I don't know, but they're doing it. Not just what God said to do, but they're doing it how God said to do it. So you got this summonsing together, you got the spokesman, got the spokesman going for Moses. Then there's a speech that is made. Look at the second part of verse 30. Aaron spake all the words which the Lord had spoken to Moses. I get the impression that Aaron is being very, very careful to say only what God told Moses to say. I get the impression here, it's pretty clear, I think, that Moses isn't ad-living anything. He isn't taking any liberties with what God told Moses needs to be said. He's saying only what God told Moses, and I put this down, he's saying everything that God told Moses should be said. Would you agree with me if you had some uh um businessman or what or a pastor for that sake and he's gonna dictate some letters, I don't think they do that too much anymore But they dictate uh the pastor would dictate a letter to the secretary, and the secretary would say, Well, I think it'd be better to say this You know, and he said that. It's ridiculous. I ain't putting it in this letter. Uh how many people think that secretary wouldn't be a secretary very long? No, you put down what the boss said. And that's what Aaron is doing. He doesn't have the liberty to alter What God told Moses should be said. He should be said. He's being very, very careful. He says only what Moses says, and he's saying everything that Moses said. Now, Moses got the message from God. Pass it on Verbally, we would assume, to Aaron, and then Aaron gives the message out. You know what Moses was to Aaron? Moses was to Aaron what our Bible Is to us. Right? You see it? God, let's say the book of Matthew, I preached from Matthew on Sunday. God gave to Matthew What he wanted shared. Matthew records it, and then you and I, preachers and teachers and Christians, take what God gave to Matthew. uh inspired it through uh Matthew's inspired his writings were inspired God preserved it and then you and I are Aaron And we take what God gives to the penmen of Scripture and we give that out to the people it's intended to be given to. You follow my thinking on this? And Aaron's responsibility, what Aaron's responsibility was to give only what God told Moses and everything God told Moses. Is the same responsibility you and I have when it comes to the Word of God. You and I do not have the liberty to decide what of God's word is going to be said and what is not going to be said. We do not have the liberty to alter God's Word or to correct it, quote unquote, or change it in any way. Our responsibility is to give out the Word of God only what God gives us in His Word. and everything that God gives us in His Word. The problem with much of Christianity, a large percentage I should say, of Christianity in our churches today is you have preachers or whoever are taking the liberty To decide what should and should not be said from the Bible and what is correct and what is not correct. That is not our role. Our role is to be spokesmen for God's word. God told the penman what to record. He inspired it. He preserves it. Our responsibility is what Aaron's responsibility was. Give it out to the people whom it was best designed for. And so Aaron does that beautifully. As far as this whole endeavor is concerned, at this point, Aaron's doing exactly what he's commissioned to do And he's doing it exactly the way God says, as far as we see written here. So they summons these elders together, very secretive meeting, high-level secretive meeting. They have this speech, this spokesman, I should say, Aaron, and he says, he gives the speech, it's exactly what God gave Moses to give. And then I see another thought here under this assembly. They're still together with the elders. I don't know how long this meeting was, or middle of the night, how what the logistics of all of it were. I don't know. But there's some signs given too. It's not just the speech they deliver to the elders, not just information. They perform some signs to verify that this information, that this speech is actually from God. It's not just something they came up with. Look again at verse number 30 of the last part. It says, Aaron spake all the words which the Lord had spoken to Moses. There's the spokesman. And did the signs in the sight of the people. The signs that were given. The word signs there has idea of like a token, maybe It has the idea of a miraculous sign. It would kind of be like it would be a proof That this is actually from God. He's verifying. This isn't just something we came up with. This is God's word, and it verifies that. It's a token that this is from God. And so a sign, they give these signs out. Now we're not told it in it looks to me, now the only reason I'm saying this, it looks to me like who is performing the signs? Look at the verse there. Somebody help me out here. Who does it look like It's saying, perform the signs. Aaron looks like to me, because it says, and Aaron spake all the words uh that the Lord given to Moses and did the signs in the sight of the people. So it looks to me, and I have no reason to doubt that it was Aaron actually that did that. However There's a couple commentators that I respect pretty highly, and they said they think Moses would have had a hard time handing off that rod to Aaron. You know, he's the one that did all that But it looks like to me that perhaps would you agree with me? That would have been tough to give that rod over here, Aaron. And and you do all the the signs that God did for me. If it was me, I would be the want to be the one doing that But nevertheless, Moses got what he wanted. Do you know sometimes you can get what you want, but you lose what you had? You know what I'm talking about? Right, yeah that was later on to verify who was chosen of God to be the priest. So yeah that that wasn't I don't believe that was Moses' rod. This was Moses, he used it. And later on, Moses is the one doing all of this. But at this point, God says, All right, Moses, you want it to be this way. This is the way it'll be. And I've found out that uh and the Bible verifies this that sometimes God may allow us to do what we want, even though it's not necessarily his perfect will for us, but he'll let us do what we want to teach us a lesson that it's better to trust God. Better to trust God. And so they do these signs. And that was characteristic of the Jews, of the Hebrews, that they would require a sign. That was pretty much standard operating procedure. You say this is from God, prove it. We're not just taking your word for it. And by the way, that's not a bad approach. I think uh when a preacher is preaching, he ought to use the Bible. He ought to prove that what he's saying is true by the Bible. This is our sign. This is our token, it's from God. If it lines up with the Bible, it's from God. If it doesn't, it's not. So the Jews, Paul said, In 1 Corinthians 1. 22, again under the inspiration of God, he said, the Jews require a sign. Now that was true throughout their history. Initially, they wanted they would require a sign to determine the validity of the message. Like here. They wanted to know it was legit. How do we know that God's going to do this? How do we know? Oh yeah, well look, God did this. He throws a rod down, turns into a snake. Whoa! Gets it back, goes back to the rod. Whoa I don't know what we're not told exactly what signs he did, but it verified to them. The problem is for the Jews over time They got where they were looking for signs instead of exercising faith. And by the time Jesus shows up, They're demanding of Jesus, you show us signs, you show us signs. Good night, Jesus was doing all kinds of signs He was healing the the sick. He was making the blind see. The lame could walk. He's raising the dead for peace's sake. But we want a sign. Show us a sign. Prove to us you're from God. And what happened was over time, and I think this is characteristics of seeking for signs. It reveals a lack of faith. Signs replaced faith. They demand, the Pharisees, the Jews got to the point when Jesus showed up. We want signs on our terms. There was no faith at all. By the way, Satan can and does produce signs We'll see this here with the Egyptians. They were able to mimic some of these up to a point. We have to be very, very careful. Listen, we need to be very, very careful. When we start requiring something for God to prove that His word is true, if somebody said to me Preacher, I'm going to do this for you. And I would say, I would look him in the eye and say, all right, prove it to me that you're actually going to do that. What am I suggesting to them? I don't trust them. Their word isn't good. Their word isn't enough. I need some. Yeah, anybody here ever say this? I remember the day when you just shook hands on a deal. You know, everybody says that. I don't remember those days, but um now we gotta sign, we need lawyers, needs to be n needs to be notarized, we need all this stuff to prove that I'm actually gonna do what I say I'm gonna do. When we say that to God, when we say to God, God, I know you promised this here, but Lord, I need some kind of sign to verify that what you said is so. What am I suggesting God is? It's not reliable. It's not reliable. So we have to be very, very careful. There's a big portion of Christianity. That um big portion of Christianity that uh puts a big emphasis on science. Miracles and wonders and all of that. Listen, God can do anything. But when I start requiring God to do something before I'm willing to take him at his word, that's a dangerous place to be. And if you'll notice, a lot of these places where they emphasize, they drift from the Word of God. Because the emphasis becomes the signs, the miraculous, all of that. And I'm here to tell you, Satan can produce signs. You don't believe it, study the book of Revelation. One of the things the false Christ is going to do, the false prophet in the book of Revelation, is signs and wonders. It uses that term. to deceive people into thinking they're of God. The Bible ought to be enough. Well God says that ought to settle it. That ought to settle it Now God can do anything, and here the signs were legit. They had no Bible. Now we have a completed Bible. They did not And so I they were they were completely within their uh rights reasonable To anticipate a sign from God. They needed to know that this was God and not just something made up. And then last of all, and with this, the acceptance by the Hebrews. So they got this meeting together, the spokesman, they got the speech, they did the signs. And now you have the acceptance by the Hebrews. Look with me at verse 31. And the people what? Believed. And when they heard that the Lord had visited the children of Israel. Aaron had told them all that took place with Moses and all that God had promised. He heard their affliction. He's going to come, they're going to be delivered. They believed that, and that he had looked upon their affliction. Then they bowed their heads and worshiped. They accepted the message. They accepted what Aaron and Moses were presenting Apparently they took the uh uh um the message back to the people because notice it says in verse 31, and the people believed. It doesn't say the elders, the people. So the elders got the message They went out to the Hebrews, told everybody, and everybody's, whoo, praise the Lord. It's true, it's true. God heard our prayers. We're going to be delivered. Oh And they accepted the message. They responded in two ways. One, they believed. The word believe means to accept true as a fact. But it means more than that. The word believe in this case and throughout Scripture means to accept it as a fact and then to put my trust in it. To rely in it. You can believe something's true all you want, but never actually trust it. They believed it and they put their hope and their trust in what they heard God had told Moses, what God had promised. This is all contrary to what Moses was afraid of. Look at verse 1 of chapter 4. He says, and now Moses kept the flock. Or chapter 4. And Moses answered and said, But behold, they will not believe me. Wrong God's reassured him the whole time, Moses they are, we're going to prove it to them. They're going to accept it. So Moses was wrong. And this is in line with God's assurance all the way back in chapter 3, verse 18, he told Moses, they're going to believe you. They're going to accept it. So first thing they believed, and then I'll end with this. The next thing they did was what? Do you see it there in verse 31? What'd they do? They believed, and they Worshiped, bowed their heads and worshipped. They believed and worshipped What does it mean to worship? The word itself means to bow down prostrate in the ground, plant your face, lay down flat or on your knees and put your face down in the ground. That's what the word literally means itself But it it conveys a message. That prostrating myself before the Lord as they worshiped, it conveys a message of humility. I think what they're saying is, God, we need you. It conveys a message of adoration to worship. Someone. You see you some b sometimes somebody will say about a little boy, they'll say, oh, he just worships his daddy. What do they mean by that? They mean they he what? Hello. He trusts them. He adores them. Oh. Just worships his death. They worship God. They adored God. God had promised them this. God had heard their cry. God was going to deliver them. And they humbled themselves before the Lord and they adored the Lord. The word worship has the idea of submitting to the Lord. Oh Lord, you lead us. But there's a concern here about their worship. There's a problem. God's answering their prayer. God's meeting their need. God's doing what they want God to do. And they're worshiping God. However, in just a little bit of time, God doesn't do things the way they want Him to do it. In just a little bit of time, the process God uses to answer their prayers and to get them out of Egypt is not what they anticipated It's not convenient. This is difficult. We have to go through some more hardship before we get out. It's not clear how what are you doing? How is this working out, God? You said you were going to get how are you doing this? God, how is this isn't the way you do this? This isn't how it happens. We shouldn't have to deal with this. And as long as God was doing what they wanted, the way they thought it should be done, they were glad to worship God. But whenever God did something that was not convenient to them, that cost them a little bit, was a little difficult. Their worshiping went to murmuring. Just a few weeks' time. Listen, it's easy to worship God when everything, God's doing everything my way, right? But true worship, sincere worship that has some substance to it, worships God even when I don't understand. I put it this way, it's easy to worship God when God is doing what I want, when things make sense to me. When he's answering my prayers, I'll worship God. Oh, God is so God. I adore you so much. Then God does something I don't understand. Wait a minute. Who do you think you are, God? That's pretty shallow worship right there. It's a pretty shallow faith. That I'll trust God and I'll love him and I'll submit to him and I'll I'll I'll bow before him as long as he does what I want. But if he exercises his authority and right as God, his wisdom, and it's not the way I see it, then I start murmuring. God's no good to me. It's not so easy to worship God by faith rather than by sight. I don't see what God's doing, but I still trust him. I still worship him by faith It's not so easy to worship God in darkness when I don't see what he's doing. It's easy when I see, oh yes, I see what God's doing. Oh, praise the Lord. It's not so easy to worship God. It's not as easy to worship God at a funeral as it is at a birthday party. Right? Down worship. I thought of Abraham. There's a lot of talk about worship today. Oh, we're gonna have a worship service. Please be patient with me, forgive me, but Anymore, you see an a I see an advertisement for a worship service at your average church anymore, it's nothing more than a rock concert. Oh, worship service, you know, it's a rock concert. That is not biblical worship I think of Abraham. God appeared to Abraham and said, I want you to take your son, your only son, whom you love. Take him up on a mountain. I want you to offer him up as a bloody sacrifice. Would you agree with me? That doesn't make sense. What in the world? And you know what the Bible says in Genesis 22? It says, Abraham said, I'm going to go and worship. I don't know what God's doing. I don't understand it. I trust him and I submit to him and I adore him and I worship him. No wonder he was such a profound man of faith, a profound influence on the world for millennia. He knew how to trust God even when it didn't make sense. He knew how to worship God. And by the way, God spared his son. God honored his faith. I thought of Job, beginning of Job, I think it's chapter one, where God takes everything, everything. Makes no sense. Job is in absolute darkness as far as his understanding is concerned. He's grieving beyond imagination. The Bible says he said, The Lord giveth, the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord, and he worshipped God. It's easy to worship God when, oh, God's answered my prayer and we're going to get out of Egypt. Oh, we worship God. And I'm not trying to mock him. I'm just saying. Three weeks later, they're murmuring. That's pretty shallow worship. Look at Job. And then I thought of David. He sinned terribly. Adultery. And Bathsheba conceives. He tries to cover it and hide it for an extended period of time. But you can't hide sin from God. And it comes out. And Nathan says, You're the man. David, you're the man. It's going to cost you. Your little baby's going to die. David fasts and prays that God would spare the child, and God doesn't. God takes the child home to heaven. And the Bible says that when the baby died, David worshiped God. Say, God, I trust you, I worship you. I adore you. You are God. I looked at says they believed and they worshiped. And I say, Praise the Lord. We're glad anytime somebody worships God. Amen. But I want, we need, I should say, we need to get to the point where our faith is strong enough and our our walk with God is mature enough. That even when God doesn't do things my way or my time and it's inconvenient for me, and maybe I struggle But I can still worship God, my God and my Savior. I can still worship Him. By the way, He's already done enough for us to earn our worship that if He Never did another thing for us, the rest of eternity. We have enough to worship God for. Amen. Father, I pray you'd help us learn from these Hebrews. And Lord, I pray that our faith And our love and our worship, our trust in you, our submission, our adder and admiration of you. Wouldn't it just be when the building's full and the crowds are shouting and when everything's going our way? But Lord help us to be faithful and worship you and adore you even when we don't understand. And it hurts. And it's inconvenient. Help us to worship you because in the end, you are worthy. And you are good. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how we would say, Preacher, I need God to help me have an attitude of love and submission and devotion to the Lord regardless of circumstances. Just because of who he is. Just because of what he is. Anything like that by the uplifted hand, I need God to help me. God bless you. If we can get that. God will see us through, God will see us through. Father, bless now our invitation I ask. One a little long, I pray you'd help us. In Jesus' name. Let's