Psalm 51, I'm going to read verse number 16. When we get to verse 17, I'd like for us to read that together in unison. Psalm 51. I'll start off in verse 16. We get to 17. You join in with me and we'll read that together. Verse 16 Psalm 51 says this, for thou, David speaking to God here is the prayer, for thou desirest not sacrifice, else I would give it. Thou delightest not in burnt offering. Now, altogether, verse 17, read with me. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit A broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. I want to speak this morning on a broken and contrite heart. Let's pray together. Father, I ask now that you would speak to our hearts this morning. We do want to pause again, express our gratitude for the tremendous privilege of being born in America. Lord, we're so grieved by the spiritual condition of our country. We're so grieved by the direction our country is going, what's happening. But Lord, we love our country And you've allowed us to be experienced the freedom and prosperity that you blessed our land with. And we ask now, maybe this Memorial Day You could start something in our hearts, a fire burning. God, maybe you could send a bit of a revival. Our hearts, our homes, our church. And God, maybe we can make a difference in this land. And then as we think about Brother Canavan and Ms. Canavan with us and the foreign lands countries and nations around the world that desperately need the gospel. And Lord, I just pray that you'd do something in our hearts. That's where it begins. And Holy Spirit of God, stir us, convict us, provoke us, challenge us. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you Now present my body anew for this message at this moment and pray that you would speak through me. Each of our hearts and lives And to help us to respond in faith to what you speak to our hearts about. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We've been studying on Wednesday nights, those that were able to get in on it, we've been studying on Wednesday nights, the life of King David. We've been pretty in-depth Detailed study. It's been lengthy. I think most of our series we do are lengthy, but um we've been studying David's life and uh I've gotten a tremendous blessing from it and uh and I believe it's been a help to many of us. But one thing we pointed out in our study of the life of King David Is uh the Bible says this about King David. He was a man after God's own heart. Acts chapter 13, verse 22. He was a man After God's own heart. Now I thought, what in the world does that mean? To be a man after God's own heart. Well, I'm simple and so I try to come up with a simple explanation. I think it simply means this I think it simply means when the Bible says David was a man after God's own heart, it simply means that David loved God passionately. He was in love with his God. And we can see that as we study his life. I think to be a man after God's own heart means that David loved the things that God loved. He was a man after God's own heart, patterned after the heart of God. And if God loves something, then David loved him. I think it means that not only did he love his Lord God passionately, and he loved the things God loved, but I think it means this: David hated the things that God hated. You say, oh, preacher, God doesn't hate anything. He's God. Ah, you need to read your Bible. In fact, you get into Proverbs, it has a hate God's hate list, seven things, doth the Lord hate Six things does the Lord hate. Yea, seven are an abomination unto him. Proud look goes down through there. And I think when David, God hated something, David hated it. If God loves something, David loved it with all his heart. David loved his God. I think it means that David having a being a man after God's own heart, I think it has this idea that David valued the things that God valued In other words, if something was important to the Lord, it was important to David. If something was insignificant as far as God was concerned, that's not, then David says, I'm not worried about that. A man after God's own heart. I believe. I believe that this is God's greatest desire. For his people today, for us to be men, women, teenagers, after God's own heart. I think God wants his people to love him. He wants us to love him. He wants us in the year 2021, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, those of us that know Christ, he wants us to love the things he loves. He wants us to hate the things he hates. He wants us to value the things that he values. David was a man after God's own heart, and I believe, as I study this Bible, get to know and know the Lord, I believe God wants you and me to be men and women after God's own heart. After God's own heart. If you would turn with me. Now keep your place here in Psalms, but come with me to Mark chapter number 12, back in the New Testament. Mark chapter number twelve. And the Lord made a statement that uh reinforces what I'm saying here. Notice Mark chapter twelve, and in verse number twenty-eight, a scribe approaches the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord had been interacting with the Pharisees and uh and uh kind of debates going back and forth. They would challenge him and he would answer them. Of course, the Lord answered them wisely And the scribes listening in on this conversation, this back and forth between the Lord and the Pharisees, and he approaches the Lord Jesus, verse 28. And it says, and having heard them reason together, one of the scribes came, having heard them, Jesus and these Pharisees going back and forth, reasoning together, and perceiving that he, Jesus Had answered them well. He asked him, which is the first commandment of all? Now, there's a heap of commandments in the Bible. We know ten, but there's a whole lot more than just the ten commandments. And so this scribe, who the scribe being an authority on the Old Testament law. He knew what all the commandments were. In fact, they had tacked on a whole slew of other laws. And so he comes to the Lord Jesus Christ, and basically what this scribe is doing, he says, I'm going to cut to the chase And you tell me what God wants above everything else? What is most important to the Lord? What is the number one command? Of God the Creator to mankind. And look at the Lord's answer, if you would, there in verse number 29. And Jesus answered him. Notice there's no hesitation. And Jesus answered him, the first of all commandments is, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and all thy soul and with all thy mind and with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. And then he quickly added on verse 31. And the second Is like, namely this, thou shalt love thy neighbor and thyself. Now look how he sums it up. There is none other commandment greater than these. Wow. I believe Jesus was telling the scribe, and through the scriptures, he's saying to you and I, What I want, what I want from you More than anything else. So I want your love. Your love for me and your love for your fellow man, your neighbor. What he was saying was this: I want you to be a man after my heart. I want you to be a man after my own heart. David was a man after God's own heart, and God, I believe, wants you and I. To be men and women and young people, senior citizens, children down in Children's Church. To be men and women, people after God's own heart. God's own heart. I believe the more we develop a heart for God, The more we develop this heart of God in our own heart and mind, I believe we become more sensitive to the things of God. Now my message is trying to explain what I mean by that. To be a man or a woman or a young person after God's own heart, and you start falling in love with God And I start loving the things that God loves, and I start hating the things that God hates, and I value the things that God values. My heart becomes sensitive to things That relate to me and God. For instance, I become, I believe we become sensitive to things that displease God Um, you have a young couple gets married, they're dating, and and they get married, uh, the canavant, they're still on their honeymoon for Pete's sake. And oh, they're so sensitive. Oh, sweetheart. Oh, I love you so much. Oh, uh I hope I didn't do anything to make you unhappy. Everybody here remember those days? And uh now it's like, eh, deal with it. Um no it's not. Don't fuck on Was the oatmeal too hot? Oh, I hope it wasn't too cold. Were your socks clean? Did I fold your socks right? Oh, sweetheart, what kind of flap? You know what I'm saying? Because they're so in love their heart is sensitive to anything that might displease the one they love. Their heart is sensitive to, I want to please the one I love so much. And when we develop a heart after God, if we if we develop this God's heart and our heart. We become sensitive to things that please God and displease God. I believe we become disensitive, we become sensitive to things that hurt Our Lord, did you know it's possible for a child of God to grieve the Holy Spirit of God? That's hard for me to imagine that I can behave in such a way. I can interact in such a way. That the Holy Spirit is grieved by my actions and my words and my behavior. And if I'm a man after God's own heart, and I find myself saying or behaving in a way that grieves my God, that grieves me. I'm sensitive to that. The things that displease God, things that grieve my God, maybe things that hinder the gospel. Our Lord's greatest desire is that every man, woman, and child at least have an opportunity to hear the gospel and respond in faith and trust Christ as Savior. And I find myself and I'm so in love with the Lord, and this is a passion of my God to get the gospel to every man, woman, and child in the world, and I see I do or say or act some way that hinders that or Hinders something that's so important to my Lord. I become sensitive to that. Displeasing God, grieving my God, hindering the gospel, maybe hurting God's children. How many how many parents do we have here? Any parents here? How many have more than one child? I almost said kid I told you about uh Isaac Brown. I asked him one time, he said, Do you have any children? Uh I said, Isaac, you got any kids? He goes, no, but I uh he got he said no but I have three children and so uh never mind How many people here when you're you to your children are fussing that grieves your heart I'm telling you, that was one of the hardest things as a father. My boys would fuss and break your heart. You teach them and train them. Listen, how many people are here when your boy when your children are getting along? Boy, that's just a blessing. You look out and see them playing there. And uh I don't think our God's any different. I don't think he's any different. How good and pleasant it is for God's people to be together in unity. And so if I'm a man or a woman or a young person after God's own heart, these things I become very sensitive. To these things and many others that I mention here, displeasing God, or hurting my brother or sister in Christ, or hindering the gospel. There's a lot of things in life that break our hearts. A friend can break our hearts. I'm talking to some folks this morning, there's no doubt in my mind. You're dealing with a broken heart right now. Somebody is broken your heart, maybe a friend or a lover, maybe a family member. It's possible, it's not only possible, it happens, a child can break the heart of their parents in ways no one else can. Amen or not. A child can break a parent's heart deeply. A lot of things in life can break a heart. A friend can fail us or betray us. Break our heart. Young person meets a fella, young lady meets a fella, or young fella meets a gal, and boy, he falls in love, and she's the one! And then she goes off and runs takes off with another. It's a little personal. But when I showed up at Bible College, I was down there my first year in well it's actually my second year, first year down in Tennessee at Bible College, um I decided no women. I'm here to study, I'm here to serve God, I'm going in the ministry, no women. I was there about three weeks, this one girl says, she's awfully pretty And she's she invited me to do things and we became friends. We had classes together, we became friends, and the old heart started ticking a little bit there. Anybody you know y'all are looking at me like um You know, and I thought, you know, maybe I have to rethink this conviction I have here. And uh, you know, we we never got very far. We became friends and did And lo and behold, she went home one week and come back and said, Well, I got engaged, I'm getting married. A lot of things can break our hearts, right or wrong. Friend, lover, child can break a parent's heart. Do you know a parent can break a child's heart? Happens. Parent gets angry, says, or does something, hurts that child, and breaks their heart. So all these things in this world that can break our hearts, I think for the Christian And I think I'm correct on this. I think for the Christian who has the heart of God, for that man or that woman or that young person that is a Man after God's own heart, a woman after God's own heart. I think perhaps maybe the most heartbreaking thing in the world is to displease my Savior. One who died for me suffered the judgment of eternal God for me, loved me that much And I say or do something. And I engage in something, or I indulge in something, I've sinned against the one I love. I've grieved the one that loves me so much. I don't know if there's anything in this world that can break a heart. Like a heart that is broken and disobeying God, a man or woman has a is a man or woman after God's own heart and then grieved or sin against that God. You follow what I'm trying to say. Psalm 51 is penned by David. We always point this out. It's penned by David, but it's authored by God. But the situation, the context of Psalms 51, is David. He's an adult. He's probably in his 50s at this point. And he had sinned against God grievously, a man after God's own heart. And he had sinned grievously. In fact, if you're familiar with the Bible, you already know this, but Psalm 51, and if we had time this morning, we would have read the whole chapter. But David, the man after God's own heart, the king of Israel, the sweet psalmist of Israel The one whom the throne that Jesus will one day sit on is named after. David committed adultery. He took another man's wife and had that man killed And then on top of that, he covered it up for a year. Lied about it, tried to present himself as everything was legit. Set it up that her Bathsheba was the woman and her husband Uriah set it up like he was in advert some just accidentally killed in battle when David set that whole thing up and made sure he was killed And then he takes his wife and then puts on this show like he's innocent, like he's done everything fine, and this this uh uh there's nothing wrong here. And for a year He deals with that guilt. And for a year, this man, after God's own heart, deals with that inner shame. Until finally, a prophet of God, Nathan, shows up and gives this little parable of a poor man that had one little lamb. And he had a travelers come by and to the king. The king had a flocks of sheep, and this poor man had a little lamb, and this traveler came by, and the king wanted to uh feed the traveler. So he took the poor man's lamb and gave that to feed the traveler when he had a ton of his own. He had a whole flock of his own. David got angry and he says, That man needs to be killed! And old Nathan, the prophet of God, thou art the man. Thou art the man. You took Uriah's wife and you killed him! Oh. And the realization of what David did comes crashing down on him. And Psalm fifty one is David's prayer of confession Psalm 51 is how, this is what I want to say, Psalm 51 is how a man after God's own heart responds to the sin that he's committed. Now, I trust you and I haven't committed the degree of sins that David did here, adultery and murder. But nevertheless, those of us that know Christ as Savior, we know it's true. We failed our Savior on more than one occasion. We've sinned, and in some cases we sin grievously. So I want to suggest that Psalm 51 is a good psalm to study for any child of God That when that day comes, and if it hasn't already, it will, we sin, we fail God, that we can go there, and we have this incredible pattern On how to deal with our sin and how to respond when we fall. You see, victorious Christian life is not living without sin, it's being able to deal with the sins that show up scripturally. Because no man can go through life without sinning, right or wrong? Is everybody with me? You follow what I'm saying? I mean we don't we don't So we don't uh presume on God and we just go out, well, we're gonna sin anyway. No, no, no. We don't do that. We shouldn't anyway. But sins happen, they do. And we fail You say, preacher, what do I do? I've sinned, I failed. I tell you, Psalm 51 is a good place to go when I fail God, the God I love. David was a man after God's own heart, and the sin and the degree of the sin just crushed him, broke him. Psalm 51, I put this down, is the most public confession of sin in all of history. Think, for all eternity, his confession of his sin is recorded in Scripture. This is the most public confession of sin in all of history. I put this down. This is the most thorough confession of sin in all of history. I mean, he doesn't cover nothing. He lays it all out. He says, God, we're dealing with this, and I'm dealing with this thoroughly. Our problem is sometimes we'll fail God, we'll sin, and we'll kind of like, well, yeah, I didn't do right, but it wasn't that bad. I had a prison I had a prisoner in the county jail in Indianapolis years ago. We'd go down there and have services and we're talking to one fellow and Uh we're trying to share the gospel explaining that he was a sinner. And he says, Yeah, he was a sinner. But I uh I didn't kill three guys like the other guy did. I said, Huh, I wonder how many he did kill Well, it wasn't that bad. That's not you read Psalm 51, David isn't coming to God saying, well, it wasn't that bad. No, David's saying, We're going to be thorough. We're dealing with this top to bottom, inside out. I want this dealt with. It's the most public confession of sin in all of history. It's the most thorough confession of sin. And I put this down. It's the most biblical confession of sin. David did exactly what God says we should do when we sin and fail God. David is a man after God's own heart. You know what that means? That doesn't mean I'm perfect. It means that when I do fail, I respond scripturally the way God wants me to fail. Wants me to deal with my failure. Let me give you real quickly, uh and this isn't the message, let me give you just an outline because this chapter is so significant. I notice in verse 1 through 6 David's confession. And again, we could do a series on this. His confession. The first part of verse 1, he acknowledges his sin. Say, yep. I sinned. A plea for mercy is an acknowledgement of guilt. He says, God, I sinned I tell you, that's the first, that's the place to start. When you and I, as a child of God, sin, the place to start is admit that we've sinned. Confession is a whole lot more than just admitting we sinned. David goes beyond, and he accepts personal responsibility. for his sin. The second part of verse 1 down through verse 3. I circled in my Bible. He says, My transgression, mine iniquity, cleanse me from my sin. I acknowledge my transgression My sin. I. I did it. It was me. It wasn't Bathsheba's fault. It wasn't Uriah's failure. It wasn't my wife's failure. It wasn't an Nobody's responsibility but my I accept responsibility. I tell you, we could use a little bit of that in our day. It's called this: personal responsibility. Everybody everywhere gets blamed for everything. It's not my fault, it's society. It's not my fault, it's the guns' fault. It's not my fault, it's their fault. It' My parents thought, it's my kids thought, it's my wife's fault. It's my boss's fault No, it's your fault. Personal responsibility. You know what confession of sin is? Confession of sin is I acknowledge the sin and I accept responsibility for it. And then the third thing I notice here in verse 4 through 6, David agreed with God as to the severity of his sin. Yeah, it's bad. We try to play it down. Well, it wasn't that bad. Nobody died. Well, in his case they did. A lot of people died, actually So number one, we have his confession. Number two, from chapter seven through verse fourteen, we have his cleansing. And the thing I notice here is David wanted more than just forgiveness. What is forgiveness? Forgiveness is the removal of judgment. Forgiveness is the removal of consequences to an extent. And I'll forgive you. Everybody wants to be forgiven for their sins. I don't want to be judged for my sins. But David wasn't satisfied with God just forgiving him He said, I want that sin itself cleansed from my life. I don't want it even there anymore. I want away with it. Sometimes we confess. Let me ask you a question. If a Christian would go out tomorrow in sin and confess their sin, would God forgive them? Huh? Yeah, 1 John 1. 9. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins. Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If he goes out Tuesday, does the same sin again, and confesses it, would God forgive him? Sure. How about Wednesday? Same thing. Would God forgive him? Thursday? Friday? Saturday? Yeah, God would forgive him. Let me ask you this question: does he have victory? No. You know what he needs? He needs more than just forgiveness. He needs cleansing. He needs that sin to get out of his life. And that's what David's saying. I don't even want this in my life anymore. I want to be not just forgiven. I want to become, I want no part of this anymore. Ow. So we have David's confession, David's cleansing, and then verse 15 through 19, we have David's consecration. And it's interesting, he went from a year of having a hard heart, denying it, lying about it, covering up, putting on this facade, that everything's good. And then he comes verse 16 and 17, and he has an absolutely broken heart. He is crushed. And he says, God, I take this mess I've made. I just give it to you. My heart is broken. My heart is, that word contrite means just tore up. There's nothing left. God, I bring it to you as a sacrifice. And if you can take me and restore me and use me. And you know what he says in verse 17? I won't despise that. God will not despise a broken heart. Everybody with me? Follow what I'm saying? A man after God's own heart sins, and his heart is broken. His heart is crushed, his contrite, and broken spirit and heart. And he brings that to God, and God says, I won't despise that. Two thoughts. I know by time. Let me give you two thoughts here, real quick, that I observe from verse 17. Number one: the beginning point in my relationship with God is my heart. My heart. The Christian life begins in the heart and works its way out. The basis of any relationship with God is a humble heart, a broken heart, a contrite heart. That's where Christianity begins. That's the basis of my relationship with my God, my heart. James chapter four and verse six says, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the what? Humble. God resisteth the proud, but grace almost. Humility has a heart condition 1 Peter chapter 5, verse 5. Again he said, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. 1 Samuel 16, 7, in fact, when God was going to anoint have Samuel anoint King David as a young man to be the king. He pointed out to Samuel the prophet, he says, don't look on his outward appearance. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the what? The heart. You know, you and I can put on a pretty good show that we're good Christians And we can convince anybody and everybody how spiritual we are and how much we love God. And we can put on this great show and we can put on this great talk But I want to remind you this morning, God looks at the heart. And that's where my relationship with God is, not on all this external stuff I can do and this religious activity. No, God begins at the heart. A broken and contrite. Notice he says their sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart. Solomon, David's son, from Bathsheba of all things, years later wrote to his son in Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 23 And he wrote to his Solomon writing to his son, made this statement: Keep thine heart with all diligence Why? Because out of it are the issues of life. Most important part of my relationship with my God is the condition of my heart, not how much money I dump in that plate. Not how much activity I do, how many visits I made and how much money I give and How much work I did ha gave and how many hours I put in the nursery and how many songs I sang. Those all have their place and they're all good, but that's not what God is looking for. God's looking on our heart Amen or not. So my relationship, the beginning point of my relationship with my God is my heart. Salvation begins in the heart Romans 10:9, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thine heart that God hath raised them from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. The heart, that's where salvation begins. And in my heart and soul. Listen, you can get baptized 95 times. Somebody I heard a preacher say one time, you can get baptized until you start growing gills. It's not going to save your soul. Your heart is where it is Believing in my heart. Salvation begins in the heart. Take your Bible, keep your place here. Real quickly, hurry up. Go with me to Luke chapter number 18. Now listen, you've got to start amening or something, or we're going to be preaching a long time here this morning, alright? Luke chapter 18 And verse number 10 is one of the most to me, I mean I know all scripture is profound, but every time I read this, it just strikes home. Luke chapter 18, look at verse 10. The Bible says, Two men went into the temple to pray. Alright, good. Is praying in the temple a good thing? Yeah, that's good. The one a Pharisee, the other a publican. As far opposites on the spectrum of spirituality you can get. I should say this religiosity. I think that's a word. If not, I just coined it. Alright, one's a Pharisee, the other's a publican The Pharisees stood and prayed thus. I think it's interesting. Notice he prayed thus what? Who's he praying for? Saying about himself. This is he's not even Anyway. God, I think he said it this way. God God, I thank thee. Look at this: that I am not as other men are. extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. Now the guy's standing right beside him while he's praying. I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all that I possess. Wow, what a prayer, huh? Now look at verse 13. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes into heaven. But smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. You notice two different hearts there? One heart's proud, one heart's hard. He didn't care if he offends this publican. He's self-righteous. Aye, aye, aye. Publicans over here, he he's he's ashamed to even approach to the altar Smites his breast. Oh God, just be merciful to me a sinner Guess what the publican had? A broken and contrite heart. Now look at the next statement. I tell you, the Lord's emphasizing here, I tell you, this man, publican, broken-hearted man, went down into his house justified, saved. Rather than the other. For every one that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humble himself shall be exalted. Listen, you don't come to salvation with a proud heart. No sinner comes to the cross to find forgiveness of sins and salvation from the judgment and wrath of God. With a proud, self-righteous, haughty heart. The only person finds salvation is the one, the broken heart. God, I'm a sinner. I witness to people all the time. One of the questions I like to ask, I'd point out that we're a sinner, and 99% of the time people agree that yeah, I'm a sinner, yeah, I'm a sinner. And I like to ask this question sometimes. I'll ask them, does that bother you? That you've sinned against God and you've broken his law. Does that concern you at all? Most of the time people have enough common sense to say, yeah, that's bad. Every now and then I'll have someone say, Well, I guess. I don't know, yeah. Not really. I'm telling you, the way you get saved, you come the way this old publican did. God, be merciful to me, a sinner. That's a broken heart. Salvation begins with a broken and contrite spirit. Let me quickly add here: spiritual growth begins with the heart. A broken and contrite heart. It's the humble heart that grows in grace. It's the broken heart that grows in grace. We get worked up about other people's sins, don't we? I mean a lot of Christian conversation is what some other Christian is doing wrong. Come on now, be honest. We had all worked up. They didn't do this or they did that. If we're going to grow as Christians, if we're going to grow spiritually, we've got to quit getting so worked up about the other folks' sin and start getting concerned about what? Our own sin. And be broken about our own sin. There was a fellow years ago attended, just off and on on Sunday mornings. This is a long time ago. And uh he was living with a woman. And I knew it and you know and talked to him about different things and uh a little bit, not a whole lot, but anyway I saw him at the store and he was very critical. Everything I did wasn't right and the church this and that he just I don't even know why he came. He came from he just criticized everything. And he showed up every now and then. And one day I was up at the Walmart. And we met in the aisle, said, hey, so-and-so, and called his name, said, How's it going? And he he didn't like this, and he didn't like the version of the Bible, and he just said all these different things. Finally said to me, he says, you know, I'm not married to the woman I'm living with. I said, yeah, I know. He says, well, what do you think about that? I said, well, it's not God's plan. I said, God's plan is to be married. One woman, one man, you know, just went through it. I tried to be intactful, I tried being nice, trying to be And he says, well, is it sin? I said, well, it's not God's plan. It's not what the Bible teaches. He said, is it sin? I said, well, the Bible says that we're to be married. You know, just kind of be in timid here a little bit. And he said, say it! It's sin. Say it. Say it. I said, all right, it's sin. It is. You know what happened? He got offended, walked off Now that's sad. And I said that to point this out. That type of heart will never grow spiritually, if it's even saved. If you and I are going to grow spiritually and be the men and women and young people that God intends for us to be, We have got to get a broken and contrite heart about ourselves and realize how desperately we need God's grace and mercy. If we're going to grow. But grow in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord. Number one, salvation begins in the heart, spiritual growth begins in the heart, and Christian service. begins in the heart. I got studying the Bible, you know what I found out? God uses broken things. God uses broken things. Jacob wrestled with the angel. And you know what that angel did? Broke his leg. At very least, he put his hip out of joint. Some think he broke his leg. And after that, Jacob, when he walked, limped and he changed his name. Our no longer Jacob, a supplanter, our Israel, a prince with God. When God broke him, then he was usable. And you go through all the Bible. Brother Andrew mentioned in Sunday school how God broke Moses out in a desert for 40 years. Oh, he was proud, Moses strong, I'll kill these Egyptians threatening my people, kill that, and that didn't work out. And God had to break them I think it was A. W. Tozer said, God doesn't use a man or a woman greatly until he breaks them deeply. Deeply. Broken things, broken things. You break the soil to get a crop. God breaks the clouds to drop the rain We break the grain to make bread. Mary brought an alabaster box full of ointment, precious, probably a lifetime savings worth of precious ointment. And it was all in there, but it wasn't any good to the Lord until she break that box and poured it out. I tell you, you want God to use you? I want God to use me. We've got to get off our high horse. We've got to stop thinking we're God's gift to the world. And realize we're nothing but a bunch of sorry sinners that have broken a holy God's law. And we are in desperate need of His mercy and His grace. You know what the amazing thing is? Those that God uses in great ways, and we get to the judgment seat of Christ. And he's going to reward those who serve them. There's five crowns that God has for those that serve him. And you know what our response is going to be, those that receive those crowns that understood it wasn't me. I'm just a broken vessel. It was all God. They'll take those rewards and those crowns and what are they going to do with them? I'm going to cast them at the feet of Jesus. Jesus, I'm just a broken vessel. You get all the glory. You did it all through me. My father, my father-in-law, my mu my wife's father, Ken Shiplett was his name It's been with the Lord for years now. He was an antique collector. I mean he had a big old outbuilding just full of antiques. I mean, we were at his house one time and he had this vase, a new vase we were visiting, had this vase sitting in the corner. He said, Don't get near that. I said, All right I said, what's the deal? He said, that thing's worth 10,000 bucks. It's like hundreds of years. He found it somewhere in some yard sale or estate and he said, that thing, I got insurance on that thing. I said, woo And he would go around, pie says, he'd go around, he was he was quite the guy. He'd drive down the road and he'd see a piece. Now this is the hills of West Virginia. This is the hills of West Virginia I mean we're talking back there. They might be his wife might be listening to me right now. Um but um He'd drive along and there'd be a he'd see a pie safe on some little cabin or some little West Virginia building, see a pie safe out on the porch. He'd go up and says, you interested in selling that They'd be like, oh I don't know. So I'll give you a hundred bucks for it. Hundred bucks? Are you kidding? Yeah, I'll sell that for a hundred bucks. That'll buy years worth of deer corn. Good night He'd go home fix that thing up. He'd sell it for nine hundred and fifty dollars. But you know we always look for, he'd always out there, he'd look for something. If it was broken, he'd say this, I'd go with him, we'd look at I said, what about this? Look at this, this is probably worth a lot. He says, nah, it's broken Oh, look at this. Look at this cabinet. He'd pull it in. No, it's broken back there. Ain't worth nothing. That one's broken. That ain't worth nothing. That ain't worth nothing. It's broken. But God's the exact opposite. God says, oh here's somebody broken. I can use them. I can use them, and then I'll get the glory. Oh, they're broke. Here's the thing. God collects broken hearts. I gotta end, but I want to show you a verse here real quick. Real quick. If you would come to back to Psalms and come to Psalms 34. Maybe I'm talking to someone this morning. Maybe it's sin that's broken your heart. I don't know. Maybe it's somebody, something's happened. Your heart is shattered and broken. Somebody's hurt you Maybe there's been some setback or a loss. Say, preacher, my heart is broken. Look at Psalm 34 and verse number 18. I love this verse. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of what? A broken heart, and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit. Does Jesus care? My heart is broke. Oh yes, he cares. I know he cares. Broken and contrite heart. Years ago my boys went to camp out in Utah. One of our missionaries has a camp out there on Friday night, or I guess it was throughout the week. I don't I don't remember how it played out But part of the camp's program is they would bring in a horse. Now I'm not a cowboy. I'm not much of a horseman. I'm not at all a horseman. But they would bring in a horse that was unbroken. How many people know what an unbroken horse is? This thing's a wild thing. Nobody's ever ridden it. They've got it out as a wild horse. They bring it in. It's an unbroken horse. And in the camp that week, they would break that horse. And Sam said, the boys said that was the most amazing thing I'd ever see in my life. Now they've seen a bunch since then. They're both horsemen of sorts. But at the time, they never saw that before. And that what would be the guy called that's breaking it? He would be the cowboy, I guess. The horse breaker. Works for me. The horsebaker's out there and He's working with that horse, and he would do things to get that horse's will broken where he could control it. And the boys came back and they said, Dad. They said, we could see that horse thinking. Am I going to submit or am I going to harden my heart? And they said you could see the horse as the week progressed making decision whether it was going to allow itself to be broken or whether it was going to resist. And I understand, they say, some horses you absolutely cannot break. Their will is so hard and so well Derek would know. They said we could watch and by the end of the week That horsebaker, that cowboy, could jump on that horse and have that thing doing everything it wanted. It was broken. You know what God is? God's a spiritual horse breaker. And he allows things in our hearts, and we fail. And God uses all of that. To make us usable in his hands. A broken and contrite heart, God won't despise it In fact, he cares for the brokenhearted. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, that you would use some of these thoughts. And Lord, help those of us that struggle with pride. Lord, help those of us that maybe have failed, those of us who've been hurt, or maybe we've hurt someone, and it breaks our heart that we said or did something to hurt someone. But I pray you'd help us come as David did and bring that broken and contrite heart as a sacrifice and say, Lord, here I am, here I am. And Lord, I pray you'd help us to let you take us and use us and mold us with broken hearts. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, I need the Lord to help me. I know what I am. I've been hurt. I've failed. I know my sin. And I want God to take me. And I want God just to use me in any way He can for His glory. Anybody like that this morning, God, I'd take my heart and I'll bring it to the Lord. Maybe some be honest enough, say, preacher, you know I'm an awfully proud person I know that's displeasing to the Lord, and God can't use a proud heart. Maybe some of us need to go to an altar and say, Lord, I bring my proud heart and I put on the altar and Lord break it. Rake it. So that I can love you and serve you and grow. There's someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure. I'm saved. I don't know for sure. When I die, I'm going to heaven I tell you, if you come to the Lord with your sinful heart and trust Jesus Christ as Savior, He'll forgive you and cleanse you. He'll give you eternal life, and you can know for sure. At heaven, your home. Father, bless our invitation this morning, I ask in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand against