Hey. Second Samuel chapter number eighteen. I want to begin reading uh in verse number uh 19, 2 Samuel 18, verse 19. I'm going to read down through the end of the chapter. So if you have your place there in your Bibles, verse number 19 says, then Ahimez The son of Zadok, then said Ahimez, the son of Zadok, let me now run and bear the king tidings how that the Lord hath avenged him of his enemies. And Joab said unto him, Thou shalt not bear tidings this day, but thou shalt bear tidings another day. But this day thou shalt bear no tidings, because the king's son is dead. Then said Joab to Cushei, Go tell the king what thou hast seen. And Cushai bowed himself unto Joab and ran. Then said Ahimez, the son of Zadok, yet again to Joab, But howsoever let me, I pray thee, also run after Cushai. And Joab said, Wherefore wilt thou run, my son, seeing thou hast no tidings ready. But howsoever said he, let me run. And he said unto him, Run. Then Ahimaz ran by the way of the plain and overran Cushai. And David sat between the two gates, and the watchman went up to the roof, over the gate, unto the wall, and lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, a man running alone. And the watchman cried and told the king, and the king said, If he be alone, there is tidings in his mouth. And he and he came apace and drew near. So he came up and showed up there at the gate of the city And the watchman saw another man running. And the watchman said unto the porter, called unto the porter, and said, Behold another man running alone And the king said, He also bringeth tidings. And the watchman said, Me thinketh the running of the foremost is like the running of Ahimaz, the son of Zadok. And the king said, He is a good man and cometh with good tidings. And Ahimes called and said unto the king, All is well. And he fell down to the earth upon his face before the king and said, Blessed be the Lord thy God. Which hath delivered up the men that lifted up their hand against the Lord the King. The king said, Is the young man Absalom safe? And Himez answered, When Joab sent the king's servant, and me thy servant, I saw a great tumult, but I knew not what it was And the king said unto him, Turn aside and stand here. And he turned aside and stood still. And behold, Cushai came. And Cushai said, Tidings, my lord, and the king. For the Lord hath avenged thee this day of all them that rose up against thee. And the king said unto Cushai, Is the young man Absalom safe? And Cushai answered, The enemies of my Lord the King, and all that rise against thee, to do thee hurt, be as that young man is. And the king was much moved. And he went up to the chamber over the gate and wept. And as he went, thus he said, Oh my son Absalom. My son, my son, Absalom, would God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son, my son. We're looking at this cry of a broken-hearted father. Let's pray and look at this. Father in heaven, we come to you tonight with grateful hearts. For the opportunity we have to study your word. Lord, there's a tragic story here. And I pray you'd help us learn from the life of David. Help us to learn How he responded to the situations and circumstances he found himself in. Help us learn from that. Help us to respond appropriately. I pray you'd teach us to trust you and to obey you and let you lead us and direct us. I yield my will to you, Father. I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart That you would speak through me and and apply this to our lives as you know we have need. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Understand the story here. We've been looking at this event in David's life. uh Absalom's uh uh rebellion against his father, the king, David, and uh he won the hearts of Israel over He run David out of the city. He raised up an army. He's out pursuing David. And we started this a couple weeks ago And the first thing we noted, if you remember, a few weeks ago was God's care for David. David had approximately 4,000 troops out there, plus their families and whatnot. Their great need was supplies God had three men that were very well equipped, that had uh the supplies necessary, that were tender-hearted. They took care of David. They met the the need for those supplies there. Then we noted Uh David's concern for Absalom as they're about to go to war. As bat combat is about to break out. David makes very clear instructions. He gives very clear instructions to uh the troops there and all his men, and he says, Do Absalom no harm. So he had that very tender care and love for his son, even though he's rebellious. We looked at the love of God there. Then I think it was last week we looked at Joab's callousness. Joab heard what God what David had told them. He heard the instructions. As the battle breaks out, they're very strategic. David was, and they had the battle took place in this very thick forest of Ephraim, it was called. And uh very thick forest, very difficult to get through. And David, I believe, did that deliberately. And so the the uh the armies of Absalom come after David. They come into this forest And the the down the deadfall and and the cliffs and there's pits. And the Bible says the more we're killed by the forest because of the situation of the forest than what the sword killed. And uh Absalom's forces are no match for David, and they're quickly and easily defeated. And lo and behold, this guy and Absalom's forces get scattered, and somehow Absalom gets separated from his men in his entourage, and he's by himself on this mule trying to get away, and he runs into this oak tree, and his head gets stuck in the branches of this oak tree. This fellow comes along, sees him hanging there. So he runs and tells Joab. And if you remember, Joab says, well why didn't you kill him? That's the enemy And he says, you can give me thousands of dollars. I wouldn't have killed him. David said, we're not to do him any harm. There's no way I was touching him. Joab says, I don't got time for this. And Joab, what did Joab do? Somebody help me remember. He killed them with three darts. Now those darts are type of javelins sort of type thing, small spear. He throws not just one. He could have uh Joab's an expert marksman, he's a he could have just thrown one and killed him. He throws three of them into his heart. And then he gets his fellows that are with him, his servants around him, his armor bearers and whatnot, and they pile on, and they finish Absalom off. So that's where we're at on tonight as we pick up in verse number 19. They got to get this information to David. I put a few statements down here. David had tremendous success as a warrior and as a king. Would you agree with me? When David was going to battle against the Philistines, he knew what he was doing. He knew what to do, what not to do, and he could defeat the Philistines. He could go to war. And he could uh he had the strategy, he had the know-how, he had the approach, he could beat his enemies on the battlefield. He was very successful as a king To remember, in the first seven years of his reign, he was able to unify the nation of Israel. He moved the capital into Jerusalem. He brought the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem He provided supplies for the temple to be built. He was a tremendous king, tremendous administrator and leader in that respect. He was a tremendous warrior, soldier, uh fighter. He was a tremendous king, administrator, but he wasn't such a tremendous father. He had problems in the home David had a tremendous difficulty as a husband and as a father. He ended up, if you remember, with multiple wives He ended up committing adultery with Bathsheba. His son, Amnon, raped his daughter Tamar. And uh the interesting thing is, and when we study that, but the interesting is David never saw what Amnon was up to when he was setting up Tamar to assault her and um uh misuse her. And so his son Amnon rapes his daughter Tamor. Then his other son, Absalom, kills his son Amnon. Absalom kills Amnon. And then he's betrayed by his son Absalom. And so David had difficult. The success he had on the battlefield, he did not have in his home, is what I'm trying to say. His tremendous leadership from the throne and over the kingdom of Israel, he did not have that same leadership and respect and success in the home that he had as king of Israel. And now his oldest son is dead. The death of, and I don't know this from experience I know there's some folks in our church that do, but the death of a child can be overwhelming to a parent. The death of a child. It's what they consider sometimes it's called an out-of-order death. By that they mean this. A child should not die before the parent does. They say that's out of order for that to happen. I was reading about this some different suggestions on counseling for The death of a child. And they say the grief of a parent over the death of a child is intense, usually long-lasting and overwhelming grief. A lot of times guilt takes over the heart, and the parent thinks that somehow I'm responsible, regardless of what the circumstances are. Often the parent will feel that I'm responsible for my child's death if I had only done this, or if we hadn't done that, or if I'd have done this differently. And they tend to blame themselves and become very guilty David had to deal with all of this. He had to deal with the death of his son. The insurrection now is over. Absalom is dead. And now they've got to get the information about Absalom's death from the battlefield to David back in the city where he was set up camp, where his headquarters was, and they've got to get that information So we're going to take a look at some this event here, getting this information back, and then we're going to make some observations. The first thing I want us to notice tonight in this passage that I just read is the appointment of a messenger. If you would look at verse number 19. David's, uh Absalom is dead. And then it says, verse 19, it says, Then Ahimez, the son of Zadok, said Let me now run and bear the king tight the king's tidings. He is uh I'll run. Joab, I'll run back and I'll give him the information. Now it actually becomes an issue here as to who is going to be the messenger to get the message back to David. Now that really isn't that big of a deal. Just choosing a messenger and sending them. And no doubt Joab had people in his uh uh arrangement in his in his military that were assigned as runners of information. The transfer of information on the battlefield is vitally important And so there's no doubt in my mind, Joab already had things in place to get this communication back to the king and let him know the son was dead, the battle's over, and uh this is this insurrection is finished. But Ahimez steps up, and he wants to be the one that takes it back. You know, it's a little issue, but sometimes little issues can be big headaches, right or wrong. Do you ever have something you say this isn't that complicated and little stuff just comes up and by the time you're ready to do something, you're about to go nuts. Can I get a witness there or anybody? And so Joab is here. He's got this taken care of. And then Ahimez comes up and he offers himself. Now the interesting thing about Ahimez, does anybody remember What Ahimaz did just a short time before this. See how well you remember our study. Ahimaz was a son of the priest And David had Hushei be a mole or a spy in Absalom's counsel. And when Ahushai found out what Absalom was going to do, He came out of the city and he told these two sons of the priest what was going on, and they ran out to David and told David. How many people remember that part? How many people remember we're studying the life of David Husheur uh Ahimez was one of those two guys. He's the son of the priest, Zaida, and he was one of the guys that took the message out to David in the wilderness when they found out what Absalom was going to do. That's not what he normally does. He's the son of a priest. He has responsibilities At the tabernacle. His responsibility is helping his father with the sacrifices. He's not a messenger. But he got a taste of being a messenger when he ran that out there, and now he wants to do it again. I would imagine when he showed up with David out in the wilderness with the information from Hushai and Jesus, oh this is what Absalom's going to do, and they're going to wait for a while and get a big army. And Hushai said you should do this. And David probably thanked him was very grateful and excited, glad to get that information. And maybe Alhemez thought, man, I'd like to do that again. In fact, when you see him talk to David, it sounds almost like he's really wanting to please David. He's wanting to hear David say these good things about him. So he had been a messenger for Hushai back in chapter 17, 17 is where that is. So why is he so eager? Well, I think there's several reasons. One, I kind of touched on. Maybe he just wanted to give David some news, what he considered to be good news. It says there that he outran Cushai, the actual messenger that Johab had lined up. That's probably one of his responsibilities, Cushai to be a messenger. And it says that Ahemez outran him. So I got thinking about that. Maybe he wanted to just impress everybody with how fast of a runner he was. It says he went by the plane. So apparently Cushai came through the thick forest or whatever. And uh Ahime said, I'll go out, I'm a fast runner. That's a little longer where I'm going, but I can outrun him. I know it. And so I don't know, maybe he just wanted to impress people with his great speed. But I think maybe, I think part of it was he wanted to please David, just he wanted to be the guy to bring news, what he considered good news to David. But there may be something more than that. I'm wondering, being a priest, being in the ministry, so to speak, he's he deals with people. And generally, it's a good idea if a person in the ministry has a heart for people. Would you agree with me? Did I ever tell you what really gets under my skin is when somebody in the ministry says something like this, I love the ministry, it's people I can't stand. That just gets me. Because there is if there's no people, you don't have a ministry. So I'm wondering if maybe Ahimez working with people and helping people, you know, find bringing their sacrifices and Finding forgiveness and helping them in a relationship with the Lord and all that type of thing. I'm wondering if he's thinking about David And he knows this is rough information that his son has been killed. And I wonder if he wants to show up, and maybe he wants to present it to David a little more gently Than what just some soldier that he's just out there doing his job. But he has a heart for peeling. Maybe that's part of his motive. I can't say for certain But I'm wondering if that isn't the case, and we'll see here in a little bit that that could possibly be the case. Joab refuses his request in verse number 20. He goes now. In fact, look what he said. Joed said to him, Thou shalt not bear tidings this day, but thou shalt bear tidings another day So he's saying, listen, not this time. Maybe some other time you can run some messages for me and run some errands for me. But this one here, I really need Kushai to do that. This isn't your job. This isn't something I want you to do. I think Joab knew David very well. I think Joab had an idea how David was going to respond when he found out his son was killed against his orders. And I'm wondering if Joab wasn't thinking, you know, it'd be better for David to hear this. From just some foot soldier that he has no personal relationship with than the son of one of David's very dear friends He's not the guy to break the news to David. And I think that's probably Joab's thinking here Uh better be uh just uh uh a footman, soldier, deal with David's response than the son of a priest, than the son of a very dear friend of David. So Joab says No, no, no. I'm not saying you can't ever run a messenger. You did great before, maybe some other time, but in this situation, you're not going to do it. So he points, look here at verse 21, he appoints this guy, Kushai. And he sends him as a Mesher. He said, Cushai, go tell the king what thou hast seen. And so he appoints Cushai. Who is Cushai? We really don't know much about him. His name indicates to us he was probably an Ethiopian, taken in by Joab, either as a slave Or maybe just a servant of his, one of the men that he chose out of the army. You know, David's army forces were very diverse. They weren't just Jews. There was many other nationalities involved in there with them. And so whatever the case was, he was probably an Ethiopian, whether a servant or just a or a slave of Joab's It's most likely Cushai took part in the murder of Absalom. He was probably one of those guys that is kicking and punching and stabbing. With ten others, and they're just beating the daylights out of Absalom until he's dead. He's already got three darts through his heart. He's probably one of those guys. And look what Joab says to him. He says, Tell the king what thou hast seen. Huh. So he sends him. Then look in verse 22, Ahimite comes back again and he says, listen, uh I alright, you're sending Kushai, but send me too He reminds me of the kid in the classroom going, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh. I want to go. I want to go. And so he comes back and look what look what Joab says to him. He says, um He said, Let me, I pray thee, also run after Cushai. And Joab said, Wherefore wilt thou run, my son, seeing thou hast no tidings ready. Now what does he mean? by no tidings ready. I think what he's saying there is, listen, you have no official statement from the military officers, a commanding officer, you have no official statement for David. I think Job's just given excuses why he shouldn't go And so he presses the issue. He says, howsoever, verse 23, said he, let me run. And finally, Joab This says, all right, all right, run. They finally got that all settled. Who's going to take the message back to David? Kushai's on the way Ahim as. Oh, good. So he heads out. He goes a little longer route. And he heads over there. Now come back to the city where David is Verse 24, and David sat between the two gates. Somebody tell me, what were the gates of the city? What's the significance of David at the gates of the city? Anybody want to take a shot? What will be the significance of him being there? Okay, yeah, that would be his place as king. The gates is where business was done and embassars were coming. But primarily, uh that is the closest place he can be. Now remember they told him to stay in the city. He was going to go out to battle. They said, no, not a good idea. You stay here. So he stayed there, but he stayed at the very edge of the city, as close to where information would be coming as possible. Now it says something else about where he was located. He was located at the gates, and look at this. And the watchman went up to the roof over the gate unto the wall. So David is sitting at the very gate, the very entrance, the very edge of the city. He's watching out there for the entrance from where anything, any information would be coming from the battlefield. And the watchtower is right above him. And so of course the watchmen up there are going to get information before anybody else. And David wants to be right there And get that information as soon as quickly as possible. Did anybody hear ever you're waiting on a very, very important phone call and you sat by the phone the whole day waiting for that phone to ring? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Or you're, it's election night and you're wanting to see if your guy got elected, and you're watching that news the whole time till one o'clock in the morning, just waiting That is way I picture David. He is right there at the edge of the city. He's at the gate. The watchtowers over him. I I the Bible doesn't say this happened, but I could see this happening. David sitting there, maybe pacing back and forth. Anything yet? No, sir. Don't see anything. A few minutes later. Anything yet? Nope. Seeing the same thing I saw three minutes ago. And David is patiently, he's impatiently waiting. He's waiting, waiting. I put it this way, he is anxiously waiting. At the place where he'd get the first, the information would arrive first of all. Then he makes an accurate assessment. Look at verse 25. Finally The watchman cries out and told the king, Oh, there's a runner coming. Behold, a man running alone. Alright, so he's had some information. Somebody is coming from the battlefield and he's alone. And the watchman cried and told the king. Now look what David said. He assessed this very accurately. He said, if he be alone, there's tidings in his mouth. He's a messenger, he's got some information. And he came apace and drew near. And the watchman saw another man running. And the watchman called to the porter and said, Behold, another man running alone. And the king says, Ah, he's bringing tidings. David knew about this stuff. If this guy's running alone, he's a messenger. If there was a whole slew of David's men running towards him, what probably happened? They got defeated. They got routed. And so David knows if he's coming by himself, it's a messenger. If there's hundreds of people running frantically towards the city, that's not good inform that's not a good situation So David immediately all right these are messengers and notice what he says there verse number twenty-seven the end it says and the watchman said me thinketh the running of the foremost is like the running of Ahimez, the son of Zadok. David knows this guy. They're friends of the family. And he says, He is a good man and cometh with good tidings. So David thinks very highly of Ahimas, and maybe he's getting his hopes up. I'm thinking at this point, David's thinking, wow, maybe Absalom is alive. If Ahimaz is coming, he's a good man. He would come and tell me good news. And so I don't know, but I'm wondering if David isn't getting his hopes up here a little bit. And then verse 28, he gets the painful, painful news. And Ahimaz called and said unto the king, All is well. And he fell down to the earth upon his face before the king and said, Blessed be the Lord thy God. Which hath delivered up the men that lifted up their hand against the Lord the King. Do you notice anything missing from that information he gave David? Nothing about Absalom. All he says is, hey, we won the battle. We won the war. We're on the winning side. All is well. Look down verse 29. And the king said, This is where David's heart and mind is. Okay, great, but is the young man Absalom safe? Now look how Ahima's answers. When Job sent the king's servant and me, thy servant, I saw a great tumult, but I knew not what it was. I knew not what it was. Now at first, when I first got looking at this, I thought, Ahimaz didn't know what happened to Absalom. But that's not true. If you'll come back, Joab told Ahimez before he left that Absalom was dead. Come back over there. To verse 20. And Joab said unto him, Thou shalt not bear tidings this day, but thou shalt bear tidings another day. But this day thou shalt bear no tidings, because the king's son is dead. Ahimaz knew that Absalom was dead, but he would not say that to the king. Now what his reasoning was Maybe he was, and it's been suggested that maybe Ahimez was just kind of softening the blow, preparing David a little bit, rather than just Uh who was it that told the story? Uh it was Brother Uh Harding said his wife went away and she called up and said, How's the cat? Oh, it's dead. And uh anybody remember that And he said, don't just say that. You know, soften the blow loop. Say it was on the roof or something. Remember that? And uh maybe that's what Ahimaz is doing. He knew David. He knew Absalom was dead But he says, Cushai's coming. I'm just gonna kind of set the stage a little bit, maybe soften the blow. I don't know. But Ahimez knew that Absalom was dead, and he did not tell David that. There's something else I noticed. For whatever it's worth, in Him as answer. But notice he references himself three times. When Job sent the king's servant, and me, thy servant, I saw a great tumult, but I knew not what it was. For whatever reason, he's pretty self-centered in this. He wants David, I think he wants David to think highly of him. So he doesn't give him all the information he has, and he kind of focuses on himself. Again, David is concerned for the child for his son. In fact, his concern for his son is greater than his concern for the well-being. Of uh his nation, the well-being of his throne. He's more concerned about Absalom than he is about the outcome of the battle. I think David loved his son maybe more than he loved his position. Maybe he loved his son more than he loved the throne that he sat on. You know, sometimes fathers, if they're not careful, they can love their jobs more than they love their families. Sometimes fathers, if they're not careful, can love their possessions and their wealth more than they care about their families. In this situation, at least, it sounds to me like David loved Absalom more than he cared about his throne. And so, for whatever that may be worth. And then Cushai shows up, verse 31. We're working our way through here, and I want to come to some conclusions here in a minute. Verse 31, oh, in verse 30, the king said unto them, Turn aside and stand here. He didn't have the information he was looking for. And so Hemaz turns aside and stands there. Cushai shows up, this servant of Joab's, and Cushai gets right to the point. Kushai said, Tidings, my lord the king, for the Lord hath avenged thee this day of all them that rose up against thee. Says basically what Ahima said, but then the king pressed him, Is the young man Absalom safe? And Cushai answered straightforward, without fear, just told him the facts. The enemies of my Lord the King, and all that rise up against thee to do thee hurt. Be as that young man is. He made it very, very clear Absalom's dead. We dealt with him just like you dealt with the Philistine enemies. Just like what we want done with all our enemies, that's exactly what took place with Absalom. He's very clear. He's very forceful. No focus on himself No fear about how David would respond. He just told it as it is and gave him the facts. And I thought there, as I considered that a little bit, I thought We need some preachers that'll preach the truth as it is without fear and regardless of what the consequences are. We need a little bit of what Kushai had in our pulpits today. And so he tells them as it is, not talking about himself. Not worried about how David would respond. This is the truth. This is a message. My job is to deliver it to you. And that's what he did. And now we get to verse 33, and that pitiful, pitiful cry of David, and the king was much moved. He went up to the chamber over the gate, apparently up above the gate where the watchtowers were, some chamber, some room where he could get aside. And as he is making his way up the stairs, perhaps, or a ladder, however he's getting up there, As he's going up, he begins to weep, and he begins to weep uncontrollably, apparently, and he begins to cry out, Oh my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom. Would God I had died for thee, oh Absalom, my son, my son. Can't you hear just the pity, the pitifulness in that cry? A broken-hearted father. A broken-hearted father. I think this is one of the most pitiful cries in all of Scripture. One other place in Scripture where I find someone crying out with an absolute broken heart, very similar to what David said here. One other place in Scripture. And that is when Jesus overlooks the city of Jerusalem. And the Bible says he wept. And he said, Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem. How oft I would have crawl uh uh brought to you, uh uh I'm not quoting it correctly, how oft I called you and you would not Like a mother hand takes her little chicks under her wings and you would not. Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem I tell you, God is brokenhearted over the lost without Christ And so David is crying here, an absolutely broken-hearted father. It made me think of the Lord Jesus Christ, an absolutely broken-hearted God, for the people to be saved. Sometimes you'll see in the news or a a game show or something, and uh somebody will win a million dollars Or they'll win uh, you know, some big cruise to to the Netherlands or somewhere, I don't know. And what does the whole crowd do when that when they win, or w the the people at the the the lottery place when they win, what does the whole crowd do? Everybody is what? Yay! Oh! They're cheering and everything confetti falling and oh they won a million dollars And then you have some old sinner in a church walks an aisle and trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, and they don't win a million dollars. And they don't get a pre-cruise to Alaska, but their sins are forgiven and they're saved from hell and they give eternal life. And everybody goes, oh, that's nice. Wonderful. Praise the Lord. You follow what I'm saying? I think if we valued people the way Jesus valued people, our priorities would be different. And what we rejoice in, and what we think is wonderful, and what we hoop and holler about would change a whole lot. We get more excited about getting a basketball hoop than we do about a child getting saved. And Jesus looked over the city of Jerusalem. He said, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, his heart is aching, it's weeping for them to be saved. And David hears of his son. He says, Absalom, my son, my son. Now I think there's a contrast between Jesus weeping for Jerusalem and David Weeping for his son. And this is the contrast. Here's something interesting. And maybe I'm being overly critical of David. And again, the death of a child is overwhelming. I understand that But there's something I notice here. David wept for his son in his son's death, but I see little or no concern for Absalom while he was still alive. When Absalom killed Amnon and fled, David made no effort to get him back. In fact, Joab was the one that had to get Absalom back. And when he did come back, David had no interaction with him for what was it, two or three years. Until Absalom set the field on fire to get his attention, and so they would finally at least sit down together. And that's the that's I've seen that the way it is so many times. People have no time or no interest or no concern for family members or friends or neighbors while they're alive, but when they die, oh, it's a terrible wailing, right or wrong I've seen it. I worked hospice for years, done hundreds of funerals, and uh and I've seen it so many times. Where they're fussing and fighting and they don't get along and they're mad at each other and they have no time for each other and nothing good to say about each other, then one of them dies unexpectedly or tragically, and then it's all sudden, oh And it's tragic to me that David is so upset with the death of his son, yet he had little or no concern for the life of his son. I've had people come to me, uh their their family member, their father, their brother, sister, somebody that uh uh close to them and And they find out they got cancer, they're going to die, and they'll come and say, Preacher, you got to get them saved. You got to get daddy saved. You got to get daddy saved And man, they put the squeeze on me and pressure on me, and I tell you, I do everything I can to try and win them to the Lord. But I tell you, the time to try and win your loved one to the Lord isn't on their deathbed. It's years before when you can build a relationship with them and earn their love and respect and let them know you really care about them. Here David is, so in all this compassion and love for his son, when the whole time he was alive, there was little or no attention paid to him. I put this down. He put his personal interest above the security of his nation. Now I have tremendous respect that he showed this concern for Absalom over top of his throne. But he's been anointed of God to be the king of Israel. His responsibility is to provide for the safety of God's people. I put it this way God's work and God's kingdom is bigger than you and me. And our little, our concerns in our life, and I say little, I don't mean little, but the concerns of our life God's kingdom is bigger. Do you know how many missionaries have buried loved ones on the mission field and no family was around to be there with them? But their call of God superseded all of that, and with broken hearts they buried their wives and their children, and they went on for the kingdom of God. I'm afraid so many times we have people who will quit the ministry and will quit serving God and give up on God because some heartache or or difficulty in our life. And that's real. I'm not minimizing that, but I'm saying this. The work of God is bigger than our individual lives. our individual cells. And so David put his personal interest above the security of the nation and Last of all, I put this down. David was irrational in his grief. He said, Would to God I had died in place of you. Now stop and think about that statement. What if David had died and Absalom had lived? How good would that have been for the nation of Israel? That would have been disaster. Absalom had no legitimate claim to it. He had no experience. He had no organizational abilities. Absalom, by human standards, was a failure. And what if David had died and he had lived, it would have been disaster. Now here's what I take away from that We must be very, very careful about statements we make and decisions we make when we're very emotional. We have to be very, very careful about that. How many times we get worked up and we're all emotional, worked up about something, and we say something, and later on we have to come back and say, ah, I wish I hadn't said that And so David, I think, is so overwhelmed with emotion, he's making some statements here that were not wise. Compare the death, David's response to Bathsheba's baby, and how David responded to the death of Bathsheba's baby, him and Bathsheba's child. And how he responded to Absalom, very, very different. Absalom and his child, he trusted God He said, this baby's at God's hands. Maybe God will let him live. If not, it's the Lord's doing. Here, he's holding on to Absalom and refusing to let go. And Absalom's gone, and he can't stand it. And I know it's heart-wrenching, but I'm wondering If David's failure to love and care for and be the father to his son while he was living is overwhelming him now that he's gone. You follow my thinking? So what do we do? Here's what I want to tell, this is what I want to leave us with. Let's love our families while we have them. Spend time destinem. Nurture those relationships and uh And trust God with it. Father in heaven, I don't know how you would apply this event here. It's so sad. But I pray you'd help us to trust you, help us to walk with you. I pray you'd give us grace and wisdom in the events that come in our lives and help us to let you lead us. And Lord to trust you. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, you know, God stirred my heart. I don't know how God would deal with this, but you say, God touched my heart There's some things in my life, some family members or whatever, friends, that I need to be concerned about their spiritual well-being. I need to invest in them in our relationship. Anybody like that, any like that at all, there's some I gotta do that, sure. Probably all of us would say that. Father, I ask you bless our imitation now in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's think