This chapter four is where we're at. I'm just going to look at two verses. We're looking we're working our way through the life of Moses and um He has been commissioned by God at the burning bush as we spent a long time on that. He's been commissioned to go back down to Egypt. Of course, the Hebrews are slaves down there and under great affliction And um he's he's surrendered. He finally, after back and forth, back and forth, back and forth, he finally submitted to God's call, and he is now on his way down And uh Jamie, I've actually changed the title of the message tonight from what I had in the bulletin. Let me read verse 27 and 28 is where we're at. Verse 27 says, And the Lord said to Aaron, Go into the wilderness to meet Moses. And he went. And he met him in the mount of God and kissed him. And Moses told Aaron all the words of the Lord who had sent him, and all the signs which he had commanded him. I've entitled the message A Brotherly Alliance. A Brotherly Alliance. And I'll explain what we mean by that here in a moment. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God. And Lord, these Old Testament events that you have recorded and preserved for us, Lord, you said that we could learn from these. These are in samples for us. So I pray that this little portion of Scripture that your Holy Spirit would take and help us glean some truths, some principles, things that will help us be the Christians you would have us to be. And Lord, I pray with all my heart that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. To be yours to fill and and use as a conduit to speak through me. And help us have receptive hearts. Help us to understand what's here for us. And I pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Moses at this point, if you pick this up, I was going back over, preparing for tonight, I was looking back over where we've come from and kind of resurveying the life of Moses up to this point And at this point, Moses is a different man than he was before. There's been some profound changes. If you remember early on we pointed out some what I called landmarks in the life of Moses or turning points. in the life of Moses. And many of us can look back over our life and we say, there was a turning point. Would you agree with me? Our salvation was a turning point in our life. For me it was profound. I was a different man after it before. And then other things. You're a different man than you were before, you know There's some turning points here. Well, I see three in the life of Moses. And we touched on these before, but we're at we're at a different we're on in another stage of Moses' life, I guess I could put it. I put the pre-wilderness Moses. That's chapter 2, verse 1 up through verse 12. This is where he's put in the ark, and uh Pharaoh's daughter finds him, brings him in, his mother raises him to about the age twelve Then he goes into Pharaoh's house. He's basically adopted, raised in Pharaoh's house, and he lives there as Pharaoh's son, grandson, until he's 40 years old. I describe. Moses light that first 40 years as the self-confident Moses. This is where he's being highly educated, if you remember. He's educated in the schools of Egypt Now there's a danger that comes with that. I don't think education in and of itself is wrong. Proverbs tells us to get knowledge, get understanding Get learning. So that in and of itself isn't wrong. But 1 Corinthians 8 verse 1 says, knowledge puffeth up. And sometimes we can lose our humility and we become very, very proud of our education, become proud of our intellect. And we become very self-confident. And I think that's where Moses was that first 40 years of his life. So he's highly educated in some of the best institutions in the world. They're in Egypt. They were leaders in the world. But he also was worked his way up the ranks military, in the military. And he was a the history books tell us, the Jewish history books tell us he was a uh leader in the military, a high-ranking man in the military. And I'm not a military man. I wasn't in it. Some of y'all could maybe clarify this for me later. But um uh Uh my understanding is the military is very good at teaching men to be self-sufficient, to be independent to uh uh to be uh self-confident is what I'm trying to say. You know what you're doing, you know what need to be needs to be done, and you've been trained very highly to do that. That's my impression So that's Moses. Very, very confident. Let me ask you this question. I know I'm doing a little review tonight, but let me ask you this question. How did Moses' self-confidence work out for him? Not very good. He ended up killing an Egyptian in his self-confidence. I got this, I can handle this, I can get the Hebrews out of Egypt, and he kills this Egyptian, the Jews turn on him. And he ends up fleeing for his life. So the first 40 years, chapter 2, verse 1 through 12, is this self-confident Moses. Then the second 40 years, from chapter 2, 13 all the way to 4. 17. Chapter 4, verse 17 is the insecure Moses. These are his wilderness years. He flees Egypt. He goes up into the wilderness. He becomes a shepherd. He lives alone. He runs across Jethro, becomes a shepherd, ends up marrying Jethro's daughter, and has some boys. But at this point he's he's very, I believe he's very insecure Everything he's trusted in, everything he's been trained to do, everything he's known for 40 years is taken away from him. And of all things, he's a shepherd. What was the Egyptians' attitude towards shepherds? They hated them. They were dirt. They were the lowest of the low. And that's Moses now. And I think that helps explain a little bit when God approaches him at the burning bush, and God calls him, commissioned him to go down, and he kept, you know, he went this back and forth, these all these objections. I can't do it, I don't know what to say, I don't know I don't I can't this, I can't that. All self-confidence has been removed. And he was and that was exactly where God needed him to be Because as long as he was trusting in himself, as long as he was confident in himself, God couldn't use him. He would be limited what he could do. But when he came to the end of himself, and he said, I can't do this, I can't do this, God steps in and says, okay. And so the first 40 years of his life, self-confident The second 40 years, insecure, alone, in the wilderness, shepherd, unable, unwilling Then the burning bush in chapter 4, verse 18. And we spent a long time. We went through very meticulously looking at Moses' objections and God's countering to Moses' objections that go down. And finally He submits. And from that point on, from chapter 4, verse 17, in my estimation, now we have what I'm calling the supernatural Moses. And we see and we see Moses doing things that Moses is not able to do in and of himself. We see Moses, we see God using Moses in ways that Moses could have never done with his education, his military training, his background, his self-consciousness. He could have never done that. But when all that was removed and he's put completely dependent upon God, then God says, Alright, now I can do things you could never you would have never dreamed of. And we see supernatural events through the hands and the words of Moses, and powerful acts of God For the next 40 years through Moses. And so we have this supernatural Moses. I was reading this afternoon J. Vernon McGee And he made a statement, I just caught a little quote of his, and he made this statement: God did not intend for us to live the Christian life in and of our own power. He's given us the Holy Spirit to indwell us so that we can live a Christian life that we can never produce in and of our own abilities. In many ways it's supernatural Christian life. Now I say that and our minds immediately go to sensational things, sensational things. I'm telling you, me just living like a Christian is something supernatural, because I could have never done that before Christ. You follow what I'm saying? And so we see that in Moses. Now it's God getting Moses to that point where it's no longer Moses, but it's Jehovah. Working through them. And that's where we're at. So last week, if you remember, we looked at verse 24, 25, and 26, and I kind of re-outlined this. Every time I go through it, I see a new outline But chapter 4, verse 24 through 26, I see he deals with a bloody issue, circumcision, and we looked at that of all things. And how profound that really was in the Old Testament economy for the Hebrews. So we have this bloody issue. Now we have, in verse 27, 28, we have this brotherly alliance. And Aaron joins up with Moses now. And they're going to be a team. And then chapter 4, verse 29, all the way through to chapter 5, verse 1, we have this bold entrance. Where Moses and Aaron show up in Egypt, and they have the audacity to walk into the very presence of Pharaoh and say, thus saith the Lord, let my people go. And so you have this very bold entrance. So let's look at this brotherly alliance. We looked at the bloody issue. Let's look at this brotherly alliance. How many people love my alliteration there? Isn't that great? I couldn't wait all week just to give you those That alliteration. I love it. Brotherly Alliance. The first thing I notice in verse 27 is the redirection of Aaron's life The redirection of Aaron's life. Look at the first part of verse 47. And the Lord said to Aaron, Go into the wilderness and meet Moses. Now, that may seem like at the moment for Aaron just a seemingly insignificant instruction No doubt Aaron knew Moses was up in the wilderness. We don't know when they last met. It may have been 40 years ago. We don't know. It could have been a very, very long time. So God instructs Aaron to go up into the wilderness and meet Moses. And That in and of itself very insignificant. I would imagine Aaron had no idea what this meeting was going to turn out to be. But what was what appeared to be very insignificant ended up being profoundly life-changing Nothing about Aaron's life from this point on is ever going to be the same. His life has completely changed. For 80, he's 83 years old. Moses is 80. Aaron's three years older than Moses. So Aaron is 83 years old at this point. He's been living in Egypt. He's got a wife and kids. We're going to touch on that here in a little bit. I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but he's been living there a long time. So I look at this statement, and the Lord said unto Aaron, Go into the wilderness and meet Moses. There's two things I don't know. There's two things we're not told in that statement that make me curious. The first one is, where was Aaron at when God told him to go in the wilderness? I think that's pretty obvious, but we're not told. The other thing we're not told is how. Did God tell Aaron to go into the wilderness and meet Moses? How did God communicate to Aaron that instruction? So, first question that comes to my mind as I'm looking at that, I thought, all right, where in the world was Aaron when God told him to go in the wilderness? He obviously wasn't in the wilderness So the most likely place that Aaron would have been would have been where? In Egypt. It's where they were raised. It's where they grew. He's 83 years old. We find no indication in Scripture anywhere that he moved anywhere else. Most likely, I don't know how he was able to come and go, maybe with his connections with Aaron. I mean, they're still slaves, they're still under affliction down there. And so We would assume he's living in in Egypt. He's lived there a long time. He has, as I said, a wife and two boys In Exodus chapter 6, we're given a genealogy. His wife is named, his two boys are named there. So he's got a family. He's settled in for a long time. And God says, go up in the wilderness and meet your brother Moses. Sure. Somehow he gets leave, whatever, and he he goes up there. Little does he realize what that meeting is gonna do to him and his wife and family So where was he at? Probably Egypt. The question, the next question is, and this is what intrigues me, is how in the world did God communicate to Aaron that he's supposed to do this? Well, there's several ways. God can use a lot of ways to redirect people, right? Does anybody look back in your life and you see where God redirected your life at some point? Of course, salvation, we say that. For me, it was taking positions. I was in school, finished, working in the hospital, worked a year after I finished college and worked in the hospital, worked in the surgery department of the hospital I thought you were impressed with that, but anyway, I'd have to do that every time. Surgery department And got a call from Indianapolis. Come up here, why don't you come on staff? And so God redirected. God can use a lot of things to redirect us in our lives. The loss of a job. How many people have ever moved to a new location because the coal mine show closed up or The w paper mill shut down. You go somewhere else to try and find work. God can use that to redirect There's more than a few people that lost a job, moved another place, in that other place, they came across the Christian, heard the gospel, got saved, and God redirected them God can use the death of a loved one to redirect their lives. How many people come to Christ at a graveside? They heard the gospel, believed God changed their life, and God redirected them through the death of a loved one. Sometimes a social upheaval. And a culture or a country. No one needs to get out of here and they go to America or they go to some other country and God redirects them and they come to Christ. Maybe personal failure. They messed up. Bad. And God changes. Their life has changed the result of that. So what I'm trying to say is God can redirect us. In a lot of different ways. God, you know, I'm thinking of Jonah, and he's fleeing from God, and God uses a storm and a couple sailors casting lots. To confront Jonah and completely change directions. Our God is an amazing God. And He can use things we would never dream of to completely alter our lives. So how did God redirect Aaron? Well, if you look there, there's a word That catches my attention. And the Lord, let's see, that's the fourth word in. What is it? And the Lord said. To Aaron. The Lord said, All right. What's the word said mean? It means to speak, it means to say words. How many people are glad you came to church tonight and found out what the word said means? It has the idea of giving instructions. So it simply means the word said. God, the Lord said to Aaron. It means he communicated information to him, he communicated instructions to him. So, what we're not told is how did God say that to him? Did he get a letter? Um We're not told, just says he said that. Well, throughout the Old Testament, there's numerous ways that God communicated information Or instructions to people. One is where God communicated with clear, direct, audible words. Can you think of anybody in Scripture? God gave them instructions or God gave them communicated information to them with clear, direct, audible words. Can you think of any? Abraham, another one. Moses, we just heard it. The burning bush. God spoke to him He heard him audibly like you hear me talking now. Moses heard God talking to him. Would you uh are you like me? That would be amazing This God that's here right now, we can't see him, we can't hear him, we can't feel him. But the God that's here, that's paying attention to us, he's focused on what we're saying and doing right now, God is And if he would speak to us in an audible way, wouldn't that be something? He did that in the Old Testament multiple times. So I think it's most likely that when God said to Aaron, Go up into the wilderness and meet your brother, it was probably an audible. voice that Aaron heard. We're not given any specific we don't know we're susp we're uh supposing this. God spoke audibly to Moses just before this, so we would assume maybe that he did the same thing with Aaron without the bush and all of that. Or there's other ways in the Old Testament. God spoke to people other ways in the Old Testament. Sometimes He would use a dream Or some sort of vision to communicate information. Can you think of anybody in the Old Testament that God communicated to them with dreams? Daniel, Nebuchadnezzar, Joseph, Jacob, Visions, Isaiah So God did that throughout the Old Testament. He would have a dream. It would be God speaking them to the dream. Or they have some vision. God speak to them, give them information, direction through that vision. I think it's possible that God did that with Aaron, directed him through that. There's another way that God, yeah, he used a donkey before, with audible voice, though. Sometimes he would put a what I'm calling a divine impression on someone's heart. And it wasn't an audible voice, and it wasn't a dream or vision, but just something in their heart impressed on them: this is what God wants me to do. Sometimes the terms are used. There's a verse in Proverbs, the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord, and he turneth it whitherso he will. God can put something on a man's heart and redirect him, and I need to do this, this is what God wants me to do. Cyrus, God turned his heart to let the Jews go back out of Babylon. And go back. And God put on his heart. And what how aware he was that God was telling do it, I'm not sure. But I think that's unlikely. Because the word said. So, how did God direct him? God directed him, I believe. This is speculation, but most likely God spoke audibly to Aaron, which is an amazing thing to hear the voice of God. You say, well, preacher, what about today? How does God speak to us today? Does God speak audibly to us? Does he give us dreams and visions? Does he impress our heart? God today speaks to us through his word. The Bible is complete. All through the Bible, when they had these visions and dreams and heard the audible vo words and audible voice of God It was before the Bible was completed. Now we have a complete Bible. And anytime God wants us to have information directly from Him When he wants to communicate instructions to us, he will use his word to do that. That's why the Bible is so vitally important in the life of a believer. And in the ministry of a church, the word of God, God said to Aaron, go up in the wilderness, God says to you and I, through his word, what we should and shouldn't do. Now, sometimes, I believe, sometimes God may impress us by stirring our heart to do something. Anybody here ever standing in line or you're going somewhere, you've got some gospel tracts in your pocket, and all of a sudden you know beyond the Shaddat God wants me to give that person a gospel tract? Now that's the impression of the Lord. That's God impressing on my heart something He would have me to do. And I could give testimony hundreds. God wants me to go and make this vis in the morning in my prayer times. A lot of times I'm going I go through the whole church Every church name we have, for church folk I pray, everyone, every morning I go through and pray. And sometimes I'm going through there, somebody's name will stand out in my heart and mind And if it's a lady, I'll go to Kathy, I'll say, Well you call them today. I just think they need a call. And you would be amazed, the overwhelming majority of the time she'll call and there's something going on, she'll end up praying with them. You know what I think that is? I think that's God impressing. Now he's not communicating information to me. That comes through the Word of God. But he is impressing us and he'll use his word to do that. Sometimes it might be circumstances God will use, and we know God did that. We'll say something like this. Anybody ever go have something happen And you'll say something like this, you know, that wasn't a circumstance, that was a divine appointment. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And so sometimes God will do something, a circumstance, uh, to uh lead us or direct us in a certain way. But the da the what the caution we have to have on all of this, whether he impresses on our heart to do something or circumstances It always has to line up with Scripture if we know it's from God. If I have some impression on my heart, To do something or say something or go somewhere that is contrary to this book, you mark it down, it is not God leading us. This is the final authority. And any impression I have, or any circumstance that comes up, if it's contrary to any part of Scripture, even remotely Then I know it's not of God. I've got to stay away from it. We just preach Sunday night that we should not trust our own what? Our own heart You've got to be very, very careful. Question: Can Satan put impressions on my heart and mind to lead me astray? Absolutely. My flesh. Satan can set up circumstances. That he knows will appeal to my flesh or something mess me up. So I gotta be very, very careful about that. So I thought it was a Good thing to stop and consider. How did God communicate to him and how does God communicate to us today? And God communicates through his word. Now the next thing I want to notice here about this little statement And the Lord said unto Aaron, go into the wilderness and meet Moses. The second thing I knew, the first thing was, where was he and how did God do this? The second observation I have here is the timing of all of this. The timing when God impresses or communicates to Aaron, you need to go up there where Moses is. Here's the amazing thing. This is right after Moses had the issue with his wife. Look there at verse number 26. So he let him go. Then she said, A bloody husband thou art, because of the circumcision. I mean, she's disgusted with him. And we find out later on, she goes back home. She takes the boys with her That leaves Moses what? A lo. I don't know about you, but I would imagine his heart is broken. He's been married to this gal maybe 40 years almost, pushing 40 years. They've been together alone in the wilderness She gets disgusted with his Hebrew Jewish ceremonies, and she throws the bloody thing at him and leaves. And I would imagine Moses is crushed. His boys are gone No doubt he's afraid of what's ahead of him. All he's been through and he's alone. And that's right the time that God instructs Aaron, you go up and be with Moses. You go up and be with Moses. Sometimes I think we need to be alone with God, right? I think it's important that you and I, on a regular basis, get alone with God. I think My opinion is, my advice is on a daily basis, get alone with God. Not the wife, not the kids, not the family, not the friend, just me, just God and I However, we need other people also. We need each other To live for God and serve God the way we should. And God knew Moses needed his brother at this time. I remember my daddy Family was broke up. Dad was alone, crushed. He's truck driver. He's out on the road all week long by himself. His heart is crushed. And he he told me stuff. And he said I m he said he would say something like this, my heart ached. For Sunday, when I could get back to church with my brothers and sisters in Christ. I needed people. I needed my brothers. I needed my sisters in Christ. And God knew that Moses needed his brother. Listen, don't ever underestimate how important the church is. to us as believers. We need each other. We need time alone with God, but we also need time where we're together, we're serving together, we're working together, we're encouraging each other's. What does Hebrews say? Forsake not the assembly of yourselves And the manner of some is, but so much the more as you see the day approaching, and he and I'm not quoting this correctly, but he says, exhorting one another And so much the more. We need to encourage each other. We need to rub shoulders. I was at a preacher's fellowship yesterday, and I loved the preaching, it was great Well, we sat down afterward and had lunch together. I'll tell you, just sitting there, interacting with other preachers, was so good for me. And fingerprints and blankets for babies and going on a trip on track month, all the things we're producing, all the things we're doing is great. But that working together, that interaction together, that Partnering together, that fellowship together is so important to help us stay strong in the Lord and do what we need to do. God knew what he was doing when he designed the church. And the whole thing is designed for you and I to be able to grow and serve God together. It's a whole function of the church. And so, God, I think the timing is interesting here that God sends Aaron at the time when Moses is completely alone. And look how they respond. It says, and he went up and met him in the mount and kissed them. Moses needed Aaron right now, and God knew it. God knew it. If we neglect our personal time alone with God, it's going to hurt our spiritual growth. And at the same time, if we neglect our assembling together with God's people, it's going to hinder our spiritual maturity, our spiritual growth, our spiritual strength. We need each other. And God knew that. And I think one other thing before we move on from this, I really got captivated by that one e that one event where God said to Aaron, Go up in the w in the wilderness and meet your brother Moses How did that happen, you know, and all the upheaval there? You know, the timing of this is amazing. And here's something else that struck me is how God can work on multiple fronts, so to speak, at the same time. Come back here to verse number, I think it's 18. Look at with me at the verse Uh verse number 14. Alright, now God gets mad at Moses when he's arguing with God. The anger of the Lord Kindled against Moses, he said, Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? I know that he can speak well. Now look what God says. And also, behold, he cometh forth to meet thee And when he seeth thee, he will be glad in his heart. This is before Moses has said, all right, I'll go. So, what we have here is God is working in Aaron's heart before Moses has even submitted to what God wants him to do. But God's timing and God's ability to work in different people's hearts in different locations at the same time and have that merged together perfectly So that Moses is equipped to go do what God has called him to do. Isn't that something? I say this often, and I don't I I think this kind of correlates with that But there's no doubt in my mind, right now in Mountain Lake Park and in Oakland area, there is absolutely no doubt in my mind that God's Holy Spirit is dealing with people's spiritual well-being I think there's people being convicted right now. They're neat of Christ and they're unsaved. God's working there. At the same time He's working people in our church and maybe other churches to stir us to go out and give out gospel tracts and talk to people about the Lord And so he's working on two fronts, the Christian trying to get them to go, and then the unsaved, he's working on their heart, and he's able to bring that together beautifully. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You follow what I'm saying This example, I was out of all places, San Francisco Airport, and uh me and another guy just happened to cross paths. Here God's working in his heart. I didn't even know it, God's leading me. And the guy ends up getting saved in Florida A guy from Maryland on his way to New Zealand meets a fellow from Florida in San Francisco and the guy ends up getting saved in Florida Our God's amazing God. And if we just trust Him and just let Him lead us. So we have the real quick, that that was my biggest point We have the redirection of Aaron. Let me give you two more super duper quickly. Number two, I noticed the reunion of brothers. It's more than a reunion, it becomes an alliance. But notice there the last part of verse 27, and he went, Aaron, and met him, Moses, in the mount of God and kissed him. They were glad to see each other. In fact, back in verse 14, he says, when he seeth thee, he will be glad in his heart. These guys loved each other. I don't I don't have any brothers. It was very very difficult growing up with two sisters and no brothers. It was hard. I love my sisters. I don't see them very much. Maybe once a year I might get to see them. And when I see them, I'm glad to see them. I don't kiss them. But um I'm glad to see him. And this may have been upwards of forty years since they'd seen each other. They don't know it, or Moses does, but Aaron don't know at this point. He's spending another 40 years with his brother. There's going to be some tension, they're going to have some issues, but they work through it And God will use them both in a great way. Have tremendous respect for each other. And then last of all, I'll end with this. Moses relates God's plan to Aaron. Look at verse 28. And Moses told Aaron all the words of the Lord who had sent him, and all the signs which he had commanded him. I think Moses is still in awe of what he just experienced. These signs, the snake. His hand, leper, all this stuff. Um, and he and he tells Aaron Now I got looking at this, and I could be wrong, but it appears to me that this is the first time Moses tells anybody specifically what God commissioned him to do. I know he didn't tell Jethro, because in verse 18 he tells us what he told Jethro. He says, I'm going to go back down to Egypt, see if any of my family is still alive. He may have been referencing Aaron. I want to go back to that. He didn't tell them about let my people go, about snake rods turning into snakes and water turning into blood and God arguing with them, burning but he didn't tell them any of that stuff And as far as I can tell, Zipporah, his wife, knew they were going to Egypt, but apparently it looks to me like she didn't know anything more what they were going to do down there than Jethro did But Aaron is going to be in alliance with him. They're going to work together, and he needs to know what this is all about. What did God tell you to do? I can see them, I I I like to use my imagination. I can see them sitting there under that unbelievable sky. Can you imagine the night sky and the wilderness in the Middle East, the stars and the Milky Way the galaxy, maybe a little campfire gone. And Moses says something like Aaron, you won't believe what I just what just happened to me. What He tells them about a burning bush, and he tells them that God wants me to go down to Egypt and demand from Pharaoh to let the people go. I can see Aaron. Now I'm using my imagination, alright, so forgive me I can see Aaron said, no way. There ain't no way. Yeah, it's true. What? Yeah. And here's the amazing thing to me, this is what I got. Aaron's response What Moses tells him. And he tells Aaron. And God said, You're going to be my spokesman. I'm going to be your wife. You're going to be my spokesman. My spokesman, what does the spokesman do? He spokes. Man? And um, you know, you you're gonna do the talking, huh? And notice Aaron's response Moses told Aaron all the words the Lord had spent had sent him. Who had all the words of the Lord who had sent him And all the signs would he told m- he told Aaron exactly what God's wanting him to do and Aaron's role in all of it And verse 29. And Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of Israel. That's next week's message. But notice. Notice Aaron's response. There's no objections. There's no argument, at least not recorded in Scripture. There's no hesitation. There's no negotiations. My impression in studying this is Aaron's like, okay, man, I'm good to go. I'm on board. If God's called you and God's did all these amazing things, brother, I'm on board. I'm with you No argument. So I see here in chapter four and the previous chapter three included, I see two ways to respond to God's commission. Actually there's three. Two ways to respond. When God speaks to us, maybe in a message and the preacher is preaching and God speaks to your heart from his word. Something you should do, something you shouldn't do, something you should start doing, something you should stop doing, something you need to change. Whatever it may be, God uses His word and addresses some issue in your life. There's one of three ways to respond We have two here, but there's three actually. One is to absolutely refuse to do what God says. No, I'm not doing it. Would you agree with me? That's a bad response to God. Say, no, I'm not doing that, God. I don't care. No, I'm not doing it. And to harden my heart against God Now, I don't, neither of these two guys did that. Moses was there, but he didn't do it. The second response is to is resistance. That was what Moses did. God said, I want you to do this. Moses said, I can't do it. I won't know what to say. They're not going to respect me. Who do I tell them? God find somebody else. But He He never refused And eventually he submits and gives in. And then there's the third response, and that is just resignation. Alright, that's what God wants us to do? Brother, let's go do it. Let's go do it. How many but anybody here ever you God wanted you do something he spoke to you or whatever? God stirred your heart and something you want to do and you resisted. Anybody here? Oh no God. Are you serious? Give that person a track. No way. And finally you give in. How much better it is when God speaks to us, God instructs that do something, say, oh yes Lord, okay, boom, go do it. Wouldn't that be great? Wouldn't that be great? Father, I pray you'd help us. So on from these couple little verses here and Aaron's Willingness to hear your instruction, what you had to say. He followed it, and then he finds out it's all about, and he's willingly on board. And Lord, I pray you'd help us to do that. I wonder if there'd be some tonight on a Wednesday night. Maybe God's speaking to your heart from his word. Maybe there's something he's been dealing with your heart about, and you've been resisting, maybe Or you just be, I don't know, Lord, I don't know, Lord. Maybe tonight you just need to say, okay, God, yes, God. I'll agree with you. I'll resign. And I'll I'll do what you want me to do. Maybe it's getting involved in a ministry, fingerprints, or soul winning, or bus, or whatever Or maybe some changes need to be made. But I wonder if there's some tonight say, preacher, God is leading my heart, and I want to be submissive to him. I want his will to be done in my life. Is there any like that by chance? Any tonight? Uplift hand. God bless you. A number of hands around. Number of hands. That tells me God is working. God's dealing with our hearts. He's leading us As we just agree with them, submit to it. Father, bless our mutation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together head