Second Samuel chapter number seventeen is where we're at. If I did what I wanted to do tonight, I would read 2 Samuel 17, verse 24, and I would read all the way through to 2 Samuel chapter 18 and verse 33. But uh if I did that, we would be probably 20 minutes reading the Bible, which is fine. But uh I want to allow some time for some comments. So but the reason I want I would like to do that is because this is all one uh somewhat tragic event within this passage that we're talking about we have some very encouraging things and some encouraging truths we get But we also see some heart-wrenching. And so I'm just going to begin, I'm just going to read to get us started. 2 Samuel. I'm going to read verse 27 down through the end of the chapter, just a small portion there, and we'll work our way through this in the next couple weeks Verse 27 it says that uh and it came uh I'm sorry, verse 24 is where I want to start. I'm sorry, verse 24. Then David came to Mahana. And Absalom passed over Jordan, he and all the men of Israel with him. By the way, that Mahanaim was where Jacob uh saw the vision of that ladder going up to heaven. So it was a real significant place in the history of Israel. So anyway, David ends up there. Absalom passed over Jordan Now notice the wording here, he and all the men of Israel with him. Verse 25, and Absalom made Amasa captain of the host instead of Joab. Of course Joab's with David. Which Amasa was a man's son whose name was Ithra, an Israelite, that went into Abigail, the daughter of Nahash, sister of Zariah, Joab's mother. So Israel and Absalom pitched in the land of Gilead. And it came to pass when David was come to Mahanaim. That Shobi, the son of Nahash of Rabba, of the children of Ammon, and Maker, the son of Ameah, Amweh, and Mael of Lodibar And Barzilei, the Gileadite of Rogalim. I did pretty good on those names. I've been working on them. Verse 28, They brought beds and basins and earthen vessels and wheat and barley and flour and parched corn and beans and lentils and parched pulse and Honey and butter and sheep and cheese of kind for David and for the people that were with him to eat. For they said, The people is hungry and weary and thirsty in the wilderness Now if we would read on, we would find that David gives instructions. They're about to go to war Absalom is now pursuing David. They're about to go to war. David is getting his defenses together here, and he gives instruction. To Joab and to his men, that when you get when we're when when the combat breaks out, when the fighting breaks out, do my son no harm. Don't do any harm to Absalom So that's his instructions. Of course, Joab and them get there, you know the story, Absalom gets his hair, a head stuck in a tree, he's riding under a tree, and his head gets rammed up in the branch there and he can't get out. And um Uh fella finds him and uh he gruns and tells Joab, hey, Absalom's hanging in a tree or stuck. Absalom says, why didn't you kill him? He said, well, David, you'd give me a lot of money. You can give me all this silver. I wouldn't have killed him if David told us not to. So Absalom says, I don't have time for this. He goes right over, he throws a javelin through him, a dart through him, a bunch of Joab's men, just pierce him through, he's dead. They come back and tell David, and then you have that lamentable cry on David's part, Absalom, my son, my son, Absalom. Would to God I had died. in place of thee. So I've entitled the message, that's the whole passage I would like to have read. I've entitled the message, A Brokenhearted Father. And we're going to take this in increments and work our way through. So let's pray together tonight. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now as we read this heart-wrenching account of in the life of King David I pray that we could glean some lessons from this. And Lord, I pray that your Holy Spirit would open our eyes to truths and applications in our lives that, Lord, maybe I would have never seen, but your Holy Spirit knows we need. And so I pray you would make this personal for us, make this applicable for us, that we can apply to our lives and affect our thinking and our behavior. So I yield my will to you, Lord, and I present my body anew with all my heart as always. I pray and ask you fill me with your Holy Spirit God, you would speak through me and empower the message. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. In uh Psalm chapter 34 and verse 11, it says this, for sake of time, we won't turn there. But it says this, many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all. Let me say it again. Many Are the afflictions of the righteous? Did you get that? Many are the afflictions of the who? The righteous. But The Lord delivereth him out of them all. I put a few thoughts down about that quote from Psalm 34. First thing I wrote down was this: the righteous are not exempt from afflictions. Now, to use our New Testament terminology, if we were talking about the righteous, we would be talking about who? Saved people, people that are declared righteous through faith in Christ. And he says, many are the afflictions of the righteous. So that statement there tells me that the righteous are not exempt from afflictions. And I tell you, people are setting themselves up for great disappointment and maybe even disillusionment if they get the idea, well, now that I'm saved, or if I get right with God, then I won't have any afflictions. That is not true. Afflictions, righteous are not exempt from them. I put this down, and we mention this often over throughout the year and in different messages. But afflictions have various causes. There's various reasons why a righteous person, somebody that's living for God, they're keeping short accounts. They're not sinless, of course. They're not flawless or perfect, but when they do make a mistake, when they do sin, they deal with it immediately, confess, forsake it, and they get a ball. And this is a person that's sincerely walking with God and Applying themselves to be in the will of God and do what's right. They suffer afflictions, and there's various reasons People, the righteous suffer afflictions. We've given these before. Sometimes the righteous suffer afflictions because of foolish decisions they make. We're seeing that in the life of David here. David was a good man by nearly all accounts. He's highly praised of God. He's a man after God's own heart, we're told. And yet he made a very foolish and sinful decision. And it brought about afflictions. Would you agree with me? David suffering afflictions because of a foolish decision he made. And that is true. You and I, as saved people, those of us that know the Lord, we're not exempt from afflictions and we're not exempt from making foolish mistakes. Is there anybody here who says, since I've been saved, I made some foolish decisions and it cost me? Anybody? Sure. Probably if we're honest, about all of us would say that. And so sometimes afflictions are the result of making a foolish or sinful decision, and it brings about heartache, it brings about afflictions. Sometimes afflictions come because we do what's right. Sometimes we take a stand for what's right. Sometimes we obey God in spite of all that's going around us, and sometimes that brings persecution, sometimes that brings affliction. You read the book of Acts, they're on fire for God. They're preaching the gospel and the power of the Holy Spirit, and the whole world turns on them And they're being run out of their homes and they're being beaten and imprisoned, in some cases martyred, and they suffered affliction. If they didn't go along with the crowd, if they just not open their mouth and just go along and get along They could have avoided a lot of that difficulty, but they didn't. To obey God was more important to them than to get along with man. And so sometimes afflictions come because we do right, sometimes afflictions come because we do wrong. Sometimes afflictions come because of someone else's actions. Somebody else makes a decision that's foolish. Somebody else behaves in a certain way and affects us. And we have to deal with the fallout, and we have to deal with the consequences of that. And sometimes afflictions come and we don't even know why. They just in God's wisdom and his plan, he allows us to suffer affliction. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that suffered affliction not because of what something else Anybody else did, not because of anything they did, good or bad, but just inexplicably suffered affliction. Can you think of anybody? Job's the one that comes to mind. And uh I just uh I'm reading through the book of Job right now, my devotions. Can you think of anyone else? What's that? Uh Joseph? Well he was kind of uh other people's actions, but to some extent there. I'm thinking of someone in particular. Who is it? Naomi? Uh yep, there, her husband died in the famine. That's true. I didn't think of her. I was thinking of the Apostle Paul in 2 Corinthians 12 when he was had uh he had a thorn in his flesh And he sought the Lord three times to take from him. The Lord says, no, no, no. In your weakness, that's what I'm strong. And he left it there for him. So sometimes we just understand, all right, God, I don't understand this. I don't see the reasoning behind us. But Lord, I trust you, you know what you're doing, and I just commit myself to you. And so affliction. So number one, the righteous are not exempt from afflictions. Afflictions come for various causes. And here's what I'm wanting to get at by way of introduction. God never abandons the righteous. Listen to that verse again. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of the all. Regardless of the cause of affliction, if we'll trust God, God will see us through. God will see us through. God will see us through. Regardless of the cause. David knew what it meant to suffer affliction. Just about from the opening account of David in our study of his life. Right at the beginning, he shows up there to bring uh food to his brothers and Goliath is out there and he starts saying, hey, why did somebody give us him? And his brothers turned on him. Remember that? And then he has victory, and then the king turns on him. Then his wife turns on him And now his son has turned on him. So David knew what it was like to suffer affliction. He knew what it was like to have a broken heart. Now let's look at our content. Let's look at our passage here tonight. 2 Samuel And just a couple verses by way of introduction, then I want to share with you my outline of this whole long passage. Verse 24. Says David came to Mahaniam, and Absalom passed over Jordan He and all the men of Israel with them. So here we have Absalom's pursuit of David begins. Remember, Absalom had taken over the palace. Run David out of the city. David fled out of the city. Absalom now took over Jerusalem. He's in he's uh uh uh he's entered the palace, he's taken possession of the palace. He brought the counselors in, Hoshiah, uh Ah Ahithophel and then Hoshi. They had conflicting advice. Uh Ah Ahithophel's actual advice was actually good advice, God says so, but God confounded uh Absalom and he went with Hushiah's advice. If you remember, Hushai's advice was to, oh no, don't chase them right away. Get all of Israel together And just go out there with an overwhelming force. Well, apparently, Absalom actually did go with Hushiah's advice. Notice what it says at the end of verse 24 there. And Absalom passed over Jordan. Now look at this next statement. He and what? All the men of Israel with him. So first Hushiah didn't know if he was going to go with his advice or not. Remember uh Hipphophel said, Listen, let's go out tonight right away. I'll take twelve thousand men. We'll we'll Do a special forces insertion into David's camp. We'll take out David. We won't kill anybody else. We'll bring them back. We'll be done by morning light. It'll all be done with. And that was actually God said pretty good advice. Hushii is David's mole, says, no, no, no, that's not good advice, David, you know David Uh he's he's smarter than that. He ain't falling for that. Get all the people of Israel get her, get her like the sand of the sea, and we'll just overwhelm him. He won't have a chance. And Absalom says, I like that I think the thing Absom liked about it, if you remember, was uh Hushai said, Absom, you lead him out there. Yeah, I'll be the hero. I'll be uh uh I'll be the I'll be the guy uh uh the hero of this whole thing And so apparently he went with Hushiai's advice. Would you agree with me? It would probably take a little bit of time to get all the men of Israel rallied together, organized Armored up and good to go. Would you agree with me? Now we're not given any time frame here, but obviously this took some time Not bought David sometime, which was the whole idea. So Absalom's pursuit of David begins. All right. Like they like to say today, it's getting real now. There's no more talk going on now. They're taking action The second thing I notice here, by way of introduction, there's a replacement of the captain of the hosts. Look there at verse number 25. And Absalom made Amassa captain of the host instead of Joab. Of course, Joab's out with David, so he needs a captain to lead these all these men of Israel, which Amasa was a man's son, and whose n whose name was Ithra, an Israelite, that went into Abigail, the daughter of Nahash, the sister of Zariah, Joab's mother. Sounds a little convoluted there. He's given these names and who he's related to and all that. If you boil that down, we're pretty much certain. It was one of David's cousins. This is family. That David's son, Absalom, is getting one of David's cousins. To lead this massive army out against David. Would you agree with me? When family turns on family, that's tough. That's tough. Bad enough that Absalom is turning against David. Now he's having extended family members. That are not just talking against David, but they are taking action to come out after him and take him out. David knew what it was like to be brokenhearted. So, the replacement of the captain of the host. Sometimes families turn against the righteous. So these are probably, we're fairly certain these are cousins So here's my outline of this whole section from verse 27 of chapter 17 to verse 33 of chapter 18. Let me give you an outline and we're going to look at point number one tonight. Number one I notice God's care for David. We're going to see that in the last few verses of chapter 17. God takes care of David in the midst of all of this, God's taking care of him. Second of all, in verse 1 through 5 of chapter 18, we notice the concern of a loving father. And that's where David instructs his men. Listen, Spare Absalom. Don't hurt Absalom. You do what you got to do to quench this thing, but don't hurt Absalom. The concern of a loving father. And then verse 6 through 18 of chapter 18, and we'll look at this later on, but we notice the callousness Of David's warrior. They just uh Joab and them they just disregard what uh David said and they kill this guy he's hanging. They could have easily taken him as a prisoner of war. They could have easily taken him without doing him any harm. The guy had no chance. He's hanging by his head, his neck from a tree. They could have easily brought him back. They just completely disregard Joab. Joab is a kill-em-all mentality. He says, I don't got time to mess with this. Boom, he takes him out. We'll look at that later. And then my last point there in verse 19 through 33, then we have that just horrendous cry of a grieving father. And I tell you, you read that and pay attention to what's being said and put yourself in that environment, that element, you can't hardly read it without weeping. And you hear this cry of David for his son when he finds out that Absalom was killed. So let's come back. Look at verse 27, 28, and 29. I notice God's care For David. Let me read it again and we'll work our way through this. But verse 27, it says, It came to pass when David was come to Mahana. That Shobi, I underlined his name, Shobi, the son of Nahash of Rabbah of the children of Ammon And here's the second fella, Maker, I underline his name, the son of Amiel of Lodibar And uh Barzili, the Gileadite of Rogilim. She had these three fellows, Shobi, Makar, and Barzili. These three guys showed up I put this down. Though foolish and sinful actions bring horrendous consequences, God's tender care and God's tender mercies never fail. David has brought this on himself in so many ways. He has, to an extent, this is the aftermath of some horrendous decisions. And here he is at the lowest point in his life. He's in the deepest valley he's been in. It's about to get a little deeper. And I notice that God still takes care of David. The tender mercies of God. And what a tremendous study the tender mercies of God is. I want us to just take a little bit, I just want to park here for a minute, and I want to look at a few verses, a little statement, a few statements in Scripture that talk about the tender mercies of God. If you would keep your place here and go to Psalms chapter number 25. We're going to look at a few verses in Psalms. Psalms 25 It's a Psalm of David. And the first six verses, Psalms 25, it's right after Psalms 24. And uh first six verses, Psalms 25. Let everybody find it there. Notice what the Bible says. Unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. Now we don't know when David penned this. We don't know what the circumstances were. But he says, unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. O my God, I trust in thee. Let me not be ashamed. Now look at this. Let not mine enemies triumph over me. Yea, let none that wait on thee be ashamed. Let them be ashamed which transgress without cause. Show me thy ways, O Lord. Teach me thy paths. Lead me in thy truth and teach me, for thou art the God of my salvation On thee do I wait all the day, all the day. Now look at verse 6. Remember, O Lord, thy what? Thy tender mercies. And thy loving kindnesses. Now look at this statement. He's talking about the tender mercies of God, the loving kindness of God. Look what he says: For they have been ever of old. God always has been merciful and loving. Right from the moment that Adam and Eve disobeyed God, right from the moment that man Makes his appearance in history. God creates man and he disobeys God. And he has separated, his sin has separated him from God. And the very first thing God does It steps in to restore that relationship. God could have said, listen, I said, don't do it, boom, I'm done, burn the place up. But he doesn't. I don't know about you, but I see the love of God. As soon as man messes up, God comes in, does what needs to be done to restore that relationship. The tender mercies of God From the beginning of human history, we've seen the tender mercies of God. Go over to chapter 40 of Psalms, if you would. Psalms chapter 40. And notice with me, if you would, verse number 11. Now Psalm 40 is one of my favorite Psalms. I claimed this when I first got saved. You know, the first couple verses, I waited patiently to the Lord, He heard me Inclined unto me, heard my cry. He brought me up out of the horrible pit, out of the miry clay, set my feet upon a rock, established my goings. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, May 7, 1979 Now come over to chapter 11, or I'm sorry, verse 11, chapter 40. Notice what he says. He says, withhold not thy tender mercies from me, O Lord. Let thy loving kindness and thy truth continually preserve me. I put this down. God uses his tender mercies and his loving care and kindness to preserve us. I'm telling you, if God wasn't merciful to us, we would be duped. And God, in love and compassion and his tender mercies, he keeps us and he preserves us. Look with me if you would to chapter 69. Psalm chapter 69. Now I don't know what somebody might be going through, what kind of valley you might be facing, and what kind of Affliction you might be dealing with, but I'm here to tell you God's tender mercies never fail us. Look at verse number six, chapter 69, verse number 16. Hear me, O Lord, for thy loving kindness is good. Turn unto me according to the multitude of thy what? Tender mercies, the multitude of thy tender mercies. God is generous with his tender mercies, he shows us God is generous with his loving care. Anybody here ever, you did something wrong and you knew it, and afterwards you're thinking, what a knucklehead I am. Can I get a witness? Anybody know? What in the world And do you ever think this way? I don't know. Did you ever think this way? That has to be it. God's done with me. I mean man, I've messed up so many times. How what in the world? I uh this uh how many how much how many how mo how much more often is God going to be patient with me? How much longer he's gonna be patient? Anybody know what I'm talking about? You ever been there? I have. And here he tells us that God's mercy is generous with his mercy. About the time you think we've used it all up About the time you say, man, I've spent all of God's mercy to me, I've spent all of God's patience with me, about that time, he pours some more out. And so God is very generous with his tender mercies and his compassion. He says there He says, turn unto me according to the multitude of thy tender mercies. Now, 145, Psalms 145, way back at the end. of the Book of Psalms, 145, just about the end of the book of Psalms. And look with me at chapter 8, or chap uh verse 8 and verse 9. Chapter 145, verse 8 and And nine. I have these underlined, bracketed, circled, and highlighted with red ink. I like these verses. Look at verse 8, 145. The Lord is gracious. And full of compassion. I like these next statements. Slow to anger. How many people are glad God's slow to anger? Whoo! Slow to anger. And of great mercy. The Lord is good to all, and his tender mercies are over all his works. God's tender mercies are a part of his very nature. It's the way God, it's what God is. Now one more. Then we're going to come back to our text here. Lamentations. Little book right after Jeremiah. If you go back there, Lamentations chapter 3. One of the great passages, or of course they're all great, but one of the great passages in Scripture, Lamentations chapter 3, right after Jeremiah. You got Isaiah, Jeremiah, then you run into Lamentations. Everybody doing all right out there? Everybody? Okay. I like this subject. And you'll see where I'm going with this, how this applies to David's situation. Verse 21, Lamentations 3, verse 21. Look what it says. This I recall to mind. Therefore I have hope. He painted a bleak picture in this book up to this point. The sin of Israel and Jerusalem and God's judgment. This I recall to mind. Therefore I have a hope. Verse 22, it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. Because his compassions what? Fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, saith my soul. Therefore will I hope in him. The Lord is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul that seeketh him. It is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the Lord. Great is thy faithfulness, he says. His compassions fail not. They are new every morning, verse 23. Great is thy faithfulness. God's mercies and compassion is new every morning. Let me ask you if you ever had something like this. Maybe there's a revival meeting or you have a specially good Sunday and God spoke to your heart And man, you leave church and say, man, God's been good and you're on top of the world spiritually. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And within a day or so, the next day, it's like you blow it all day long. And you think, man, I just lost everything I gained. I just I just oh man, oh I was so how Did you ever think this way? How do you go from being such a high mountain spiritually to such a low valley spiritually? Am I the only one that ever experiences that? It's like, man, how did I well how in the world does this happen? And you think, all right, it's done. And then you get up the next morning, and God says, Guess what? My mercies are all new. It's a new day, it's a new start. They're new every morning. They're new every morning. God's mercies. Now, what is the tender mercies of God? Come back here, if you would, to Samuel. David in 2 Samuel 17. Tender mercies are God's display. I like this definition I came across. Tender mercies are God's display of excessive compassion and kindness when judgment is expected. It means to uh for to show tender mercy means to be patient, forgiving, compassionate, and caring. When judgment would be expected. David messed up. And these consequences are From the decision he made to blantly disobey God, to deliberately, presumptively, knowingly disobey God Now he has this aftermath, this fallout from that. But even in the midst of that, when you would expect continued judgment, God says, oh no, I'm going to show mercy. I'm going to show forgiveness and compassion and patience with him. God is the, I believe God is displaying mercy to David. He has run out of the city. He's out there. And God shows care, takes care of David. Now let's come back to our situation. David has fled the city on the spur of the moment, overnight, packed up, boom, he's gone. I mean, what what what's he have with him? His supplies would be almost nothing. How much can you pack in an hour's time? You're under you're being invaded. Just grab what you can and go. And a whole slew of people with him. And so David is now out across the river. He's out in the wilderness. And one thing he needs is supplies. He has nothing. Josephus, who was a Jewish historian during the first century He wrote that he believed in studying the Jewish history of the time, he believed David probably had about 4,000 soldiers with him out here in this wilderness with him. Now, one thing you know about men, they have a tendency to want to eat every day. And so David, packed up on the spur of the moment within an hour or so, He's out of the city. All these people are coming join him. They're out here. It's like, all right, what do we got? What do we do? Take inventory. We don't have nothing. No C rations, nothing. And so he needs supplies. Absalom followed Hushiah's advice, and David has time to prepare, but he doesn't have supplies. He can get his men organized, he can get uh uh set up perimeters and all of that, but he doesn't have supplies. And God steps in Remember last study we talked about the unseen hand of God? Everybody remember that? God was working, David was unaware of it, but God was working back in the palace and setting things up, and this is part of it. He has time now But he still needs supplies. I want to suggest to you, God is still working on David's behalf, and God touches the hearts of three men unbeknownst to David. And he stirs their hearts to come down and provide for David. And they show up, as far as I can tell, they show up completely unexpectedly. And they come and meet a need for David. Unbeknownst to David, God works on the hearts of three men. Look at verse 27: Shobi, Makar, and Barzilli. And they show up and they supply David. Now, I want to real quickly, and then we're going to quit, real quickly look at each of these guys. Who are these three fellas? That God stirred their heart at some point. They know where David is, they find out where he is, and they show up with a ton of supplies. Well, this first guy, Shobi. Now, again, we don't have time to go into all of this, but his father, Shobi's father, was the king of Ammon. Now, if you remember in your study in the Bible, King of Ammon was friends with David. When David was king, you know, he'd been king for a couple decades, several decades now. Up to this point. And so they were friends. In fact, he helped David with some things. They were very close. King of Amnon, King of Israel, good friends. Nahash was his name. Shobi's daddy, the king, was Nahash. Well, Nahash died. And when David got word that Nahash died, he sent some ambassadors. He send some representatives from Jerusalem to go to the family of Nahash, the king that died, and just comfort them and say, We're sorry. Our countries do it today. We sense another ruler of a k uh country dies, we send representatives to grieve with them and share share our condolences. Well that's what David did. He sent these fellows. They were young men. and uh sent them there just to give their condolences to the family. Well Nahash's other son, his name was Hanon, he became king, probably the older brother of Shobi here. Everybody with me so far? Trying to keep this clear. So Nahash dies, um uh his son uh Hanon becomes king. David sends representatives over to comfort him in the death of the his father, the king. When they get there, uh Nahan Uh and his counselors say, you know, David ain't sending these guys here because he cares about us. He's sending these guys here to spy us out, because now that daddy's dead, they're going to invade and take over our country, which was a lie So does anybody remember what did Nahan do to these reps from Israel? He shaved half their beards off and cut their pants off so they were short shorts. You talk about anybody that wears short shorts ought to be embarrassed. And so they're here, their their garments are cut off real short, their beards shaved halfway, they look like uh twenty y twenty twenty-two people at McDonald's. And so they're and so they're embarrassed And David sent and said, You guys stay there till your beards be grown and come back. And he made himself, and he said, uh Nahan made himself distinct's eyes, this man I want to show compassion, he treats us this way Shobi is the brother of this knucklehead that's become king and treated them that way. Now the interesting thing is, this is not somebody you would expect to show kindness to David. Now we don't know. I'm speculating here, but I would imagine that the younger brother Shobi, he sees his brother, who is now king, treat David's men this way, which obviously was unjust And I'm wondering if his heart doesn't go out and say that wasn't right. What my brother did to him was not right. And now he hears that David is in need, and his heart is stirred, and say, you know, I could help that. I'm royalty. No doubt he's very wealthy. He says, I could help David meet this need. Maybe his heart was stirred because of that. Whatever the reasoning behind his compassion and his supply to David, whatever the reasoning was, I believe God was behind it making sure David is taken care of. So we have Shobi. Let's look at this next fella here, Maker. Verse 27, and Maker, the son of Emiel of Lodibar. We've heard, we've taught, we've studied Lodibar before. Who was Lodibar? Mephibosheth, Saul's grandson that was lame when they fled the city. The nurse dropped him, and he was lame. And he was in Lodabar, and lo and behold, you want to guess whose household Mephibosheth was in, who was taking care of him, providing a place for him to stay? Akar, that's this guy He was showing uh Mashabbith compassion and taking care of him. Mephibosheth in many ways was a competition to David, the grandson of Saul. And so make her, see hears of David's compassion to Mephibosheth. He shows how kindly he treated him, and his heart is stirred and says, you know, I want to help David. He did right by Mephiboshev. He went over and above. You know, I could help him. And God uses that whole situation to touch the heart of Maker, and he gives very generously. He was a very wealthy man And he gives very generously to help meet the needs, these 4,000 soldiers. I read one commentary and I don't know. I don't know what the significance or how accurate is But one commentator suggested this may have been the brother of Bathsheba. It's possible they were kin. I don't know. I don't know. So we got Shobi, an unlikely person to support and supply David, but nevertheless, God used circumstances previously unknown to David to touch his heart and prepare his heart to provide for David. Then you have Makar, who God uses circumstances and David's kindness previously to prepare his heart and stir his heart to show David compassion. Then we have this fellow, Barzilli. The Gileadite of Rogalim. Now we don't know much about this guy. We're going to see him a little bit later when David eventually comes back to Jerusalem. He's going to be referenced again We know this. He's a very elderly man, 80 years old at this point. He's a very compassionate man. And whatever the case is, and we don't know very, we know nothing more than what I just told you about him, but his heart is stirred, and he is a wealthy man. And he says, I want to support David. I want to help David. And so these three men, as far as we know, unconnected, this isn't a coordinated event, as far as I can know, not humanly And each one of them is individually touched by God, their heart is touched by God to be generous and give and meet the need of David. Isn't that an amazing thing? God is showing David tender compassion. God is showing David tender care. By the way, Barzillii, his name means man of iron. I like that. If I had a nickname, I wanted to be Barzillii, a man of iron. Sounds like a motorcycle gang. Barzillii, man of iron. They all gave very generously. They all gave uncoordinatedly, humanly. They didn't get together. They just all showed up with tons of supplies. Look, by the way, look what they gave. I love this. They brought beds, all right, that'd be handy. Basins and earthen vessels, alright, to keep water in. And provide for everybody, then the food starts pouring in. Wheat and barley and flour and parched corn and beans and cornbread and macaroni and cheese and Oh no, not quite that, but uh parched pulse and honey and butter and sheep and cheese of kind for David and for the people to eat. Man, these guys are pouring it out. Here's what I want to end with. God uses people to bless people. This stuff didn't just drop out of the sky. They didn't just come around a corner and hear it's all piled up. God touched the hearts of people. who made a conscious decision, their heart is stirred, they said, you know, I want to do that. And made a conscious decision to give of themselves generously to help some other people. And behind it all, God was using them to bless people. Get this. If you don't get anything else, get this out of it. God uses people to bless people. God uses people Often unexpected people. For instance, there's a church wanting to build a building so they can have activities for their youth. And they can have a little bit of room to stretch and do some things, you know, cold winters and have a nice place. And unbeknownst to that church, God touches a man's heart and says, hey, I got a building Now get this. God provided for that church through a person. The building didn't just drop out of the sky. God uses people to help people. God uses people to bless people. God uses people to advance the well-being of people. God uses people, like you and me. Now here's the question, how can I be used of God to bless people? Here's our problem. Yet most people are looking around for people to bless them. Right? I say this often, you've heard it, and other people have said it, but you know, people walk in the church on Sunday morning at 10. 45, push the doors open, and say, all right, bless me. You know, I'm here to be blessed. Well, they got the thinking backwards. God uses people to bless others And rather than thinking, where's everybody blessing me, we need to start thinking, how can God use me to bless and help others? And that's what these three guys were. What do you think they're getting back from David on this? They're not getting nothing back. They don't know that he's going to survive this. But they want to be a blessing. God stirred their heart. So how can I be a blessing? Let me give you four thoughts here, and then we shut her down. Number one, love the Lord. I'm convinced if a person falls in love with the Lord, they're not going to have any trouble loving others. Somebody loves the Lord with all their heart, guess what? They're going to love their neighbor what? As themselves. If I can fall in love with the Lord, I'm not going to have a problem loving people that God loves. So number one, love the Lord. Let me ask you a question right. Do you love the Lord? You love them. It's a conscious decision. I'm going to love the Lord with all my heart. I'm going to do that. We're instructed to do it. We can decide whether we love the Lord or not. So number one, love the Lord, and that will produce a love in my heart for others. Number two, look for opportunities. I uh I don't two things I don't do. I don't ask God to give me opportunities to be a witness. I ask God to help me see the opportunities because they're all around me They're everywhere. And number two, you don't have to ask God to give you opportunities to be a blessing. There's opportunities all around us. We just got to look for them, keep our eyes out. For some way I can be a blessing to somebody, some way I can help somebody, some way I can encourage somebody. Just look for those opportunities. They're everywhere. We are in a target-rich environment When looking to be a blessing. And number three, be sensitive to the Holy Spirit's prompting. How many people know what I mean when I say the Holy Spirit's prompting? How many people understand what that is? You see somebody or you see a situation and something down inside your heart, it's not an audible voice, but something down inside there says, you know, go talk to that person, go help that person Maybe God stirs you out. You know, give this. This would meet that need. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Just something down in the heart and soul stirs you to do that. We need to be sensitive to the Holy Spirit leading us to do that. Anybody here ever get a situation, boy, something stirred your heart oh to do that? And you said, eh, you come up with 25 reasons why you can't, and you walk on, you get home and you think, man, I'm a knucklehead. And I could have done something That's the Holy Spirit prompting us. And we need to be sensitive to the Holy Spirit prompting. And then we need to act on faith. Be submissive. When God stirs our heart to help somebody or speak a word or meet a need. Man, act on that. Say, all right, I trust that's the Lord leading me. I trust that's something God can use me. And uh and act on what God prompts you to do. Act on what the need is Most of the time, God uses people we know nothing about. God uses just ordinary people To help other people. All these three here, none of us ever heard of them before this point in our study. We knew nothing about these people. But yet God used them in a very significant way in the life of David when he needed it most. And God uses people like you and me. Since the creation of mankind, God has used people to accomplish his purpose. Unexpected people, imperfect people, and often unknown people. Say, well, I'm not much of anything. I couldn't be a help to anybody. I just. They'd never expect anything from me. Ah, bingo, you're a perfect candidate to be used of God to help other people And by the way, I don't believe for one minute not one of these guys did this for recognition or fame or applause. They saw a need. They couldn't meet the need. They stepped in and said, we'll need it. And God was using them to help David. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to be sensitive to needs around us Help us, Lord, to see others as you see them, and maybe, Lord, you could use us to be a blessing to other people. Help us get our eyes off ourselves and Wanting to be blessed and start seeking to be a blessing. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, preacher, I'd sure like for God to use me to be a blessing to other people in some capacity, one way or another. I'm sure like, sure, God bless you. What kind what Christian wouldn't want that? And maybe we just need to love the Lord and keep our eyes open and act on faith and just step out and be willing to get out of our comfort zone and invest and give up ourselves to others. Time and effort Father, I pray you bless our invitation. Pray that we as individuals and us as a church would be people that you use to be a blessing to others. Our community, our families, our homes, our nation. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand again