How many folks are awake tonight, everybody? Yeah. All right, about half the crowd. That's good. Glad uh what do you Alright, 2 Samuel chapter number 18, we're looking entitled this, A Broken Hearted Father, The Cry of a Broken Hearted Father. This is Uh this is just a very, very pitiful time in the life of uh King David. Of course, his son has rebelled against him. I think we're all on board here up to speed as to what's happening uh in this point in our study of li David's life. His son has rebelled against him, Absalom has usurped the throne. He's taken possession of the palace in Jerusalem. David has fled the city with a significant number of folks that have Remain loyal to David. They've gone out with him and are supporting him, not just in words, but with their presence and um and uh he's out in the wilderness. Now it's come to a head Absalom is now pursuing out after David. And if you remember there, the first thing we looked a couple weeks ago was God's care of David. David had at least four thousand men with him. I I tend to think he had more than that. Josephus said four thousand. We're not told a number in the Bible, but he had a good pretty, you know, fair group of folks. And um if you have 4,000 men, no doubt they have family with them, many of them, most of them, there's wives and children, maybe some extended family, others that have come along with David just to uh express their support. And uh the one thing I found out people is they like to eat on a regular basis. And they have needs. And so David has a uh an immediate need of supplies need to be met And if you remember, we noted in Scripture how that God was touching the hearts of three particularly wealthy people that were in a position that could meet that need. David didn't go to them. He didn't make this need known out there. God touched their hearts. They came to David and they supplied for David. So uh the point we had there was God's um I put it this way, God's care for David. God's care for he took care of him. And then the next next thing we notice in chapter 18, the first five verses, was the concern of a loving father. And David organizes his troops that he does have, these forces he has, he gets them organized, he determines the size, he uh um he divides them up and puts some leadership over them and He gets this thing together, and then he gives him a very significant instruction. He says, do the boy no harm. Don't hurt my son. And we noted there, and what I wanted to do on that was I wanted to stop and I noticed how that David showed love for his son very similar to the love that God shows for us. His people, the unconditional love of God. And so we talked about the love of God. Now tonight, I want to pick up the next stage, as this is Coming to this head where there's going to be combat, they're going to um uh confront each other, they're gonna be engage each other in violence here in just a bit, and it's leading up to that. And I want us tonight to notice in verse 6 through 18 of chapter 18, the The callousness of those who are in this battle, the callousness, you'll see what I mean. If you would notice with me, I want to begin reading in verse 6. Let me get my notes here together. Ready? Verse 6. So the people went out into the field against Israel. All right, here they're coming out to meet each other. And the battle was in the wood of Ephraim. Where the people of Israel were slain before the servants of David. And there was there a great slaughter that day of 20,000 men. For the battle was there scattered over the face of all the country, and the wood devoured more people that day than the sword devoured. And Absalom met the servants of David, and Absalom rode upon a mule, and the mule went under the thick bow of a great boughs of a great oak. And his head caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between heaven and the earth. And the mule that was under him went away. And a certain man saw it and told Joab and said, Behold, I saw Absalom hanged in an oak. Joab said unto the man that told him, And behold, thou sawest him Why didst thou not smite him there to the ground? And I would have given thee ten shekels of silver and a girdle And the man said unto Joab, though I should receive a thousand shekels of silver in my hand, yet would I not put forth my hand against the king's son For in our hearing the king charged thee, and Abishiah, and Etai saying, Beware that none touch the young man Absalom. Otherwise, I would have wrought falsehood against mine own life. But there is no matter hid from the king, and thou thyself wouldest have set thyself against me. Then said Joab, I may not tarry thus with thee. And he took three darts in his hand, and he thought thrust them through the heart of Absalom, while he was yet alive, in the midst of the oak. And ten young men that bare Joab's armor compassed about and smote Absalom and slew him. And Joab blew the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing after Israel, for Joab had held back the people. And they took Absalom and cast him into a great pit in the wood. And laid a very great heap of stones upon him, and all Israel fled, every one to his own tent. My word, what an amend. What amazing things takes place here. Let's pray. And I want us to notice, as I said, the callousness, particularly of Joab. In this whole situation. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to teach us some lessons from this. Father in heaven, we stop now before we study into your word here on this event. And I pray that you would teach us life lessons from this. Help us, Lord, to see any warnings here that we need to heed. Lord, maybe some instruction we can get from this, and so that we can live the lives that you intend for us to live. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will again on this hour as always. I plead that you would speak through me as I present my body anew to you. And I pray we leave here tonight a little clearer understanding of your will for us and and and how we can conduct ourselves in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think you'd agree with me. Civil war is a terrible thing You hear rumblings here and there every now and then about civil war. I'm telling you, uh our country, we do not want civil war Civil war is a terrible thing, whether it's in a country or whether it's in a church or if it's in a household. You remember what Jesus said. He actually said it twice in Matthew chapter 12 and verse 25. And then it's recorded again in Luke chapter 11, verse 17. He made this statement. is brought to destruction. And every city or house divided against itself itself Shall not stand. He doesn't say it might not stand, it it probably won't be able to stand. He says it shall not stand Civil war in a country, civil war in a church, civil war in a household is a devastating thing and um hurts a lot of people. Absalom has rebelled and revolted against his father. Now it's not just the son rebelling against the father. It's not just a traitor rebelling against the king. This is Absalom rebelling against his father, who is the anointed king of God's people. Now that is significant. And uh he brings great destruction to a lot of people. It's a lot of heartache. We'll read down through here. And it's not said, but we can certainly surmise that there are a lot of mothers, when this is said and done, there are a lot of grieving mothers. After this conflict is over, there's a lot of grieving wives and children, daddy, that never came home. Civil war is a very destructive thing. I want us to notice several things about the callousness that's displayed here. The first thing I want us to notice is the awful slaughter of Israel. I see that in verse 6, 7, and 8, the awful slaughter of Israel. Look at verse 6. It says, So the people went out into the field against Israel, the people being David's forces. He went out in the field against Israel, and the battle was in the wood of Ephraim, where the people of Israel were slain before the servants of David, and there was a great slaughter that day. Uses that word. Of twenty thousand men, for the battle there was scattered over the face of all the country, and the wood devoured more people that day than the sword devoured. I think it's interesting. As soon as fighting breaks out, David has fled the city. He's out in this wilderness area. He's kind of, if you're looking at a map, Jerusalem is down here. He's north and east of Jerusalem, across the Jordan River. He's in this wood of Ephraim. very, very wilderness area. And Absalom has pursued him a pretty significant difference a distance over a pretty difficult terrain. And as soon as they engage each other, I think this is interesting, as soon as fighting breaks out, Israel faces this awful slaughter. I mean, they don't stand a chance. These force, Absalom's forces coming out against David, David's far outnumbered, but the battle hardly even begins. And Israel is being slaughtered by the forces of David. Absalom is no match against David David is outnumbered, but Absalom is no match. Absalom has no experience in leading a military. He has zero experience Question, does David have any experience in warfare? Good night. He's like the greatest warrior Israel has ever had. So you have his son who has never led a battle as far as we know, has never engaged in combat as far as we know, he's never planned an attack, he's never been involved, as far as we know, to any degree. in military conflict, and he's gone up against one of the greatest military minds in Israel's history. It says slaughter. He doesn't have a chance. Absalom has no moral ground for this battle. Would you agree with me the justness of a battle has a profound influence upon the soldiers in that battle? You follow what I'm trying to say? If those soldiers, if those warriors are convinced that we are fighting for a just cause We are fighting for that which is right, that which is moral. They're going to be a whole lot more effective in their engagement than a than uh uh an army that isn't really convinced that this is the right thing to do. And I'm not convinced that the Israeli army under Absalom are really convinced that this is the right thing that they should be doing. Now we're not told that. I'm speculating a little bit, but the whole premise of this war is on a falsehood. And so David has the experience that Absalom does not have. Absalom has no moral ground for engaging his father in this fight. David's troops are highly trained. These are men that have left their homes, that have fought with and for David for some of them decades And they're coming out and fighting David. We know nothing about this army of Absalom, whether they, any of them, ever engaged in battle before, let alone someone like David's forces. So David's forces are highly trained. Absalom's forces have no justification for what they're doing, not morally. I put this down, Absalom's forces, I'm going to guess that their loyalty is questionable. I wonder how loyal they are. To Absalom and to his forces. They're being conscripted. Do you know what I mean? They're being conscripted into battle. They've been drafted to fight David. And uh I just wonder about their loyalty. I got thinking about Ahithophel. What happened to Ahithophel? Anybody remember? Suicide. He advised Absalom on a different course of action, go after David. Absalom didn't listen to him. He listened to Hoshai. And Ahithophel went out and committed suicide. Now think with me, Ahithophel is a very, very uh well-known uh member of the leadership of Israel. Everybody knew who Ahithophel was. And you won't convince me for one minute that the news of his suicide did not spread like wildfire throughout Israel Everybody knew Ahithophel had taken his life. And I'm wondering if that didn't put questions in the people of Israel's minds. Wait a minute, what have we gotten ourselves into here? So I'm thinking of the mindset of Absalom's forces. They're not nearly as trained as David. They really don't have any moral justification for what they're doing. And maybe they're a little questionable about the wisdom of this whole thing to begin with. Whereas you have David with far inferior numbers, much smaller numbers, but these guys are intensely loyal. They've left homes and everything to be out there with David and they left it on a spur of the moment So their loyalty is unquestionable. Their loyalty is through the roof. They're highly trained. They have experience on this. And so the two engage, and it's just instantly slaughter breaks out. Now, I looked at some of this and uh uh the wording here and it gets a little bit interesting in the second part of verse six look what it says so the people went out to the field against Israel and the battle was in the wood of Ephraim I think, looking at this and studying it, I think David and his forces lured Absalom's military into this wood of Ephraim This wood of Ephraim, I did a little bit of study about it. It's an interesting area. It's not even in the tribe of Ephraim. It's across the Jordan River. It's up into a very rugged wilderness. And what I find out about the wood of Ephraim is that it is a very, very outlying wilderness area. It's difficult to get to, number one And it's quite a distance from where Absalom started out. So think with me, he's got this huge army. They're not very well trained. They're coming out here and without any hardly little or no experience, most likely. And they've got to travel a long way through a very difficult terrain. What would that do? That would take its toll. I mean, by the time they get there, they have uh exerted a pretty good uh amount of energy and effort just to get there The wood of Ephraim, from what I understand in my research, is it was an extremely dense forest. And there's no way in the world you'll ever convince me that David just happened to pick this area for this fight. He knew exactly what he was doing. And I think he set up and he lured them up there. This is where he was. And they're coming this long way, very rugged terrain, and they get to this very, very dense forest And David's men are in there. The way it was described to me as I read and studied different articles, the way it was It's described what I saw is that you would have to push your way through the trees and through the branches. And if you have a forest, if any of you have been out west at all, if you get up into a forest that is old and it's been there a long time, there is uh dead fall everywhere. A number of years ago, we uh Dr. Williams and his brother Gene, a number of us went out to uh Gypsum, Colorado. We went elk hunting for a week. We had a uh tent up in the mountains, they took us up on horseback, dropped us off And I'm telling you, I had never been in a forest like that. There was deadfall down everywhere. You couldn't walk the distance of this pulpit hardly without having to climb over down trees and duck under stuff that was leaning up. I mean it was thick. Anybody here uh uh familiar with laurel? Did you ever hunt through laurel or anything like that? Pushing your way through that That's the image I got of this wood of Ephraim and an incredibly dense forest And uh that's where he lures them into. Uh I was told that this whole area was extremely treacherous terrain. They said there were swamps intermigled in that forest, there was cliffs, there was pits. One person described it, one uh article described it as you would be going through this thick brush, these thick trees and branches, next thing you knew, you're right on a cliff that falls down 50, 60 feet down. So David's luring Absalom's men into this wood of Ephraim. And notice what it says here. It says, for the people of Israel, and there was a great slaughter that day of twenty thousand men, verse seven. So the slaughter takes place. But look what it says, for the battle there was scattered over the face of all the country. We'll look at that here in a minute. But look at this And the wood devoured more people that day than the sword devoured. Now, I'm not convinced that was a supernatural event. There are some battles recorded in Scripture where God supernaturally had fires fall out of the sky or whatever But I'm not convinced this was a supernatural event. I think David lured them into there knowing that they would have such a hard time the majority of them would lose their lives because of the situation rather than the sword Inexperienced army, little or no preparation, rushed into battle, into a treacherous terrain that they know little or nothing about, that has all kinds of pitfalls through it And you have a 20,000 people who are slaughtered, the majority of them simply because of the terrain that they're in. The wood of Ephraim. Now notice there again in verse 6, he makes another interesting statement. For the battle was there scattered over the face of all the country. I think what he's saying here is David was able to get Absalom's army out of formation. He got them coming and going. They didn't know if they were heading this way or that way. And he had them absolutely scattered. The idea is this. Did you ever what's that game, Pickup Sticks? Any of that, where it just falls down and it's just chaos everywhere. And I think David was able to, by using the terrain, by his strategy, he had uh uh Absalom's soldiers, his army, they were coming and going. They don't know if the enemy was there or over there, or they're up here, or down there. And they are absolutely scattered over the whole area. I'd put it this way, chaos ensued in the army of Absalom. So you had this slaughter almost immediately upon the the uh the outbreak of fighting. And uh the second thing I notice, you have this awful slaughter. Then the next thing I notice in verse 9 through 13 is this amazing ensnarment of Absalom. Now this It's fascinating. Look at verse 9. And Absalom met the servants of David, and Absalom rode upon a mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak. So that It reinforces the idea that it's a very intense, dense forest. Very thick, dense forest. And the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak, and his head Caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between the heaven and the earth, and the mule that was under him went away. Can anybody hear picturing this in your mind? What a scene. And a certain man saw it and told Joab and said, Behold, I saw Absalom hanged in an oak. This amazing encirclement of Absalom. So Absalom encounters David's forces. Says there, and Absalom met the servants of David. So here's this is the way I picture it. I could be off base, but this is the way I picture it. There is chaos ensuing on Absalom's army. They're in this thick, dense forest. They don't know if they're coming or going. By the way, when I was studying that It reminded a little bit of the Battle of the Bulge and Bastone and that stuff and there when they were fighting and that forest was so thick and our soldiers didn't know they had to cla they had to have these little codes that if they got spread out they'd lose each other. And so they're in there, chaos breaks out, and somehow I think Absalom gets separated from his command He gets separated from his men by all appearances. He's by himself. Listen, the last thing you want in a battle is for the king to be out in that battle by himself And so he apparently got separated from his men. He doesn't know where he's going. He's trying to figure something out. He's in over his head. And he's dodging these branches and trying to get this mule over top of the downfall and in between. And lo and behold, he comes in, and here's a bunch of David's soldiers. Yikes! And he gets that mule for whatever reason. He apparently thought that riding the mule was quicker than running through this stuff. And so he gets separated from his army. He's alone. He runs into David's forces He attempts to flee on this mule, which is very difficult and very dangerous in this environment. And he gets entangled in a tree. Now, that word entangled is uh to say the least. Apparently he thought it was quicker to ride a mule than on foot. And I'm wondering if uh, and we don't know, we're just speculating here, I'm using artistic license here a little bit. Now they didn't have saddles back then, you understand that, right? So he's not strapped in. He's hanging on this thing. And I imagine he's down ducking and he's holding onto this mule and it's going through and he's looking back. And I just picture it this way. He looks up to see where he's going and He rams into a branch in this oak tree. Some low-lying branch that's all thick And Josephus says, and you probably in your Sunday school lessons saw pictures of David hanging by his hair. Anybody ever see or hear that? Josephus said he was hanging by his hair. His hair got tangled in it. A lot of the Sunday school lessons, David, Absalom's hair squirming around, he's hanging by his hair. But that's not what the Bible says The historian says hair. The Sunday school produ uh producers say hair, but the Bible says he got stuck in his head by his head. Thick boughs, look there. It says Absalom met the and Absalom rode upon a mule mule went under the thick boughs. Again, I pictured that like laurel bushes, except they're big branches just everywhere. When I was young, we'd go deer hunting up in north central Pennsylvania, Tioga County, and up in that area And uh we put on after the first few days we some of you guys will know what I'm talking about, we put on a drive to hunt a deer. Some of you guys know I'm talking about. And what they did was they took all the old guys And they position them down the side of a mountain. And then they take the young guys, which I was at that point in time. And they drop us about a mile over or so, half a mile or a mile over, and they drop us off and we drop down the mountain, then our job was to walk the side of that mountain making noises. These guys would just be standing there and we'd push those deer over to where these guys were stationed and they'd pick them off. In other words, we did all the work and they got the big bucks. The side of that mountain was like 45 degree angle and it was thick with laurel bushes. And so it's not like we're walking along with our gun. You dear run that way. It wasn't like that. It was more like hands and knees hanging on for dear life, crawling through this stuff. And I'm studying these thick boughs. That's what I picture Absalom going through, except it's not a little laurel branch. These are big oak branches. And he gets snagged in this thing. The Bible says that Jose uh that he uh It says, uh, he went under the thick boughs of a great oak and his head, and it uses this term, caught hold of the oak. That phrase caught hold is the same word that is used when God told Moses to pick up the rod that had turned a snake and pick that thing up and hold it. And it turned back into a rod. Anybody remember that story? That's the exact same word used. Now, I don't know about you. When that thing turned back into a rod, I would imagine he's holding onto that thing pretty tight And so Absalom, he's not just, you know, it's not just, oh boy, I'm a little loose here. No, he's rammed in there, solid. No saddle, the mule runs out from underneath him. And it's interesting So he caught hold, and then you come down farther, and Absalom, verse 14, Absalom finds him hanging there. And he took three darts in his hand and thrust them through the heart of Absom while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak. Now I don't know, here's just artistic license again. But I don't see any evidence that Absalom's fighting to get out of this thing. In fact, it says he's hanging. I wonder a couple things if a couple things then happen. I wonder if maybe when he hit that and got rammed in, apparently his neck or somehow his head is rammed in there and he can't get out I wonder if that didn't knock him out. And he's hanging there unconscious. Because we find no evidence of him resisting or doing whatever. He's just hanging there. Or it's been suggested maybe it caught his neck and broke his neck. And maybe he's still alive. He's still alive at this point, but he's paralyzed from the neck down. He can't do anything. He sees stuff happening But he can't get himself out. He can't pull himself out of that thing. So we don't know. It's been suggested, either of those have been suggested. Unconscious, paralyzed, broke his neck. But while he's hanging there, apparently motionless, in verse number 10, a fella shows up. A certain man saw it. Can you imagine this guy when he comes around and says, whoa! Here's Absalom just hanging there. And he goes and he tells Joab and he said, behold, I saw Absalom hanged in an oak. I don't know. It's not the whole conversation. I don't know if it's complete conversation recorded or not. I would imagine Job would have said something. You gotta be kidding. He's hanging in an oak. But he goes and reveals the location to Job. We don't know who this man is, we're not told. But Joab says, why in the world didn't you kill him? Look what he says there. And behold, thou sawest him. Why didst thou not smite him there to the ground? I would have given thee ten shekels of silver and a girdle, a new outfit, a new suit, ten shekels of gold. What in the world? What were you thinking? And I tell you, there's something about this guy that I admire. He refused to compromise his loyalty to David. Listen to what he says. And the man said to Job, Though I should receive a thousand shekels of silver in my hand. And I underlined this next phrase in my Bible, yet would I not put forth my hand against the king's son? Is I'm not going to do him harm. That is the king's son. Now, if you wanted to, you could take that praise and preach a sermon on. We ought to be very, very careful how we treat our king's children. The sons of God. And he says, I'm not going to put raise my hand against the king's son. Doesn't matter what he's done. I'm not doing that. Doesn't that sound reminiscent of David's attitude towards King Saul? I'll not raise my hand against God's anointed. I'm not going to hurt him. In fact, David got convicted about just cutting the corner of his garment off. This guy understood David, and he knew what he heard King David say. And he says, I wouldn't know, you can give me 10,000, I'm not going to do it. And then he goes on, he kind of further defends himself. He says, um, uh, and then verse 13, he kind of further defends himself, he says, otherwise I should have wrought falsehood against my own life I'd have put myself in danger. Maybe he was thinking David would have come after me if I'd have killed his son. He remembers what those guys, what he did to David, what David did to those guys that killed King Saul He says, man, I'm not putting myself in that position. He says, uh beware. And then he says, it's no matter hid from the king. And you yourself would have set yourself against me. You'd have turned on me if I'd have done And I ain't touching them. And so you have the my outline here is the awful slaughter of Israel, the amazing ensnarment of Absalom, and then last of all The savage actions of Joab. Now, here we see a little bit more of what Joab is like as a person. Look what he says there in verse 14. Then said Joab, Now they're out in the middle of the stick forest. Absalom's hanging there. The fellows showed Joab where he's at. Maybe they're standing there looking at him. I don't know. And Joab says, I may not I may not tarry thus with thee. What is he saying when he says, I may not tarry thus with thee? Anybody what's he saying? He's saying this, I got time for this. He's saying, Ain't nobody got time for this. He says, get out of my way. Joab was on a mission, and I think from day one, as soon as this as soon as they knew what was going on, Absalom was determined to kill, or or uh Joab was determined to kill Absalom. Doesn't matter what the king said. His mind was made up from before this thing ever started. Now he heard David say, Don't hurt hurt my son, I can hear Joab saying, that ain't going to happen. I get that boy. He's dead. His mind was made up. He's not making the decision on the spot here. He already knew what he was going to do if he ever got a hold of Joab, got a hold of Absalom I don't have time for this. And he took three darts in his hand. Can you picture this? And he thrust them through the heart of Absalom while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak. Now that dart there isn't a little thing you play darts with, you know, that's not what it's talking about. It's a type of spear, a type of dagger. And he takes three of them. Now, I don't know, maybe I have a wrong take on this, but Joab had a decision to make here, which he already made his mind up. Was he going to listen to David's emotional appeal, or is he going to do what's best, what he believed was best for the cause of Israel? So without hesitation, I believe his mind was already made up, he dispatches Absalom. He puts him to dead Puts them death. Now I think there's three observations I may notice here about Joab killing Absalom. Number one, it was inexcusable. What do you do with a prisoner of war? Do you execute prisoners of war? No, not in a civil society. You don't. They're prisoners of war. Now it happens. At this point, Absalom is pretty much a prisoner of war. He has no defense. He's hanging there defenselessly And Joab, rather than taking him in under other circumstances, you'd take him in as a prisoner. But he doesn't do that. He stabs him through the heart Not once, not twice, but three times. He's got a vendetta here This isn't winning a battle. This isn't restoring a king. This is brutally murdering a man that he's got an attitude about. Three times killed a defenseless prisoner. And then it's excessive. It gets worse. He says he thrust them through the heart of Absalom while he was yet alive in the midst of it. Then look at verse 15 And ten young men that bear Joab's armor, his assistants, you could say, they compass about Absalom And they smote Absalom and slew him. This is excessive. One dart would have done the job. Joab uses three. And then these ten young men who are influenced by Joab, they pile on. I looked up the word smote there, and it's not they're punching him. That word smote means to beat, kick, and stab. You see the picture? He's surrounded. Absalom's hanging there by his neck. He's already had three darts through his head. And these guys come up and start stabbing them and kicking them and beating them This is excessive. This is violence. And then look at verse 16. Look what Joe does. And Joe blew the trumpet. And the people returned from pursuing after Israel. Now look at this last statement. For Joab held back the people. Now, I'm not convinced that means that Joab kept a lot of other people from doing this. I don't think that's what it was. I think it was Joab didn't want the rest of the people to see what they had done to Absalom. I think he knew that this was excessive. And he says, blow the trumpet. Don't let anybody else get the people back. And he didn't want them to see. He didn't want them getting back to David how he had treated his son, what he had done to his son. Not just killed him, but mutilated him. This is excessive. And then on top of that, it's disrespectful. Look at verse number 17. And they took Absom, the son of the king of Israel. And what'd they do to him? They threw him in a pit. They threw him in a pit and laid a uh in the wood, back in the wood, and they threw him in a pit and they laid a very great heap of stones upon him. I put that's disrespectful. It's insulting. This is the king's son, and they throw him in a pit like he's an old dead groundhog. They throw him in a pit like he's some roadkill they picked up along the road, just throw it in a hole and bury it. This is the son of the king of Israel So what's the lesson to take away from this? I'll put it this way, Absalom dies a traitor's death. He has no children. He leaves no children behind. Absalom had no children. He has no legacy other than a man that rebelled against his father and failed terribly at it. Lied. And then failed when it came down to him. He has no house of his own, we're told later on. He had no house of his own. He lived in daddy's house or someone else's house. He never built his own place. And he had no respect in his death. Would you agree with me? Absalom was a sad young man. It's a sad story about this guy. Bad decisions, wrong reactions, and a tragic death, a tragic end. Absalom had a choice. It was either pursue his will or God's will. Either do it his way or do it God's way. And he chose his way. And he chose his will. And it brought him to a tragic end. We used to tell the young people when I was a youth pastor in Minneapolis, we had a little poem I would quote to them often. I said, there's only two choices on the shelf, serving God or serving yourself. And we decide we're going to do things my way, and I want my will to be accomplished. I don't care what God says, I don't care what God's will is, regardless of how his dad or his parents reacted or others He chose his own way, and he paid a heavy price. And I'm here to tell you, I have never, ever regretted doing things God's way. I've never ever regretted submitting to the will of God and putting myself and my will aside. That great prayer of Jesus Christ in the guarding Isemane, not my will, but what Thy will be done. How different this could have ended up if Absalom would have said, you know, I'm just going to trust God I'm going to let him lead me and direct me and use me. But he took things in his own hands and it was a disaster. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from the life of Absalom. And this daddy had his mistakes and made his decisions, but Lord, I pray you'd teach us to maintain that attitude, not my will, but thy will be done. Wonder with our heads bowed eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I know exactly what you're saying? I've taken things in my hand Maybe more often I care to admit and it was a mess. I should have trusted God. I should have let God have his way. Anybody here? Give a witness. My hands raised And maybe God will help us and remind us when we get to a situation, a decision to be made, we'll say, no, I'm going to trust the Lord. I'm going to follow his instructions. And not lean on my own understanding. Father, please bless our invitation tonight in Jesus' name. Amen