Auckland Airport in Auckland, New Zealand, Friday, our time, Friday at nine o'clock, and uh got walked in the front door of my house at two thirty this morning. So not quite thirty hours uh traveling. So I'm really not even sure where I'm at uh this morning, but uh we are excited to be home and um We had a great time in Auckland, New or in uh Sydney, Australia, and down in Auckland in Christchurch, all through the North and South Island, had a great time. But I want to say this, there is no place like home And I am glad to be back at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and uh thrilled to be around God's folks. And things went so well while I was going, everybody was telling me, oh Pastor, everything went great, it was fantastic And uh, you know, you could have said, oh, it went a little rough without you, you know. You don't have to be so positive. I told my wife, they don't even need me. So um No, it's the Lord it's God's church, isn't it? And God takes care of it and God does his thing. So well I'm anxious to tell you all about it, but uh let's get into the Word of God this morning. Romans chapter 10, and uh this is actually a continuation of the message I preached the Sunday before we left And so uh if you'll bear with me, verse number, I'd like for us to read verse number one of Romans 10. I'd like for us to read that verse together. Just Just the first verse, Romans chapter 10, verse number one. Everybody got it there? All right, let's read it together. Here we go. Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. I want to talk about having a burden for the lost, burden for unsaved people. Now, let me put a little uh statement, make a statement right up here in front in this message. This morning's message is for saved people. The message today is for folks that have trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, that you know for sure from the Bible that your sins are forgiven, and that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. Bible-based assurance of salvation. If somebody here this morning and you're not saved, you don't have that assurance your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. I'm here to tell you, one, you can know that, and two, you need to get that settled And we can help you from the Bible. But I'm preaching to Christians this morning, and I want to talk about having a burden for unsaved people Now for the last three weeks about, uh Brother Byron Fox and I and Lewis Howe down in New Zealand, Australia, we've been preaching to preachers about soul winning. And so my heart stirred up on this And so I want to share some thoughts with you this morning. Let's pray together, and uh I'll give you what's on my heart and what the Word of God says here. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would bless our time in your word. And Lord, it certainly is good to be home. I'm so grateful for every single person that's part of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. What a joy just to see the faces of folks coming in and to be back here in our place. And I pray you'd bless now, the next few moments, as we look into your word. I'm asking you, Lord, with all my heart That you please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body to you, Lord, to be used of you, that you could speak through me, and that you would challenge us in this matter that I believe is dear, dear, dear to your heart. So please bless now, I ask. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. There's two areas of my Christian life that I am constantly challenged in, two areas that I never feel like I'm really all that I ought to be. Two areas that I need to give constant attention to. One of those areas is this, my prayer life. I never feel like I'm praying my prayer life is what it ought to be. Does anybody here ever feel that way? You know what I'm talking about? And I do pray and I believe in prayer and And this trip I was going to say, uh I have I don't know the last time, if ever, I've had so many direct answers to prayer. in on the uh uh in any event as we did this last several weeks on this mission trip. Did anybody see on uh the news that cyclone coming down there is heading I mean bullseye straight for us right where we were in Christchurch Or actually up top. Uh it was supposed to come up top there. And we started praying. Lord, turn that thing away. And if you watch that thing, uh about a day or so before, that thing shifted a little farther to the east and dropped down and missed us completely And we had stuff like that, just clear answers to prayer. But I always feel like I'm not uh I need to improve my prayer life. I need to work on that. Now there's a second area that I'm always challenged in. One is our prayer life. By the way Prayer is vitally important in the Christian life. We have got to work at that. We have got to get our prayer life in place. Second area I'm never satisfied with, and I've got to constantly give attention. I need to constantly work at improving. Is uh my personal witnessing and sharing the gospel with others. Anyone know what I'm talking about there? Down inside our hearts, we know we need to be a witness. I'm convinced that every saved person, the Spirit of God puts in their heart a uh a desire to see other people saved. And I never get to the point where I think, boy, I'm I'm the witness I ought to be. I'm I'm soul winning like I should. I'm I'm doing all I can. I'm constantly working at that Now I said all that to say this. Our passage that we read together, verse 1 of Romans 10, addresses both of those issues. Look what he says here. Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God, there's prayer, for Israel, is that they might be saved. Paul had a tremendous burden in his heart to see other people saved. Now in the context here, he's addressing in the nation of Israel, his people Israel. We talked a little bit about that in the previous message. But Paul was burdened that people be saved, and he said his prayer to God was that they would be saved. Would you have a pen or pencil? Would you jot this down? I wrote this in the margin of my Bibles. I was studying this some time ago I wrote this in the margin of my Bible. I put this down, number one, and this is not the message. Number one, I put this, a burdened heart produces a bended knee. Paul's heart was so burdened for the nation of Israel, for his brethren according to the flesh. He wanted them to be saved. He did not want them to die in their sins. And what that burden for them produced in the heart of Paul, in for in the life of Paul, was a bended knee. He prayed. He prayed. How many folks here, there's somebody that you can think of very quickly, very easily, that's unsaved and you're really burdened for and you'd like to be saved. Anybody here have somebody on your heart and mind like that? Probably most of us, if not everybody does You know what? That burden, if that burden is real, it'll produce a bended knee. We'll pray for them. Write this one down. Number two, I put this in the margin of my Bible. A bended knee produces a bold witness. A bended knee produces a bold witness. What am I saying? I believe this. When I start praying for the unsaved, somebody unsaved, and I've got people in my heart, one name in particular. And I start praying for that person like I should. God, please save them. Lord, please convict them of their sin. Lord, please help them to see how badly they need Christ. Lord, help them to understand. When I get praying for them and genuinely praying for them, I found out I'm a little bit bolder in my witness to them. I'm a little bit more bold in confronting them and talking to them about that So a bended knee produces a bold witness. And number three, put this down. I put this in the margin of my Bible. A bold witness produces a born-again saint. A born-again saint. You know how people get saved? By somebody telling them how to be saved. How many people here, you're saved, you know for sure your sins are beginning on your way to heaven because somebody else told you about Christ. Somebody else told you how to be saved. How many people like that? Sure. Behind every saved person is another Christian who witnessed to them, shared the gospel with them to some extent. So what are we saying? A burdened heart produces a bended knee. A bended knee produces a bold witness. And a bold witness produces born-again saints. People get saved. When a church like ours, or a church, a little church down in Sydney, Australia, or wherever it may be, a church gets on fire for God, gets a burden for souls, and they get out there witnessing like they should They're going to start seeing people saved. They're going to start seeing people saved. I had the opportunity on um uh in Australia when we got down there. I guess it would have been Saturday afternoon. Uh we were uh went out into a a plaza type area and uh and I'll show some pictures of this, but we were out there and we're giving out tracks And Byron Fox and a couple of the other folks in the church there had uh a little guitar and uh ukuleleys and they're just singing hymns and it kind of got people's attention. They're sitting there and then we were giving out tracks And when we first came in there, one of the ladies in the church there had given a track to a fellow was from India, and an Indian. He was from India. He's there studying in the university And he says, what is this about? He says, what is what is this? He says, well, it's about Jesus. It's about the gospel. It's the Bible. He goes, I have some questions So she went and got Brother Fox and she says, here's this young man. He has questions. He'd like to know about this. Uh Brother Fox talked a little bit and I was standing or was giving out tracks over in this other corner. And uh Brother Fox said, Brother Letterman, come over here. Came over He goes, here's so-and-so, and I never did figure out his name. It was an unusual name from India. Might have been a very common name in India. But uh I just hi uh it had a J in his name and had a D in his name, so I just called him J D I never could figure out how to say it, so I just said call him J D. And we got talking to J D and I mean to tell you, did you ever go to an apple tree, Brian, and that apple was so ripe you just barely touch it and it comes off in your hand. Do you know what I'm talking about? That's the way this guy was. He had he asked all the right questions. We went through the gospel with him. And um and uh he says, yeah, I'd like I need to be saved. I want to I want to trust Christ as Savior And I thought, well, wait a minute, this is too easy. So we went back and went over it again. I said, are you sure you understand? And we went through it. Yes, yes, yes. And uh that young man, J. D. from India, just come down there, uh right there, uh the big trash can right there beside it, he bowed his head, open Bible, and he prayed to call on the Lord Jesus as Savior And thanked us and thanked us. We gave him some assurance. I got his his uh name, JD, and um his address where he was staying and gave it to folks. They've actually followed up on him since then And uh but we got talking afterward, and uh we came to the conclusion that's not the first time he's heard of Christ That's not the first time he's come across this. And I don't know. We'll have to wait till I get to heaven. But if I was a betting man, and I'm not, but if I was I'd bet money that somebody had been witnessing to that boy and praying for that boy sometime in the past. Somebody had a burden for that young man. Maybe he was back in India. Maybe his extended family somewhere. Maybe somebody came across. But I am absolutely convinced from my experience and from studying the scripture, somewhere behind that profession of faith. There were Christians who were burdened for him and praying for him and uh trying to win him to Christ. And we just happened to be there at the right place at the right time. And he called on the Lord Jesus to be his Savior. And so what I'm trying to say is behind every person that gets saved, there's a bended knee and there's a bold witness. Now here's the question I asked myself. Do I have a burden for the lost? As an individual, myself, personally, as an individual Christian, do I have much of a burden to see lost people saved, to see others come to Christ? I want you to ask yourself that question. What about my burden to see the lost? The fact that there are people around us in our community and around the world. That do not know Christ as Savior, that are according to Jesus, in their sins. And if they die in their sins, they're separated from God for all eternity. Is that a burden of mind to see them come to Christ? I asked our church this, as a congregation, do we have a burden to reach others and to see others saved? And uh Paul did. Paul had a tremendous burden. We looked at that before. We will never have much of an impact on this world with the gospel until there is an intense burden in our hearts. To see people saved. To see people saved. It's interesting. Look here in verse number three There's a phrase here I underlined in my Bible and I circled the word. He says, for they being, what's the next word? Look at it there, verse 3. For they being what? Ignorant, they being ignorant of God's righteousness. I underlined that phrase and I circled the word ignorant. Do you know why some people are unsaved? You know why some people die in their sins, never find forgiveness or separated from God? Because they're what Ignorant. Now we don't we're not using that in a derogatory term, as a derogatory term. It's simply a fact that they do not have the knowledge of Christ They are not aware of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's go back to our little friend J. D. He knew about Jesus, he knew about the gospel. But he was ignorant as to how that affected him. He was ignorant, he was unaware, he didn't have the information, how that all fits together to make a decision to trust Christ as Savior. And we live in a highly educated, technologically advanced, but spiritually ignorant world. People do not understand the gospel. They do not understand how to be saved. And so do we have a burden to go to them and give them that information? To let them know of Christ. Paul had a burden for loss. Now, I put this down. Here's my outline. I'm going to give it to you, try and give it to you very quick. I need to give this really quick before I fall asleep. Right. So I gotta really get on this because eventually I'm gonna fall over. And so uh let's let I'm gonna encourage you to jot these down. When I have a burden When I as a Christian, a saved man, have a genuine burden to see lost people saved, number one, soul winning becomes a priority. Soul winning becomes a priority. Now we're going to look at some verses, so keep your Bibles handy. Alright? If you would, keep your place here, but come with me to the Gospel of Luke. Matthew, Mark, Luke. And chapter number five, soul winning becomes a priority. If I am genuinely burdened for the loss, And by the way, I was talking about, while you're finding Luke 5 there, I was talking about folks in the world who are ignorant of God's righteousness. They're ignorant how to be saved. I think there's a lot of people who know about God So a lot of people know about the gospel. They know Jesus down the cross, but they don't know how to tie that together. They don't know how to make a decision. I learned shortly after I came here, I'm sure it's true everywhere, but I just never observed it never dawned on me before and never came to this conclusion. But I found that there's a lot of churches preach about uh Jesus. Anybody find that true All around us, they preach about Jesus. Uh I found there's a lot of churches that uh preach about being saved. Uh and I'm not talking just independent Baptists, but talk about being saved, right or wrong. They talk about, yeah, saved Jesus died for sins, rose again. People need to be saved, need to believe. But what I found is the churches, or maybe the pastor would be the ultimate pastor's responsibility, whatever. But they never bring it to a point where the person knows how to be saved. They know they need to be saved. They know that Jesus died so they can be saved. But they're never brought to that point where I need to make a decision to put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And so Paul was very concerned about that. And his burden made soul winning a uh high became a priority. Luke chapter 5, and notice with me verse number 10. And so was also uh James and John, the sons of Zebedee. So Jesus out and uh Uh he had them throw the nets uh out in their boats on the one side and they brought in this great harvest of fish. And he says, and so was James and John verse 10, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon, partners in fishing business. And look what the Lord says. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch what? What were they catching before? Fish. Now they're catching men. Now look at verse 11. And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all and followed him. Now, up to this point, and Peter and John and the others there, up to this point, their lives revolved around making a living. The priority in their life was the fishing. They're not out when they're fishing. Their fishing is not like my fishing. I go fishing for fun. If w if if our if our livelihood, if my family depended upon my ability to fish, we'd have died a long, long time ago It's just for fun on my part. But these guys, this was their life. This was their livelihood. They got up in the morning, first thing on their mind was fishing They went to bed at night. The last thing on their mind was how they did fishing that day and what they're going to do the next day. I mean, that was their livelihood. Their what life revolved around it. But Jesus says, from henceforth now you're going to catch men. And there was a transition taking place as these men began to follow the Lord Jesus, as they began to realize He's the Son of God, that He's the Savior of the world, that He's the only way to heaven. As they began to realize who Jesus was, there was a transition started taking in their place of priorities Now the priority in their life was no longer making a living. The priority of their life was no longer establishing their business. The priority in their life Was now getting other people to the Lord Jesus Christ. Question, is there anything wrong with making a living No. Is there anything wrong with having a business? Absolutely not. God, you know, we need the church needs people who make livings, who make business uh who have businesses that work and employment We're not suggesting that at all. But what I am suggesting is that when I get a burden for the loss, as Paul had This matter of investing in others to bring them to Christ, seeing other people saved, becomes a higher priority in my life. Am I making sense? You follow what I'm trying to say here And so soul winning becomes a priority. I was reading about and uh as far as I can tell, this is the actual event. This happened years ago But there was a farmer, just a regular old farmer working in the dirt and uh trying to make a living from uh uh from the earth and and farming. His boy uh graduated from college, went off to Washington, D. C. became a powerful senator in Washington, D. C. Daddy, the farmer, was a godly Christian. He loved the Lord, was committed to Christ, very devout in his faith And so the sun was the powerful center there in Washington. And uh farmer dad, the Christian, was going to go visit his son in his fancy office. So he goes down to the Capitol And uh he's in there and he gets into his son's office and he has the big fancy senator's office. And they're in the back there and they're talking and a little bit, and lo and behold, the ambassador from Belgium came by to see his son. He was on some committee and they needed to discuss something. And uh farmers there, he's got his overalls on, very plain man The son, powerful senator, the uh ambassador from Belgium comes in and the son says, Daddy, I'd like for to meet the ambassador from Belgium. He gave his name, he said, This is my father, so and so The farmer, a devout Christian, burdened for the lost, want to see people saved. The very first thing he said to the ambassador from Belgium, he said, Sir, it's good to meet you. Are you a Christian? The son was appalled. Oh my word. And so he quickly changed the subject and uh went on, and he was embarrassed that his daddy would say to the ambassador from Belgium, Are you a Christian? A few weeks went by. Daddy has a, farmer dad, the devout Christian, has a massive heart attack, drops dead in the field. At the funeral, that big funeral, at the funeral, a bouquet of flowers shows up, elaborate, beautiful bouquet of flowers. In those flowers is a note. From the ambassador from Belgium. The sun went over, he looked it, opened it up, and inside there was a handwritten note from the ambassador of Belgium and said this. I am so sorry for the loss of the death of your father. He is the only man, he is the only person in America that asked me if I was saved, if I was a Christian The only person in America that asked if I was a Christian. I'm telling you, for that farmer Winning, being a witness and trying to win that ambassador to Christ was a high priority. It was more important to him than what that guy thought about him. It was more important than protocol. It was important he was burdened for that man to be saved. Isn't it tragedy that someone would come to America and nobody would ask them about their soul salvation? And so, one, we said this, soul winning becomes a priority when we have a burden for the lost. Take your Bible, if you would, come back to Romans here And chapter 9, now we looked at this the other week, but this to me is one of the most astounding passages in all of Scripture Paul makes a statement here that is absolutely mind-boggling, talking about his burden for lost people to be saved. Look at verse number one of Romans chapter 9. I say the truth in Christ. I lie not, my conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost. Now look at verse 1. What is he trying to convince those Roman believers in verse 1? What's he trying to convince them of? He's doing what? He's telling the truth. I mean he goes to great length. You see what he does? He makes like three statements. Listen, I'm telling you the truth. I'm not lying. My conscience, the Holy Spirit's bearing me witness. I mean it's uh do you ever have anybody say this? Listen, uh I listen, what I'm saying to you is the truth. Anybody have I mean they emphasize, I would like to believe everything you say is true Um but uh it's like this. This is the truth. Cross my heart and hope to die. Anybody ever uh do that? Uh cross my heart and hope to spit. And uh, you know, or whatever. And Paul's saying this, and he's going to great lengths. He says, listen, what I'm going to say to you, you're not going to believe it. You're going to think I'm just exaggerating. You're going to think I'm just making a statement But I'm telling you before God, what I'm saying is the truth. What in the world is Paul going to say to them that he goes to great lengths to assure them and convince them that he's telling the truth? Look at the next verse. That I have a great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart. Alright, that would be his burden. Look at this. For I could wish that myself were what? Accursed from Christ for my brethren, that my kinsmen according to the flesh. Now he's talking about the nation of Israel. Did you catch what he's saying there? Now I know I brought this out a couple weeks ago in the message, but I want to reiterate it here, where soul winning becomes a priority. Paul is saying this. When he says, I wish that myself were accursed, the word accursed there has this idea, to be cut off And Paul is saying, I would be willing, if it was possible, to have my relationship with God, my salvation to be cut off And I would be willing to go to hell if that would bring my brethren according to the flesh to Christ. How many people agree with me? That's pretty intense. That's pretty intense. How many of us would be willing to give up our salvation so that others would be saved? I'm suggesting to you that for Paul, getting other people saved was the highest priority in his life. He'd be willing to give up his salvation. Now, I always want to point this out, he could not give up his salvation. Nobody can ever lose their salvation. Nobody can ever give up. You say, preacher, you believe once saved, always saved. I believe the Bible, and the Bible teaches that once I'm saved, I can never lose that salvation. That is not a license to sin. That's a whole nother message. It is not a license to sin. But eternal life means just what it says, eternal life. Eternal. But Paul's burden was such a uh Paul's burden was so great that soul winning became a priority. Number two, write this one down. When we have a burden for the lost, not only does soul winning become a priority, but two, it produces tears of compassion. It produces tears of compassion. Uh John R. Rice, my father, uh told me back years ago, sh some time after I got saved, and I may have still been living at home at the time, but he made this statement to me. He says, the three men that had the most impact in my life, the three men that had the most impact in my life, my father told me this. He said one was his father And his father was a godly man. Hey, if you have a godly Christian daddy, you ought to thank God for that. You ought to thank God for that. My dad said, my father, Sam Leatherman. uh was the number one influence in my life as far as Christianity and and living for God. He said the second most uh man that had the s second most influence in my life was my pastor, Dr. Auckland, back there in Sellersville. tremendous man of God and had a profound impact on a lot of people. And then he said this. The third is John R. Rice through the pages of the Sword of the Lord. And so John Ar. Rice has always held a special place in my heart just simply because of his influence on my father. But John Ar. made this statement. He said, one of the greatest needs in our churches and in our Christian lives today are tears for unsaved people. Tears for unsaved people. I read about the old revivals, and I remember I've been to some back in the early days of my Christian life when preachers would preach on hell. I mean preach hell hot, just as the Bible teaches. And they'd preach on sin, and they'd preach on Jesus, the only way to be saved, and repent from our sin and turn to Christ. And Christians would be at the altars. weeping over unsaved people, friends and family members who were without Christ. And it wasn't just, oh yeah, I want them to be saved. It was absolutely broken weeping. And the record has where there'd be spots on the altars where there'd be wet places. Where tears, a burden for the lost, would pour down. Take your Bible and turn with me if you would. I want to look at a few verses in Psalms 119. The Bible teaches us that we ought to be broken for the lost to the point that it even brings tears. Now, we're not talking about crocodile tears. Anyone know what we mean by crocodile tears? What is it? Phony, just fake, just putting on a show. Now, I've never been up close to a crocodile, but The times I have seen him, the only one with tears was meat. Oh, by the way, I'm going to tell you this is unrelated, completely unrelated to the message, but uh I ate kangaroo meat. I tracked him down, beat him up, cooked him, and ate 'em. Not really. So when we're talking about having tears and burden, we're not talking about putting on a show. I tell you, I think putting on a show in Christian life makes God sick Right? Just putting on some phony tears. We're talking about a genuine concern. Did uh do you ever have someone that dear to you and they're very, very sick? Maybe you thought maybe they're not going to make it and you bec you're so you're so concerned you have tears. Anybody know what we're talking about? That's what we're talking about for the unsaved. Look at Psalm 119 and verse number 53. Now look at the terms he uses here. Psalm 119, verse 53. HORROR! Hath taken hold upon me because of the wicked that forsake thy law. Do you catch that? He is so impacted by unsaved people, people that are not living for God, that don't know God. He says, horror hath taken a hold of me. It has had a profound effect upon me, these unsaved people. Come over to verse 136, Psalm 118, but verse 136. Look at these statements he makes. Psalms 119-136. Rivers of water run down mine eyes, because they keep not thy law. Here's unsaved people. They don't know God. They don't know the law. They're not living for God. They're living in sin. He says rivers of water. How many people here are concerned about America? Mercy. And even down when I'm down in these other countries, the people are saying, what in the world is going on in America? What in the world is happening to your country? And I was down there when that shooting down in Florida took place, and they were absolutely shocked. And they said, what kind of place is that? Where people walked into a school and gunned down defenseless, innocent children. I'm telling you, that ought to break our hearts. That ought to stir rivers of water and the psalmist here is absolutely broken over the fact that there are people that don't know God that don't know God, that don't know the Lord, that are living in such ungodliness, and his heart is absolutely broken. You know what Pastor Dennis Leatherman needs? I need more of a burden for the loss. To the point where it breaks our heart and even tears to our eyes. What about you? Look at verse number, same chapter, look with me if you would, at verse number 158, 158, Psalms 118. He says, verse 158, I beheld the transgressors, these are unsaved people living in sin, and was grieved because they kept not thy word. The psalmist's heart was broken to the point where he says there's tears. Um I remember shortly after I got saved, I mean it was just a couple weeks, maybe a month or two after I got saved. And I was praying for my family, and um it was late at night, and I was kneeling by my bed, and I was going through my prayer list. I had established, and I got praying for a family member that um that I I uh I believe was unsaved. And for whatever reason, and this wasn't a vision from God, so don't read anything into this, but I just in my mind as I was praying, God please say so and so, God please Don't let them go to hell. And in my mind, I envisioned this family member dying and falling down into the depths of hell. I'm telling you, it broke my heart so bad. Here was a dear family member to imagine and envision in my mind them going into hell. I began sobbing and sobbing. God, please don't let them go to hell. God, please save their soul. God, please give them new life. I tell you, it broke my heart to the point of weeping. Now that hasn't happened as often as it ought to. I'm glad that that person eventually came to know Christ as Savior, and they're living for God today. But that's what we need. And when we get burdened for the lost, I believe it's going to produce tears of compassion Jeremiah said in chapter 9, don't turn there. Jeremiah chapter 9, verse 1, he said this, Oh, that my head were waters and my eyes a fountain of tears. that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people. In Luke 1941, again for sake of time we won't turn there, but the Bible says that Jesus wept because of the sinfulness of man. Jesus Christ looked out over the city and he saw people who were lost and in their sins. And the Bible says he wept over them. He wept over them. Dr. Lee Robertson was my pastor for a number of years, Highland Park Baptist Church, and he made this statement. Listen to this statement in me. He said, without concern. For the lost. He's talking about the lost. Without a concern for the lost, we are not Christ-like. He said, without a concern for the lost, we are not obeying the scriptures. A burden for the lost. It displays itself, first of all, soul winning becomes a priority. That's number one, I need to get the gospel lost. Number two, it produces tears of compassion. Number three, jot this one down. It prompts us to action. It prompts us to action. You read the book of Acts, you read a bunch of people who are burdened for the lost. Man, they're getting out after it. And there's two things taking place. One, they are praying, and two, they are preaching. They are praying and they are preaching. You say, preacher, you're talking about soul winning. I don't know what exactly does that mean? Here's all soul winning is. It's a child of God, a saved person, engaging an unsaved person, investing myself in this person. I get to know them, I share the truth of the gospel with them. It's people interacting with people for the purpose. of bringing them to Christ. That's what soul winning is. And when we get burdened, it'll prompt us to action. I've got to do something. I can't just stand by. How many folks here would say if you were driving home and you saw a house on fire and you could hear somebody inside that house crying for help? How many people here would say, you know, that would stir me up to, at the very least, call 911. Right? Anyone? How many people would say, I have to do something? I have to do something. Um Brother Ken and I were driving back the middle of the night. I appreciate he came up and got me at Pittsburgh uh the middle of the night. Literally, it was midnight. And uh we're driving back and it was raining and it was foggy and it was yucky and we were tired and he's hacking and barking like a seal cuffing over there We just wanted to go home. And we're coming across sixty-eight and it's all funny and we saw it there blinking lights Flashing four-way lights on a car. We both said, I hope it's not someone break down because I don't want to stop and help 'em Uh you know, if there's somebody there, you feel kind of I need to do something, right? It wasn't, it was just a a West Virginia car driving Don't say it, just go on with the message. But um but you feel prompted. Because you have a heart of compassion, you care for them. There's somebody in need. I'm telling you, all around us are people in spiritual need. McDonald's, Sheets, Walmart, wherever we go. There's people without God. Drive by a house that's on fire and you hear, help, help, I'm trapped. It's a cry for help. I've got to do something You know, we go out and we see people and their lives are all messed up and they do all the extreme stuff to their bodies and all that. You know what that is? That's a cry for spiritual help. To cry for spiritual help. We gotta help them. We gotta help them. And when we get burdened for the lost and we realize they need Christ, He's their only hope. And we get burdened about that. It prompts us, we need to do something. We need to do something. I put this down. Unsaved people around us, those without Christ, they don't need us singing about Jesus. They don't need us preaching about Christ and the gospel. They don't need us just talking about it. You know what they need? They need us to come to them and tell them. How to be saved. And in all our churches, we sing about, send the light, send the gospel light, we'll sing about soul winning, we'll preach about soul winning, we'll talk about soul winning, but my Question is this, how much soul wedding do we really do How much do we really engage people with the gospel? How much do we really tell others? Read the book of Acts. They went everywhere. Preaching the gospel. I mean they're getting in chariots with Ethiopian eunuchs tell them how to get say they're in uh they're in the streets, they're in the highways, they're in jails They're everywhere telling folks about Christ, telling people how to get saved, people seeing people saved. It prompts us to action. I remember when That church, my dad's home church, Faith Baptist Church in Selvertsville. Back in the day when I was young and he first got saved, he'd bring us to church there. I'm telling you, that place was a soul-winning station. They ran 10, 12, 15 buses all over that area. There was people getting saved at the altar, every service, people would be trusting Christ. The Sunday school teachers were leading people to the Lord. The buses were out there bringing in people in children's church getting saved. The ushers were out in the parking lot. People would come in visitors. They'd start talking about Christ and were leading people to Christ in the parking lot. They were burdened and they were getting after it. Now I hate to say this. I hate to say this. That church has lost its burden. I don't run any buses anymore. No invitations. No revival meetings. Nobody gets saved. I don't think they even have a Wednesday night service. Sunday night's nothing. Here's my concern. I think of that, and as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, I don't want that to ever happen to this church. We've got to make sure we keep that burden for the lost and we stay active in getting after the lost and getting the gospel to the unsaved people. And so it prompts us to action. I appreciate Johnny Jones and the family, that Christmas meal you guys did the other year. Remember that, Terry? Man, what a great thing. In fact I was talking to some uh others about that. Uh the other year, what they did Christmas, they invited all their neighbors, all the folks in their community. Hey, we're gonna have a Christmas meal. And am I right, Terry, you guys provided the meal for them, right? and cooked the big meal and they said, we want you all to come. And all the folks in the community came and they said, Pastor, we want you to come. We want you to tell them how to get saved. And John got up and thanked everyone, said some kind words, and he says, here's Pastor Lemon. I asked him to come tell us how to get saved. You know what that is? That's a burden. That's taking action. We've got to think of something, some way, somehow, get the gospel to lost people. And so when we have a burden heart, it prompts us to action. Number four, let me give you the last one real quick. How many people agree I'm doing pretty good for being half dead. Right? I mean my mind is telling me I'm over the Pacific somewhere, forty thousand feet in the air. Number four, put this down. It brings praise to our lips. It brings praise to our lips. Turn with me, if you would, to Acts chapter 11. When we have a burden for the lost. You say, oh, if I get a burden for the loss, then I'll walk around, oh, everything's terrible. People are dying going to hell. Oh, it's terrible. No, no, no. That's not what happens. Acts chapter, what did they say, 11 Acts chapter 11, look at verse 23. There's a bunch of people getting saved. And uh the church is stirred up, and all these people are trusting Christ, they're turning from their sin, they're getting baptized, they're growing, they're out witnessing. And verse number twenty-three of Acts chapter eleven, let me get there. It says, let's start in verse 22. Then tidings of these things came to the ears of the church, which was in Jerusalem. These things is people getting saved up in these other cities. And they sent forth Barnabas, good guy, that he should go as far as Antioch, who, when he came, had seen the grace of God. Let me ask you a question. How did he see the grace of God? How do you see the grace of God? What's that? People are getting saved, and what's happening to them? Their lives are being changed. And he sees people who were fornicators, now they're pure. And he sees people who are drunkards and now they're sober. And he sees people who are worshiping idols and now they're worshiping the one and true God. And he sees people who were thieves and now they quit stealing, and people who are liars and now they're honest And he saw what the grace of God did in the hearts and lives of these people. They got saved and God changed their very nature. And made them new creatures. I mean God turned them around by his grace. And when he saw that, look at your Bible, what's the next two words? He was what? What is it? He was glad. That word glad, I got studying how it's used through the Bible. It has this idea to be exceedingly happy. It wasn't, I mean we read it and we look at it and think he was glad. Oh, it was like, oh, that's wonderful. Nice, that makes me glad. That's not what it is. The idea is this. Woo! This is incredible. This is great. It's it's translated back in uh in uh Acts when the um shepherds saw Lord Jesus, it says they rejoiced exceedingly I mean they are happy. They are and so uh Barnabas sees people getting saved. Here is a church that is burdened for the lost. They're getting the gospel out. They're active and getting after it. And people's lives are being changed and souls are being saved. And man, they are glad You know what I found the happiest churches in the world that are churches that are active in reaching other people with the gospel and seeing people saved It brings joy, it brings happiness, it brings praise. He was glad. It means to be very happy, to rejoice exceedingly. to have exceeding great joy. One definition I found was this. Beside himself with joy. Joy and gladness. Join us. In Luke chapter 15 and verse 10, it Jesus made this statement. This is what Jesus said. He said, there is joy in the presence of the angels over one sinner that repenteth. Now notice what he says. There is joy where? In the presence of the angels. Now, who would be the people that would be in the presence of the angels? That would be safe people that went on to heaven. And so if I understand that passage correctly, Jesus was saying this. You got some high school kid comes to Bible time or rides a Sunday school bus and they hear Pastor pre preach the gospel and they get saved and they turn from their sin and they trust Christ and God makes them a new creature If I understand that passage right, Jesus is saying that the saints up in heaven somehow know about that, and they are stirred up. They're exceedingly happy. They're kicking up heaven's dust. They're carrying on like do you ever um uh do you ever watch a ball game and it comes down to the end and somebody makes a touchdown, what h and the winning and the home team makes a touchdown, what happens in the stands They come unglued. And I'm guilty. I've been there. I've done that. Woo! I didn't think ah, this is great! They are exceeding glad And that is exactly what Jesus says takes place up in heaven of believers in heaven when one sinner repents. What I'm trying to say is this: we get a burden for the loss, and we get active and start seeing people say Man, there's joy in that. There's rejoicing in that. Um I got a message, an email uh from Cindy, was it this past Wednesday? That you and Trish the week before. And uh I got a message that we were out visiting on a Wednesday afternoon, I guess. We were out visiting, and she gave the name a lady. She trusted Jesus Christ as Savior A week ago Wednesday. And I was uh we're down there with Byron Fox and them and I told him, hey, listen to this. Uh this lady got saved and they're all amen. Praise the Lord. And I got looking to this, I was got studying this, I thought, you know, right at that time up in heaven, heaven came unglued. It was like the winning the home team made a touchdown. And everybody got excited. I got a message last night. I was sitting in an airport. I've been sitting in airports for the last thirty six hours. I got a message from the preacher down in Auckland, New Zealand that I just preached for on Thursday night. And he said, Pastor Leatherman, I just wanted you to know That the young there was a a visitor there Thursday night when you preached. He didn't go forward to get saved. He said but This morning in church, you know, they're 18 hours ahead of us, so it's tomorrow. So if you'd have called me when I was down there, I could have told you what's going to happen ahead of time before it happened. I was watching the stock market, you know, and thought, ooh. But uh it don't quite work that way. But um he said that boy walked the aisle this morning and trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. Twenty-eight-year-old young man. You know what happened in heaven when the y yes t tomorrow morning w you know what happened in heaven tomorrow morning when that happened? They came unglued. They come unglued. And what I'm saying is this the joy of the Lord, it's not by putting rock and roll music in. It's not by bringing in all this phony motivational stuff. It's simply saying, you know, God so loved the world, and these people desperately need Christ. And we'll go and tell them of Christ and win them to Christ and we'll see their lives change. And that brings the joy of the Lord into a church. That brings joy into a home. I've told this story a lot of times, but The very first time I led someone to Christ, it is seared into my heart and mind. I will never forget that day We're down in Tennessee. I had witnessed the people. I had given out tracts. I had uh you know counseled children in children's church, but I had never went out into the streets, found someone, showed them how to be saved, and had them pray and trust the Lord with me. And uh we were paired up, there's a young lady with me, Jenny, and uh we were going down, we knocked on the door, and you've I've told this before, but we knocked on the door of a fellow by the name of Mr. Hogue. I didn't know him at the time, an older elderly man, he's in a wheelchair, he invited us in. I had never led anybody to Christ. I wasn't real confident and even sharing the gospel. Jenny, it was her turn to talk. She went and sat down by his wheelchair and she went through the plan of salvation. And she said, Mr. Hogue, would you be willing to turn to Christ and trust him as your personal Savior? By this point, he's weeping. This dear man. And he says, yes, I would. He's probably late 70s, maybe mid-80s. He says, yes, I want to trust Christ. I didn't know it, but Jenny had never led anybody to the Lord either. And she was kind of just nervous going through it. I didn't know it. I was standing there praying, Lord, you know, save this guy. This is exciting. This is great. He's going to get saved. Right when it came time for him to call on the Lord, Jenny turned to me and said, uh, they called me Denny back then Um don't you do that. But uh she said, Denny, uh this man wants to get saved. You'll pray with him and help him trust Christ as Savior. I said, huh? I said, who came in? What are you talking about? I was scared to death. I didn't know what to do. And uh I knelt down beside him. I said, Mr. Hogue, you want to be saved? He goes, yes. You want to call on the Lord? And he said, yes I said, okay, I'm racking my mind. What do I say? What do I say? Alright, now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord. Now wait a minute, that's not the right prayer. No, I didn't do that. And pray with Mr. Hogue. And he called the Lord, asking to be his Savior. And he's see he's weeping. So we gave him some verses of assurance and he wheeled us out to the door and there had grows bushes growing there. And he clipped off a couple roses and he gave each of us a rose and he says, this is the most wonderful day of my life. Thank you for coming by. I walked out of there. I'm telling you, I was floating. I was on cloud nine. I'm telling you, nothing other than my own salvation had ever happened in my life that made me happier Then when God used me to see someone else come to Christ as Savior, it brings praise to our lips. Here's my question. How burdened am I for the lost? How burned are you? How active are we? Are does it does it affect us? Does it stir our hearts? When's the last time any of us have wept over somebody that's not saved? Because we're so broken for him. How active are we? Does it prompt us to action? Are we giving out tracts? Are we witnessing? Let's ask God to put a real burden on our hearts for the loss like Paul had. He said, My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for Paul. And what a profound impact he has had upon this word, your Holy Spirit using him. And God, I pray to some extent you would help us to have that same burden, that you would have us to have that same concern, to see other people saved. Lord, I'm so grateful for these little churches down in down under where we just came from that are so so anxious to win others and so active. I pray you'd put some of that in my heart, in our church, and we'd be very, very aggressive this coming year, very, very active, very, very burdened. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. But you know, God, Paul challenges me to have a real burden for the loss and not to be indifferent. But to have a real burden for lost, you say, preacher, I I want that burden. I need a greater burden to see lost people saved. Any like that by the uplifted hands, I need a greater burden. My Bible says, ask and it shall be given unto you. My Bible says you have not because you ask not. And maybe the starting point is simply asking God. God burden my heart for the loss. God, burden my heart for the lost. Maybe some of us need to ask for compassion. God, give me genuine tears for the unsaved. Maybe we need God to prompt us to be more active. And actually get involved in winning others. Now, I wonder if there'd be someone here this morning to say, preacher, I can't honestly say that I know for sure. That my sins are forgiven. I'm saved on my way to heaven. Listen, you really need to settle that. Not hope so, not think so, and not trusting in baptism or church or any of that stuff, but I need to know I'm saved. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me also. That I get that settled. I can know that I'm saved and on my way to heaven. Anyone at all like that? Preacher, pray for me. Slip your hand up. How about it? And yet all preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Father in heaven, I ask now you bless your invitation and give us that burden. Some of us have somebody personally And we're very concerned for. Help us to pray for them. Break our hearts. Prompt us to action. We ask this in Jesus' name. Let's stand together with our heads bowed, eyes closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation song.