Message out of the book of Nehemiah. It's kind of a survey. At our church we study books. This Sunday I will be preaching my forty-first message out of Nehemiah So I've studied it a little bit, I've learned it a little bit, and he's become one of my heroes in the faith. I remember when when I first got saved Uh I'm a bus kid, and then I joined the Marine Corps and I got saved out of the Marine Corps and I remember when I got saved, I I uh I started growing. And and and and the work of God and the things of God all sudden became important to me. And and so so I tell my church, I I remember looking at all the men, I was a single Marine And I would watch the men that had families that I kind of looked up to as like, man, if I had a family, I would like to have that family. Man, if I had a family, I'd like that to be my family. And and back then in 1989 All those men wore black wing-tip shoes. So I went and bought a pair of black-wing-tip shoes, man. I was like, man, if that makes me spiritual, if that makes me godly, I'm going to go buy some black wing-tip shoes. And I went and bought some wing-tip shoes and and I started growing. And I faced one of my most difficult spiritual battles of my life back in those early days. In those early days, I would come on Sundays. I would get dressed in the restroom for softball Sunday after church. I would run and I would be on a softball field until 9. 30, 10 o'clock at night, Sunday Wednesday nights I was in two different leagues and I'd be playing softball and it was my life. I loved softball to this day. I still love softball. It was my life. And I remember as I was growing as a Christian, the Lord started putting on my heart the importance of Wednesday night midweek service. And I I know that that that that a lot of places have marginalized and a lot of places have done different things for midweeks our midweek services on Thursday night. And I'll never forget The Lord brought me to a point as a young believer in Christ that I needed to be at midweek service. I didn't want to go to midweek service, I wanted to play softball, because softball's fun. But the Lord prompted my heart that I had to go to midweek service. First time in my life I went to midweek service. I got to church, went into service. First time in my life I heard a missionary. His name was Dan Gardner to Japan. That night I surrendered my life to missions. What if I would have gone and played softball that night What if I wouldn't have followed the Lord and His leading in my life? My whole life would be different today. And so when I come to passages of Scripture, and when I look at passages of Scripture, one of the things that always gets my attention is the once-in-a-lifetime offers. If you go to the New Testament, here's a very interesting thing. What did the Lord tell all the disciples when he met with them? Follow me. Right? I don't think when the Lord called the disciples, I don't think he walked over to them and said, Hey listen, if you could possibly next Tuesday, if you could free your schedule and if you could follow me, that would just be wonderful. Would you have time to follow me? And listen, here's what I will do down the road for you. That's not what the Lord did I like to think in the calling of Matthew, remember Matthew was at the tax table and the Lord was walking by you remember this? Matthew is at the tax table and the Lord was walking by and said, Follow me. I don't know that the Lord broke stride in his step. You see, when the Lord calls, we have to respond. There are moments that we have that are very specific to God's will for our lives, whether we're going to obey and follow, or whether we're going to reject and accept. Could you imagine having a chance of being one of the disciples? And you saw, you know, it's kind of a bad time. So when I read through the scriptures and I see these moments in the scriptures, I love to see what these men did. I want to preach to you an overview of Nehemiah tonight. Would you look at Nehemiah chapter 1, verse 1? The words of Nehemiah, the Hilkaliah, And it came to pass in the month of Shishlu in the twentieth year, as I was in Shushan, the palace, the Hanani, one of my brethren, came and certain men of Judah, and I asked them concerning the Jews that had escaped and were left of the captivity of concerning Jerusalem. And they said unto me, the remnant that are left of the captivity They're in the province, they're in great affliction or reproach, and the walls of Jerusalem are broken down, and the gates thereof are burned with fire. Would you look at verse 11? O Lord, I beseech thee. Let now thine ear be attentive to thy prayer of thy servant And to the prayer of thy servants who desire to fear thy name and prosper, I pray thee, thy servant, this day, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man. For I was what I was the king's cupbearer. You know what he wasn't? He wasn't a full-time preacher. He wasn't a full-time evangelist. He wasn't a full-time missionary. He was the king's cupbearer, which in and of itself was a very important job. That was a very trusted position. It was a very coveted position. But I want you to understand this when you were looking at Nehemiah, would you please understand in our terminology today, he's a layman God had a person to do his will Nehemiah, he just got up in the morning and going about his normal business. He didn't ask for the news to come about Jerusalem to him. He was just going about his normal day going about his normal routine and all of a sudden this news comes. Hey, the Jews that went back. Listen Man, they're in great affliction and the walls are broken down and the gates are broken down. And man, it's just a terrible situation. And so you know what Nehemiah does He starts praying about it. He didn't surrender to go. You ever had a missionary come up and they give you their mission field? And you're like, not me, Lord. Uh-oh. Hey, I'll send him there, but not me. Like Nehemiah was he was a layman. He was just going about his normal vocation, and God interrupts his schedule. God interrupts his life. Doesn't the Bible say my eye affects my heart? You see, sometimes missionaries will come through and man they will man you'll catch the burden. Man, you'll watch the slides and the tear will come up. Man, you'll you'll pray for them, you'll be on board, you can't wait for their next Mission letter. He can't wait to give. Man, there's times that God just steps into our lives. And here Nehemiah was. He was just a normal person going about his normal routine, and God steps in. And he doesn't volunteer to go. He prays about it. He prays, God, send somebody God, somebody's got to do something. God, somebody's got to have a burden. Somebody's got to have passion. Oh God, please help them. They're my people. Would you please, God, help them? He was just a normal person. But when God brought a burden into his life He couldn't help but take it back to God. You ever going about your normal day? And God interrupts it with somebody's burden. Hey, believer in Christ. Maybe you can't financially meet that need. Maybe you can't physically meet that need, but can you pray? Can you get a burden? You see, so many times we get so callous by the politics of this world. We get so callous by by life. We get so callous by our normal jobs. We get so callous by our bills. Listen, there are people all around us with burdens. And every now and then, God will bring one of them across your life. A couple weeks ago at our church, a man got saved and he's been growing. And Joe Kaiser came in, you might know that name, and he preached on having a burden for your co-workers and for your friends. The next Sunday, this young man just got saved, had a co-worker in church with him. After service, I was talking to him and he said, Pastor, you say, you know what happened? That guy Joe on Thursday night preached about having a burden. And so I prayed and I said, God, God, would you please send somebody my way that I can have a burden? He's a mechanic at a Jeep dealership. Praise the Lord, it's not a Chevy. Amen? But anyhow. A guy came to work and knew her employee and had a cross necklace on. And the young man saw it. He walked up to him and says, hey, do you know the Lord? Are you saved? And the guy said, I have no idea what you're talking about. He said, would you come to church with me on Sunday? There they were. You know what happened? He was going about his normal day. And God gave him a burden for people. And then God provided the person for him to witness to. When's the last time God interrupted your day? When's the last time you allowed God to interrupt your day? Nehemiah wasn't looking for this. Nehemiah wasn't looking to be a hero. He wasn't looking to be anything other than to go about and do his job in a right way. And God stepped in. So not only do we see the person of Nehemiah, but then we see the purpose. In chapter 2, look at verse 5. And I said unto the king, if it please the king, now remember, this king is not a believer. This king is not a godly king. This king Is affected by Nehemiah's burden. Think about that. Well, Pastor, you just don't know who my boss is. I don't care who your boss is, what's your burden What's your testimony? How do you respond? You see, Nehemiah, this is in the workplace. He's the king's cupbearer. If you go into the king with a disappointed face, he could kill you. And here Nehemiah was so burdened that now he goes to verse 5, and I said unto the king, if it please the king and thy servant, have found favor in thy sight, and that thou wouldest send me into Judah unto the city of my father's sepulchre, that I may what? You know an interesting part of the story? Ezra went back 15 years prior to this and still hadn't built it. There were a group that went back 15 years prior to this and have not been able to get it off the ground Nehemiah as a layman, if you would, Nehemiah as a worker, Nehemiah, a man with a burden. He goes to the king and he says, Listen, man, I will build it. I believe God has put this burden on my heart. I believe God has put this as a will for my life. Hey, listen, I know I'm not a preacher. I know I'm not a I'm a cupbearer of the king. But listen, if you'll enable me, if you'll send me, I'll go and I'll do it. When's the last time we woke up with that kind of face? When's the last time we woke up? Hey, I'm going to go to my office, I'm going to go to my workplace, and I'm going to be a testimony for God. And I want my burden to so influence even my boss and my boss's boss. Because, see, Nehemiah went from a person now. He went from a person to a purpose. What was his purpose? What was Nehemiah supposed to do? What did God call him to do? Build what? Build walls. And build gates. Not build gates, but build gates. Listen to me. Nehemiah goes back to the city. He builds the walls, he builds the gates in fifty-two days. I can't pull a building permit in fifty two days. Mia Maya A cupbearer, just a guy that prayed over burden and prayed over burden, and God said, I'm going to send you to meet that burden. Now he comes back with his purpose, and his purpose is very clear. I'm going to go back and I'm going to build the walls. I'm going to build the gates. And you know what Nehemiah does? He also builds the people that build the walls and build the gates. You know God's given the Great Commission to the local church, not to an individual. You know what a lot of times people get in trouble in church? Well, nobody else is doing it, so I'm good. I'm gonna have to do it all by myself. You'll get in trouble that way. You're supposed to be bringing other people along. Nehemiah, he goes back Man, these people are dejected, they're discouraged, they're depressed. Hey, there's enemies against them, but the walls are down, and the rubble is all through the city, and Nehemiah in fifty-two days not only organizes and prepares, but he builds walls. You see, nothing's impossible when God's in it Our church building. The church building that we're about to open up. Is the first new church building in our area in thirty years. Think about that. Do you know what a testimony of faith our building is to our community? Do you know we live in a day and age where churches are dying? Where where Christianity is under attack and persecution. You know, we live in a generation where there's a whole bunch of Christians Woo, Sleprock, Wellsy, Wellsy, Woo, Woo. Oh, it's not like the old days. You're right, it's not like the old days. It's our generation. This is our time. God has called us for a purpose. He has called us for this moment and for this time. And listen, our God is still able. If we'll get a burden and get a purpose. It's not good enough just to weep over the lost. We've got to go to them. It's just not good enough to put a check in the place. Sometimes we've got to put feet to our checks. Hey, listen, Nehemiah looked at this king. What a testimony to an ungodly king. Nehemiah says, listen, if you'll send me, I will build it. Tremendous faith. Nehemiah goes, and what happens? In 52 days, he builds the walls up, he builds the gates up. Go to chapter 8. Go to chapter 8. I'm not exaggerating. Normally on Thursdays I preach an hour and fifteen minutes, so I am rushing. Right, Kurt? Nehemiah chapter 8, look at verse 1. And on that day, King Azarias gave the house of Haman the Whoa, where am I? Oh wow, I'm in Esther. Sorry. Alright, that's because okay, because I had a bookmark there. I'm sorry. Nehemiah chapter eight. And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street that was before the water gate, and they spake unto Ezra the scribe to what? Huh? Bring the book. Oh, you're gonna love this. How many of you are not in full-time Christian service? Would you raise your hand? Are not in full-time Christian service. Would you raise your hand? You're gonna love this. Nehemiah's king cupbearer. God gives him a burden and a purpose. He goes, he accomplishes the purpose. But you see, Israel had been so beaten down, they'd forgotten fundamentally who they were. And so Nehemiah's got to build a foundation. He's got to teach them again who they are because they've forgotten. Listen to me, church. This is where we are today. Our Christian nation is no more The boys and girls that we're trying to reach did not grow up singing, Jesus loves me, this I know. They were not raised with the wordless book. They weren't raised with VBS, camp, and Sunday school. The things that your kids are getting, because they're your kids, are totally foreign. To the majority of people in this area. Nehemiah has to rebuild a found a biblical foundation. He's the cupbearer. He's the layman. He's not a priest. So you know what he does? He brings in the priest. He brings in Ezra. Nehemiah, he he gets the walls up. He gets the gates up. He he gets the city safe. And then what he does is he calls a public gathering. And at this public gathering, he calls Ezra the priest And he says, hey, if we're going to redo this city, hey, if we're going to rebuild these people, we gotta bring the book. We gotta bring the book Isn't that amazing? Nehemiah did not take the pulpit Nehemiah didn't preach to the people. Nehemiah brought Ezra in. And he said, now this is how we're going to do it. We're going to do it by the book. We'll do it by the book. And you know what they did? Nehemiah went from being a person in the king's palace to being a person with a purpose. By the will of God to being a person of public praise Would you understand what's happening here? They bring the book. And when they bring the book, listen to me. If you read the passage. Everybody stands all morning for the reading of the book. Now, remember When they're bringing the book, they're bringing Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers. You see what I'm saying? They're not bringing Acts and the Apostles Man, they're not bringing the exciting stories. They're like, and so-and-so begat so-and-so begat so-and-so. But the people had so lost knowledge of the book That they stood there. And after the book was read, the people started praising God again. You know, in our generation we've got the cart before the horse. Oh, we want to bring all the praise and we want to belittle the book. No, no, no, it doesn't work that way. Doesn't work that way. Oh, oh, you know what at my church, at my church, we sing for 50 minutes, and then we have a 10-minute devotional. Hey listen, bring the book. Bring the book. They brought the book. And when they brought the book As the book was read and the people heard the book, then they began to praise. Then they began to understand who God was and what God meant to them. Then they understood who they were before God, and it broke out as parade, and all God's people said. Hmm. We should look at chapter twelve. Chapter twelve, verse thirty seven And at the fountain gate, which was over against them, they went up the stairs of the city of David, at the going up of the wall above the house of David, even under the water gate eastward. And another company of them that gave thanks went over against them, and after them, and half the people upon the wall from beyond the tower of the furnaces, even under the broad wall Pastor, what did you just read? Here's what happened. Why did Nehemiah go back? To do what? To build the wall. Built the wall in 52 days. Now he's got the book. And now they're praising and they're worshiping God. Here's what Nehemiah does. He says, alright, now we're going to have a parade of God's glory. So you know what he does? He takes a group of people, and he says, listen, y'all on this side, at the water gate, you're going to go up? And you're going to march and parade and praise all the way to the temple on top of the wall we just built. And you guys, here's what you're gonna do. You're gonna come down to the gate, you're gonna go up on the wall, you're gonna march around this side of the wall. And you're both groups are going to meet at the temple. You're going to come into the temple courtyard, and you're going to praise our God for his goodness. Could you stop and just think about this for a second? It was a person in the palace of the king just doing his job But he came a person that had a burden given to him by God. And that purpose Allowed him in 52 days to take a city that was defenseless and in rubble, and build walls and gates of protection. And after they bring the book, and after they have a praise and prayer service, then what he does is say, listen, we're going to celebrate the glory of our God. Hey, listen, these gates and this world isn't some rinky dink thing. This has been done for the glory of God. I want you to get up and I want you to march across it And I want you to get up and I want you to march across it. Now listen, who's in the middle? If they're marching on the walls this way and they're marching on the walls this way, who's in the middle? The entire city. Those that had gone back fifteen years prior to this and weren't able to get anything done. And as they're standing in the city, as you come out of your homes, you hear the horns blowing, you hear the praise of God's people, and you look up and you're like Are they parading on the walls? Those radicals, those zealots Can you imagine the heart of the people in that city that for 15 years were just beat down, afflicted, discouraged? And now all of a sudden they've got the book. Now all of a sudden they've got praise. Now all of a sudden they've got a parade of God's glory. Not only did they build the wall, but it's strong enough that they can march on top of it. And the enemy is not getting through these things. And they end the parade at the temple of our God in the courtyard where the sacrifices can be given and the glory of God can be seen. Now I'm gonna give you the drop the mic moment Once that's accomplished. Listen to me very carefully. Once that's accomplished Nehemiah. He says, Hey, see crest out. And he goes back to the king's palace. And starts his day job all over again. Pastor, I thought I thought we could only serve God in great ways if we were called to full-time ministry. Pastor, I thought we could only serve God if God called me to pastor or God called me to preach or God called me to be a deacon or Pastor, I didn't know. You didn't know the full story of Nehemiah, did you? You see, Nehemiah was much like many of you. Nehemiah is much like Legacy Baptist Church. Many hands make, many hands make light work is the motto at Legacy. Thirteen years ago I stood in front of our congregation. And I said, listen, this church is not going to be built on Mike and Terry Clark The building about to go up that many of you will visit over the years to come is a testament to a bunch of Nehemiahs in my church. Regular people have day jobs, night jobs, janitors, mechanics, accountants, bank CFOs, we we have a few of those. But there are people that got a burden for the work of God at Legacy Baptist Church. And decided that's where God had called them to serve. That's where God had called them to join. And that's where God had called them to minister. And man, do we bring the book? Don't we bring the book? We bring the book. We're not apologetic for it. It's what we do. And from the book, we understand who our God is and who we are. And that brings forth praise. Oh, but listen. We're not afraid to parade the goodness of God around our community. Hey, we're not afraid to stand on a wall. Churches are dying, huh? Oh, God's done with this generation, huh? Oh, we just built a $2. 1 million building. Oh, you y yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's just miserable being a Christian. Oh, it's just terrible. Oh the hardest things. Oh, we support so many missionaries and You know, we've given hundreds of thousands of dollars to missions, not even having our own building. You bragging on, no, no, no, listen, I'm not, I'm parading the glory of God. Because cupbearers and mechanics and accountants and bankers and landscapers Got a burden for what God would have them do in their life. We're about two weeks away. From opening that building up. You know what we can do when we open a building? You know what we're going to do when we open the building? We're going to bring the book. We're going to bring the book. We're going to praise. Hey, listen, we're going to parade the goodness of our God before a lost and dying world. And the building's going to enable us. To equip and evangelize a lost and dying world. Hey, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Been doing it a long time. Been doing it a long time. You've impacted and influenced Legacy Baptist Church. You've influenced and impacted gobs of ministries all around the world. Don't ever walk around here and say, uh, I'm just a layman. That's what Nehemiah was. Did he do great things for God? Such an amazing layman, he's got a book in the Bible named after him. Hey, listen, your pastoral staff is so limited. Without you. And so enabled with you. Here's the question I have for you tonight Can you get the burden back? Can you get love for the book back? We'll be okay to praise and parade a little bit. Huh? Hey, listen. Tomorrow when you go back to your workplace. Will the king there see your burden? Feel your passion? Feel your burden? It's what happened here and the king enabled it. Huh. I've spent months studying Nehemiah. A cupbearer. I've been thirty something years in ministry. And when I grow up, I want to be like Nehemiah. How about you? Father. This place is an important place here in Deep Creek. But it's also an important place for ministries all around the world. God, I pray that folks here would understand their role. Lord, that being a layman with a burden is just as impactful and powerful as being a preacher behind the pulpit. So Father, I pray As our brother comes and takes the invitation however he sees fit, or that you would have encouraged your people tonight. There are people that here that have served the Lord longer than I've been alive. And Lord, if I would sit and talk to them, they would be able to parade the glory of God and the things that they have seen you do in their lives. They'd be able to just share the stories and the testimonies and how amazing that would be. Lord, there might be somebody here this morning or this evening. Let's just never put feet to the burden. God, I pray today would be the day. Brother, you come.