Chapter two and look with me if you would. We started this last week, verse number six, and we're want to read down through verse number eight. 1 Peter chapter 2 verse 6. Wherefore also it is contained in the scriptures, behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious. And he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe, he's precious But unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, and a stone of stumbling And a rock of offense even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed We're looking at the cornerstone, the chief cornerstone. Let's pray, and uh we'll look at the rest of this passage here. Father, I just thank you for a good day. It's been such a blessing to be in the in the house of God with your people and to fellowship together and uh just the afternoon busyness about the Lord's business, the Lord's work. Uh it's such a joy to serve you. I'm so grateful for how you've blessed us as a church and as individuals. And Lord, like we've been studying, we have so much to rejoice in, so many reasons to be have the fullness of joy in our lives. So help us. Now Lord, as we look at this passage tonight, I ask that you would be the preacher. Your Holy Spirit would speak to our hearts. Challenge us, encourage us, direct us, teach us. And I yield my will to you, Lord, and present my body anew with all my heart. I pray that you'd fill me with your spirit and speak through me. So help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. We're talking about the cornerstone. He mentions this cornerstone here a couple times. A cornerstone is mentioned throughout Scripture in Psalms and Isaiah. I think in the Gospels a couple times it's mentioned. A cornerstone, as we mentioned last week, is an architectural uh uh item. It's part of building a house has to be in place. Um it forms the base of a building we pointed out last week that brings the walls together It is kind of which all the other stones, all the other uh part of the building uh uh is aligns off of that cornerstone. Now I'm a built- not a builder, some of you might be masons You might uh understand this a little bit more than I do. But the Bible speaks about the cornerstone. Now, last week we started out, our first thought was this, that this cornerstone that Peter is referencing here is a prophesied cornerstone. In other words. . God, through the Old Testament prophets, had spoke of this coming cornerstone many, many hundreds, and in some cases thousands of years before Jesus Christ, the cornerstone, ever showed up And so it was a prophesied. Now, if you would look, again, we already spoke of this, but in verse number six he said, Behold, I lay in Sion a chief cornerstone. It's a reference to Jerusalem. And some Bible scholars, as I mentioned before, have suggested that initially God had designed for Israel to be the cornerstone for the nations of the world. And all other nations would align, all other nations would follow the pattern of Israel and the the the uh theocracy that God had set up, God's the king, and they follow God's instructions and trust him. And of course Israel failed in that. They wanted to be like the nations around them But uh I am glad there's coming a day when Israel will be re-established in the land and Jesus Christ will sit on the throne of David. And uh Israel will indeed be a cornerstone for the nations of the world, and all the nations of the world will come to Jerusalem to worship there the Lord Jesus Christ. So uh it's prophesied. Of course Israel failed in that and they came up short on uh their responsibility there and Jesus Christ now we understand is established as the chief cornerstone and uh the the pattern and the um uh the basis of all our All our Christian life is aligned off of Him. So the prophesied cornerstone. Now we want to pick up our second thought tonight is this. This is a precious cornerstone It's a prophesied stone. It's a precious cornerstone. Look with me, if you would, in verse number four, he says, to whom coming As unto a living stone, speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ, to him coming as to a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, in other words, rejected, despised, neglected uh disallowed of men, but chosen of God and what? Precious. Look down at verse number 6. Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, behold, I lay in Sion a chief cornerstone, a lact, and what's the next word? Precious. Look down at verse 7. Unto you therefore which believe he is. Precious, precious, precious. I don't know about you, but knowing what we know about Peter, he's kind of a rough and tumble kind of guy. Uh he was uh uh old fisherman, and uh we know that uh in his earlier life uh he wasn't above using some salty language When he denied the Lord. Uh he wasn't above uh uh slinging a sword around and he he wasn't he won't back down from a fight And uh yes, uh my mental picture of Peter, and uh we'll get to heaven and find out, I guess, but my mental picture of Peter initially uh before the influence of the gospel on the Lord Jesus Christ, pretty rough guy. And to hear him, to read here Peter using the term precious is uh is uh interesting to me It's an amazing thing. In fact, let me put it this way: it's a miraculous thing how God can change the very nature of a sinner when they come to Jesus Christ and trust him as Savior. How Jesus Christ changed. How many folks here online or whatever would say, before I got saved, I'm a different person now than what I was before I got saved? Anybody like that? Sure. God is in the life-changing business God is in the character-changing business. And God can take an old salty sailor and rough and tumble, and he can give him a tender heart, falls in love with the Lord Jesus Christ. And he talks about Jesus being so precious, this cornerstone. So that uh uh that um uh struck me that uh Peter refers to this cornerstone, Lord Jesus, as a precious stone Now three things I notice about this precious stone. If you would notice here in verse number six, he says, Wherefore also it's contained in Scripture, behold, I lay in Sion A chief cornerstone, elect and precious. The first thing I notice here about this precious stone, it is elect. Now what does that word elect mean? Somebody help me here. Talk to me. What is it? Chosen, that would be one. What else? Any other way to define that? To be chosen? Set apart would be kind of, yeah. Chosen or appointed. And notice he says here, I lay in sign, a chief cornerstone, elect. God had chosen, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but what he's saying is, God has chosen before the very foundation of the world, Jesus Christ to be the standard, to be the cornerstone from what's the church and our lives are to be built on. Look with me if you would over at chapter 1 and verse number 20. We had touched on this several months ago. We looked at this Let's start in verse 18, chapter 1, verse 18. For as much as ye know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers But with the, there's that word again, precious, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb, without blemish and without spot, look at this. who verily was foreordained, along the same ideas as elect, foreordained before the foundation of the world. But was manifest in these last times to you. He says that Jesus Christ was foreordained, chosen, appointed before the foundation of the world to be the cornerstone, to give his blood, shed his blood, give himself as a sacrifice. And here in chapter 2 he says, elect This is what I'm getting at. This is what I think he's touching on here. Before man ever fell in the Garden of Eden, God already knew how he was going to respond to that. That didn't catch God by surprise. I don't know about you. I'm glad nothing catches God by surprise. If we keep that in mind, that would help us not worry so much That would help us not get so worked up and stressed. Nothing catches God by surprise. He had this all planned out. He says, I lay, that phrase there, I lay in cornerstone. Uh lay in Zion, a chief cornerstone, elect. That word lay means to establish, put in place. God already had it all laid out. God already had it all planned the church, Jesus Christ being the Savior, Jesus Christ being the cornerstone, the church being built off of Jesus Christ. He had that all planned. He knew exactly what he was going to do. Jesus Christ had a st uh God had established Jesus Christ as Savior before the foundation of the world. He established him to be the standard. Before the foundation of the world, Jesus will be the cornerstone. He will be the standard. All that was set up by God a long time. I don't know about you. Now, if anybody could wing it, God could wing it Right? If he had to, if anybody could wing it, God could wing it. Anybody here, I mean how many people know what I'm talking about? Wing it Anybody here ever wing it on something? Yeah, it doesn't usually work out too hell well for me when I wing it. God's got God doesn't wing it. He's got it all planned. He's got it all laid out. He knew exactly what he was doing And so this is elect. God chose, God established Jesus Christ to be the cornerstone. In the millennial, Jesus Christ will be the cornerstone. Everything will come back to Jesus Christ, come out from Jesus Christ, line up with him. And when I got studying that, I thought of this. This whole universe, this world, is not run by a democracy. Our country is a democracy. But this world isn't run by God. God's kingdom doesn't run by a democracy. God's kingdom doesn't run by a republic. It's not a republic, we don't have representatives. God's kingdom is run by a theocracy. And what we mean by that is it's ruled by Jesus Christ. It's ruled by Jesus Christ. He's the cornerstone. He's the authority. Everything revolves around him. Everything uh uh uh uh uh lines up with him. He is the the the the uh authority in this, he's the cornerstone I've often said this, I think the best the best government in the world, the best form of government exists is dictatorship. That's the best form there is. But only if the dictator is perfectly sinless, all-wise, all-knowing, and Jesus Christ. Now until Jesus Christ is president, then we got to deal with the then I think we got the second best. But in the millennial during the reign, Jesus Christ will be the dictator. And you know what? It's going to work beautifully It's going to work beautifully. And so he is the elect cornerstone, chosen by God before the foundation of the world, established, I lay in Zion, the chief cornerstone. Then not only is he precious because he's elected God, chosen of God, but he's precious because he is an edifying cornerstone. Look again here. Uh behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect precious And he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Now I got looking at that word confounded, and it has this idea a little bit different than maybe we might think of the definition It means this, to be put down. He that believeth on him shall not be confounded, shall not be put down, or to be dishonored. Or caused to be ashamed of, humiliated, or disgraced He says those people that believe on this cornerstone, those folks that humble themselves and trust Jesus their Savior, establish him as the cornerstone of their life, they're not going to be confounded. They're not going to be humiliated and put down. God does not humiliate his children. God does not cause his children to be ashamed. Now sometimes we'll behave in a way that's shameful, amen or not. Anybody here ever say or do something you're ashamed of? Yeah. But whoever believes in the Lord Jesus Christ, he's not going to make us ashamed. He's not going to humiliate us. He's not going to disgrace us. And it's interesting, he says, shall not be. That statement there, shall not, is a very strong negative. It means never at all under any circumstances is the person that believes on the cornerstone, Jesus Christ, never ever will they be treated in a way by God. Never ever will they be treated in a way by God that puts them down, disgraces them. Or makes them shameful. No way. I think this is what I'm trying to say here. I believe this is what he's teaching. Is uh we never have a reason to be ashamed of the Lord Jesus Christ We never have a reason. Well, I'm a follower of Jesus, and uh boy, he beh he acted in such a way, boy, it really makes me ashamed. It humiliates me the way he acted. Anybody here ever go out in public and your kids act in a way and you go like this? They're not my kids. Anybody here ever Nobody here ever did that. It's amazing. Um and uh uh Pastor Matt's out, some of the teams acting up out in public, and they said, are those your k is that part of your group? No, we don't know them at all. We don't know who they are And uh he's saying here, listen, they that believe on the cornerstone of the Lord Jesus Christ, you're never going to be ashamed of how Jesus Christ treats somebody or anything about the Lord Jesus. He'll never act or behave or uh treat us in a way that we would be ashamed of. Now here's the thing. This old world and our old sinful nature twists that around. And this old world convinces us, and our own sinful nature convinces us sometimes, that uh we better we better not claim Jesus or man people will think I'm funny. They'll I'll I'll be ashamed that say that I'm a follower of Jesus Christ. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Um I heard I had a roommate in Bible college, Johnny Downes And uh he was saved. He was a heroin addict, I think, some kind of drug addict down in Texas, and he he went into an emergency room, pretended he was sick, went into emergency room uh for the purpose of trying to steal some syringes and stuff. And uh he went in there and he got his champs, grabbed a bunch of friends, went running out, they got him, they arrested him, and they told him he could either go to jail or go to Lester Roloff's boys' home down in Corpus Christi. And he said, well, I'll go to Lester Roalf, boys' home. How bad can that be? And uh he got down there, and um, and lo and behold, old Johnny got saved. And he said they would get in there and and he God called him to preach and we were roommates for a year and rented an apartment together and he graduated and I I don't know I lost track, uh lost touch with him. But um he said they'd get these uh kids in there and rough backgrounds and they're in this home and old uh if you if you don't know Lester Rall, if you ought to listen to him sun uh a weekday mornings ten thirty on the radio, he's something else. And uh he'd get out and say, all right, he'd take them out to the restaurant in town, some of them, and he'd say, All right, we're going to sing before we eat. Come and dine. And the kids would be there. And they'd pray, and he said they'd be acting like something else, so nobody would know they were praying. They were ashamed to be identified As a believer in the cornerstone in the Lord Jesus Christ. And you know what? Sometimes we deal with that Sometimes we uh boy I I I ought to give that person a track, but they'll think I'm weird. Uh at work, maybe uh uh just kind of hide the Bible, you know. We well, I'm not going to bring my Bible in there. They'll make fun of me. They'll treat me. We act like we're not careful. Sometimes we act like it would be a shame to be identified with Jesus Christ. And the Bible says we have no reason, the fact of the matter is we have no reason to be ashamed to be a follower of Jesus Christ. No reason whatsoever. In fact, truth be known, we ought to be ashamed if we're not. This world has this whole thing turned upside down. This world has this whole thing turned backwards If you're a lover of Jesus Christ, if you're a believer in Jesus Christ, if you're a disciple of Jesus Christ, then the world, oh, that's something to be ashamed of. That's something don't speak up about it. Isn't it interesting? A couple years ago in sports, there was a fella uh that was an outspoken Christian and he would kneel and pray and the whole world tried to make him ashamed. The whole world turned on him, but if you kneel and protest against our country, then you're a great hero I'm telling you, this world is upside down. This world has turned right into wrong and wrong into right. Got this whole thing turned backwards Peter says to these persecuted believers, he said, you believe on Jesus Christ, he has given you no reason to be ashamed of him. And they knew what he was talking about. They knew what that was about. He's edifying Jesus Christ. I tell you what, I tell you what, what Jesus Christ did in my life, I'm ashamed of what I was. I thank God and I rejoice in what Jesus Christ has done in my life. I've not been perfect. I've certainly fallen way, sure. Some of you have been around here long enough. You've seen that But the fact of the matter is, what Jesus Christ does in the life of a believer, we have no reason in the world to be ashamed of that. I'm ashamed of what I was without Christ. And so they that believe on this cornerstone, either believe it, shall not be confounded, not be humiliated, not be uh ashamed. There's no disappointments in Jesus. There's no cause to be ashamed of the wor of the Lord Jesus Christ. Take your Bible real quickly if you would and turn with me. We'll get back here in a minute, but turn with me to Mark chapter number 8. Mark chapter 8. Jesus spoke of this, about being ashamed of the cornerstone, being ashamed of the Lord Jesus Christ. Mark chapter 8. And uh I'll begin reading in verse 36. Very familiar verse, very powerful question asked. Mark chapter 8, verse 36. Look what it says here. Now, this is a good verse to underscore in your Bible. And to highlight Mark 8, look at verse 36. For what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world? And lose his own soul. Boy, that's a good question, isn't it? One of the greatest questions, perhaps, in all of history. What's it profit a man? He gains the whole world. He loses his own soul. He dies, he goes to hell Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? Now look at verse 38. Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me And of my words in this, look how he describes the world, adulterous and sinful generation. Of him also shall the Son of Man be ashamed when he cometh in the glory of the Father with the holy angels. Wow. It's a pretty strong statement there. I tell you, I don't know about you, I'd feel sick if Jesus Christ said, I'm ashamed of Dennis Leatherman. How many people feel sick? I'm ashamed of him. Ashamed of his behavior. I'm ashamed of the way he talks. Ashamed of the way he lives his life, his attitude. Ashamed of that. Oh, I don't want that to happen. He that believeth in him shall not be condemned, have no reason to be ashamed of the Lord Jesus Christ. He said, You're ashamed of me, I'll be ashamed of you. And by the way, if anybody has a right to be ashamed of the other, it's Jesus Christ of us, not us of him. So this is an elect precious stone. God established Jesus Christ for the foundation world, set him up. He's going to be the Savior. He's going to be the standard. by which uh life is to be lived by. Uh it's an edifying, doesn't put us down, doesn't humiliate us, make us ashamed of him, but he lifts us up. And I think you understand what I mean when I say this statement. I don't mean it in a sinful way, but we ought to be able to be proud of the Lord Jesus Christ. You follow what I'm saying? I don't mean boastful, but I mean we ought to speak highly of him, praise him. I think it's good we ought to brag on the Lord Jesus Christ When's the last time we talked to somebody and told them how great Jesus is? He's the best Savior in the whole world, right, Gabriel? Amen. There it is. We can brag on our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. So it's a elect uh cornerstone, a precious stone, because it's elect, chosen of God. It edifies, he lifts us up, he He uh um uh makes our lives uh more honorable. And then also it's he he is an exceptional Cornerstone. He's precious because he's exceptional. Or you could say excellent. And I get that from the word precious back here in Peter. I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect and precious. The word precious simply means this of a higher value than anything else. Now think about that. He said, this cornerstone, the Lord Jesus Christ, is a higher value than anything in the whole world Anything in the whole world. Let me ask you a question. In the long run, in the long run, which is more valuable? Salvation in Jesus or a billion dollars in savings? In the long run Yeah, what a prophet a man in the whole world. He has no savior, has no cornerstone. He dies, ends up in hell all eternity, did nothing. Remember the rich man in Lazarus Lazarus ate the crumbs, fell from the bed, but he ended up in Abraham's bosom. The rich man fared sumptuously every day. But he died in hell. He lifted up his eyes. Uh I'm telling you, Jesus Christ the cornerstone is the most valuable thing you and I can have. A man that has Jesus and lives in a lives in a in a tin shack has more than Then the billionaire lives in a White House and doesn't have Jesus. Lives in a palace, doesn't have Jesus. He's precious. He's precious. A higher value than anything else. And notice the determining value here. He that believeth on him, he that believeth on him, precious, believing is the determining factor. Here in this matter of the Lord Jesus Christ. Salvation changes our perspective. Peter, before he got saved, he didn't see it this way. The unsaved world that don't believe, they don't see Jesus as being that precious. Anybody here ever give a gospel tract to somebody, the greatest message there ever is in that little gospel tract, and they take it and crumble it and throw it away They don't see it the way you and I see it. Anybody ever cringe when that happens? We had a lady years ago, I just thought of this, years ago. She came visited, lived down here in Mount Lake Park. She came visited and we got talking afterwards. She seemed friendly enough. And um gave her a Bible. She said she didn't have a Bible. We got talking about her soul at the back there and uh wasn't saved, so we couldn't get her to trust the Lord right then. So I said, Do you have a Bible? No. I said, Let me give you a Bible. Give her a Bible, we marked some verses in it You put a tract in there. Said, take this and read it. Read these verses. About Thursday, I got a phone call. She goes, this is so-and-so. She says, um, you gave me that Bible Sunday. I said, Yeah, I hope you're reading it. She goes, I want to bring it back I said, what do you mean? She goes, I don't want anything to do with this. I'm going to bring it back. She came by, dropped the Bible off, and left. I never saw her again. Isn't that strange? Get a whole different perspective on the value of the Bible than what a believer would have. Whole different perspective. When we get saved, God changes our perspective. Before I got saved, I didn't think much of Jesus. Can I tell you what, before I got saved, you know what Jesus was? Cursed word. That's all it was. Come out of every, and the most filthy words tied to that precious name. I'll tell you what, I got saved. On Monday night, Tuesday, I was at work. I said a few words that Christian ought not to say. I'll tell you, I got convicted. I mean, I felt horrible 24 hours before. It didn't bother me a bit. Never entered my mind. God changes us. And Jesus becomes precious. He changes our perspective. He changes our values. 2 Corinthians 5, 17, if any man be in Christ, he is a New creature. Old things pass away. Old things become what? New. Oh, before he wasn't very precious. Before he was just a curse word Before he was just some religious name, but boy, you believe on that cornerstone, suddenly he becomes very, very precious to us. Anybody here ever in the store you hear somebody take the Lord's name in vain, sends a shiver down your spine. Anybody know? Man, I hate to hear that So he changes our perspective, changes our values. Paul said in Philippians chapter number three, he said, those things which I counted before are count as dung now All that stuff that was so important to me before I got saved, all these things that were so precious to me before I got saved, now it's just done. And I count all things but lost for the knowledge of the Son of God. He said, Jesus has become precious. He's become precious to me. What a believer has in the Lord Jesus Christ is greater than everything the lost have in this old world. So number one, we said it's a prophesied stone. God has established Jesus long ago. It's a precious stone. Let me end with this. He's a problematic stone. Jesus Christ causes problems for some people. Jesus Christ messes things up sometimes for people. Did you ever notice you can talk about church with folks a lot of times, doesn't bother them a bit. You can talk about religion, uh, you can talk about uh denominations, but you bring up the name Jesus And all of a sudden they're stumbling all over. And you know they'll say stuff like this. Oh, you you mean uh you uh you mean uh the man upstairs. They can't hardly say his name Why? Because he's a stumbling stone. He's a problem. Look here at verse 7, the last part of verse 7. Unto you therefore which believe, he's precious. But unto them which be disobedient. The stone which the builders disallowed, the same as made the head of the corner. Look at this. And a stone of stumbling. A rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient whereunto they were appointed. I put this down. Jesus Christ is either a stumbling stone either a cornerstone or a stumbling stone. Either He's the basis of my life I'm living by, or He's causing problems. You know why folks don't like Bible preach in churches? You know why they don't like it? Because it messes up their sin. I like what Billy Sunday said. The reason you don't read the Bible isn't because you don't understand it, it's because it shows you your stinking sin. Billy Sunday said that. Not me, Billy Sunday said that Problematic. Um uh uh to disallow means to reject The difference between eternity and heaven, eternal, having eternal life, or spending eternity in hell is my belief in or my rejection of Jesus Christ. That word disobedience, interesting. It means refusing to comply with. I tell you what, this whole world rejects Jesus Christ. There's coming a day, and that cornerstone is going to crush them, the Bible says Coming of Christ, the judgment of God, the judgment of nations, the great white throne. Think about this. Some old sinner hears the gospel, has a chance to get saved, and they reject it, they disavow it. They uh uh refuse the cornerstone. It offers them salvation and uh and uh and a life, uh eternal life. They refuse it Then one day they stand before the great white throne, and here is the very one they rejected, saying, depart from me, I never knew you. Very one they rejected. He's either a cornerstone or a stumbling stone. How foolish it is, how foolish it is to reject Jesus Christ. How foolish. How foolish it is to refuse to submit my life as a Christian to submit to the Lordship of Jesus Christ. How foolish. How foolish. I've seen people make professions of faith, maybe they got saved, I don't know. And then say, I'm just going to go and live my way. I'm just going to go and do my thing. How foolish that is. They have a cornerstone they could pattern their life by and live a successful, God-blessed, fulfilling, meaningful life. They walk away. We had Gal years ago. Just thinking of this over the years. And she came Sunday morning. I just preached the message and gave the invitation. She came forward. I forget who one of the ladies in the church counseled her. Um, took her downstairs I think and went through and boys she trusted Christ and afterward people standing around talking. Um and she came up And came up here and uh whoever let her Lord I can't remember introduced her and said she trusts me Christ I said oh she goes oh this is the most wonderful thing in the world And uh she goes, this is uh I'm going to get in the choir, and I'm going to get in this, and I'm going to do that. And she was so fired up, this is the greatest thing in the world. And I tell you, I walked out and say, praise the Lord, that gal got it She came back Sunday night. Not preaching, I don't remember what it was, just a subtle little kind um Tickle your ears message something. And as soon as I said amen, she was sitting down in here somewhere. As soon as I said amen, she was out of that pew. I mean she stormed out the bat. I thought, huh, I I don't know what I preached, just the Bible. So being the brave, fearless pastor I am, Thursday night I sent my wife to go visit her Kathy went and visited her and um she came back and said, Well she ain't coming back I said, why? What happened? She said, um she said, that preacher has no right to tell me how to live my life. I don't know about you. I th I try awfully hard. I try not to tell people how to live their life All I try to do is preach this book. Preach this book. I think, you know what I think? I think the stone, the cornerstone, became a stone of stumbling to her. Because, oh yeah, I want to get saved. Oh yeah, I want my sins forgiven. But I don't want to line up with that cornerstone. I want to live my life the way I want. I tell you, that's a tragedy. That is such a tragedy. I'm not submitting to that stone. I'm not lining up with that cornerstone. I'm going to do it my way. I'm going to hold on to my sin. I tell you, it's a stone of stumbling. It's a rock of offense. I was reading, now this is legend. Legends, Jewish legend says that when they were building the temple Solomon's temple, if you'll remember, you go back, I think it's in Kings or where it is, but you go back in the Old Testament, God's instruction to build that temple, there was to be no hammering done on the temple site. It was all to be prepared out in the quarries, out away. It was a, I guess, one of the first prefabbed buildings. They prepare everything out there, all the stone, all the masonry, everything, woodwork, everything out there. Then you bring it together and very quietly, very reverently, very s uh um very uh uh reverently you put that thing together. And Jewish legend has it that um the quar the masons that were working in the quarries were sending the equipment up and then the builders were here and um One day they got this big stone, this huge stone that was different than all the others. And it didn't seem to fit in right. And the the builders got looking at it and they said, this isn't right. This They got a the the order wrong, eh? That's supposed to be somewhere else. This doesn't fit here. And so they put it off on the side And they started building that thing and putting the stones together and the rocks and the mortar putting up and nothing would fit. Nothing would line up And they struggled and struggled with that and they couldn't get it going. Finally they called down to the masons down in the quarry And they said, uh, something's wrong. Things aren't lining up here like they should. They said, well, put the cornerstone in. And they said, what cornerstone? They said, that's the cornerstone we sent first of all. The very first one. They said, oh, we pushed that off on the sign. It got in the way, so we pushed it over an edge, down into a valley. It was just, we thought it was a mistake. And they said, no, no, no, until you get that cornerstone into place. That building's never going to line up. I went down and got the cornerstone, cleaned it up, put it in there, lo and behold. Everything lined up exactly the way it was supposed to be. You know what we have today? Sad thing in our churches. We got homes. We got Christians. We got churches trying to function and operate and build something, but they've disavowed the cornerstone. They've disavowed Jesus Christ, his instructions. Following his pattern, his standard, trying to do it my way, trying to do it my way. You know what happens? Nothing lines up and things keep falling apart. Some of y'all, the reason you're constantly having issues, constantly having stuff constantly having a drama going on all the time, something fussing, mad, frustrated all the time. I think the problem might be. You're disavowing the cornerstone. You're not doing it Jesus' way. You're not lining up the old book the cornerstone gave us. What we need to do, and we mentioned this last week, I think what we need to do, humble ourselves. I'm not going to lean on my own understanding. I'm not going to do it my way. I'm going to trust in the Lord with all my heart. The way that cornerstone says to do it, I'm going to do it just like that. You'll be amazed how God directs your paths. How God might bless that thing, change everything. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us to not disavow the cornerstone, but believe and trust in you, Lord Jesus Christ. And he not just be our Savior from sin and hell, but he be the pattern, the standard for our lives. We can build our houses on the rock of the Lord Jesus, his instructions, his teaching, his commands. Lord, how different our lives, our homes, our churches might be. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, say, Preacher This coming week, the next seven days till next Sunday, I'd like for my life, my actions, my attitude line up with the Lord Jesus Christ I don't want to do it my way. I don't want to disavow him. I want him to be the center, the hub of my life and everything revolve and line up with him. Any like that, preacher, I need that. What a difference our influence in this world would be. What a difference our witness might be. How powerful if it would be Christ That is the center and the cornerstone of our life. If you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, don't be foolish and reject them. Get that settled. Get that settled. If you're watching online, you're not saved. How foolish it would be to disavow the only Savior, the only Savior of the world. Trust them, accept them as your Savior. God will forgive you and give you a new life. Let's stand together. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. James playing the invitation.