Peter chapter number two. We're working our way through this book. Peter, of course, is writing this letter. This is what the book of First Peter is, a letter. that he wrote to Christians who were scattered all throughout Asia Minor there. They were fleeing persecution. They were run out of their homes. Many of their family members had been killed. They lost their jobs, run out of their towns, uh the synagogues, many of them were Jews, uh run out of their synagogues and uh paid a heavy, heavy price For their faith in Christ. It's not because they were criminals, not because they were drunkards or thieves. It was simply because of their faith in Christ. So he's writing to them He's encouraging them, he's challenging them to stay faithful to Christ, and he's also giving some instruction. And if you remember, we noted there in verse number five, he says that uh we as believers Verse 5 he says, as lively stones are built up a spiritual house. So he pictures the church as a house, believers as making up this house. And then he went and mentioned the holy priesthood, offer up spiritual sacrifices. He spent a while looking at that. Then he picks up in verse 6 and he says this: Wherefore also it is contained in the scriptures Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious, and he that believeth on him, that chief cornerstone, he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Now think about this. He's writing the Christians who are fleeing. I mean they're hiding out in the wilderness. They're in the woods. They're trying to get place where they can be safe. He says, He that believeth on him, this chief cornerstone, shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe, he is precious But unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallow, the same is made the head of the corner, and a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense. even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed. I want to talk about this chief cornerstone. We're just going to get started tonight. I want to look at what this cornerstone is, a few things about it, and um we'll probably go uh week or two on this verse these verses here. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you a blessing now on our message tonight. It's been a good uh it's been good to be in your house already, the testimonies and um Uh this uh missionary biography, I was stirred my heart. I pray you, Lord, give us boldness, give us an urgency and uh a zeal to reach people with the gospel. We need that And use your word tonight. I pray that you would be the preacher, Holy Spirit, and not me standing up here. So I ask you to fill me with your Spirit. I yield my will. Present my body just as a tool in your hand, just as a conduit. For you to speak through your word. And help us to be sensitive to your Holy Spirit dealing in our heart. Help us to be submissive to what you speak to us about, to trust you and obey you. And let your will be done in our lives. So again, bless now those here in the auditorium, those online, and help us to grow through this portion of Scripture. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. He mentions this cornerstone here. He says, um, uh, behold I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone. That cornerstone is an architectural term I took architectural drafting in high school for a couple years, went to BoTech School. It was just a way to get out of regular classes. We go over there. So I learned a little bit about architecture And uh this art this uh cornerstone, we didn't talk about cornerstones too much then, but a cornerstone is an architectural term, and the way I understand it, it is uh a cornerstone forms the base of a building That joins the two walls together. You put that cornerstone in place, part of the foundation, and it's the base of the building, and it joins those two walls together. In ancient buildings back in ancient days, the cornerstone was the most important part of the building They'd get that thing in place, and then that was everything, uh uh the rest of the masonry, the rest of the stonework uh would build off of that cornerstone. If that thing wasn't square, if that thing wasn't in place right, it was going to affect the whole uh the uh the whole building. I was reading uh uh one fellow I was given account where the first they were building this building and I had a cornerstone in And the first floor went fine. They got to the second floor and nothing would fit. They could not get that thing together. They went back and looked at it, and that foundation and that cornerstone was out of whack And it affected the rest of the building. So the cornerstone, particularly in ancient days, was considered one of the most important stones in the building, one of the most important parts of building that building. Uh any building that was not aligned up with the cornerstone would be an unsturdy building, would be an unstable building, an unreliable building, and an unsafe building. So the cornerstone was key. It was the first stone of masonry, uh of a masonry building. It was the first stone put in place, and then all other stones, all the rest of the masonry, as I said, were lined up in reference to that cornerstone. Now that's important to understand. The rest of the building was dependent upon that cornerstone being in place And everything being lined up with that. It would uh uphold and was the strength of the building. Many times the cornerstone was very ornamental. They would engrave uh statements in there, dates or drawings and and uh and uh uh very very ornamental, very beautiful, would it bring attraction to the building And again, it produced unity. It connected that whole building together. So, a cornerstone. How many people were familiar with cornerstones before I said all that? I wouldn't have had a said that, then I might have known that. But uh a cornerstone is very, very important and uh very very crucial part of the building. So look here if you would, he says, wherefore also It is contained in the scripture, behold I, God, lay in Zion a chief cornerstone Elect and precious. I got three things I want us to notice about this cornerstone. We're only going to get to one of them tonight But I want us to notice, first of all, this is a prophesied stone. This is a this cornerstone was prophesied of God in the Old Testament, hundreds, in some cases thousands of years before this cornerstone was ever in place. It is also a precious stone. He says twice there that this stone is precious. And verse 7 Wherefore, unto you which therefore which believe, he is precious. So it's prophesied, it's precious, and then we're going to look and see it's problematic. For unbelievers have a problem with this cornerstone. They don't want to line up with it. But let's look, first of all, my first point is what we'll look at tonight, the prophesied stone. He says here verse 6, wherefore also it is contained in the Scripture. I think it's interesting that all through the Bible, the Bible preachers reference the Bible for the authority of their statements. Do you notice that? It's never just off the wall. And by the way, let me just say this. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, our sole authority is this old book right here. We don't operate, we don't have some authority, often the Vatican somewhere, our authority is not in Nashville, our authority is not some denominational head Our authority is not some uh uh uh uh some individual. Our authority is the Word of God. The Word of God. By the way, the preacher is not the authority, the Bible is the authority Preacher is the bishop, he's the overseer, but the Bible is the sole authority. So he says it's contained in Scripture. Peter's referencing Scripture, going back to Scripture Now notice he says it is also, wherefore also it is contained in the scripture. I got looking up that word contained. It means this. It means uh uh this is the idea, the subject of Scripture. Wherefore it is contained in the scripture. The subject in the scripture. Or it has this idea. All through the scripture. It is all through the scripture. What is that jug there? What does it contain? Gas. It's full of gas. It contains that. It's all filled. That whole thing is filled with gas. The Bible says What Peter's telling them here, it's contained in Scripture. This cornerstone is the theme of the Bible. Whatever this cornerstone is, whoever this cornerstone is, It's the theme of the Bible all the way through. It's contained in Scripture. It is saturated. The theme of the cornerstone. Now, here's where it gets interesting. I'm trying to buzz through here a little bit Now I got looking up this cornerstone. Who is this? What is this cornerstone? And I got referencing different things and doing some studying And um it has it was suggested by some Bible scholars that this cornerstone initially when it's first introduced in scripture, when God first referenced cornerstone is talking about the nation of Israel. I'm not given that much thought at all, and I got looking and I can't see where it expressly says that, but I think there might be something to that. The nation of Israel was established by God, of course, through Abraham And his offspring. And the nation of Israel, I believe, was intended by God to be a cornerstone for all other nations. The nation of Israel initially did not have a human king. All the other nations did, but they didn't have a king. Who was the king? Who was the president? Who was the prime minister of Israel? God. God was their king. God was their authority. It was what we call a theocracy. Now we're doing a little Bible study here tonight, I think. But it was a theocracy. And I believe, studying scripture, I believe it was God's intention for every nation in the world to follow Israel's example and have God as the king of that nation. How many people think Egypt has been better off if God would have been their king? Sure, in fact he mentions that several times that God loved the Egypt And so Israel was to be the cornerstone of, I think, all the nations of the world. They were to be a pattern. They were to be the standard. For other nations to follow. That was God's people. That was God's chosen people. They were to be witnesses into all the world Isaiah tells us that. So Israel was to be a standard, is was to be a type of cornerstone for the rest of the world. Israel was the nation by which all other nations were to be blessed. God said, I will bless them that bless you, and I will what? Curse them that curse you, speaking of Israel. There's a standard. All the nations of the world were going to be blessed or lose their blessing based upon their relationship with Israel, the quote-unquote cornerstone of the nations of the world. Get this. If you don't get anything else out of what I'm saying, would you get this? Never underestimate the importance of the nation of Israel. Don't ever underestimate that. There's a idea in around the world and even in some Christian circles that uh Israel is uh done, kaput, over with. almost a almost a hatred for the people of Israel. Listen, don't you ever, ever underestimate the importance of Israel. They were to be a cornerstone, I believe, a cornerstone for the nations of the world, a pattern, a standard. to follow. All other nations were going to be blessed if they would bless Israel. All other nations would be cursed if they would curse Israel. By the way, uh I think it was a good move the United States to put our embassy in Jerusalem. I'm telling you, all the things going on in America, we need to be friends with Israel. We really do. We really do. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn to Matthew, chapter number 25, if you would, please. And notice what Jesus Christ says about the nation of Israel. Matthew chapter 25. And I'm going to begin reading in verse number 31. I'm going to read down through the end of the chapter. So find your place there. You follow along. Listen carefully. To what the Lord Jesus is saying. Matthew chapter 25. Look at verse 31. When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him Then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory. Alright, those who were in the Bible Institute last spring semester, what event is that verse just described? Somebody talk to me. That would be the what? What's that? Can I repeat the verse? Verse thirty-one. When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, question is that, now I don't want to get off on this, but is that the first Advent or the Second Advent? That's the second advent. It's not the rapture. This is when the Lord comes back at the end of the tribulation period. He comes in his glory and and all the holy angels with him. And you and I that are saved are going to be in on that Then shall we sit upon the throne of his glory. That's the beginning of the millennial reign of the Lord Jesus Christ. Israel re-established. And Jesus Christ sits on the throne of David, and he rules as King of kings and Lord of lords above Israel and all the nations of the world for 1,000 years. Satan is bound. There's peace on earth. A time that this world has not experienced since the fall of man. What an amazing time this will be. And notice what he says. Verse 32. Now when this event, when verse 31 takes place, and before him shall be gathered what? All nations. I circled that. All nations. And he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats. Now, question, who's being judged here? This is a judgment, separation. Who's being judged? The nations, the nations of the world. Now, I don't know exactly how that plays out. I don't know, like I told the class, I don't know the logistics of this, how he does this But God is going to judge the nations of the world. And I want you to notice very carefully what the basis of that judgment will be. And he shall set, verse 33, he shall set the sheep, that's the good ones, on his right hand, but the goats on the left. Then shall the king, the Son of Man, Jesus, then shall the king say unto them on his right hand, that's the sheep Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungered, and ye gave me meat I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you took me in. Naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came to me. Then shall the righteous nations Then shall the righteous nations answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee hungered, and fed thee, or thirsty, and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger and took thee in, and naked and clothed thee? Or when saw we thee sick or imprisoned and came unto thee? And the kings shall answer and say unto them, Verily, I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these my brethren, who were the physical brethren of Jesus. The Jews, Israel, in that you have done it unto the least of these, my brethren, you've done it unto me. Now remember, he's talking to nations here. Verse 41, then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, that's the goats, depart from me ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels For I was hungered, you gave me no meat. I was thirsty, you gave me no drink. I was a stranger, you took me not in. Naked, and you clothed me not, sick, and in prison you visited me not. Then shall they, these goat nations, then shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee a hunger, or a thirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee? And he sent And then shall then shall he answer them saying, Verily I sand you, inasmuch as ye did it not unto one of the least of these Go back up to verse forty, my brethren, least of these ye did it not unto me. And these nations shall go away into everlasting punishment But the righteous, the sheep, the righteous nations, unto life eternal. Now I read that to point this out. Jesus Christ is coming back again. Now the next thing is the rapture. The seven-year tribulation period. Then you have what's described in verse 31 there. Jesus Christ returns with the saints, the holy angels, he judges the nations. And he sets up his kingdom. He goes into the millennial reign. He sits on the throne of David as king of Israel and the world under his administration. And what he says in the judgment of the nations, the basis of the judgments of the nations is their treatment of Israel. Their treatment of Israel. In God's economy of this world and the nations of this world, in God's economy, Israel is the very center of all his working with the nations of the world. Israel is a type of cornerstone. Everything builds off of that, but the relationship was And uh how they treated Israel. Uh Israel throughout history, for the most part, has been hated by other nations around them, with few exceptions, where there's a strong Christian influence in a nation, they'll support Israel. You have away from that. And for the most part, uh they were uh enemies of that. So some suggest that the cornerstone initially introduced in the scripture may have referenced the nation of Israel Because of the pattern they were to be, the standard they were to set, the uh um uh they would be judged by their treatment of Israel. They were the cornerstone. However Israel failed in their responsibility. Way back, we're studying David, way back when Saul was anointed king. Uh the uh the Israelites said, the Jews said, we want a king just like all the other nations around us. See, they got the whole thing backwards The nations around them were to be influenced by Israel and be brought to submission to Jehovah. But Israel failed, and they sought to submit and become like the nations around them. Does that sound like any churches? In our day and age, rather than being an influence on the world and pointing the world to Christ and being sought, they're allowing the world to influence church say we want to be like the world. We want the world's music. We want the world's standards. We want the world's values. We want the world's pleasures. And like Israel became like the world around them, churches, Christianity is becoming like the world. We're losing our distinction. in our world, our biblical distinction as people of God. And because of their failure Because of their insistence on worshiping the gods of the world and establishing the following the pattern of the world God finally says, all right. All right. He sent prophets, he warned them, he chastened them, and finally sent them off into captivity and set them aside. So Israel was was Israel, did God initially think of view Israel as a cornerstone? I can't say definite from scripture, but it sure fits the it sure fits the picture as far as I see it They failed to live up to the responsibility. They rejected. And Israel, now wait a minute, I want to clarify something I just said. Israel was set aside for the time being. You mark it down, there'll be a time all the promises of Israel will be fulfilled during that millennial reign. So Israel was a type of cornerstone, but they were rejected by God, because of their disobedience, because of their rebellion. Now we look at this, and we see Jesus Christ is the cornerstone. If you're there in Matthew, come over to chapter 21 and look at this. Matthew chapter 21. And look with me if you would at verse 33. Jesus says here another uh Matthew twenty one verse thirty three here another parable There was a certain householder which planted a vineyard and hedged it around about and digged a winepress in it and built a tower and led it out to the husbandmen and went to a far country So this guy gets some property, builds a this farm here and vineyard, and gets it all ready, gets some guys to take care of it, and he goes off on a trip. Verse 34, and when the time of the fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the husbandmen that they might receive the fruits thereof. The husbandman took his servants and beat one and killed another and stoned another. And he said, and he sent the other servants more than the first, and they did unto them likewise. This is a picture of Israel and the prophets. God's sending them. They're beat them and kill their prophets when they're warning them of their apostasy. But last of all, he sent unto them who? His son, saying, They will reverence my son But when the husbandmen saw the son, they said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and let us seize on his inheritance. They caught him and cast him out of the vineyard and slew him When the Lord therefore the vineyard cometh, what will he do unto those husbandmen? And they, the people around listening, the Pharisees, they said, He will miserably destroy those wicked men. and will let out his vineyard unto other husbandmen, which shall render him the fruits in their season. Then Jesus saith unto them, Now look, he does the same thing Peter did. Did you never read in the scriptures? The stone which the builders rejected, the same has become the head of the corner. This is the Lord's doing and marvelous in our sight. Who was the son in that parable that the husbandman killed? As the Lord Jesus Christ. He's prophesying his rejection of Israel. Verse 43, therefore I send thee the kingdom. The kingdom of God shall be taken from you, Israel, and given another nation, bringing forth fruits thereof, and whosoever shall fall on this stone shall be broken But whosoever will fall, it will grind him the powder. And when the chief priests, Pharisees heard that parable, they perceived that he spake of them And when they sought to lay hands on him, they feared the multitude because they took him for a prophet. Jesus presents himself. I'm this chief cornerstone. I'm the cornerstone for the nation of Israel. I am coming to be the standard. I am coming to be the foundation upon which the nation of Israel will be built on. And what did they do? They rejected him. He came unto his own, and his own what? Received them not. Received them not. They rejected Jesus Christ. Mark chapter 12 gives a very similar account where Jesus Christ presents himself to Israel as their cornerstone and he's rejected. Now he's going to be a set up again during the millennial reign. And now we come to the church, and Jesus Christ is presented as the chief cornerstone of the church. Would you come with me, if you would, to Ephesians chapter number two? And verse number twenty Ephesians two and verse twenty. And are built in verse nineteen. Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and the household of God. Now that Israel has rejected their Messiah. They've rejected Jesus as their cornerstone, and God has established the church I hope you bear with me. It's a little teaching tonight, but he's established the church. Now Jesus says, I am the cornerstone of the church. Look what he says. A household of God. And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, but Jesus Christ Himself being the what? Chief cornerstone in whom all the building fitly framed, lined up, aligned perfectly with this cornerstone, fitly framed uh groweth uh uh together groweth into a holy temple to the Lord. Speaking of this spiritual temple that Peter referenced. in whom ye also are building together for a habitation of God through the Spirit. Jesus says, I'm the cornerstone of the church. I'm the cornerstone church. There's coming a day when Israel will be established as a cornerstone to the nations, a millennial. Everything's going to operate around Israel. But in the church, now Jesus Christ is the chief cornerstone. He's the top. He's the supreme. He's the excellent cornerstone for uh uh the people of God, the church now, and eventually all of mankind. What's he saying? Alright, I said all that to say this. Alright, preacher, what's that have to do with me going to work tomorrow? What's that have to do with me having to deal with a pa a worldwide virus? It's nuts and a a country that's falling apart as it seems. What does that have to do with my life? What does that have to do with me trying to raise up kids? Maybe I gotta uh a rebellious son or maybe uh got a marriage that's struggling. What in the world does that have to do with that any of this? That's wonderful preacher. That's a nice Bible study Well, how does that affect my life? I tell you what, you and I need to establish Jesus Christ as our chief cornerstone. Everything in our life, he has to be the foundation of everything in our life. Everything in our life needs to line up, align up with Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Don't follow man. Now I like these missionary biographies James is doing, and I read biographies all the time. I'm reading several right now And they're helpful, and we can be influenced by people, but there's not a man on this earth that ought to be our cornerstone Not a person as great as a Christian name might be. Jesus Christ is the pattern. He is the foundation. He is the corner that everything in my life needs to line up with. Am I making sense? God said to Israel, I'm offering Jesus Christ to be your cornerstone. My, what a nation America would be if Jesus Christ was the cornerstone of this nation. What a church, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church be, if Jesus Christ was the cornerstone. I'd like to think, to some extent, we're trying. Jesus Christ, everything I need to build my life on the teachings and the pattern and example that Jesus Christ has given us. I need to build my home. On what Jesus Christ, the instructions and the example and the pattern, Jesus Christ again, He's the cornerstone. Everything in my home, everything in my personal life needs to line up, align up with Jesus Christ. If it's contrary to the character, if it's contrary to the nature, if it's contrary to the teachings of Jesus Christ, my house is going to fall. I need to line up, line up. Jesus Christ is the chief cornerstone. I need to align my home, my life, my ministry. Every one of our ministries. I think I thankful. I I don't know about you, I like to be busy. Man, I want something going on It's it's driving me nuts this building being empty during a week. It's driving me nuts. Pastor Matt's driving me nuts. Um I'm driving him nuts. We're all nuts. But everything we do, uh, that radio station out there, I'll tell you, I'm more grateful for that now than ever been. But that thing needs to be built and lined up with Jesus Christ. And I'll tell you right now, I'll tell you right now, as Peter's church, that thing starts that thing starts broadcasting false doctrine. I'm going to chainsaw out, cut that tower down right then. It means Jesus Christ has to be the cornerstone. It has to line up with the Word of God. It has to line up with the Son of God. The Word of God. You follow what I'm trying to say? We have to pattern ourselves after Jesus Christ. Not my ideas, not your ideas, but Jesus Christ is the pattern. We line up with Him. Our ministries, our preaching. All around Jesus Christ. How do I do that? That means we need to study Jesus Christ. We've got to get to know a little bit about him. You ought to be the chief. I think the best thing you can major and study is Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the pure, sinless, omnipotent Son of God. And let him be the pattern. Let him be the sample. Alright, I'll give you one verse and we'll quit. If you would, if James wouldn't have taken so much time, we wouldn't be doing this. No, I'm kidding. That was good. Uh James, he took a few jabs at me. Did anybody notice that in his stupid lesson? Look, go with me if you would to He Hebrews chapter twelve. Hebrews chapter 2. While you're turning there, there was a artist that was very, very good, well known for his paintings of landscapes. And he was a master of color, getting the color right on landscapes. Um there's a fella, um I I'm not doing this, Dr. Williams, we'll talk about him, um what was the guy's name? Uh Kincaid. Thomas Kincaid. And he and Dr. Williams tell me that he was a master at light. at painting, capturing accurately what light is in cabins or nights and and light. Well this fella uh that I was reading about, he was a master at catching the color of a landscape and having it so accurate And somebody was visiting his studio and uh they came and they noticed he was showing them partially finished uh oil paintings and different things. And they noticed by his easel he had a number of very precious stones lined up across along by his easel. sapphire and um uh a ruby or an emerald and all these precious stones. And so they kept looking at that and he's showing them around. Finally uh they got up the nerve and they said, I have a question. He said, what's all these These very, very valuable stones here. What's all them lined up? What's that about? And he said, that is how I keep my colors pure. If I want to see what a green is, I go to that precious stone and I make sure it lines up. He says, my eyes can lose perspective just going on memory. But these precious stones are my cornerstones for the colors That I paint. They're the pattern. The color lines up with the color of that precious stone. And that's how I'm able to keep those colors the way they are. Isn't that something? Look at Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 1. Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so decl so great a cloud of witnesses. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which thus so easily beset us, and let us run with patience that is race that is set before us. But notice the sentence doesn't end there Notice that next few words. Looking unto Jesus. He's saying, Jesus, in so many words, he's saying Jesus is the cornerstone. Or he's the standard, he's the focus. When we run this race called life We lay off the weights and we put the sins that so easily beset us aside. And we, can I put it this way? We align ourselves up with Jesus Christ. We put our eyes on him, we follow his pattern, we don't waver from Jesus Christ, looking on to Jesus. Those that were here when we came in 1993, next month, 27 years. I didn't know what I was doing. And um we showed up and I s everything I wanna er I I want to do everything big. Everything had big. And uh God laid on my heart when we were still in Colorado, we were packing to move here. God laid on my heart to make this motto, the motto of our church: looking unto Jesus. Anybody remember we put up on here? Big letters. Didn't even fit. Looking under Jesus. I see pictures now, it's the most awkward-looking thing you ever saw in your life. But I wanted us to get our eyes on Jesus Christ. I wanted us to line up with Jesus Christ. And I'm when everything, and 27 years later. My determination is this church operate with Jesus Christ as the cornerstone. Our homes, our ministries, and getting young people lined up with Jesus Christ I don't care if they're like me or not. I don't want them to be like me. Good night. I got a that would be terrible. But we want them like Jesus Christ. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven. Or I think Paul set the tone tonight. Pray and read our Bibles. Get that family altar. I think what he's saying, Lord, is. We need to get ourselves lined up with our chief cornerstone, Jesus Christ. Pattern everything we do and establish everything we do Lined up with His teaching, His holiness, His compassion, His purity, His love for the lost. And line ourselves up with that and operate that way. I wonder how many with heads bowed, eyes closed, would say, Preacher, I want my life lined up with Jesus Christ. My attitude, my approach, my function. Anything like that, oh, I want to be lined up with that cornerstone. I want to me to be the cornerstone of our home, lined up with him. These Christians were going through intense persecution. Peter said, listen, you keep that cornerstone in place. You stay lined up. Don't let that opposition, that mess. Throw you. You stay in line up with Jesus Christ. Father, bless our invitation. Help us, Lord, as we go in this new week, to get lined up with you and just keep it there in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are crossed.