Mark chapter number 10 and verse number 15, if you would. Let's read that verse together. I like to read verse together in unison. Mark 10, verse 15, altogether. Ready? Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein. I want to speak this morning on the future of a church without a future. A church that has no future I don't know about you. I don't want Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to be a church without a future. I was thinking this past week and I'm still young, but um But I thought one of my great desires is if the Lord carries, someday look down from heaven And see 1005 Broadford Road, and see a church house filled with people, and the gospel being preached, the old hymns being sung, the old King James Bible being read. And just gone forward. Now we have to what we do now, our actions and our ministries now are going to determine whether that will be true at that point or not. You follow my thinking? A church without a future, I don't want Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to be a church with no future. Let's pray together. I'll explain what I mean and try and See if we can't draw some lessons from this. Father, we thank you for these little babies. Lord, what a precious thing it is, the potential, the life, the innocency Of the little child. And we ask that you would help us as Christians, individual believers, but also as a church. That you would help us to see our responsibility in helping with these little children. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I ask that not be me just up here running my mouth. Lord, I pray it be your Holy Spirit taking truths and principles from your word and speaking through me to the hearts and lives and minds of each of us. So help us do our part to be willing, our hearts to be open to what you have to teach us and your instructions to us. And I pray your Holy Spirit would prompt us to make good, right decisions when this message is done. And respond in faith and go and live for you and serve you and be the Christians and church you intend for us to be. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. A church without a ministry to children is a church without a future. A church that has no outreach. into reaching young people and children as a church without a future. And I feel badly even Feel obligated to say this. I hate to even feel obligated to say this. But a church that has no compassion for children is a church without a future. You know, let me just say this. I can't imagine a Christian, a child of God, with the Holy Spirit indwelling them. That would not have compassion for a little child. For a little child. I can't imagine that. Can't imagine that. A church without a ministry to children, I believe, is a church without a future. Our passage here, you have some parents are bringing their young children to the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh as they are bringing them, the disciples, now get the picture here. There's here's parents with little babies, little children. Jesus is teaching and preaching, he's ministering. He's performing miracles, he's given wisdom, he's training his disciples for their future ministry And these parents, and I don't know if they gathered together ahead of time and came as a group, or maybe it was just spontaneous, they were coming over you know a period of time bringing their babies to To Jesus, but as they approach the Lord Jesus Christ, get this: the disciples of all people, the disciples step between these parents and their children And the Lord Jesus Christ, and they hinder, they block these parents bringing their children to Jesus Christ. Now notice, it's the disciples, not the Pharisees doing that. It's not the Roman centurions pagan worshiping false gods. It's not the drunkards and the prostitutes and the thieves that are doing that. It's the disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Are stepping in and putting themselves between children being brought to Jesus Christ and Jesus. You know, it's a terrible sin For you and I to say or do anything that would hinder somebody from coming to Jesus Christ as Savior. What an awful thing to behave in such a way, or to speak in such a way. Or to live a certain whatever lifestyle, and by living and speaking and doing what I'm doing, it becomes a hindrance from someone else trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. I was talking with somebody this week. They had mentioned that, you know, they uh had this image of being a great Christian, had this image of having faith in God. The person said I work with them and they said they got a sewer mouth. They talk filth They put this image out there, but what they really are. You know, when we act that way as a Christian, when we're hypocrites as Christians, you know what we're doing? We're doing the same thing those disciples did. We are becoming an interference from other people coming to Christ. That's an awful sin. May it never be said of a member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and this preacher included. Now we act and talk and behave in such a way that it turned people away from Christ. I get an amen or not. It's an awful sin to speak or behave in a way that hinders people from Jesus Christ. I believe it's a terrible sin for a church. To neglect bringing people to the Lord Jesus Christ. I tell you, I got four heroes in the gospels. There's four men. Brother Dan DeLong preached on these guys during our missions conference. By the way, that's what all these flags are up here. These are flags from the countries where we have missionaries. We support missionaries. But there's four men in the Gospels that stand out in my mind as tremendous men. They had a friend who was sick to the palsy. He was unable to bring himself to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so these four men got a cot, or a um not a cot, uh stretcher type thing. I guess it would be a cot I don't know what it was, but um they got him on this little stretcher and they brought him the Lord Jesus Christ. How many people agree with me? That's a good thing Going out, using what means you have, what means of of transportation, whatever facilities I have available to me, resources I have available to me. And finding someone that needs the Lord Jesus and using what I have to bring them to Jesus. Amen. But they didn't stop there. When they got to where Jesus was, the place was packed. I mean, every seat was filled, the windows were open, people were outside all around, and Jesus teaching and preaching. I hear preachers say sometimes, ah, if it's a big crowd, they must be compromising. I tell you, Jesus had some pretty big crowds and he wasn't compromising. And so they show up, they're, praise God, these four guys, they took the resources they had, the vehicle they had. They're bringing this guy to Jesus, and they get there and the place is packed. And so they said, oh well, we can't do anything. Turn around and went home. Nah. They said, we've got to figure out a way. We got to figure out some way to get this guy into Jesus. He needs him. I tell you, my hat's off to those guys. They got a compassion. They believed that Jesus was able to meet that man's need, and they believed that they could somehow got to get him to the Lord Jesus Christ. So what do they do? Many of you know the story Found a way to get up on the roof, and uh they began an expansion program on that house. They dug the roof up and tore it up and lowered that guy down right in front of the Lord Jesus Christ. How many people would like to have seen that? You know what I I just I just thought of this. This is just leathermanism But I'll I I I'm not a betting man, but I'll bet you there were some people irritated that they did that. Any can I get anybody think that way? I'll bet there was folks dust falling down on them. They come down there and push them away. Probably got a little fist fight there, you know. I think it was Baptist crowd, so. But what I'm trying to say is this. Those four men are my heroes. They did what they needed to do, use what they had available, and get that guide to the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe that ought to be the attitude of our church and every Bible-believing church in the world. We're going to use the resources we have. If we need to tear the roof up, if we need to get permits and raise money and build a building so we can reach more people, we're going to do what we need to do And use what we have available to bring people to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I believe it's a great sin for any church not to use every resource they have available. And put every effort they can to get people to the Lord Jesus Christ. Ought to use newspaper advertising, whatever resources, signs along the road, little yard signs out front, knock on doors, run buses, give out tracks. You name it. Have Bible time. You name it. Trying to reach people. And so here you have these disciples of all people. Stepping up and saying, ah no. You're not bringing those babies to Jesus. You're not bringing those little children to Jesus. What a terrible sin to hinder people from coming to the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to remind you that Jesus Christ, listen, I want to remind you, Jesus Christ is the only way of salvation. There's not a person in this world, young or old, you name the country, you name the city, you name the back uh mountain, back hills, mountains of Nepal There's not one person that is ever going to be saved apart from knowing of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not going to happen. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Listen to this. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. If anybody's going to be saved, they've got to come to Jesus Christ. I want to remind you, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save a soul from hell. I believe believers ought to get baptized. I think the first thing a person does after they get saved, they ought to get baptized. But getting baptized never saved a soul from hell, never got a person into heaven. It's a testimony of salvation. Jesus Christ is the only way of salvation from the judgment of God. Jesus Christ is the only way of salvation from a life of sin and a life of darkness. I got a situation I've kind of been dealing with over the years, and a young person, they're not they're adults now, but I'm telling you, I look at their life I see their thinking, and it's just darkness over their heart and mind, lost in sin. I tell you, we pray, we work, we want them to come to Christ. Jesus is the only way. Listen. Jesus is the only way to be delivered from sin and darkness. This world has its therapies and its programs and all these things. And I'm sure it's helped some people, at least on a temporary basis, that only Jesus can cleanse a heart and life and mind from sin. Only Jesus can bring salvation. Only Jesus can save from a life of sin and darkness. Only Jesus can give a person eternal life. Eternal life There's not a preacher that ever lived or ever will live that can give someone eternal life apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't mean to be unkind, but I feel like I ought to throw this out. The Pope cannot give eternal life. Baptist preacher can't give eternal life. A deacon can't give eternal life. Priests down at the uh downtown can't give eternal life. Only Jesus gives eternal life. Eternal life. Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. He's our only hope. He's the only way of salvation. He's the only way to have my life and heart and mind cleansed from my sin and be forgiven. And be able to stand before God someday and be accepted by a holy God is through my faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the only way to gain forgiveness of sins. You know what the worst thing in the world is that can happen to a person? The worst thing in the world that can happen to a person is for that person to die with their sins unforgiven. Jesus said to die in their sins. And there's only one way that I can have my sins forgiven. It's through who? Say it with me. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. And so for someone, a disciple of all people, to step up and put themselves between some parents with small children And the Lord Jesus Christ, and forbid them from bringing those children to Jesus. Do you agree with me? That's an awful sin. That's an awful thing. And not just children, anybody to hinder them from coming to Christ. In fact, if you notice carefully, and we're not going to look at this part of the text, but it says they rebuked them. The disciples rebuked them for bringing their children to Jesus. I got looking up that word rebuke. It's the same term Jesus used when he rebuked devils that were possessing people. The Bible says Jesus rebuked The devil. Would you agree with me? Jesus rebuking a devil, that'd be a pretty strong rebuke, right? So what does that tell us about these disciples rebuking the parents? Rebuking the parents For bringing their children to Jesus. It was a sharp rebuke. It was strong. They felt strongly about this. And they were dead wrong. Dead wrong. An awful thing to keep people from coming to the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, I'll go this far. I wrote this down. There's nothing more demonic. And keep 'em keeping people from the Lord Jesus Christ. Say, well, devil, you know, you sac make sacrifices to the devil and draw pentagrams and You know, all this satanic stuff. I'll tell you what, Christians can act awfully satanic. We're keeping people from Jesus. We're living hypocritical lives and so I had a fellow years ago I hate to say this, that one wasn't true. We were going to go out visiting and I was going to send them to a guy. I didn't know who it was. I said, here you go you go visit these guys. We're pairing up and heading out He goes, Oh, I could never go visit him. He won't listen to a word I say. I've got a terrible testimony with him. I can't go visit with him. I said, You've got to be kidding me. What in the world kind of Christian lives in such a way that I can't go talk to somebody about Jesus Christ and bring them to Jesus Christ? How shameful is that? That's downright devilish. I'm an interference from somebody coming to Jesus Christ as Savior. Being used of Satan if I'm hindering people from coming to Christ. And by the way Let me say this. If you've not trusted Jesus Christ as your own personal Savior, you're hindering others from coming to Christ. You say, how is that? Well, if you're not saved, that means you're not a witness. You have a realm of influence. And if you knew Christ as Savior, listen, if you would trust Jesus Christ as your Savior And you knew the peace and the joy and the fulfillment of having sins forgiven and the presence of God in my life and a holy heaven. You would seek to influence and bring others to Christ also, but by not trusting Christ, you are being an interference, a a hindrance to others coming to Christ. Let me say this. Any parent, any unsaved parent, you are hindering your children from coming to Christ. You say, well, it's up to them if they want to get saved or not, that's up to them. Yeah, but you have more of an influence than you realize on those kids' lives. Sometimes we run our buses. Sometimes we'll win some kids to the Lord, and from that we'll be able to reach the parents. Sometimes But you know what I found out? If we can bring the parents to Christ, we got the kids. We got the kids. So what's that say about parents coming to Christ? We don't win the parents. You know what? A lot of times we're unable to win the kids. Sometimes it goes the other way, but not always. Not very often. Not very often. What I'm trying to say is this. Number one, I need to every one of us need to make sure we trusted Christ as our personal Savior. We've got that settled. Then we need to commit ourselves to do all we can to bring others to Christ, including small children. A church without a future. A church with no future is a church with no ministry to others and particularly no ministry to children, no outreach to children. What a sin it is to be in interference. Living a hypocritical Christian life. Now, if you would look in your Bibles here to Mark chapter 10 and notice with me verse number 14. I have two words in I underlined this first. I have it underscored in my Bible And there's two words in this verse that I circled to highlight because I want to notice them and I want them to stand out. Every time I read this and look at this passage, it says, But when Jesus saw it What do you see? These disciples stepping in between the families coming to Christ. They enter, rebuking them. And when Jesus saw it, what does it say Jesus' response was? Did you catch that? He was doesn't say he was displeased. It says he was what? Much displeased. Now, you know, somebody is much displeased. You know, that's not good. You got the creator of the universe, Almighty God, much displeased. Brother, that's not good. Right or wrong? That's not good. And these disciples, disciples, by their actions, the Bible says Jesus was much displeased. I got looking that up like I always do, is studying that word and see how it's used, that phrase and other places it's used. It has this idea, much displeased, it has this idea to be indignant It means very, very, very upset. It means extremely grieved Now I thought, I wonder how many times, I wonder how many times does the Bible record Jesus Being much displeased. I thought, I'm going to look up every place that something happened that made Jesus very upset, that made Jesus indignant. You know what I found? This is the only time. This is the only place in all scripture where it says that Jesus was indignant And he was much displeased, very upset with these disciples. Huh That tells me that hindering children from coming to the Lord Jesus Christ upsets our God. Again, I can't answer for other churches, and I'm not here this morning to stand in judgment of other churches. I think about our church and my responsibility as pastor of this church But I wonder how many churches are out there that Jesus Christ is very upset with. Because they make no effort. In fact, they conduct themselves in such a way that they don't want people to come. We started our bus ministry years ago, shortly after I got here, within a year or so after we got here. And the church had had a bus ministry before. We kind of revived it actually We were bringing in people in cars and I wanted a bus ministry from the day first Sunday. If it was up to me, I'd have started a bus ministry first Sunday. But we didn't have any people to work it. So uh We couldn't. So we started winning people, Lord, and I was bringing them into my car, and I think Helen, I think you were bringing people in the car and others that were here at the time, just a handful of us, back in 93. We were bringing people in cars and I was just praying, Lord, I want to start a bus. Help me know when to start a bus. And um and I didn't want to just do it. I wanted the church to be behind it. And finally, you know, we're making two, three trips, bringing people in cars, and one of the men came to me and says, Preacher, what do you think if we get a bus? I said, that's a great idea. It's ingenious. And bringing started bringing children and people into the church. And God has blessed that. Listen, we don't know. We have to be very careful and be very humble about this. But you know, I got a feeling God's been pleased. With the folks that have worked so hard to bring children and young people into church and teach them about Jesus. The Bible says he was much displeased with the disciples. Now it's not the Bible doesn't say anything about him being much displeased with Pharisees Doesn't say anything about him being much displeased with the publicans, as terrible of people as they were. Doesn't even say that about devils. But he says it to the disciples. Now, why would Jesus be so upset with these disciples? As we said, they're keeping others from Christ. They're keeping little children from coming to the Lord Jesus Christ. My hats are off to these parents. That brought their little babies here today. Uh Sarah and Joe, they had the baby, what uh but that's the newest baby, right? Was Sarah and Joe's the newest one, Jody? And it was just like a week after that baby was born, they had her in church. My hat's off to these parents bringing their little babies to church. And somebody said, when's the best time for a person to get saved? My answer is the best time for a person to get saved when they're a small child. Young child. You say, well, they got to be 12 years old before he can get saved. Where do you find that in the Bible? That's man's idea. I'm telling you, a child can be saved long before they're 12 years old. I think a child can be saved when they're very, very young. Very young. One of my mentors for many years, Dr. Charles B. Holmster, the founder of Neighborhood Bible Time, the director for 55, 6 years. He used to say, he and he worked with children millions, literally, for decades. And he used to say, if a child can know the difference between their right hand and their left hand, that child can trust Christ as their Savior. And he got that from Jonah. So when's the best time to be saved? I think the best time for a person to get saved when they're just a little child, four, five, six years old. Very, very young is the best time. By the way, I'd far rather have a young have a person saved from a life of sin rather than out of a life of sin. You follow what I'm saying? I got saved at the age of 19. So others here living instead and wickedness, just darkness. I'm so glad God can save people out of a life of sin. I'm glad God can save people out of alcoholism. I'm glad God can save people out of sodomy. I'm glad God can save people out of wickedness and sinfulness and prostitution and dishonesty and stealing. Fornication. God can save people out of adultery. There's not one sin that God can't save people out of it. And thank God for it. A lot of us be in trouble. Amen. But I'll tell you what God's really good at is keeping people from it in the first place. I'm talking to some people here, you'll know exactly what I'm talking about. Every day of my life, I deal with stuff from sins before I got saved, consequences from before I got saved that I still have to deal with. Oh, how much how much more wonderful it would have been to get saved as a little child and never experience any of that garbage. Never had those scars, emotional and spiritual scars that sin has left on a life. When's the best time to get saved, preacher? I'll tell you when as a little child. When's the second best time to get saved? Second best time to get saved right now. Didn't get saved as a child. You gotta you better nail it down now. We had a couple songs we sang. I'm telling you, Jesus Christ coming back again. I've always believed Jesus coming back. I always knew that was true. But the reality of it has never grit my heart and mind like it does today. Jesus Christ coming back again The best time to get saved when you're a little child, and if you're past that point, then you ought to get saved today. Can I say that again? You ought to get saved today. Don't boast yourself of tomorrow, you don't know what a day will bring forth. Today's the day of salvation. You have no guarantee you'll see that sun go down tonight. So you're trying to scare me to get saved? Yeah. Tell you, I'd rather somebody get scared and get saved than die and go to hell Keeping people from Christ, keeping children from coming to Christ. Let me give you a few thoughts here from this passage, real quick. Number one, I want us to consider the importance of children to Jesus Christ. The importance of children. To the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, ah, Jesus don't care about these little babies. You rascal. Look what the Bible says here. Verse number 13, they brought, what's the next two words? Look at verse 13, they brought what young children. Why didn't it just say children? I mean, what would be an old children? And by the way, the Bible does God doesn't just put words in there just to fill space. There's a reason it says young children. I got looking that up. I said, all right, what's he talking about? Young children? What's an old children? You know what he's talking about? Anybody want to take a guess? When he says young children, what's he talking about? Babies. Toddlers. In Luke chapter 1, verse 59, and for sake of time, we can't turn there. We don't have time, but Luke chapter 1, verse 59, it refers to John the Baptist. When he was eight days old, his parents took him to the temple for his circumcision. He was eight days old. And it's the same term as what's used here about young children. Would you agree with me? An eight-day-old baby's young. That's young children. Jesus loves the little children. The babies, the eight days old, the toddlers. This was baby day for Jesus. They were bringing their babies to Jesus. And the old disciples stand in the back of the church, and the parents coming in with their babies to bring them to Jesus. Let him bless them and touch them. The disciples block the doors. Get these kids out of here. Get these little babies out of here. And rebuke them. These parents recognized something in Jesus Christ. There was something about Jesus. That convinced them that he loved their babies. They didn't bring them to the disciples. No wonder. I wouldn't. They wanted to bring them to Jesus. There was something in the eyes of the Lord Jesus Christ. There was something in his voice There was something about his countenance, his interaction with others. That these parents saw their children, and they said, That man, whoever he is, the Son of God, the Messiah, we're just figuring this out. But that man of God, he loves children. Something about Jesus convinced them That he loved them, that he loved their babies. There was something about Jesus Christ that convinced those parents that those babies needed Jesus in their life. They needed the touch of Jesus. They needed the presence of Jesus. They needed whoever Jesus was and whatever he could do. My baby needs that. They did what they needed to do. They're bringing their babies to the Lord Jesus Christ So what was it about Jesus? What made them so determined to get their babies to Jesus? I don't know. Maybe they had saw or they heard about him healing Jarius' daughter back in chapter number five. Darius had a little baby daughter and was sick unto death and Jesus raised her up. Wow, if he can do that for Jarius' daughter. He could sure bless my baby. Maybe they saw or heard about Jarius' daughter. Maybe they saw or heard about uh Man that had a devil-possessed boy when Jesus was up on the Mount of Transfiguration. And he brought him to the disciples, and the disciples couldn't do anything to help him. Imagine that With their attitude about kids. And the man, very upset, comes to Jesus. He says, My son is vexed. My son is vexed with the devil. He's a lunatic. And he said, I brought them to the disciples and they couldn't do a thing. And Jesus rebuked the disciples. He said, You have little faith. And Jesus cast that devil out of that little boy. It would throw the boy in the fire. The devil would get the boy to throw himself in the fire, try and destroy himself. Maybe they heard that Jesus cast the devil out of that boy. Now he was whole and he was happy. He was, well. He said, if Jesus can do that for a devil-possessed boy, he could bless my baby. Maybe they had saw Jesus take children up in his arms in Mark chapter 9, and he would hold them. Maybe they saw the compassion in his eyes as he looked at that little baby. Maybe they sensed the presence of God. As Jesus held that small infant in his arms. And they said, I want him to do that for my baby. I want him to hold my baby. I want God to hold my baby. There's something about Jesus Christ convinced them. Maybe they heard him teach later on in that same chapter about the kingdom of heaven is of children. And how coming to God you need to come is the faith of a child. And they said, I'd like for my child to know the Lord. I'd like for my child, that man, Messiah, he claims to be the Son of God. I believe he loves my babies. I believe he loves my child. I believe my child needs what he has. If you'll study Jeremiah chapter 1 and Psalm 139, and you study the conception of John the Baptist and the conception of Jesus Christ, the miraculous conception of the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what you find out? Jesus loves the little children that are still in the womb. You study your Bible, this whole wicked, wicked world is wrong When they say that little child in the womb is just a fetus. It's a non-human. I'm telling you, I can't imagine a more wicked lie of the devil. And all the world. Jesus loves the little children. The parents saw that and they understood that. Children are extremely important to the Lord Jesus Christ. Little small children are greatly loved. By the Lord Jesus Christ. By the way, he doesn't stop loving them at any point. Don't misunderstand. These young people over here are loved dearly by the Lord Jesus Christ. The folks here in their 20s and 30s kids, they're loved just as dearly by the Lord Jesus Christ as the little babies. Uh middle aged folks like me. Middle aged that'd be a hundred and twenty-two. Dear senior citizens, I think of Harry and Ruth, how precious. Loved just as dearly by God as the little infants are. The point I'm trying to say is he doesn't start loving us at some later point in life. From the moment of conception, that little life and that little child is dear and precious. to the Lord Jesus Christ. Why in the world, I got thinking about this, why in the world did those disciples Rebuke the parents for bringing bringing children to Jesus. What were they thinking? I don't know. The Bible doesn't tell us I looked at that and looked at that. What's wrong with you guys? The only thing I can do is speculate. Here's what I've come up with. I wonder if they didn't think that those babies would be a distraction to the Lord Jesus Christ. I wonder if they didn't think. Now, follow my line of thinking. Think along with me here a little bit. These babies will be a distraction. We've got other more important things to do. We've got lives to be lived. We've got ministries to carry out. These little children just be a distraction. These little children will be an inconvenience. They'll require more time and effort. Maybe they thought this. These little children have nothing to offer. to the ministry that we are doing. As far as I know, we don't have any babies that tithe I don't know. Nursery workers, do we have any take up offering in the nursery? No. We uh I gave them faith promise cards, but they didn't turn any in You know me, I give them to everybody. I was handing them out like tracks downtown, faith promised. No, I wasn't. Maybe they thought these little children had nothing to offer us. They're a distraction, they consume up time, they require effort, it's inconvenient, we have more important things to do, we have bigger things and better things. And dealing with these little children. Maybe the disciples thought these children will be a hindrance To what we're doing, to my life. And I got thinking through and I was jotting these down, then all of a sudden it hit me like a two by four in the side of my head That is exactly what the modern crow uh world does in this matter of abortion. Right or wrong? Oh no, I've got a baby. That's going to be an inconvenience. I've got a job. I've got a life to live. This is going to be inconvenient. This is going to hinder my progress in my work. I'll lose promotions I need to get rid of that baby. I'm not allowing that to come into my life and be such a burden and a hindrance to what I want. That's exactly what the world uses to justify murdering a baby in the mother's womb. I meant to get the names and not the address, but I meant to get the name. There's a and I ashamed to even say the name of it. There's a rock group called Fleetwood Matt. And the lead singer, the woman, she made a statement back just before Christmas, back around November, they were doing some interview. She said this. She said, if I had not had an abortion. There would be no fleet with Mac. And I said, man, that's a tragedy on both ends. To say that living a party and money and wickedness and indulgence and fornication is more important to me Than the eternal life of a little child that God put in her womb. That's the attitude of the world. Pleasure and possessions is more important. Than the life of a child. God have mercy on the United States of America. Now I want to say this, and I want to say as compassionate as I can. Inevitably end up talking, somebody said, Preacher, I had an abortion. See, I can I can't and by the way, folks that have abortions, it ruins them emotionally and mentally for the rest of their life. Unless They come to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want to be very quick to hasten to add. I want to be very quick to add and very compassionately add, we can come to Jesus Christ, and He will forgive the worst of sins. We confess and forsake. God forgave murderers. Moses was a murderer. David was an adulterer and a murderer. Yet the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from what? All sin. There is forgiveness. There is salvation. We had years and years ago, we had a lady, saw the sign, came to baby day. She met with us later on. She said, preacher, she's weeping. Because I had an abortion years ago. We were able to lead her to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. God forgave her and cleansed her sin, gave her peace in her heart and mind. And she says, now I have a baby in heaven, and I'll be able to see him someday. Why in the world would these disciples say? Rebuke them. Don't bring them. I think they thought it would be an inconvenience. It's a hindrance. to what we're trying to do. They don't have nothing to contribute. It's interesting, and again I'm running out of time, but it's interesting in Mark chapter 13, verse 12 Speaking of the last days, the Lord Jesus says, brothers shall deliver brother unto death. Listen to this. The brother shall deliver his brother unto death in the last days. In other words, the brother is Is what? Having the brother killed. He's delivering them unto death. And then he makes this statement, and fathers their sons. And he says one of the characteristics in the last days is going to be parents, fathers in particular in this case, but parents delivering their children to death. Sounds like twenty twenty-one, United States of America, huh? How many how many babies were aborted today so far? How many parents delivered their children unto death this last week? Tens of thousands I'm saying this: children are important to the Lord Jesus Christ. From the moment of conception, from the womb to the tomb, they're precious to the Lord Jesus Christ. The importance of children to the Lord Jesus. From Genesis to Revelation, the Bible emphasizes God's love for children, the importance of children to our God. I got saved in 1979 within the first year of me trusting Christ. I was growing. There was a couple guys discipling me and I was just I was so excited. I was growing, I was learning what it means to be a Christian. God was blessing and they invited me to work. That was in May. In September, they invited me to help in their junior boys ministry. They had a Wednesday night ministry for all kids, but I they asked me to work with the junior boys. There's probably 50 or 60 of them It's a pretty good-sized church. And so Wednesday night, I'm a new Christian, four or five months old in the Lord. I'm just learning, and I just did what they told me to. I had a big beard. How many people would like to see me with a beard? Forget it, it ain't gonna happen. But anyway, that has nothing to do with anything. But I started working with the children. And I look back here 40 plus years later and I'm so grateful. You know what I learned? I learned that children are important to Jesus Christ. And I saw God working in their lives, and we teach them the Bible, and we pray for them and with them. And I saw boys get saved. I saw them follow the Lord in baptism children and start living for God and witnessing to their friends. From there I went down to Tennessee Temple, got involved in the bus ministry, and I saw those inner city kids And Chattanooga coming to Christ and their lives being changed. One was Michael Scrubgs was his name. Man, God changed that boy's life. Many, many. Then I went to neighborhood Bible time, all across the country preaching to children and seeing God save them and change their lives. And I came pastor Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and I got to work with adults now. You know, I found out not much different than the kids. It's same thing. Children are important to the Lord Jesus Christ. I've got to quit. The instruction of children to believers was my second thought. We learn a lot from children. These little children are good for our church. They help us grow. We see the importance of humility. Proverbs 20, verse 11, says, even a child is known by his doings. You look at a child, you learn a lot about that child. You know what that says? We learn from that. People can tell a lot about us by how we behave, by our doings. We learn the simplicity of faith, the beauty of sincere praise. Out of the mouth of babes and suckless, thou hast perfected praise. The other week we had our master ministry thing, and in a couple weeks we're going to have our award Sunday for King's Kids and Master Clubs. You know what's going to happen? There's going to be little children up here, and you know what they're going to do? They're going to sing their hearts out to the Lord Jesus. I love it when we have these little kids up here and just sing. And I look at that and say, Lord, if we just had half our crowd sing like they do, we'd blow the windows out the side of this place. And then last of all, I put this down: in the investment of children by the church. Jesus said, Bring the children to me, bring them to me, for of such is the kingdom of God. You bring those kids in. You teach them about the Lord Jesus Christ. You encourage them to trust Him as Savior. And when they do, you get them baptized and you disciple and teach them, and then they'll go out and they'll reach others. The children are vital to the health of our church. Children are vital to the future of our church. These little children that the disciples are rebuking the parents say, get them out of here! Jesus, much displeased, he said, You bring them on in. They changed their tune and brought them in. You know what I think? In thirty years down the road, ten, maybe less, ten, twenty years down the road, those little children were the disciples of the disciples. Those little children that the disciples are trying to run off, Jesus says, No, you bring them back. I wonder if a bunch of them weren't the ones that were church fathers. Trained under the disciples, and now they're going out and pastoring churches and starting churches and being missionaries. The disciples failed to see That a ministry without children is a ministry without a future. Vladimir Lenin said, You give me your children, and I'll control your future. Let's bring our children to the Lord Jesus Christ. We don't teach them our faith. This whole world will. Our church, get this quote. Our church is one generation away from extinction. Anybody notice we're getting old awfully fast? I thought it would take longer to get to age 61 than what it did. Before long, a lot of us are going to be off the scene. We had a lot of people the last 12-15 months going on to glory. We're next. And our future, if we don't reach these kids, this church is done. State! Our country's full of empty churches that were once filled with moms and dads and teenagers and children. They lost sight of reaching others and they lost sight of the youth ministry. And now they set empty. A number of years ago we went and we started renting empty church buildings down in Kittsmill or out in Baird. There's empty church buildings all over this place. And we rented them and cleaned them up and put temporary heating in there. It was in November and Dr. Don Williams was here. Remember that? About five years. Every fall we'd get them, clean them up, and we'd have revival meetings in churches that one day were filled with families and teenagers and kids now are setting empty. We just want to do something Great, great concern of my heart is that there never be a day between now and the return of Christ where this church is setting empty. No buses, buses rotting, rusting away, Sunday school classrooms all musty and mildew and spiderwebs, hues, mice running around Well, I think we still have some mice running around with us. Church without a future to church with no ministry to what? Children, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord, to see these little children and see others the way you do. Help us have a burden. Lord, I pray you'd touch some hearts of church members and maybe stir them to get involved in our children's ministry. Help us. The bus ministry, Sunday school visitation, getting out in neighborhoods and trying to sign up people. Bible time's coming up. Lord, please stir our church. More people be involved, more people helping us. So that we can bring little children to Jesus. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, God stirred my heart? I want God to use me however he can To bring young people to Christ. Or really anybody. But today's young, anybody like that, God stir in my heart. I want God to use me. Now God can use us in greater ways than we think. We'll just give ourselves to him. Say, Lord, whatever. You lead me, you direct me. You'll trust him and follow him. He'll use you. He really will. We'd love to start more buses. We got neighborhoods to Canvas where there's kids. I know if we'd go and sign them up, they'd come. Maybe there's some here today say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. And you know you need to be saved. You know that. Maybe God's been dealing with your heart. And today you say, all right, no more fussing with God, no more resisting the Lord's Holy Spirit. I'm willing to trust Christ and get my salvation settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Say, preacher, pray for me. No more fighting, God. I want to trust them and let them save me. Is there any like that? God bless you. How about it? Any others? No more fighting God. I want the Lord to have his way. Maybe you're saved and you've been hidden. Maybe you've not been living like you should It's been hurting other people. It's been hindering other people. You say, preacher, pray for me. No more hypocrisy. No more tolerating sin in my life. I wanted to be right. I want to be a right Christian. You say, preacher, pray for me. God steal my heart. Any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I want to be right. I want to be right. God bless you. Hands all around. Well, this whole altar is a good place to come do business and say, Lord, show me what I need to do. Help me make the changes I need to make, and God will help us. And if you're not saved, you come on. We'll help you trust Christ. We'll show you how. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed.