Of the message tonight is I'm going to be saying thank you to you. We'll get there here in a little bit. This isn't going to be a normal Sermon. We're going to be in Philippians chapter one. And my plan is just to kind of walk through the chapter tonight. Um I am gonna have a challenge at the end, so this isn't just a speech, you know what I mean. I appreciate Pastor giving me this opportunity to do this before um we go. And um Anyway, I'm just I'm just gonna hop into it because this is either gonna last five minutes or an hour and a half, I'm not sure. So if you look at your watch and it's around six, seven minutes, it's gonna be a while. Yeah, sorry. I couldn't help it. Um Philippians chapter one Paul and Timotheus, Timotheus, tomato tomato, servants of Jesus Christ to all the saints in Christ Jesus, which are at Philippi. Now, if you want to go to Acts 16, you can. This is where the church at Philippi was started. In response to Paul just being obedient. That's what it is. And um if you want to go there, you can. You don't have to. In Acts sixteen, verse nine, we see what we refer to as the the Macedonian call, the vision he had. It says And a vision appeared to Paul in the night. There stood a man at Macedonia and prayed, saying, Come over and Macedonia, help us. I'm going to take this jacket off. It's a little warm. It might just be me. It probably is just me, but I'm going to take the jacket off. And anyway, I think I should pray first. Is that okay? I want to pray first. Lord, I pray that you be with this service tonight. Thank you for uh just allowing Courtney and I to be here. Um Lord, I I I appreciate everything that's been said very much. We love this church very much, but my prayer now is that you would be glorified and you would be exalted in the service tonight. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. So anyway, the chapter sixteen of Acts we see the church at Philippi where it's kind of birthed and it's birthed out of Paul uh just being responsive there to that call. uh that vision he had of the man from Macedonia saying, Come and help us. And they they go to Macedonia and they hit some cities there. Verse 12 is where they show up at Philippi, which is referred to as the chief city of Macedonia and a colony. And I won't read all of chapter 16 of Acts. I'm just going to highlight some things. And then we'll be back in Philippians chapter 1. But um there's some fri there's some famous people here. There's Lydia. Paul meets Lydia in verse 14. She was the seller of purple. And he meets her there. And then in verse 15, she was baptized, and then her whole house. So Paul already, I mean right after showing up to Philippi, um he's people would say he's had an impact, which I'm gonna make a counterpoint to that here in a little bit, but and so he he It has a relationship with this family, with Lydia, her kids, her family. It's a name that's real to him. You know what I mean? We look at it 2,000 years later as just, oh yeah, these people knew these people, but they were people and they were, I mean it was very real to them, as real as this is to to to me and to you right now. Verse 16, and it came to pass as they went a certain damsel possessed with the spirit of divination, serves as this possessed girl. And I won't read the whole story there. She gets converted. She gets saved. The spirits cast out a few verses later. That young girl's life has changed. And and and Paul knew her well. And and he had a influence on her life and she did on his because he remembers her. We'll see that here in a little bit when we get back to Philippians. And then you go on a little further after the city gets in an uproar of that. So that's the third convert on record. Lydia, well then her family, however many that was, and then this young girl. And then they go into prison, and of course, while they're in prison, Paul and Silas are there, and you know the story. Uh they sing, and um They were gonna get out the the the the the jailer thought they were gonna get out of the prison, so he's gonna kill himself because he thought they'd escaped. The f story of the Philippian jailer, right? So these are the people he's writing to. And of course, that famous verse in Acts 16, what must I do to be saved? And of course, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and shou shalt be saved in thy house. Verse 31. And so We see we see several people that we can pinpoint, not just, oh yeah, there's a church there. We have the name Lydia, we have the the the the man, the jailer, we know that young girl that was possessed. And and now she's been s she's been saved. So these are individuals, but they make up the church, the Philippi. Well that's what a church is, right? It's individuals in that make up a body. That make up a local church. In this case, it's Philippi. And so if you go back to Philippians, I'm just going to kind of walk through chapter one. It's been longer than five minutes, so I guess this is how this is going to go. We'll be here for an hour. Nah, probably not. Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, all the saints in Christ, Jesus, were at Philippi with bishops and deacons. Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Before I read the third verse, and that's really where the sermon is going to start. People would say that Paul had a major impact on their life at Philippi. Sure, he did. But what we're about to see is Paul's his perspective, they had a major impact on his life. The next few words you don't see in Galatians, Ephesians, or Colossians when he opens his letter. You see it in Philippians Verse three, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. Always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy. So they must have had a joy there as well. That's interesting. Joy. They had one of you. No one had caught my joke, so I had to repeat it. Did you see that? Help me out here. I need something funny, okay? I'm just kidding. You don't see him talk that way. And not that he talked down or he wasn't they didn't love the other churches, but there was definitely something special there at Philippi. There definitely was. There's something unique with that church. Very, very close with them. And um anyway, so he says, uh uh well let me just tell you what I'm gonna do. I got five things from chapter one, and I'm going to be going through the whole chapter. Maybe not necessarily in order, we'll try, but I'm going to share five things that really stand out to me. And um I'll start with the first one, and that is Paul's emotions. I thought I was emotional. I got nothing on Paul. This guy was emotional. Um by my whole life I've been you know I've been told I'm emotional and and that was one of the first things Pastor noticed about me right after I came on staff here And um and that's a good thing. He's remember saying that it's a good thing. But it could also be a bad thing, you know, depending And if you let it control you. Uh forget who said it. Emotion makes a good engine but not a good conductor. Has anyone ever heard that before? Yeah. And it's true. Emotion's good. Just don't let it Be what controls you, the heart's deceitful, right? Anyway. Paul is emotional and we're going to see that here. I'm just going to highlight a few things. Verse three is where he says, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. Every remembrance means every remembrance Now, do you think it's possible that in the time Paul was there at Philippi that there were some not good things that happened to him? Yeah, there was. In fact, we have one on record. He was in jail. And one of the people he led to the Lord and his family was the jailkeeper. So I think it's safe to say there were people that were members of the church of Philippi that didn't do nice things to him. Right? Whether it's before they were saved or not, you get the point I'm trying to make. But when Paul remembers Philippi He says, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. That's pretty cool. He's choosing to remember the good things, I think. And I think that's healthy. Now is not a good time for us to remember all the negative things, I don't think. For me and Cornell, yeah, well remember this or this or that? Bologna. Which is good by the way, especially if you fry it. Help me out here, come on. Every time he thought of Lydia, he thanked God. Every time he thought of that young girl who is now on her way to heaven, he thanked God. Every time he thought of that jailer, he thanked God and his family. And many more that I just don't know that we don't know who they are. Thank my God upon every remembrance of you. Always in every prayer of mine. Now I believe every word's inspired here, and I think you do too, which means if it says always in every prayer That means every time he prayed. And I'll be honest with you, I'm finding myself praying for you more now, the past six months Maybe more. I can't help it, Zach. I'm sorry. I find myself praying for you more now than ever. And myself as well. I just find myself praying more right now And Paul is saying it every prayer. Always. What that the does that mean when he prays in the morning and when he prays in the evening and when he prays for lunch before he gets Chipotle? I think they should have a Chipotle here here at County. That's just my opinion. But um I'll mail you a burrito. And he keeps going, making requests with joy. When Paul thinks of Philippi, the emotions are thankfulness, joy, prayerfulness. What is he thankful for? Look at uh believe it's verse five. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. The now he's in prison, right? When he wrote this, he's in prison. And from the first day he shows up and he goes down to where the women were were washing and he he met Lydia or washing their nets or something. I can't remember exactly what they were doing. They were down there doing something, he met her And from that first day until in prison, that's a lot of days. And so I see what he's thankful for here, thankful for the fellowship of the gospel from the first day until now. I am grateful to fellowship in the gospel with Mountain Lake. And the fellowship we have is he mentioned it, soul winning. I love it. It's like the highlight of my week. I love Sunday afternoon soul winning. Because we get to share the gospel and also the fellowship we have in the gospel. It is fun. Um, I love it. It's one of the highlights. Wednesday nights before youth group starts when I'm sitting on the bench up front and the kids are coming in from the back, coming in from the side, and I'm sitting up front door, sometimes I'm sitting at the piano And we're just doing stupid stuff, talking before we start. You know, mom jokes or something. It's great. It's like a dad joke. But it's nothing like a dad joke. Sorry. I love the fellowship we've had. in the gospel from the first day until now. And then now is when he's in prison, which means he's not there with them, which means the fellowship in the gospel continued after he left. Y'all read in between the lines? Even as it is meat for me to think this of you all because I have you in my heart, I'm telling you, I thought I was emotional, Paul's got me beat. Verse 8, God is my record how greatly I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ. Bowels means has the idea when I looked it up of tender affections, of tender feelings, has the idea of your stomach turning. He got homesick for Philippi when he thought about him. It's the same kind of feeling. And I can't tell you how We have we long after you from week to week. Coming in on Sunday, coming in on Wednesday, Thursday, activities, going to camps, we long for the er for the past eight years. We just can't wait till the next time we can see you again. I love it when we have missions conference or revival because we get to see each other and serve God and praise God together more. Which is why you should come to meetings like that. Well, one reason, but but it's a big reason. Anyway, let me keep moving. He talks about his feelings and how he had actually, when he longs after them, he in the bowels of Jesus Christ, the tender feelings, if you will, of Jesus Christ. That's how he f how he feels when he thinks about this church while he's in jail. So I find that interesting. Um moving on here, he says he uh well th this really does it actually. And um I don't I don't think again, I don't think I am this emotional But if you look at verse 20, according to my earnest expectations, my hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but with all boldness As always, so now also Christ might be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or death, for to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor. Yet what I shall choose, I wot not. The word means understand. Where we don't use as much what. I don't fully grasp it. Or what not. For I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ. He's saying I'd rather just go on and go on to heaven. That's what he's saying. But to be with uh to be with Christ, which is far better, nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. He's like, the way I feel right now, I'm ready to just go to heaven. But God's got a plan. And I can't do that right now. And then he goes on, you know, nevertheless to abide is more needful. And he he anyway, I'm not going to spend the whole night just talking about his emotion, but I want you to wanted to point that out When Paul wrote this letter, I don't doubt that there were tears in his eyes. But the second thing I want to share with you is this is Paul's confidence. Which again, uh if all there was was the emotion, that might not be a a good thing. Like I said, it makes a good engine just not a good conductor. I don't think we should discount it, but his confidence isn't in his feelings. Look at verse six Being confident of this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Paul was confident in a few things. One, that God had begun a good work in their life. He was there for it, wasn't he? When they trusted Christ, when he saw the church take off there, and he's leading families to the Lord. He was there when God had started a work in them. And his confidence wasn't even in himself at all He hasn't glory in the flesh. And with it and with the the king's kids this morning, it was um in front out of uh Corinthians uh where he says Who is Paul? Who is Apollos? He's he referring to himself. He knew who Paul was, that was himself, right But it's neither is he that planth anything or he who watereth, but it's God that giveth the increase. He understood this. And we understand this. He's confident not in himself, but in the fact that God had begun a good work in them. And not that just that God had begun a good work in them, but would continue to work in them. I like that. Because while Paul's in a different place and he's remembering back there at Philippi his friends. Part of the body of Christ, his friends. He's remembering yet Christ saved them and he's continuing to work in their lives. I think that's pretty cool. He was confident that God had begun a work and he was confident he was going to continue. He begun the work in Lydia's household when their family was saved, and then of course after that they were baptized. The young girl, the jailer, and many more. And he's just as confident. And you can see the word confidence several times throughout this chapter. The one that just jumps off the page there, verse 25. He's confident there. I'll actually get to that in a minute. But after his confidence, I want you to see the third thing is his surrender. Verse 12 I would ye should understand, brethren, the things which have happened to me have fallen out rather under the furtherance of the gospel. Um I'm not getting whipped or beat, okay? So don't anyone panic here. Okay, I'm not going to get beheaded, I hope. You never know. Huh. But probably not. Okay? Um we are still going to be in America. I don't know if you knew that. And U. S. mail, even though it's like five dollars for a stamp now, you can st you know, it's still a thing. Some sarcasm there, but not much. Um so it's not exactly the same, but there's some principles here. Verse twelve, I think that's where it was. I would you should understand, brethren, that things which happened to me happen in the furtherance of the gospel. Why is God allowing Paul to go through the things he wanted to go that he did not necessarily want to go through for the furtherance of the gospel. Um It's kind of actually the reason we're here on Earth, isn't it? To go into all the world and preach the gospel. I'm glad that Paul planted more than one church. I really am. And did he know what the future would be like after he left the first one? Not necessarily. He knew what his mission was, though. Furtherance of the gospel. And so he talks about that, uh verse twelve there. Happen to me for it to the gospel, so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace. That's pretty cool. And in all other places. Because Paul was willing, despite his emotions, which he had them. To surrender. And his confidence being in himself not in himself, but in Christ. He was willing then to surrender. Because he surrendered, the gospel was furthered. And then there was another bonus as the result of his surrender. Verse 14. And many of the brethren in the Lord waxing confident. By my bonds, are much more bold to speak with the word without fear. Because Paul was willing to do something that he even says, What I shall choose, I what not. I don't even understand it. Verse 22. I don't even get it. Because he was willing to do the thing he didn't necessarily understand, the gospel was furthered, and then the more people there were emboldened to preach the gospel. That's a two for one. I don't know the names of the people that were emboldened by him. Well some. Um but well even till today people are being emboldened by what Paul has done in his surrender. I'm not Paul by any means. I went through a series with the kids through Second Timothy over the past two or three months. Um it was his last letter to Timothy and uh thought it was just fitting because of the relationship I have with them. They're like my Timothy's, you know. So You know, Paul has and it had an influence, and many people were were emboldened To preach the word without fear. And he goes on in verses fifteen through eighteen. You know, some preach for the wrong reasons and all of that, but he's grateful that the gospel was preached, and therein he does rejoice. In verse 18 So we see his surrender. And we see his confidence. We see his emotion. I worked backwards there, but we see that. The next thing we see is his desire to continue serving the Lord with the church. Verse 25, having this confidence. I know I shall abide and continue with you all for the furtherance and joy of faith. Even though he was in another location, he still considered himself family serving together, which I do And I've and you've expressed something similar, but many of you have. I use this illustration with the teens. This is this is um I'm your brother. And your brother is enlisted and he's going somewhere, but he's still your brother and he's still your brother. Does that make sense? You still see him at Christmas, you know what I mean? Um So it's kinda like that. And that's kind of how Paul I think is viewing this as well. So his desire there, he says in verse uh twenty-five, having this confidence, I know I shall abide and continue with you all for the furtherance and joy of faith, that your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again. The first time that Paul was at Philippi, he's there you know, to to read well, he he was always spreading the gospel wherever it went, but everything was new there, you know what I mean? And so he had a certain type of relationship with them But then once he moved on, the relationship didn't stop. It just changed a little bit. This is an example I've given to the teens. And I watched it happen New Year's Day, and it was hilarious. So I don't know if you you knew this, but I'm actually in my thirties. Um yeah Um Chloe and Bella think that uh they thought I was in my seventies. They did. I'm halfway almost. Um so if anyone has some geritol I could use it. The fact that I know what that is tells them though. Um, I lost my train of thought. What was I talking about? Jesus probably, right? Huh? Oh, this was funny. Yeah, New Year's Eve New Year's Day. New Year's Day, sorry. When I was at I was at my parents' house, my younger brother still lives at home. My youngest brother still lives at home. And so we're sitting in the living room drinking coffee, he's drinking coffee. Um he's the tallest of us. He's the baby of the family, but he's the tallest of us. He is between six foot six and six foot eight. True story. True story. I just didn't want to say the numbers again. So he um that's how that's seriously that's all he is. He's I he's a few one of the few people I look up to. And so he's sitting in the chair, I'm sitting in the chair, we're drinking coffee, it's great. And mom comes in, it's like when you need to take out the trash. And I looked at him, I was like, ha, you still live here. It's funny, right? It's funny. I I I don't get that tour anymore. And so like I was telling the the kids The next time I see him it's not going to be Miss Soul Winning one more time, you're not qualified to go on a missions trip. You know, it's it'll just be good Just be sweet. Be great. How you doing? How's life? You know? Um, happy things. Does that make sense? Someone else will have to yell at 'em, right? Because I don't have to even remember that. I'm only going to remember the good. Um Y'all just bear with me here for a minute. There's a lot of good to remember. I love our teens like they're our own, which I know they're not. They're yours. But they're ours too, in a way. And uh he desired to continue to work with the church, like I already mentioned that. The role was different, but he was still working with them. And so verse twenty-five and twenty-six there, the fifth thing is he you know he planned to see him again. And he mentions that. Actually in chapter two, verse twenty-four, it says, I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortly. He was he he was confident. There is um I mean it's documented. He he didn't just show up one time. He came back in Acts twenty and there it implies that he's visiting again. And so that's kind of encouraging. So those are the five things I pulled out of this chapter. There's much more I could elaborate on, but I'm just not going to. Obviously, like Paul, our emotions are everywhere. And I heard a lot of people tonight say things, really good things, for which I'm grateful for about me and Ms. Courtney. And it almost sounds kind of cliche, but you have all been much more of a blessing to us than we have been to you. I really believe that. Always and in every prayer, I thank God for every one of you. And I can't think of one person that I'm not grateful for. I was talking with Charlie earlier, we're remembering names from seven years ago. Um two hundred and forty seven teenagers. No way I could count all the adults. Two hundred and forty seven There's not one I'm not grateful for. Always and in every prayer of mine, you'll be there. I'm not gonna check out clock out tonight and quit thinking about and praying for you. You don't do that to family. I love you. And I'm looking around, there's not a person in this room that I don't love. If there was, I wouldn't tell you. I'm just kidding. I killed it. I killed it. I tell the teens all the time, I love you from the heart. Like Paul, I plan on continuing to serve our Lord with you. It might not be from this address. We're gonna live together forever in heaven. It'll be fine. And I do plan to see you again. This is my invitation. You close your Bibles and done with my the Bible there. Not done with the Bible. Just done reading from it tonight. But my last challenge to you as A staff member here, not my last challenge to you ever, I hope. I mean I don't plan on that. But as a you know staff member here, this is my challenge to you. Maybe kind of wordy, but just work with me on this. Paul said, But because of what happened to him, there were many that were wax bold. Many were emboldened to preach the gospel. I'm gonna keep preaching. That's what I'm gonna do. Will someone do it with me? Not that I'm Paul. I'm not that forget that. Don't use my example alone. Use his example. Think about Christ. I'm uh But if we're willing, if Paul's willing, to go do something he doesn't even understand. When his bowels are turning because he misses the Philippians so much. He's willing to go do it anyway. Is there someone here that would just be willing to be emboldened to do the same? I've been praying for some young men to go into ministry. We have such a shortage of pastors, evangelists, youth pastors, missionaries. You name it, we got a shortage of it. Can someone else go with me? Not to the same place, although I wouldn't care, that'd be fine, but you get the point. We saw where people were emboldened to preach the gospel. Paul inspired them, if you want to put it that way, as he still inspires people today. Is there someone else that'll give up what they want? To go tell people about Christ that wouldn't hear it. Is God calling someone to the mission field tonight Maybe. Not trying to pry anything out. I have a feeling there might be some men. Doesn't have to just be young men. Be young, middle-aged, old men. I'm an old man, right? Chloe? Is there someone that would say, you know what? I'll surrender. I'll do it too. That's the invitation. That's the that's the call. Like I said at the beginning, I don't want this to be about me, I want this to be about Christ. People who are dying and going to hell. I've got to do something about it. And you do too. Well, you give your life to the Lord. And if you want to come play an invitation here in a minute, that's fine. Heads bowed, eyes closed. By by raise of hand, is there anyone? Pastor Matt, I don't maybe even know exactly what. But I'll go to I'm not saying specific like preacher missionary I'm just willing to go do whatever it takes to spread the gospel. I've been emboldened, and I am going to tell people about Christ. I want to give my life To tell someone else about him. I will give my life through the furtherance of the gospel. God's put that on your heart. Could you raise your hand? Just so I know who to pray with. Praise God for that. Praise God for that. Amen. God's put that on your heart. I'm asking to stand everyone to stand to their feet. When she starts playing, if God's put that on your heart, could could you come forward?