Thank God for our babies and for uh our youth, all the youth, all through. It's exciting to see our young people growing and their service to the Lord and their walk with the Lord. We thank God for that. 1 Samuel chapter number 3. I'd like for you, if you would, come with me to verse number 10. And I would like for us to read together verse number 10 in unison. And particularly the last phrase of the verse is where we're going to give some attention to. 1 Samuel chapter 3. And verse number ten, altogether. Would you read it with me? Here we go. And the Lord came and stood and called as at other times Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak, for thy servant heareth. I would like to speak on the subject a child's prayer. A child's prayer. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless our message this morning. Father in heaven, I thank you for a good day. And Lord, these little babies up here in front stirred our hearts. Lord, as we think about the potential that lies in the hearts and lives of these little children for future generations, we do ask that you would bless them. We do ask that you give the parents real grace and real wisdom as they raise up these children in a very difficult day. I pray every child would know you as Savior at a very early age as we prayed before. That they would live for you and serve you and have a profound impact on this whole world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. So now we look at a child's prayer. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. I ask you to open our hearts and minds that we would be willing to receive what your word says, that your Holy Spirit would apply it to our lives as you see fit, that we would leave here closer to you, stronger in our faith. So bless this message, I pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Back in the day when the telegraph was beginning to be the means of communication for long distance There was a job put out, help needed in a telegraph office, and they needed a Morris code operator. So a young man saw it in the newspaper. He saw the ad for the job. He needed a job. So he made his way down to the office where uh this uh was listed, the address where it was listed When he got in there, he walked into the office. It was a very busy office. There was a lot of noise going on, typewriters, different things. In the background, you could hear the uh the telegraph machines clicking away And uh he went up to the desk and he said, I saw this ad for a uh uh Morris code operator. I'd like to apply for the job. She says, okay, fill this form out, have a seat, fill this form out, wait there until you're told what to do. He took the form, he turned around the waiting area, it was full. There was people there all filling out their little papers. And he sat there for a few moments, filled out his paper, he sat there, and there's all this noise going on. All of a sudden he got up Walked across the waiting area, went to the certain door where the boss was, the person hiring them, boldly opened the door, walked in, and closed the door behind them. All the other applicants sat there thinking, all right, this guy's being arrogant. He's walked in here, he's going to get fired, he's not going to get the job A few moments went by. It's quiet back there. They're all sitting there waiting and clicking and everything going on. Suddenly opened the door and the boss came out and he says, all the other applicants, you can go on home now. We've hired this young man Here we've hired him to be our Morris code operator. And they said, wait a minute, you didn't even talk to us. They came in here. We were ahead of him. Why would you have this isn't fair? And they all were grumbling and griping. Finally the fellow explained He says, while you all were sitting here, we were sending out over Morris Code this message. If you understand this code, come through the door, you have the job. The young man understood Morris' code. He went through the door and he got the job. The point of that is, and I think the application of the message is, here was a young man who could hear something that others could not hear. And in the life of little Samuel, here we find a young man that heard the voice of God. And God did a profound thing in the life of Samuel. Now I've been in the ministry. I've been saying this. Maybe this is something with getting older. I don't know. But I've been talking about how long I've done things, you know. And anybody getting older, you start talking about how long you've been doing things and all of that Well I've I began full-time in the ministry. I consider it from 1985, so that's about 32 years I've been in the ministry, 24 just about here at Mountain Lake, and I've noticed a couple things, my experience. I notice sometimes you can have two people. It might be the same age or around the same age. They can attend the same church. They'll be involved in the same programs, go to the same revival meetings and conferences. They'll learn the same verses. They'll learn and sing the same songs. They'll hear the same sermons. And they walk out of there and they end up with two completely different outcomes. Now I wonder why is that? Why is it that some people seem to hear the voice of God, seem to hear God stirring, seem to hear sense what God is doing, and they go on and live for God and become influential in the world for the gospel and for the Lord And then others grow up in the same environment for the most part as far as the sermons and preaching, and yet they go a completely different direction. Why is that? I think the answer is found. Now keep your place. We're going to come back here. But if you would turn with me to the New Testament. And in Luke chapter number eight, the Lord gives an interesting parable And at first the disciples do not understand what he's talking about. Then he takes a moment and he comes back and he goes over that parable with them. Luke chapter 8, that's where you're turning. He goes back over that parable and he explains what he meant in the parable. And I believe in that explanation it helps us understand why some people respond to the Word of God and to the Spirit of God in a positive way, and then some others will respond in a negative way. Luke chapter 8, and notice with me we'll begin in verse number 11. Now this the Lord has told the parable. Now he's coming back and he's explaining it to his disciples. Verse 11. Now the parable is this. The seed is the word of God. Now the parable was, I should have done this first. The parable was a sower went out and sowed seed. Some of it fell in the pathway, some of it fell in rocky ground, some of it fell in uh thorny ground, weeds and stuff, others fell in good ground. Of course the good ground yielded fruit. The pathway and the others did some of it did for a period of time, then it withered. Now he's explaining it. The seed is the word of God. Those by the wayside are they that hear. Then cometh the devil and taketh away the word out of their hearts. Lest they should believe and be saved. So what does that verse tell us? The soil, the various types of soil, is describing what? Their hearts. Alright, so the first by the wayside, the devil comes along, takes it out of their heart. He sowed the seed on the wayside. The birds came and ate it. And that's the devil, picture of the devil taken away. So the soil is the heart. That's important to understand Then cometh the devil taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. And they on the rock were they which when they hear receive the word with joy, and these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. And that which fell among thorns are they which, when they have heard, go forth and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. But that on the good ground are they which in an honest and good What? Heart, having heard the word, keep it and bring forth fruit with patience. Now, I think this parable perhaps is explaining to us why some people will hear the same sermon as others, go to the same church, sing the same song. Some turn out and become very fruitful for the Lord. And then others, a completely different outcome. I believe it is the condition of the heart. In this parable, the seed is the same. It's the exact same seed being sown. It's the exact same sower. The sower is the same. The seed is the same. What's different in this parable is the conditions of the hearts. Some is a very hard, trampled heart, another is a stony heart, another is a thorny, weedy heart, and another is a good heart, good soil. We come back to Samuel now. It's kind of interesting, and a lot of us know the story of Samuel, and we're going to look in a little more detail, but Samuel was given to his parents in response to a mother's prayer. She wasn't mother at the time. She was barren. She began to pray very earnestly. God gave her a child in answer to her prayers. Reminds me of, I heard um, I didn't hear him personally, but I heard on uh recording, Dr. John R. Rice many years ago was preaching a family conference, a big family conference. And um He was going to have prayer for those that were barren and wanted more to wanted to have children. And they could not. And so he was speaking of that, and then he had, and I don't know if I'm getting this exactly correct, but he had anybody that wanted him to pray for children. To stand up. And so a lot of people stood up. A lot of them already had children. He wanted them to pray for children. What he meant was if they did not have children, God would give them children. So all the ladies are standing up across this great conference, you know, hundreds and thousands maybe. And he began to pray that God would give them children, lots of children, all these ladies standing. Somebody there said, ladies all over started going down, all over. They misunderstood. He was praying for those that do not have children. I thought that was an interesting story. Well, we come back to Samuel here, and Hannah is praying very earnestly that God would give her a child. And in response to her prayers, God blesses her with this child. And she made a covenant with the Lord that if God would give her this child, she would lend him back to the Lord. And she did that literally. She took her child after he was weaned, Samuel after he was weaned and able to live without her. She gave him back to the Lord, and he was raised by Eli the priest. in the house of God. Now this is what I find interesting. Eli is raised in the same home for the most part. In the same environment, for the most part, as Eli's two other sons. Now, Eli's two other sons were named Hapni and Phineas. Hopne and Phineas were very ungodly young men. Samuel becomes a testimony of what God's grace can do. In the life of even a child whose heart is fully yielded to God's word and to God's will Hop the and Phineas, the priests' sons, on the other hand, are a testimony of somebody with a hard heart, a worldly heart. A cold heart. Look at how the Bible describes Hophne and Phineas. Go to chapter 2 of 1 Samuel. And we'll just highlight a few verses through this chapter, chapter 2 and verse number 12. Now the sons of Eli were sons of Belial. I mean that's almost saying something like this. They were sons of the devil. I mean these guys were bad. They were sons of a of a false god. And they knew not the Lord. Look over at verse 17. Therefore the sin of the young man, Haphne and Phineas. was very great before the Lord, for the men abhorred the offering of the Lord. Look at verse number 22, same chapter. Now Eli was very old and heard all that his sons did unto all Israel, and how they lay with the women that assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. The wickedness that they were committing in the house of God. And he said unto them, Why do you such things? For I hear of your evil doings by all this people. Nay, my sons, for it is no good report that I hear. Ye make the Lord's people to transgress If one man sin against another, the judge shall judge him. But if a man sin against the Lord, who shall entreat for him? Look at this. Notwithstanding, they hearken not unto the voice of their father Come down to verse 25. They hearken not unto the voice of their father. We have on one hand, in the same household for the most part, in the same church, quote unquote. Same environment, we have a young man, Samuel. He's very sensitive to the Lord, and he's very uh open to the Lord, and he hears the voice of the Lord. And in that same environment, we have these two young men, Hafni and Phineas, and they are the exact opposite. What's the difference? I believe the difference is the conditions of their hearts. the condition of the soil. The devil has always targeted the youth. Anybody ever anybody notice that in society? The devil has always targeted the youth. We can go all the way back to when Israel was in Egypt. They were multiplying and God was raising up Moses and As the devil, I am convinced, inspired Pharaoh and the leadership of Israel, of Egypt, to begin killing the children of Israel, murdering them. Then we come back to when the Lord Jesus Christ was born in Bethlehem, and as Herod, again, I'm convinced, under the inspiration of Satan himself. And all the children, two years old and under, killed. The devil has always targeted our children. We see that in society. We look at the uh at the numbers of abortion that takes place in our society. It is hard to fathom how many small children in the wombs of their mothers are brutally killed on a daily basis, not just in our country but around the world. Can I say this? Abortion is of the devil. There is nothing godly about that. There is nothing right about that. There is nothing reasonable about that. Abortion, the concept of abortion, is straight out of hell. The Satan has always targeted our children. Now, I'll be quick to add this. Our God is a very gracious God. He's a very merciful God. And perhaps somebody, under the sound of my voice, you've been involved, you say I've had an abortion. And we're sorry to hear that, but God is very gracious. And if we come to God in repentance and faith, God will forgive every sin and all sin. And God can forgive even that sin. But nevertheless, it is absolutely of the devil. We look at the entertainment industry in our world today, targeting children. targeting children. Some of the songs that are introduced to children are absolutely ungodly. Some of these shows, even you know, even some of the children's movies and shows and the cartoons, if you listen carefully and the things that are presented, are absolutely wicked. Our children are being brainwashed into believing, I believe, the biggest lie that has ever been presented to humanity, the lie of evolution. That somehow they are from a monkey or from a lower life form. That is an absolute lie. Absolute lie of the devil. So what I'm trying to say is this, the devil has always targeted our children in our society, in our schools, the immorality that takes place. We were talking I guess Tom and I, between Sunday school and church, were talking about some of the things that are going on in our schools regarding the gender issue and all of that. And it absolutely blows my mind It absolutely blows my mind that we have gotten to the point where we are convincing our children that they do not know whether they're a boy or a girl. That is absolutely ungodly. God creates male and female. That is it. And so Satan is targeting our children, and we see a lot of this mentality that Satan has deceived the world with We even see it creeping into our churches. Satan is targeting our children. Even in our homes. The sin that is allowed and committed in the homes around children. I remember this was years ago Uh they were just coming out with VHS. Anybody remember I think it was back when Abraham Lincoln was president, somewhere back around then. They had these big VHS things. How many how many people here do not know what I'm talking about, VHS? I'm joking, but it's very serious. We were running bus routes down in Chattanooga. We get into the inner city project and the government housing there. And just horrendous. I remember one day we knocked on the door and we could hear music and stuff going on. We knocked on the door to visit the bus kids and the door was half open. They just said, come on in. And there was little kids, probably about two, three years old, up through nine, ten years old They're in the living room, absolutely filthy, beer cans all over the place. And I'm telling you, on that television with those little children around was some of the most filthy, perverse Pornography being played with those little children running all around. I thought, God have mercy. Satan targeting our children, twisting their minds, destroying their mentality of a moral sense. As a child, the sin and liquor in the homes. There ought never, there ought never to be liquor in the home of a Christian. For any circumstance at all, ever. And to have little children in a home where the vile wicked sin of liquor Is there of any sort that has no business in the home of a child or the home of a Christian? Or any home really as far as that goes. And the ungodly music, listen to me, do not fall for this idea that music is somehow in uh moral, that it's not right or wrong, just music is fine. Listen, there is some music that is absolutely ungodly. And it has a profound effect upon those that hear it. I read in my devotions just yesterday morning that we are to be careful what we hear. We taught the children when I, again, when I had the bus route, we used to teach them, oh, be careful, little ears, what you hear. Oh, be careful, little ears, what you hear. For the father up above is looking down in love. Oh, be careful, little ears, what you hear. Oh be careful, little eyes, what you see. Oh, be careful, little eyes, what you see. For the father up above is looking down in love. So be careful, little eyes, what you see. Satan's targeting our children. These little babies lined up here, so precious, so innocent, such potential. And Satan is out to destroy those little hearts and lives. Satan is merciless. Satan is hatred. Satan is death and destruction. And he wants to destroy them. The devil's targeting our babies. The devil is targeting our children. And he would like nothing more than to harden their hearts at a very early age. And to get all this garbage in their hearts and minds at a very early age, and to keep that seed of the Word of God, to keep the voice of God They don't hear it and they're not affected by it. Am I making any sense? You follow what I'm trying to say. Here you have Samuel. Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. Here you have Hafne and Phineas committing unspeakable sins in the house of God. Rebelling against their father, hating the things of God. What's the difference? Here is a heart that is tender and open to the Word of God. Here is hearts that's hard and sinful and corrupt. In my humble opinion, Solomon ended up being one of the greatest prophets in all of history. If you read about Solomon, he, as he grew and developed into a tremendous man of God, he really had no profound prophecies concerning the coming Messiah like Isaiah did. You read the book of Isaiah, Isaiah had some phenomenal prophecies about the coming of Christ. Isaiah chapter 53 is the gospel given really 700 years before Jesus showed up. Samuel never had any prophecies like that, so to speak. He never really had any spectacular confrontations with false prophets. Um not like Elijah. Man, what amazing event. How would I love to have been on Mount Carmel when Elijah called out the prophets of Baal and said, You pray To your God and I'll pray to the true and living God Jehovah, and the God that answers by fire, let him be God, and we'll worship him Remember the story? And they cried out all day long and cut themselves. And of course, their God was a false God. He didn't know ears to hear. He didn't know eyes to see. He didn't exist There's no fire. And Elijah prays out to God, and God answers by fire and consumes the altar and the sacrifice, burns up the water that was poured over. Samuel, you don't see him any of these fantastic spectacular confrontations. You don't really see a whole lot of jaw dropping miracles by Samuel. Not like Elijah. Elijah throws a stick and an axe, an iron axe head floats to the surface. Elijah's raising the dead You don't see that in the life of Samuel so much. What I think is the most notable characteristic of Samuel was this, his godly character. His impeccable integrity. And he was known as a man of prayer. As a man of prayer. Even as a child. Look what the Bible says about him as a child. Look with me in chapter 2 and verse number 11. Now we looked at Hopni and Phineas But let's look at Ela at Samuel now, verse 11 of 1 Samuel chapter 2. And Elkanah, that was his uh father, went to or Ramah to his house, and the child Samuel did minister unto the Lord before Eli the priest. Here you have a little child ministering to the Lord, serving the Lord. Verse eighteen But Samuel ministered before the Lord, being a child. Verse 21. And the Lord visited Hannah so that she conceived and bare three sons and two daughters. And the child Samuel grew before the Lord. What's that mean he grew before the Lord? He's growing in his faith, his spiritual development, even as a child. Verse 26 And the child Samuel grew on and was in favor both with the Lord and also with men. Come to chapter three And verse number one. And the child Samuel ministered before the Lord, before Eli. Verse number 19 of chapter 3. And Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground. And all Israel, from Dan even to Beersheba, knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the Lord. All this while he's a child. I want to suggest to you, little children can serve God. I want to suggest to you, we do not need the children to develop our caliber of faith, but rather we need to learn to have a child's caliber of faith. The faith of a child is what we need. And so here we have a small child, Samuel, is serving God, even as a child. I tell you, we had we finished up track month here a few weeks ago. I love track month. We give out tracks. I tell you, one of the exciting parts is see the little children get involved in giving out gospel tracts. Who in the world is going to turn down a gospel tract from Gracie Ringer? The devil himself would take it from her, I think. And little children can and often do have profound impact Upon people for the Lord. And so here we have Samuel. Now here's my question. This is what I'm getting to, and I'm going to have to cut this short. Samuel heard the voice of the Lord. Speak, Lord. Thy servant heareth. He saw himself as God's servant. What in the world? How did he get a heart like that? What produced that type of heart that was open to the Lord, submissive? Eli anders are over here and their hearts are hot and cold and and I thought what was the difference? What made the difference? And I believe there were several factors. Now I want to say this before, and I'm not going to be able to get to all these obviously, but I want to say this before Sometimes, for whatever reasons, a child can grow up in a good, strong, godly home and yet choose to go away from the Lord. How many people ever saw that? I mean a good, godly home. Some of the most godly friends I have in the ministry, men and women, love the Lord, faithful, pure, and godly, and they've had children go astray. Sometimes God will take an ungodly home, wicked, sinful home, and yet a child can come up and hear the voice of the Lord and go on and live for God. Some of the great evangelists throughout history have come from broken. Wicked, sinful homes. And so God is very gracious, and it doesn't always fit into our pattern, our understanding But I think there are some general principles that will produce in the life of a child a heart that is tender to God. And that will produce in the life of a child a child's prayer, like Samuel prayed, speak, Lord. For thy servant heareth. Now, what are those factors? And I'll just give you a couple if you'll bear with me. I think the primary factor was this: the conduct of his parents. The conduct of his parents. I look at his father, if you would, come back to chapter number one. His father was a good man. We see that very obviously, a good man. And every daddy ought to work very, very hard at being a good man. A good man. I put this down about his father. He feared God. I get that from verse number three of chapter one. And this man, this is Samuel's father Elkanah, this man went up out of the city yearly to worship and sacrifice unto the Lord of hosts in Shiloh. He very faithfully went up at the at the time of sacrifice and he worshipped God and he offered sacrifices. Here was a daddy that feared God. I believe every child ought to have a father that fears God. Now I'm just gonna say this. I think every father ought to go to church on a regular basis. Ought to be faithful to church. Our children, I and I I listen, I I I know I understand we got all kinds of backgrounds, all kinds of situations here. But every child ought to have their daddy in church with them They ought to. They really should. I'm not trying to do anything. I'm not trying to hurt anybody. I'm just saying that's the way it ought to be. It's the way it ought to be. Not to just send the kids off. It ought to take them to church. Ought to take them to church. Every father ought to know the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Every child ought to have a daddy that is a saved man. That's trust in Christ, been born again. They should. That's God's intention. Every child ought to have a father that fears and worships God. Fears and worships God. Now, again, a lot of times child doesn't have that and they still turn out and they live for God and uh they can still be something for God But this is God's intention. He was a good man. He feared God. I noticed something else. He loved his wife. He loved his wife. Look at verse number five. But unto Hannah he gave a worthy portion, for he loved Hannah, that the Lord had shut up her womb. He loved his wife. One of the best things a father can do for his child is to love their mother. One of the best things a mother can do for her child is to love that child's father. Elkina loved Hannah. Samuel's father loved Samuel's mother. Thou is just beside you're going to love your wife. Just decide you're gonna love your wife. You say, yeah, you don't know my wife I know this. God loves you. Doesn't matter how rough she might be. Chain as rough as you've been to God. Huh? God can love me than I can love my wife. And by the way, ladies, you ought to love your husband. Your child needs you to love your husband. You say, oh, you don't know my husband. No. But I know God loves you. And if a perfect holy God Can love a sinner like you and I. Surely I, as a sinner, can love another sinner. Am I making any sense at all? Making any sense. So I look at Samuel and I see a father that was a good man. And he feared God and he loved his wife. And I think that has to have a profound impact upon Samuel even as a small child. And then I look at Hannah. And I think Hannah really was the dominant influence in Samuel's life. She is an amazing woman. And I know we just had Mother's Day, I preached the Mothers, but I'm looking at Hannah here again, and what an amazing woman And I wish she had time. I'm just going to give you my little outline here. I had her downshirt. She was distressed in her heart and mind She was upset. Look at verse 5, the second part. The Lord shut up her womb. Verse number 6. And her adversary, that was Elkinah's other wife. Listen, multiple wives has never been a good idea. God tolerated it, but it was it never worked out. It was always disaster. Besides that, you'd have more than one mother-in-law. That would really be rough Her adversary provoked her sore to make her fret, because the Lord had shut up her womb. Look verse number 7. And as he did so, year by year she went up to the house of the Lord. So she provoked her. Therefore she wept and did not eat. Verse number 10. And she was in bitterness of soul. Old Hannah had a rough time. She had a rival wife, she had a barren womb, and there was rampant wickedness. If you read chapter 2, Hannah was bothered by the sinfulness in society. To make several statements in chapter 2. And this wickedness that was going on in Israel bothered her deeply. There's some great mothers that have had some pretty rough times. I know some great preachers years gone by that had profound influence on me and they grew up and they had no daddy in the home or daddy was an old drunk. But they had a mother that suffered and struggled, but she trusted God and she raised that child for God. Let me say this to the mothers. Maybe you're home, and maybe your husband didn't turn out. You may have left you, you may have abandoned you, you may be going through some rough times. It may not panned out the way you thought, but I'm telling you this: there's a God in heaven whom you can trust. And God can use you to raise a child to live for God. I hope I'm making sense here this morning. But Hannah had a rough time. She was brokenhearted. And yet God used her in a great way. We need parents and husbands and wives who will love and trust God. She was diligent in her prayers. Verse 10, verse 12, verse 15. She just prayed and prayed and prayed. It's interesting that later on, one of Samuel's chief characteristics was prayer. And yet here was a mother who prayed him into conception. And he was given to her in direct answer to prayer. A praying mother can do more for a child's spiritual well-being than just about anything else in the world. Parents, I hope you pray for your children. You know what these little babies need? They need a praying mother. They need a praying daddy. I believe they ought to get together. I'm convinced of this. Every mom and dad ought to get together. Whatever the home consists of, get it together and pray with and for one another. I remember when um our boys, our first child, well we did it for both of them. Our first son, uh Kathy was expecting with her first son and um you know she's just uh getting bigger and bigger as uh the child's developing and so she would um well never mind that but um When it's coming and I would put my mouth down on her belly and I'd say, Hello in there We love you, praying for you, can't wait to see you. And we'd lay our hands on our tummy and we'd pray. That little child in there. We ought to pray for our children. Amen? Hannah prayed, Hannah prayed. She was determined in her faith, and her decisions were unselfish I guess I'm trying to say this. I had a lot more. I just tried to condense it all together. I guess I'm trying to say this this morning. Thank God for these little children. And God has entrusted to parents and us as a church the responsibility to protect them from Satan's attacks in this whole wicked world. To saturate them with prayer and the Word of God. And be wise and raise them up for the Lord. Now I know we live in a day and I know I'm speaking to a good number of single parents and God bless you. God can use you in a phenomenal way. Some of you dads have to be mom and dad, don't you? Some of your moms have to be mom and dad. God is gracious. God is powerful. And those little children are a potential for God's glory. Let me raise them up for the Lord. If you're here this morning and you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, whether you're a parent or not, the most important thing is to trust Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. If you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, you are without God and without hope in this world. That's the most important thing. If you do know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, whether you're a parent or not, God wants you to live for Him. God wants you to keep that home clean and pure and right. Guard that home from Satan's attacks. Love our children and pray for them. Raise them up. Get them in the house of God. Get them around the people of God And who knows how God might use one of these little babies in the next generation to impact a world for Christ. It's very, very possible. Father in heaven, I pray now that you take these thoughts. Maybe you challenge a mom and dad, or even those of us, grandparents, and those of us that uh many that have no children Whatever reason, God, we just ask you would help us to have faith in you and to walk with you and trust you and live for you. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, how many hearing, maybe you're you're a parent and you have children in the home still. Maybe you have some small children. You'd say, preacher, pray with me. That God would help me to be that parent, God intends for me to be, that my child needs, that godly, faithful, God-fearing faithful parent that God would have me be. Is there anything like that? Of parents all around you. You have children in the home and you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I'll be that good, godly parent. God bless you. God sees that hand. God sees that heart. God knows that desire. He'll step in. And maybe the prayer is, Lord, give my child a tender heart. Heart of good soil, that they'll hear the word of God and be sensitive to the will of God. I think this morning would be a good time to pray that Maybe there's some here who say, preacher, my kids have grown, they're out there, and maybe there's some, my child's away from the Lord. We tried our best. We weren't perfect, but we tried our best Our child's away from the Lord. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will bring my child back, just like that prodigal son. God would bring him home They live for the Lord. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I've got a child out there and praying for. God bless you. I believe God knows the heart. Parent that has a child away from the Lord. God understands that. So there's someone here this morning to say, preacher, I'm not saved. I'm not sure that when I die I'm going to heaven and not to hell. And you'd say, Preacher, I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. Pray for me that I can get that settled. God will help me settle that in my heart. That I know that my sins are forgiven I'm over. I'm going to heaven when I die. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I want to have that settled. Any at all? Just by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me How about it? Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, we come to you this morning on this special day. Think about babies and parents Great responsibility. I pray you'd help us. A lot of hands raised, a lot of heavy hearts, Lord, a lot of uh anxious hearts. I just pray you give grace and help in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the piano.