I want to read verse 16 and 17, Ecclesiastes chapter number 10, and begins verse 16 says, Woe unto thee, O land! When thy king is a what? A child, and thy princes eat in the morning Then he contrasts that statement, verse 17. He makes a contrast. See verse 16: Woe unto thee, O land. Verse 17: Blessed art thou, O land, when thy king is the son of nobles. And thy princes eat in due season for strength and not for drunkenness. And I just entitled it, A Child King. And let's pray, and then we'll see what he has to say to us here from this passage. Father, we ask now that you would bless as we look in your word one final time as a congregation on this Lord's Day. Or we have a week ahead of us. For some it's going to be a little hectic. And um we look forward to Christmas and maybe family gathering. But I pray you'd calm our hearts and help us push all that aside And I pray our hearts and minds would be open to your word, and that you would teach us, and that we would learn, and we go away tonight with something helpful. For our Christian lives and for our faith and our walk with you, our witness in this whole world. Lord, I can't do that. I have nothing to offer of myself. So, Father, I stand before you tonight and again, as Always do I ask for the filling of your Holy Spirit. You would speak through me. We would hear from heaven. And then help us to respond accordingly. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Of course, Ecclesiastes, as we emphasize over and over, is under the sun, under the sun, under the sun is the is the you need to understand that statement to understand Ecclesiastes And what he's talking about is life li a life that is lived with God excluded, pushing God's will, God's word, uh no consideration of the Lord, my creator, my God No consideration at all. I'm just going to live my life by my own understanding. And his conclusion of all of that was it's vanity and vexation of spirit. There can be no genuine spiritual fulfillment with God excluded from the equation. And that was his conclusion of the whole matter. Now he's getting into a part of the book here where he's kind of reverting back to a Proverbs type thing and he's simply addressing issues of wisdom and foolishness. Wisdom and foolishness. Now before we finish the book out, he's going to come back to this under the sun thinking again But right now he's just giving some what I would refer to sage advice for life. And the interesting thing is he's covering various Aspects of life, all different areas of life, as we notice since we uh hit chapter seven, he's begin he's uh begin doing that And now he's addressing wisdom and foolishness in the matter of leadership as a nation. Now, how many people agree with me? Leadership in a nation or really any organization, leadership is important. Would anybody agree with me on that? Why would leadership be important? Why would that be why would we be concerned about the leadership at all? Why should uh why should let me put it this way why should the sailors be concerned about the guy behind the helm, the guy at the helm of a ship. Why would they be concerned about that? Because Yeah, their life is safe. It's det that guy determines the direction of that ship. And whoever's in leadership in many ways is going to, and not in many ways, in every way, is going to have profound influence on whoever they're leading. The influence, leadership is important. This is what I'm trying to say. Leadership is important because of the influence. That leadership has. It influences other people. If there was no influence on other lives, then it would be unimportant. It would not be a factor. But leadership equals influence. And thus it becomes very important. Now notice what he says here. I kind of touched on it when we were reading through this passage. But he says, Woe unto thee, O land. And then he repeats the statement, except in a contrast form, he says, verse 17, Blessed art thou, O land. Now when he uses that term land there, uh he is referring to a country. He's talking about Uh what we would in our day, in our context, we would refer to as political leadership. The word land there has to do with a political territory, a state territory. the boundaries that make up a particular country. And he says, Woe in verse 16, woe unto this country, woe unto this society, this land. this uh political uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh country, uh woe unto them if the following things are true about your leadership. Then verse 17 says, blessed is that land, that country, if the following things are true about the leadership. And so leadership by its very nature implies influence, and thus it's incredibly important. Now, before you Sit there and say, all right, he's going to talk about our political leaders. I'm just going to tune out. I'm going to think about my Christmas list, all this shopping I need to do between now and next Tuesday and I'm gonna get the menu together and I'm gonna try and get my wife to make that cranberry sauce that was at the b dinner last night and um that was great Phew. I don't know what was in that, but I was happy all night. That was really good. So before you tune me out and say, alright, he's talking about something that has nothing to do with me, I want to make a statement that whether you agree with it or not is true. All of us are leaders in some capacity. You say, I'm not a leader in nothing. Uh yes you are. You have influence over somebody. You have some realm, some Your world that you live in, you have some influence, whether it's over children or siblings or classroom or uh we all have influence. We are all leaders in some capacity And thus we have influence in some capacity, and thus this text here applies to every single one of us. The danger comes when I fail to realize. Here, let me make this statement. The danger comes when I fail to realize that I do have influence. Now sometimes I think we don't realize the extent of our influence. I'd venture to say nearly every one of us have far far our influence is far more reaching than what we realize it is The things we say, the things we do, how we live our life, and how that influences others is far more significant than perhaps we recognize. So what we're talking about here is very important. I read about a fellow, I don't know really anything about him. I looked him up a little bit. His name is Peter Drucker. And he was, he's passed away now a number of years ago. He was born in the early 1900s, but he was a management and leadership consultant. He was uh he if a big company, a big corporation, they wanted to help train their leaders to be more effective leaders, they would go to Peter Drucker and he would come in, he'd consult them how to how to manage that thing and how to uh uh provide leadership and we're talking on big, big corporation type stuff. And he made this statement. I thought this was interesting. He said there is little correlation. Now you have to listen carefully. He said there is little correlation between a leader's effectiveness And his intelligence, imagination, or knowledge In other words, a person can be very, very intelligent, very, very imaginative, and very, very knowledgeable, but yet be not very effective as a leader. And then he made this statement. Brilliant people are often an ineffective leaders. Brilliants. And so leadership is important. And sometimes the things that we think make us effective leaders are not necessarily ingredients in effective leadership at all. Sometimes those who the world thinks are just ignorant and unintelligent, sometimes they're tremendous in their influence. in this world. I'm thinking of some some uh you know just some preachers that don't make the big names and don't make you know national recognition and yet they're God's using them in great, great ways Uh I mentioned that dear lady down in Chattanooga. Remember Anna Nixon Tate, the little lady down there, I talked about her a lot. I don't know why she's been on my mind so much lately. But she had tremendous influence, just a dear sweet, godly lady. She had no education. And I when I say she had no education, I mean this. She had no education. Self-taught to read, know that. A yet her influence in her world was profound And so it's not necessarily you say, well, I'm not much of a leader, I'm not that intelligent, I can't be much of an influence. No, no, no, that's not a factor in it at all. Notice I have two thoughts tonight. Two points. They're just real brief. Now the subpoints are 75 put subpoints under each one, but I want you to notice the first one in verse number 16. He says, Woe unto thee, O land. Alright, here's the woe. When thy king is a child, a child, and thy princes eat in the morning I put it this way woe unto a land when the leadership is immature. When you have immature leadership Now let me address that word woe there. He's addressing a, in this case, he's addressing a country, and your king is incredibly immature. Woe unto that. Now what does he mean by woe? The word woe there has this idea, implies this. Um Miserable, distressed, and burdened. And so he's saying a country, or you could say, an organization, or any realm of influence, the people that are being influenced by an immature leader. Those people are going to be unhappy, they're going to be stressed, they're going to be miserable, is what the word woe there is. And I got looking at that word, and I'll tell you, a country came to my mind That had incredibly immature leadership. And that country is in absolute misery today and total failure. Society is collapsing all around that country, and that country is Venezuela. Have you been following that in the news at all? And the fellow that was behind the fellow that was at the helm of that ship, that nation, was incredibly immature in so many ways. And they ran that thing into the ground. And it's an absolute tragedy. Now my heart stirred a little bit in that some of the scriptures that we assemble back here, the Roman scriptures. Or Lord willing, this within the next twelve months going to be in getting into that country for those dear folks. Have some kind of hope in this world Maybe many find salvation is our prayer, but what a tragedy because of immature leadership, woe has come upon that nation. Now let me just throw this out there. It's not totally related to this. How many people have seen in the news talk about a caravan coming up through Mexico towards America? Anybody been following that? You know a lot of the people promoting that and and endorsing that and supporting that are socialists Now I I got thinking, and and as somebody had said this, I got thinking about it, if capitalism and America is so terrible, why is that caravan coming to America and not heading to Venezuela? Why don't they go to the socialist country and storm their gates and demand lyrics? Why? Because well this is totally aside, but socialism is total failure every place, every time. than implemented. The few exceptions they come up with, those countries have incredible resources. You know, some of the countries have tremendous resources and there they're able to keep that thing alive a little bit, but your average country, socialism, destroys it. Destroys it. That has nothing to do with the message, but I want to get that off my chest. But he says, woe unto and I use Venezuela as an example because I wanted to illustrate what is meant by that word woe there. That is describing what the consequences are to a nation that has an immature leadership. Now, what is maturity? What does it mean that you say this person is very mature? Is maturity defined by age Anybody here ever know somebody who's maybe up in years but was incredibly immature? I'm thinking of a particular actress that is very, very old. I don't know if she's still living or not. She was the last I knew And she's absolutely filthy. And the stuff she does and the sh roles she acts in, and you've listened to her talk, she sounds like a perverse delinquent 13-year-old. And yet she's way up in years. Maturity is not defined by age. Is maturity defined by experience? Not necessarily. Somebody could have a lot of experience and not learn a thing from it. One of my favorite things to say, I've said it just recently, is somebody says, uh if I went back, I wouldn't change a thing. And my saying is always the same, you didn't learn a thing from it. All the experience didn't do you any good. You go back to make the same stupid mistakes. So m maturity when we talk about an immature ruler, and I get that from the word child there Maturity is not defined by age. It's not defined by experience. Here's my take. I believe maturity is defined by behavior. By my behavior. Just because I have experience, just because I have some age, doesn't make me doesn't is no indicator of maturity. The indicator of maturity is how I behave, how I act. Do you ever had a little child come, boy, they they're respectful and they talk, they're intelligent, say, man, that guy's mature beyond his age. Anybody know what I'm talking about? They have some insight, they have a little wisdom. Maturity can be displayed in youth and in old age. Maturity can be displayed in inexperience and experience. Now, experience helps nurture maturity. But it's not an indicator of maturity necessarily. It's how I behave. It's my actions. And so he says here: Woe unto thee, O land, when thy king is a child. And thy princes eat in the morning. So here you have immature leadership. I notice two characteristics of immature leadership in this statement that we just read right here. First of all, it's childish. Childish. Again, the word term child here is not necessarily referring to the age of the person, he's referring to the behavior of the person. Childish. Any age can act childish. Israel had some young kings that were incredibly mature. Would you take your Bible and turn with me, if you would, to 2 Kings chapter 22? And one of my favorite kings of Israel. Not perfect, but I'm telling you, this guy was something else. 2 Kings chapter 22. And I'm glad you got your Bibles with you. How many people would appreciate a church that uses the Bible? Amen. And looking it up, checking it out. So, 2 Kings chapter 22. I'm running my mouth here. I ought to turn there, huh? 2 Kings 22, look at verse number 1. Here we have a pretty sharp guy. He would be a good one to study. Josiah was how old? Eight years old. Is there anybody here eight years old? Looking around for an eight-year-old kid, Ron. And um He's illustrating my point perfectly. Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign. Alright, here's the king, the child. And he reigned 31 years in Jerusalem, and his mother's name was Jedediah, and the daughter of Adiah of Boskath. Now look at verse 2. The point we're trying to make here, when he's referring to a king as a child in Ecclesiastes, he's not necessarily talking to a youth. Talking about childish behavior. Because look, here we have a very young guy, and look how he behaved. And he did that which was what? Right, but there's a statement behind that that makes that phrase even more significant. He did that which was right, what? In the sight of the Lord You know what that screams? Maturity. An eight-year-old that has incredible maturity. He did that which was right in the Lord, and walked in all the ways of David his father, and turned not aside and turned not aside to the right hand toward the left. Would you agree with me? That is one mature kid right there. And he's the king of Israel. Come over, if you would, to uh chapter 23 and look with me at verse 25. Again, referencing Josiah, look what it says here. And like unto him, there was no king before him that turned to the Lord. Look at this next phrase with what? All his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his might, according to the law of Moses, he went by the book. Neither after him arose there any like him. So when e when Solomon in Ecclesiastes says, Woe unto thy woe unto thee, O land When thy king is a child, he's not just referencing a child as far as youth is concerned, age is concerned, because here we have a king that's a child eight years old, and this kid is very, very mature. In fact, he's more mature than a lot of adults we know. I would vote for this guy for President of the United States of America. So he's referring not necessarily to AIDS, he's referring to Childish behavior. Now if you would come over to First Kings, chapter number twelve. I want to illustrate the other side of it. This guy's referred to as a youth in this passage, but he's not eight years old. He's probably in in his forties. But he's more childish than Josiah, who is eight years old. 1 Kings chapter 12, I want to begin reading verse 6. Here is King Solomon's son. King Solomon has passed away, his son is now coming to the throne. Verse six, and King Rehoboam consulted with the old man that stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived and said, How do you advise that I may answer this people? Wow, I'm saying this guy's starting off good How many people agree with me that's wise to consult with the folks been around for a little while? How many people say, how many of you would rather go to See a mechanic that's been working on cars for forty years and some guy that just came out of mechanic shop and never uh never really did anything. He's doing he's he's he's he's he's acting pretty smart here. This is pretty mature. This isn't childish, but let's read on. And they spake unto him and say, If thou wilt be a servant unto this people this day, and will serve them and answer them and speak good words, uh, and wilt serve them and answer them and speak good words to them, then They will be thy servants forever. Now, my view of this guy changes dramatically on the next verse. Right now, I'm thinking this guy's smart. He's going to the older folks. He's listening to those who've been around, that has some experience, they've been through it, they know. But look at what's the next verse say? But he what? forsook the counsel of the old men, which they had given him, and consulted with the young men that were grown up with them. Every time I read this I think he's he's going he's looking for advice from people that had no more experience than he did. He's looking for advice from people who had no no more to go on than what he had. They grew up with him, which stood before him, and he said unto them, What counsel give ye that we may answer the people? And of course their counsel was ridiculous. Look at verse 10. And the young men that were grown up with him And he forsook the counsel of the old men, and he went with all his little buddies, all the folks that had no more experience, no more training, no more understanding, no more maturity than he did. He forsook that counsel for this. And I say, there is exactly what Solomon's talking about when he says, Woe unto thee, O land, when thy king is a child. Acts childish. And let me ask you a question. What happened to Israel when he forsook the advice of the old men, took the young men? What happened to Israel? Went down the drain, split, divided. Divided kingdom and they struggled ever since and they never fully recovered from that So childishness is not necessarily has it doesn't necessarily have anything to do with age. It has to do with behavior. And here you have a guy that's probably forty years older in that range. And he's acting like a kid, and he's running around to just the people he that didn't have any more training than he did. Incompetent leaders hurt a nation. Incompetent leaders hurt corporations. Incompetent, childish leaders hurt ministries. Incompetent childish leaders hurt families. They hurt people. They hurt people. I just thought of this. I'm going to write in the margin of my Bible: grow up. Grow up. Grow up. Quit acting like a kid. Quit being so mature. Paul rebuked the church at Corinth severely. And he said, I could not write unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto babes. You're carnal, as unto babes. What was he saying? Was it was was he was he addressing the nursery? No, he's talking to grown-ups. He's talking to leadership of the church, the church, and he says you're but you're childish, you're a bunch of kids, you're fussing and biting and yelling and carrying on. He says that's how children act. That's how babies act, scream and yell and holler and And he says, when somebody is in a position of influence and they act that way, they're hurting those whom they have influence over. They're hurting them. And that's the tragedy of this whole thing. If somebody has zero influence or on an island, it's just them out by themselves and they want to act like a baby, fine. But when we're around others and we influence others, that's when the tragedy strikes. That's when tragedy hits. And so he says they're acting very childish. Then he makes another statement. He says, Come back there if you would, Ecclesiastes. He says, Woe unto thee O Lamb, when thy king is a child, and then he elaborates on this childish behavior And thy princes eat in the morning. And I thought, what in the world does that mean? I like to eat in the morning. Just about just about every single morning. I mean very seldom do I miss it. I eat a bowl of oatmeal My doctor said oatmeal is the best food you can possibly eat for your heart and all that. So I eat a bowl of oatmeal every morning. Now he didn't say anything about the 12 donuts I eat along with it. So I thought, what in the world is he talking about? That thy princes eat in the morning? I got looking at it and studying it, and this is what he's saying. He's implying here, these guys are eating more the implication is this. They were up all night partying. They were just living it up. They are undisciplined. They're eat they're they're they're up all night and they come home. They're eating and the idea here is they're eating a a a a meal that we would eat later in the day. They're eating that in the morning because they're out all night just carrying on They have no discipline. And the other idea behind that statement is this. They use the resources of the land that they're prince over. They're using those resources for their own enjoyment. Wow. Have we not heard of that in our society? Where we have elected officials using tax money for their own advancement, their own benefit. They're eating in the morning. They are taking the resources of the land that they are responsible for leadership for, and they're consuming it upon themselves. And he says, when you have leadership that does that. It's going to hurt the land. You have leadership that uses others for their own advancement, for their own pleasure, for their own standing Woe unto that lamb when that takes place. So they're very undisciplined. They're outliving it up. They're doing everything for their own self. I got word, it's been a year ago or so, it was somewhere in the news or something, that we had some representatives and some senators in our country That were using significant amounts of tax money, I mean hundreds of thousands of dollars, they were using that tax money to pay off folks that they had sexually harassed And they were being taken to court, and rather than facing in court, they would take tax money. And give it to the folks that they had harassed to keep their mouths shut so they would not look bad. And I tell you, I hit the roof. I'm scratching and saving. I'm doing everything I can and my wife's working a job and stuff so I can pay my taxes to my country And then they're using the money that I'm sweating for, that my wife is working for, and doing all that, and the money you're working for, and they're using it for their own stinking selves. That is wrong. And that'll kill our country. And I got on the phone, I started calling and calling. I called every one of our representatives. I called every senator. I called every and I said, I asked them, I said, is this true? And every one of the I didn't talk to the person but their representative, I said, I want you to tell me, is what I'm reading here, I told him what I read, I said, you tell me, is that true? And every one of them had to say, I'm sorry, Mr. Leatherman, but that is true. And I said, that's ridiculous. That has to stop No more of that. And I told him what I just said to you. I said, my wife is working a job. I said, we're paying our taxes. That I could do other stuff with that money if I had it. I said, that is wrong. It needs to stop. And that is exactly what Solomon is talking about here. And when we start using whether it's in a political realm, or it's in a business realm, or it's in a ministry realm. Or it's even in a family, and I'm consuming uh for my own self and hurting my family And he says, Woe unto you when Woe unto the land when the king is a child. He's childish and he's undisciplined. Childish, undisciplined leaders do great harm to any nation. Then verse 17, real quickly, I want to just look at this one. Then he gives the contrast. And he says, Blessed are Tao land. When thy king is the son of nobles And thy princes eat in due season for strength and not for drunkenness. Now the word blessed there means what we understand it to mean. It means happy, fulfilled, successful. Sometimes it's used in the idea of prosperous. And he's saying when the leadership does what the rest of this verse says, that land, that country, that organization, whatever it is, that The leadership is the way this verse says is, then that then then those that they influence are going to be happy, they're going to be successful, they're going to be prosperous, they're going to find fulfillment They're going to be better off. Now notice what he says here. I've got to wind this down, but notice he says, Blessed art thou, O land, when thy king is the son of nobles. That's an interesting phrase. He's not talking so much about noble bloodline. He's not talking about bloodline. What he's talking about is a disposition of mind. They're a son of a noble. In other words, their frame of mind is this: they understand and respect the position they hold as a leader. They have respect for that position. They have respect for that responsibility. They are dignified in their understanding of the role they play. They take their responsibilities very seriously. They are solemn in their understanding of the responsibilities they have as a leader. And they're referred to as a son of a noble. Doesn't mean their bloodline of nobility, but their frame of mind, their disposition, their attitude, their approach is very dignified. Um again I know I'm maybe being a little political here today, but this is kind of in context But one thing I remember back when George W. Bush became President of the United States of America, one of the statements that came out was that he never entered the Oval Office without wearing a suit coat He would never go in there, and the reason he gave for that was because of respect for that office and that position. And particularly that desk in that in that room. And so any time he would go in, he would dress as a quote unquote son of a noble Yet an attitude, this is a position of dignity, this is a position of responsibility, this is a position that demands respect, not just to the president, but as the president, to have respect. And what a contrast that was to the shenanigans of the previous administration and the perverse things that took place in that Oval Office, completely different approach. Now I'm not trying to promote or anything. I'm just simply saying that's the way it is. That's what Solomon's talking about. A land is going to be blessed, an organization is going to be blessed when the person at the helm of that ship, when the person in the position of leadership understands and respects the seriousness and the responsibility they have and they don't play around and play games with it They're a son of a noble. They're a son of a noble. Can I throw something else? While I'm doing this, can I throw something else off my chest a little bit? I tell you, these guys who call themselves preacher and opening a Bible, standing behind a pulpit and opening a Bible, and they got blue jeans on, an old ripped-up t-shirt and flip-flops, and they're acting like they're out playing volleyball on a beach. When they're standing before the people of God as an ambassador of the Lord Jesus Christ, and they look like a bum Listen, when a person stands in a Sunday school class with an open Bible And is teaching the Word of God, or standing on a pulpit, whether it's me or whoever, and is preaching the Word of God, and is in a position of what the Bible says is an ambassador of Jesus Christ, standing in Christ's stead. There ought to be a sense of dignity and respect in that position. Now I'm not saying just because you put a suit and tie on makes you respectable. But I am saying this, if I have the right frame of mind, I'm going to treat that responsibility, I'm going to treat that position with incredible dignity. Amen. And so he says, God is going to bless that land. God is going to bless that ministry. And then he says, first of all, ideal leaders are dignified and then they're disciplined. And again, it's the exact opposite of what verse 16 says. They eat their season and they eat their uh and they the princes eat in due season. I put this way, their appetites are disciplined. They eat at the appropriate times. They don't they don't they don't put they don't uh schedule their responsibilities around their appetites. They schedule their appetites around their responsibilities. Make sense So they're very disciplined. In due season at the appropriate time, they control their appetites, not vice versa. Their appetites don't control them. Now that the appetites could be any any area. It could be food. He's talking about eating here. It could be food. It could be sensual appetites. Appropriate in their place? It could be just little games. I'm telling you, uh I'm telling you, uh this thing here requires tremendous amount of discipline Anybody ever see the videos people on their phones and walking on? Now that was dignified right there, wasn't it? I'm telling you what, you gotta know when to put this stupid thing up. Can I get something else off my chest? Church is not the time for YouTube. Church is not the time for Facebook or texting or any of that stuff. Just discipline yourself and put the stupid thing up. But what if I get a message? In due season. Right? Wait till you get out of here. Wait till you get home. It'll wait. Wait a minute, I think I just got something, hold on. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, if I can't discipline that stupid little thing, how in the world am I going to discipline my life? I can't control that. How in the world do I control anything else? There was a fellow in Neighborhood Bible Times, Stewart. He was unique. And it was when I was on staff, and he was a good guy, he loved the Lord, no doubt about it, but um he was a little eccentric in some ways. And w we went and he wasn't eating one day and we would fast occasionally in Bible time training with the fellows and we would fast a day or whatever. But he was just going on even when we weren't. Finally I said I said uh Stu, I said, listen, um, I don't mean to be nosy, but You're you're fasting, huh? He goes, Well not technically. He says, I just go without meals sometime to let my flesh know who's in charge. Because I'm starving, but I am not going to let my flesh tell me what I'm going to eat. I'm going to decide when I eat, not when my flesh says I'm going to eat. And you know what? I think he was on the song. I think he was on to some. And so discipline in our appetites and uh Their appetites are disciplined and their and I'll end with this, their aims are disciplined. Now look at the purpose that they eat in due season Blessed art thou, O land, when thy king is a son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season. Why? For strength, and not for drunkenness. Now, what does that mean? In other words, they're not eating, they're not indulging their appetite simply for their own pleasure and for their own enjoyment. They're doing what they're doing so that they can be stronger. Not just physically, but stronger in their influence, stronger in their leadership, stronger in their character, stronger in their integrity. Because the responsibility I have as a prince, as a king, as a leader is incredibly important. And every appetite is going to be disciplined, and it's all going to be focused to make me a stronger person. Now, in the context of Christianity, make me a stronger Christian, that my witness is more effective, that my leadership is more effective, I'm more Christ-like. And I have a more positive influence. And so their aims, their purposes in all of it. I like what Paul said, and I don't have time to go there. 1 Corinthians 9. 27, he says, I keep under my body He says, I control my body. That word keep under means to beat back, to roughly handle. He says, I don't let my flesh get carried away. Because I do not want to be, and he uses this term, a castaway. And the whole idea is unfit for leadership, unfit to have influence. And he says, I discipline, I discipline myself. So that I can be more effective, more useful to the Lord. Dr. Lee Robertson said everything rises and falls on leadership. I've often made this statement. I've tried to help those maybe that were under us. And one of the reasons we're very, very careful about the music we use up here. And and I'm telling you right now, as long as this is under my administration, we ain't changing our music And one of the reasons we're so careful about that is for this statement right here, what leadership allows in moderation Followers will take to excess. Are there some songs we could sing up here? That'd be fine, sure. There's some songs we could sing, there's nothing wrong with them. But if we would allow that style or that type of thing, there's other young Christian stuff, they would take that and they'd just run with it and end up so far from God. You follow what I'm saying And so we have to discipline ourselves, we have to be very careful. Just because I can do something doesn't mean I should do something. I have to think about the influence. It has. It influence it has. So what leadership allows in moderation, followers will take to excess. The morals of a nation, the morals of a society, a church, a family, very rarely rise higher than the virtues of its leadership Now every one of us I started out with saying this is what I'm going to end with. Every one of us are leaders in some capacity I don't care who you are, where you are, every single one of us are leaders in some capacity because we have influence over somebody, and that is leadership. Now we can take that seriously. Or we can horse around with it. We can say, I don't want to be a childish leader, I don't want to act like a baby. I want to be disciplined, and I want God to use me to have a positive impact on this world. I would like, now I've fallen way short of this, I'll be the first to admit it, so you don't have to come and tell me afterward. I'll be the first admit I've fallen way short, but uh what I would like to be true is that when I leave somebody, they're stronger in their faith and they're better off than when I showed up. And I was a positive, mature, disciplined influence and help them. I'm telling you, that's what this old world needs desperately. And from the White House to the nursery, we need this. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray you take these thoughts and challenge us and help us. And every one of us in our little land that we live in, our little world that we uh we uh exist in, our realm of influence, that you'd help us not to be childish or undisciplined. But Lord, you'd help us to be disciplined in our appetites and our aims. Understand what you've called us to be. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher? I need to give this some thought. I need to think about how my actions. I need to think about how disciplined I am and my attitude about the responsibilities God has given me. From the youngest teenagers all the way up, young people all the way up to adults. And you'd say, preacher, pray with may God help me see this from God's perspective. And take this seriously. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless. So many hands all around. My hands raised. God work me over. Believe me. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our invitation and help us, Lord, to see our responsibility, our realm of influence, and trust you with it in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed, James playing invitation.