Tell me uh they had messed up and uh they said this to me. They said, I've never been tempted before. They've been a Christian for years. I said, Well that explains why you messed up. It's not strange for you to be tempted. That's common. Everybody's tempted all the time. Might not have been tempted in that area before. So here's the point I'm trying to make. Corinth, the church at Corinth, was a church that was eat up with sin. And I mean you could just g name go down the list. They were eat up with it. On the other hand, the church at Thessalonica was remember what was what title did we give it in the first study, the first book? A rapture-ready church, very much unlike the church at Corinth. Nevertheless, as we get into 2 Thessalonians, you know what we find out? We find out that the church at Thessalonica had some struggles also. That they had some issues they had to deal with. They had some battles they were fighting also. And um uh here's the point I'm trying to make. Even the best churches in the world still have issues to deal with. Even the strongest churches in United States of America, even the uh what we might refer to as model churches. If you get in there and you find out uh what's going on and you get involved in it, you know what you find out? They're fighting their own battles also. They got their own issues. It's common to man to have to deal with these things. I like telling the story I've told it here a bunch of times that uh I think it illustrates this. When uh on our tenth anniversary, Kathy and I's tenth anniversary, she was uh she was real sick, so we could we were gonna do something, we had it all planned out, we're gonna do this great second honeymoon and all this, and but she was sick right then and so we delayed it a year And uh we went to Mount Erie Lodge in the Poconos. Ooh, very romantic guy, uh, my wife's husband is. And um Uh and we got up there and man we rented this place out. We got it. Usually they do it for two or three nights, a honeymoon thing. We got it for uh a whole week. And we went up there and I mean it had the whole deal. Uh it had um uh it had lots of stuff there that was and uh we had a heart-shaped swimming pool How about that? Come on, we're grown up. You can be impressed. And so anyway, uh we were up there. And the neat thing about this is uh included in the price was uh this huge restaurant. It was monstrous Has anybody been at Mount Airy Lodge and uh you guys were a couple of uh Yeah, in the Poconos, that's where it is. Yeah. And um so anyway, there's this huge restaurant there. And elegant. It must see two, three thousand people. It was huge. And what they did was it was for the guests of the resort uh only And so they had the meals scheduled at certain hours, you'd go there and they served all at the same time and you had uh just a limited menu what you could order from and It was neat. You'd go in there in the mornings after the first morning. They remembered what you ordered. You had the seats you'd go to. We'd go in there and they had coffee sitting there waiting for me And that's something. I mean this was better than at home. And um oops uh and but um I mean had all this stuff, it was just incredible. We were living a dream for a week, but here's the thing Kathy and I took all our fancy clothes and everything. We just decked out. We dressed up. I wore a suit to breakfast. You know, I mean it was just we were living high class And you walk in there, and all the walls of that restaurant were mirrored. It was all mirrors. And we'd go walking in there, and uh I'd be watching the mirror. You know. And I was thinking, man, I'm pretty good looking. You know? I was just in a modest way I was thinking that. But um Uh and and it it was great. And uh I thought, wow, you know, she's got a good looking husband. I was just really impressed with myself. And um so I nobody's saying amen to that. I don't understand. But the problem was When I got back to the room and uh I'm in there brushing my teeth and I'm up close at the mirror, suddenly it didn't look so good. You know, I'm brushing my teeth and there's hair sticking out my nose, you know, and and uh there's little pimples here and there. It looked a whole lot better from forty yards away, is what I'm saying And, you know, we're 2,000 years away from the church at Thessalonica, and we look back at that thing, and it looks pretty good. And we think, man, that church, they mustn't have had any problems at all. They mustn't have had any issues. They were just ideal. And sometimes you get that idea about churches here now. You know, you hear about a church somewhere. And uh you think, man, that church is something else. And then you go there and you get involved. You know what you find out? That church is made up of people just like every other church is And that church has its own pimples and its own hair coming out its nose or wha whatever you want to refer to, just like all the other churches do, but from a distance you don't see all that What 2 Thessalonians is telling us and showing us is this fantastic church in Thessalonica that Paul spoke so highly of They had their own set of problems. And they had their own issues they had to deal with. Listen, if you're looking for the perfect church, if you ever find it, don't join it. You'll ruin it. You know? The reason being is there is no perfect church. And so I got studying 2 Thessalonians and I started to realize, hey, this Paul speaks so highly of it and sp and Paul sets it up as a model church for all the church in that area. But wait a minute. They had troubles just like other churches do. They had battles just like other churches do. Fact of the matter is, we have three enemies trying to take out the church. We are the world, we are the flesh, and what? And the devil. And not just churches, but you and I as individual Christians, whether we like it or not, we are involved in a spiritual warfare. Whether we want to admit it or not, you say, well, I don't really, I don't like conflict. I don't like the struggle. Welcome to the Christian life. It is part of the deal. It is a fallen world we live in. I got thinking about and breaking down the world, the flesh, and the devil, and what those three Try to do to the local church. Now, this is my perspective. Somebody else may look at it and see it from a little different perspective, but I put this down. What does the world want to do to the church? What is the world's primary goal for the church? And by world I mean society in general. I believe this. This is what I put down. The world wants to mold the church into its image. The world wants the church to be like the world. Um, I found that the world, society out there, they don't have a problem with religion. As long as they approve of that religion. As long as it fits their mold, as long as it goes along with their scheme and shares their values and lives by their principles, the world's fine with it But you get a church that says, no, we're not going to be molded into the image of the world. We're going to follow the word of God. We're going to live by the principles of Scripture. We're going to live by a higher standard, the standard of the Word of God, and suddenly the world has a problem with that. And so then the world brings the pressure on. So one of our enemies of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is society. Wanting to bring pressure down on us. Now, America has been unique throughout history in that, for the most part, for many, many years, America has been very sympathetic and at times supportive Of Christian values and Christian principles. But I'm here to tell you that day is gone And we live in a society now where the world is very hostile to Christian values, Christian principles, and it's going to try and mold us into their image, get us to lower our value, our our convictions, our standards. Get us to compromise our convictions so that we fit in with the world. So you have the world attacking the church, our church, just like Thessalonian the uh the Thessalonian believers, and we'll see that in this study. Then you have the flesh. What is the flesh? Want to do to the church? Well, what's the flesh's relationship? What's the flesh's goal for the local church, the church of Jesus Christ? I I came to this conclusion. The flesh wants to run the church. The world wants to mold the church into his image, but this old flesh wants to be in charge. This old flesh says, hey, I'm gonna call the shots here. I'm gonna be the one. I'm gonna uh the flesh doesn't mind religion as long as religion is submissive to the flesh. You can be very religious and very fleshly. In fact, if you'll study history, more people have been killed in the name of religion than any other cause. More wars have been fought over religion. Than any other purpose. And so the flesh wants to run the thing. You get a church where there's a lot of infighting and a lot of fussing, and people are mad at each other and all that. You know what you've got? You've got a flesh-run church. What is the works of the flesh? Anyone know? Galatians 5. What are the works of the flesh? Wrath, anger, malice. Then you got nasties, drunkenness, adulteries. But the fruit of the Spirit, we know that a whole lot better. What's the fruit of the Spirit? Love, joy, peace, temperance, long-suffering, goodness, kindness. So how do you know whether the what how do you know if the flesh is winning the battle for the church? Is the works of the flesh manifest in the church? Fruit of the Spirit. That's how you determine. So the world wants to mold the church into its image. The flesh wants to run the church. And here's the problem. What happens when you've got sixty-five different fleshly people, each one's trying to run the show? You've got chaos, you've got warfare, you've got anarchy. And so the world, the flesh, what does the devil want to do to the church? Destroy it. I'm convinced. He wants to, I put it this way, the devil wants to shut the church up and then close it down. The devil hates the local church. The devil hates the body of Christ. He is a read the book of Acts. What are they constantly telling the church, those apostles, to do? We do not preach anymore in this man's name. Right? Do not preach the name of Jesus anymore. Do more preaching in this man's name. What's the church's great commission? Go into all the world and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. The devil wants to shut it up. The devil wants to shut it down. And so here you have this church in Thessalonica. For five chapters in the first book, Paul had bragged on this church. He gave them instructions. He did all this. Now we get to chapter, we get to the second book, and we find out. Man, they're having some struggles going on. They've got some issues taking place. The world, the flesh, and the devil is coming down on this church and giving them a hard time trying to shut them down. Every day There are challenges to the church, if not from the flesh, the world, and the devil, just from fallen humanity. With this in mind, let's look at some of the background here, and I think this book will make a whole lot more sense. Now remember, chap the first book Man, model church, model church. He carries it over. They haven't lost that, but he has to deal with some things. First of all, who's the penman? God's the author, who's the penman? Well, the first verse tells us that. Paul primarily, and he's got Sylvanus and Timotheus are with him. Exactly the same as the first book. First Thessalonians. So nothing's changed as far as who's writing to the church at Thessalonica. The place it's written from, I don't remember how much time we spent on this on book number one the first letter, but it's coming from the same place the first letter was written from the city of Corinth. And Paul, this apparently was written before he had his hard time at Corinth, and uh he's writing from Corinth. What was the point of time? So my first point was this, the penman. The second is the place it's written from, Corinth. Third point is this. What point in time was 2 Thessalonians written? Now, this is where it gets interesting. Obviously, it was written after 1 Thessalonians. Aren't you glad you came to church and found that out? 2 Thessalonians was written after 1 Thessalonians. But Do you realize that there was only a few months went by from when 1 Thessalonians written till Paul wrote 2 Thessalonians? Something was happening. Uh most of the Bible commentaries and history books I read on this, most of them suggested at most six months time From when Paul mailed, sent 1 Thessalonians till he sat down and wrote 2 Thessalonians and fired it off and followed up his first letter pretty quick in Bible letter time frames. And so he's firing this off pretty quick to them. And there's a reason for that, which is my fourth point. The purpose for Second Thessalonians. Why would Paul so quickly after writing this first letter to them, that is a glowing letter, has tremendous teaching in it, talks at the end there, he gives them these challenges and warnings. And a few months later, he feels like, man, I've got to write back to them right away. Something's going on. Well, let me give you, I think there's three, it's a threefold purpose for him writing so quickly back to them First of all, he wanted to encourage them as their persecution was increasing. Look with me if you would, and we're going to come down and break this down a little more so maybe next week, but look at verse number uh four with me. Chapter 1, 2 Thessalonians, verse 4. So that we ourselves glory in you in the churches of God. Now what does he mean he's glorying in them in the churches of God? What's he doing? He says, I'm glorying in you in the churches of God. He's bragging on them. He says, Listen, I'm going to these other churches and I'm just glorying in what God's doing in you. So he still thinks very highly of them. He's bragging on them, he's lifting them up as a model church. But look what he says. So that we ourselves glory in you in the churches of God. Why? For your patience and faith Alright? He's bragging on them, being very patient. He's bragging on their strong faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that you endure. Something is happening. Paul is writing to them and he's listening he's saying, listen, I'm bragging on you guys I'm glorying in these other churches about you, about your faith and your patience, in your persecutions and the tribulations you're enduring. Paul is writing to encourage them because The opposition to their faith and their walk with God was increasing intensely. Persecution of the church at Thessalonica was getting stronger and stronger and stronger. The opposition to their service to the Lord. Remember, he said in the first chap in the first letter, your faith is spoken up throughout the whole world. We can't go anywhere where you haven't already had an influence for the gospel. And he says, now that that uh testimony, that witness you are having to this whole region It's really facing some opposition. Their faith in God got stronger. Their love for one another was growing. Their influence for the gospel was increasing. And with all of this Came increased opposition, came increased persecution. Paul told Timothy, and all, yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer what? Persecution. Now that seems like a strange word to us here in the United States. But I'm telling you this: the more influence you and I have as individuals. The better our witnesses, the more I should put it this way, the more effective our witness becomes, you mark it down, the more opposition is going to be to what we're doing. Mark it down. Whether it's you and I as individuals or whether it's a church, the church at Thessalonica had a powerful, powerful witness in a large area of the world. And he says, listen, you guys hang in there. You be patient. You keep that faith strong. I'm bragging on you because your persecution and your tribulations are growing. And so one of the reasons he's writing to them this book is he doesn't want them to get discouraged. He's hearing the reports, how it's coming down on him. Some people want to have influence without having any opposition. Some people want godliness without persecution. And my Bible says you can't have one or the other. If you're going to live godly in Christ Jesus, then there's going to be opposition to it. If you're going to have a witness in this old sinful world with the gospel and you're going to make a difference and have an impact, then you mark it down, this old world's going to push back. That is the way of the Christian life. And he's trying to encourage them. They're starting to feel the the they're starting to feel the world pushing back. They're starting to feel the devil rising his head and really bringing things down on them, and he's trying to encourage them in here. Listen, you guys stay with it. I think one reason There are Christians who have little or no influence. One reason some Christians, I think, don't want to witness is because they don't want to face the opposition. I don't want to be called names I don't want to be rejected by people. I don't want to be refused. I don't want to have opposition. I just want to go along and get along. Listen, if we're going to see people saved from hell, if we're going to have an influence in a sinful world, we need to accept the fact there's going to be opposition to that. Um I had a preacher friend years ago and I think he's out of the ministry now. This was shortly after I came here and a preacher over in West Virginia and we'd get together every now and then, about four or five of us, we'd have lunch and different things And we just inevitably talk about what God was doing and different things. And, you know, the church was picking up here and growing in different things. We got talking, I don't remember what the subject was, but this fellow made a statement that to this day, probably 18, 19 years later, I still can hear him saying it. He's saying, you know, I just want to live in a little corner and do our thing for God and not ruffle any feathers. And I thought, you can't do something for God and not ruffle the world's feathers. You can't have an influence and not have the Satan rear his ugly head. It doesn't happen. And so this church at Thessalonica, they're growing in their faith, they're growing in their influence. And Paul says, I need to write to you. Listen, you guys hang in there, you stay at it, it's coming down on you, but you just stay right ahead. And so he's trying to encourage them as the persecution increased for them. I think some folks don't witness simply because they don't care whether people go to heaven or hell. Can I be Blunt. I hate to say that. I think it's just some people don't care. Some people, some Christians don't witness because they don't want to They don't want people to give them a hard time. Now don't don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I I'm not mad at anybody. I'm not trying to I'm not trying to make anybody feel guilty. But I think Tech and I got talking, you know, to go down on Saturday to the fair. And give out gospel tracts, walk up and down. For her and I, it's not that difficult. Everybody knows I'm the pastor for the most part, and they expect that from me. But we got thinking, you know, folks that grew up and you got friends there or neighbors and people you went to school with and all of that, and to walk by and kind of be a spectacle and giving out tracts, that's not the easiest thing in the world You follow what I'm saying? And um uh you know i I think some folks are all for it, would love to do that, but man, there's just too many people there that will see me and I might make fun of me for doing that because they know me. Now I'm not trying to make you feel guilty, I'm trying to make you convicted. I thought that was funny. I practice that line all day long today. But what I'm saying is this, listen, if we're going to have a witness, if I'm getting a little warm up here. If we're going to have a witness, if we're going to make a difference, we have to accept the fact that some people aren't going to like it And so Paul's writing to them. That's part of the book here. Let me give you a second purpose for this book, to deal with doctrinal misunderstandings. Now we don't know how this came about. There's two suggestions. Either somebody wrote a phony book. a letter, a phony letter under the name of Paul, and sent it to the church at Thessonica and messed them up and told them they are already in the tribulation period because of these persecutions. Or they took what Paul said in chapter 4 of his first letter and misunderstood what he was saying and somehow came to the conclusion that they are in the tribulation right now. And that's going to come out as we get into, I think, chapter 2. So, some commentators said that somebody had written a counterfeit letter in the name of Paul. and were deliberately messing with the church and had them thinking that they were in the uh in the tribulation period. And by the way, that's not a far-fetched theory. There was a lot of phony letters going around back then And people writing letters claiming to be Paul and John and Peter, and they'd send it to the churches. And in fact, Paul had a secret code in his letters that they would know that it was from him. And what the secret code was, at the end, he would sign his name with his signature. Even though he could barely see, he'd sign his name with his signature. And if it had his signature on there, then of course they knew it was from him And if it wasn't on there, then it was a phony letter. So if pa if somebody wrote a counterfeit letter to them and messed them up, that would be very common. Maybe they misunderstood what Paul was saying, whatever the case. This church got messed up. And they believed that they were in the seven-year tribulation period. Now, if they were in the seven-year tribulation period, if they're convinced they're in the seven-year tribulation period What would be a strong temptation to start doing as far as the second advent of Christ is concerned? Anybody see follow my thinking here? Alright, we're in the tribulation period. How long does the tribulation period last? Seven years. So if I'm in the tribulation period and I know the tribulation period lasts seven years I would start doing what as far as the second advent of the Lord is concerned? Okay, you're right on you're on the right lines. They would start setting dates. Alright, we're in a tribulation period. We can't be much more. The persecution just started three months ago. So we're three months into the tribulation period. Seven years, subtract three months. Here's the time the Lord's coming back. And they got messed up and they started setting dates, it was suggested. And um uh and they get this uh in chapter 2, verse 2, we'll get to it there. where he says about the the coming of the Lord being at hand. Anyway, they got messed up and started setting dates. And what happens when you start setting dates? If I if a person knows the Lord isn't coming back for another seven and a half years, they think what? One thing they could think was what Job said. Hey, I can live it up for seven and a half years It brings all kinds of problems. So Paul has to address that. Here's the crazy thing. The Lord made it abundantly clear that we cannot set dates, yet every year some yard bird comes up and starts setting dates. And every time it messes people up. So number one, he wanted to encourage them. Persecution's coming down because they had such an influence. Number two, he had to straighten this out. They were messed up. They were not in the tribulation period. The rapture had to take place and all the Antichrist and all that still had to be dealt with, and he deals with that in chapter 2. But there was a third thing that I think came out of the second issue. The third one was he had to teach them, help them address how to discipline unruly people in the church and lazy people in the church. The church was growing. More and more people were getting in, and so they had more and more issues. A lot of people got the idea, apparently, well, the Lord's not coming back for another seven years, and so they started just getting lazy. And uh they became indifferent. Uh some of them apparently it's been suggested by some that uh they quit their jobs. Well the Lord's coming back, uh no use working myself to death, and so they just commit Church. They quit working and just lived off of church's generosity. That's where you get the phrase later on where he says, if a man doesn't work, neither should he what? That's where that whole thing came from. A misunderstanding about the second coming. So he had all these issues. Chapter 3, verse 6 through 15 is where he addresses that. So as the church grew, you had more human issues to deal with, and that's still true today. Bobby Roberts, how many people recognize the name Bobby Roberson Gospel Light Baptist Church. He's preached here a couple times, I think. And uh great, he's getting elderly now, but great, great church down there The name of his church is Gospelite Baptist Church. We were down there one time for a sword conference, and they'd give the invitation. We noticed that every time they give the invitation, there was a lady who would come down. This place is huge Have you ever been there? There was a lady would come down and every bald guy that was sitting by the side she'd just go zip with her hand over their head. Zoop Maybe. And uh so Bob Robinson she says, uh she's been doing that for years. She said she's just nuts. And uh she does that. And he made this statement. He said the gospel light attracts some strange bugs. I've always remembered that. And that's the truth. Look around. Um, no, I'm kidding. Uh um But uh, you know, sometimes strange people are attracted to uh the things of God, things of that. And uh, you know what you gotta do? You gotta love them Gotta work with him. That's what he tells us. Uh we had year not it hasn't been too long, maybe ten years ago. Fellow came to church Sunday morning, I was in the back like I always do, greeting people, coming in, standing at the door And he came up and I said, I'm Pastor, I never saw him before. I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman. And uh I said, Welcome. He goes, I'm so-and-so, whatever his name was, and he looked at me real weird, and you got that look in his eye. And uh he says God told me this morning that I'm supposed to come to this church and sing a song in the morning service. I said, really? He says, um, God told me to come right here, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and I'm supposed to sing this song today. I said, well, I wanted to say when God tells me you're supposed to sing the song is when we'll do it. But I didn't say that. I said, well, you know, man, I hate to say it. I said, but we've already got our song service scheduled out and everything's ready. And uh he said, but God told me to I said, but I said, I understand that. I said, but I really can't. We're re I had no idea what this guy was going to do. And I said, we really can't. I said, uh I'm sorry. And man, he got mad and stormed off. Never came in the door So I'd gotten his name and stuff, so I went and visited him that week, and he was absolutely furious that I was sinning against God. God told him to do this and and all of this type of stuff. You know, you get that Uh this past was it this past winter, this past spring, uh we're working. James and I are in my office, we're working away. Paul was out there at the secretary, painting her nails, and um This guy comes in and uh something about he's I heard it talking so I came out of my office and I recognized the fella and uh he's going on he says Pastor Leatherman Uh God told me to come by. He wants me to tell your church that I died and went to heaven for, was it 75 days or something like that? And uh and came back and he brought me back and uh God told me that I'm supposed to tell your church. that my story and what heaven's like 'cause I saw it there and was there. I said, well I really can't do that. I said, you know, if you want to just leave your name and number or something, you know and uh talk about that. And um I don't know why I'm telling you these stories, I just thought of 'em. But uh sometimes in a church you have folks that just a little different. And so here we just make 'em deacons. And uh no. Uh But uh he's there dealing with them. You got some church that are unruly and different things, how to deal with that. So the purpose of the church was threefold. The purpose of the letter is threefold. Let me end with this. What's the principles we learned Let me just give you real quick. First of all, a growing church requires constant attention. If we're gonna grow, if we're gonna have influence We've just got to constantly work at it. We must never allow ourselves as a church to get into a coasting mode that we've arrived on some sort of plateau. You just got to keep pressing and keep pressing and present Say, Brother Leatherman, there's opposition, they're sending hateful emails, they're making nasty phone calls. You know what we need to do? Just keep pressing right on with the gospel And Paul said, your patience and your faith stay at it. And that's true in the Christian life. If I'm going to be a growing Christian, I need to constantly attend to that. I got to constantly be sensitive. The Holy Spirit's working in my heart. Second principle I got from this background is a growing church needs patience and compassion. They need to be patient with one another. They need to be compassionate and help one another. I put this down. Three, there will always be challenges. Man alive, if there's any church in the New Testament that I would have guessed did not have any challenges, it would have been the church at Thessalonica. They were incredible. You know what I found out? They had problems just like all the other churches did. The difference was they dealt with theirs scripturally That's what Paul's writing to them. Number four, correct doctrinal truth is vital to a healthy church. When we get into this book, we're going to find out when they got off doctrinally about the second coming, it affected how they lived their lives. Doctrine is important. Don't let anybody ever tell you that our doctrinal position on things is not important. It is important. When they got off doctrinally, it messed up a whole lot of things. And so doctrine is vitally important. We read about how Paul praised this church. We read about how they were rapture ready. We think they had no problems. They think they had no struggles. That just isn't the case. There was struggles. They were a growing church. Anybody recognize the name Amy Carmichael? Anybody read that? Great missionary to India, single woman. If you ever have a chance, I highly recommend a book written by Elizabeth Elliott called Born to Die. It's the biography of uh of Amy Carmichael, one of the most powerful books I've ever read. Tremendous. Amy Carmichael said this. Sometimes when we read the words of those who have been more than conquerors, we feel almost despondent. I feel that I shall never be like that. But they won through a step-by-step process Little bits of denying myself, little inward victories, little faithfulness in little things, they became what they are through this process. No one ever sees these little hidden steps of these great people. All they see is the accomplishments they had. But to accomp but uh but even so those small steps were taken. There is no sudden triumph, and there is no spiritual there is no sudden triumph No sudden spiritual maturity. It takes a work of step by step by step. And I think that's what we see in the church at Thessalonica. We read this book, and man, they were just really something. When we get in here and we start finding out there's a little issue here had to be dealt with, and they dealt with it scripturally. Situation here, and they dealt with that. Situation here, and it was a process. Somebody asked an old man In a little village, there was an old man sitting there. Somebody said, Were any great men born in this village? An old man heard him say that, and he piped up and he said, Nope, just babies. He was making a statement. You're not just suddenly a great church. You're not just suddenly a great Christian. Start out with like a baby. Start out as a baby. And you grow and you give attention and you nurture that and you work at it. And that's the challenge I want to leave from Mountain Lake, us as a church and also us as individuals. Pay attention to the details. Let's work at the little things. Don't worry about whether we're great or not. Let's worry about whether we're right with God right now. Amen. I read a quote today and I didn't put this in my notes, but I just thought of it. It said this: the only person you should try and be better than is the person you were yesterday. I changed it. I put it in the bulletin for this Sunday. The only Christian you and I should worry about being better than is the Christian I was yesterday. And work at being a better Christian today. The only church we should worry about whether we're bigger than or better than is the church we were last Sunday. And work at being better this Sunday. And that's what 2 Thessalonians is all about. Father, help us, Lord, to uh pay close attention and deal with the issues of life in a scriptural manner. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Maybe Austin can help with uh invitation. I don't know how God may have spoken to your heart. Maybe I'm talking to some folks a little discouraged. You think I'm just not growing that much? I don't feel like I have that much influence. Listen, don't look at the end of the game. Just look at where you're at now. What needs to be done now? What decision do I need to make tonight? What issue in my life needs to be dealt with now? Deal with that. I found the great men that come to our church that preach, and we have some, I think, some of the greatest in the country. You know what I'm getting to know them? I found out they deal with so many of the same issues you and I do. Just we trust God and do right and respond. Let the Lord have his way. How many would say, preacher, yes, there's an area in my walk with the Lord that really needs attention? And I need to work on maybe it's Bible reading, faithfulness, maybe attitude, I don't know, witnessing, boldness. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I can deal with that. Trust God and press forward. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. A bunch of hands around Tell you one little thing you can do that's that's very powerful, I think, is just kneel on an old-fashioned altar and say, here it is, God, you dealt with my heart. I'm going to trust you in this. I'm going to step out by faith. Help me, Lord. Help me