John chapter one and verse number twelve it says this But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name Even to them that believe on his name. Many received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. That was the message of the play this morning, how we through the Lord Jesus Christ can become a child of God. Now, if you've been around here much at all over the years, you're going to notice that at Christmas time We talk about the cross as much as we talk about the cradle and the manger. And uh you're going to hear us talking and preaching and singing about the blood of Jesus Christ As much as you hear us singing and talking about the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, you're going to hear talk about the salvation of the soul as much as you're going to hear about the birth of our Savior. And why is that? Because Christmas, the birth of Jesus Christ, as the children just portrayed, it does not end with him being born of a virgin and placed in a manger. That's not the end of the Christmas story. That is actually the beginning of the salvation for mankind. Jesus Christ was born of a virgin, as God had promised for thousands of years before. And uh he lived a perfect life, a sinless life, the only man that has ever kept God's law fully and completely. All other folks, we've fallen short. We've come short of God's standard, God's law, God's standard of acceptability for Him to accept us. We've come short of that And so Jesus Christ came and for 33 and a half years lived a perfect life. The Bible says that Jesus Christ was without sin. And then he willingly gave himself on that cross. And on that cross he took the sins of all of mankind. Now This is a horrible thought, but if you can in your mind come up with the most vile, the most wicked, perverse sin that a man can commit or a person can commit, that was placed on Jesus Christ. And he suffered the judgment of a holy God for all of our sin, these wicked, perverse things we think of, but also our own self-righteousness, our own pride. When we look down our nose at somebody or we uh gossip uh every sin, all sin, Jesus Christ paid on that cross, and then he was buried And it didn't end there either. It didn't end with the grave. He rose again the third day. And today he's at the right hand of God. And so the birth of Jesus Christ, as the young people uh tried to portray here Uh that was not the end. That was the beginning. That was putting things in place. Uh can everybody hear me okay? Everybody got me? Uh that was putting things in place. So that we could find salvation. We could be born into the family of God. Now they touched on something this morning. It's very, very important. That is we must be born into God's family. And let me try to explain what I mean by that. Not everybody is a child of God. Not everybody's in the family of God. There's a conception in the world there, this misconception in the world that everybody's we're all a child of God. Everybody's a child of God. But that's not true. Jesus in John chapter 8, he pointed out some folks that had rejected him, that were returning, that did not receive him, and he said, listen to this, this is strong. He said, Ye are of your father the devil. These are people who are not the child of God. In Matthew chapter 7, verse, I think it's 21, the Lord said to his disciples, He said, Not everyone that says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. It is possible to be a very religious person. It is possible to be in the eyes of man a good person, pay my bills, keep my word. It is possible to do all that and yet be outside the family of God. Still be in our sins, as the Bible turns, still under the wrath and judgment of God. And so being a good person, being a church member even, uh paying your bills, being honest. All of that, as important as it is, and as commendable as these things are, they do not bring us into the family of God There is one thing and one thing only that makes me a child of God, and that is this, receiving Jesus Christ as my own personal Savior. And that is why we emphasize that. That is the most important thing in the world. I say this so often, and I hope you'll take this seriously, what I'm about to say. I say this so often. The worst thing that could possibly happen to a person is to die in their sins, to die unforgiven, to die uh with uh without trusting Jesus Christ as Savior, and to die in that condition is to be separated from God for all eternity. All eternity. I know this isn't popular in our day and age, and especially not at Christmas time, you say, come on, but the fact of the matter is there is a very real place called hell And there's a very real place called heaven. Jesus referenced it over and over and over. And there's only one way to escape hell. There's only one way to find forgiveness of sins. There is only one way to enter the family of God and be a child of God. And that is not through church membership, it's not through baptism, it's not through giving money. It's only one way. It's turning to the Lord Jesus Christ and trusting Him as my personal Savior. That is the most important message. That is the message of Christmas. The angel appeared to Mary. She said, You're going to have a child. Of course I'm putting this in my own words. She says, You're going to have a child. She goes, How can that be? I've never known a man It's miraculous. Hebrews tells us God is going to place the body of the Lord Jesus, the little embryotic body, Lord Jesus, place it in your m in your womb, Mary. Body he God is prepared for him and place it in your womb. No man involved, it's miraculous. The virgin conception of the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh uh and he's going to be born. And he said this: the angel said this, Mary, thou shalt call his name Jesus. For he shall save his people from their sins. That's the purpose of Christmas. To have my sins forgiven. Be accepted by God, born into his family. Jesus told Nicodemus in John chapter 3, he said, accept a man, be born again. He cannot see the kingdom of heaven. He must be born again. You say, preacher, I'm a good person. I pay my bills. I'm honest. I go to church. I do this and I don't do that. Preacher, God would accept me. Except a man be born again. He cannot see the kingdom of heaven Say, that's a strange thing. Nicodemus says, How can a man be born when he is old? Do I go back into my mother's womb? And uh Jesus says, No, you don't understand. That which is flesh is flesh, but that which is spirit is spirit. You must be born spiritually, spiritually. And then he went on, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That's Christmas. That whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but of everlasting life. Everlasting life. You must be born again. How do I get in God's family? You have to be born. Yet to be born spiritually into God's family. And you say, how do I do that? Let me give you the simple steps. First of all, I need to recognize and understand that I'm a sinner. How many people have ever heard that statement? I'm a sinner. That is a clear teaching in Scripture. Every single one of us, we have broken God's law. When God created us, now listen carefully. When God created us, He created us and designed us. To live holy, pure, good, righteous lives. We're in his image. And sin came in. We're not designed to live in sin. Spiritually, mentally, emotionally, physically, we were not created and designed to live in disobedience to God. And that brings problems I illustrate it this way often. What would happen if you put diesel into a gasoline engine? That good or bad? That's bad. What happens if you put gasoline in a diesel engine? That's even worse. In fact, we know from experience around here. It messes things up, it don't run, it breaks down, it fails. That's what happened when sin came into the world. God created man to live pure and holy, good, honest, true. And Satan came in deceived, and sin entered the world, and since then we've been breaking down. I mean, people agree, things are messed up in this old world. You agree with me? Something ain't right. Something ain't right. I'll tell you, I know what it sin has come in. And emotionally, people break down mentally, physically, our bodies are dying And spiritually, because of our sin, we're separated from God. And we've all sinned, every one of us, we've broken God's law. God has given us Ten Commandments, actually a lot more, but we understand the Ten Commandments And that is his standard that he designed and created us to live by. But we fall short of that because of sin. Many take his name in vain. No doubt I'm talking to some folks God's name comes off your lips in vanity and blasphemy often. That's violating God's holiness. That's sin. Dishonesty, lying. We think of lying, oh little kids lie. Yeah, you know what I found out? Big kids lie too. We're sinners. And dishonesty, selfishness, pride, uh, adultery, uh, murder, hatred Jesus says, you hate your brother in your heart. You're just as condemned as he that murders. Just as condemned. And what are you saying, preacher? I'm saying this. Mankind's in a mess We've sinned against God. We've broken his law. We're separated from him. But God loved us so much. He came, born of a virgin, lived a perfect life, and on that cross, he paid those sins for us. He suffered the judgment of God for your sin and my sin. He was buried. He rose again. Now, just because Jesus died on the cross, was buried, and rose again, doesn't mean everybody's saved, doesn't mean everybody's forgiven, doesn't automatically make us all part of the family of God. He offers that forgiveness. He offers that opportunity to be a child of God. He offers eternal life to us as a gift. It's offered to us. And if somebody offers you and I a gift, I can do one of two things. I can accept it and say, yes, I'll take that, and it becomes mine. Or I can refuse it. No, thank you. Um if I try to pay for it, if somebody, uh, Brother Jerry's here, and you know what I thought of when you showed up, Brother Jerry? I thought of eggnog. Eggnog has been on my mind all day today. I don't know. But uh Jerry would come and and uh he would uh every Christmas he'd have some homemade eggnog. I don't know what all was in it, but um No, I'm joking. But he'd bring that and uh he'd say, Brother Leatherman, Pastor, I just want to give this to you. What if I would pay him for that? Would that be a gift? No, it would be a what? Be a purchase. I'd be buying it. I'd be purchasing often. That's not a gift. Suppose he'd offer me that eggnog and I said, Well, Brother Jerry, first I want to do some stuff. I'll wash your car, I'll do this and do that, and then I'll accept it. Would that be a gift? No, it would be a payment. He'd be paying me for something I did for him. He says, no, preacher, I just love you. I just want you to have this. Just offer it to you free. You can just accept it. That's the way God is for you and I. Jesus Christ is God's gift of eternal life. We're sinners. We're under his judgment. We deserve to die and go to hell. But God says, here's my son, I offer him to you as a gift. You say, well, how do I receive that gift? It's Jesus. How do I do that? It's by faith. By faith, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. Shall be saved. What does it mean to call in the name of the Lord? I'm about done, so bear with me here. What does it mean to call in the name of the Lord? It means this. It means I am looking to Jesus Christ to do for me what I cannot do for myself. I'm trusting him, depending on him, to forgive me and save me, give me this new life, this eternal life, and receive me into heaven and accept me. I enjoy fishing a lot. I really enjoy fishing. Suppose we're out, and I've used this illustration many times, but suppose we're out in the lake Let's suppose Pastor Matt and I are out in the lake. We're fishing away. He's up in the front. I'm in the back. And for sake of illustration, let's assume he can't swim. Uh that's a lot to keep float, I'll tell you right there. But uh Sorry. But for sake of illustration, let's uh let's imagine he can't swim and he's drowning. I'm not paying attention. I'm in the back of the boat fishing away. And he goes down once and he comes back up. Oh, he grasps, gasp, and he goes down. Comes back up the second time. Gasping for breath. He goes down the third time. He comes up And he sees me there and he calls out, preacher, pastor, help, save me, help, save me. What's he doing? He's calling on me. He's looking to me. He's depending on me to do for him what he can't do for himself and grab him and save him from drowning or dying. You and I are sinners. We've broken God's law. We're under his judgment. We're going down, down, down to hell. We die in that condition. We look up and we see Jesus Christ died on that old cross and paid hell for me. Buried and rose again. He says, if you'll just receive it, Lord, Ay me. I commit my heart and life. Forgive me, save me. Turning to you, trusting you. God says the moment I do that, He'll forgive us and save us. It's turning from our sin to Christ, trusting him to forgive me and cleanse me and save me, give me a new life, and accept me into heaven when I die. I don't know about you, but I thought it was awfully appropriate that little That little manger is right underneath the cross. And that's the message. God loves you. And he died for your sins, suffered hell for your sins and my sins. Buried rose again. He wants to forgive you. He wants to save you. He wants to give you a new life. He wants to cleanse those sins away. Give you a new pure life. But you have to, by faith, accept Jesus Christ your personal Savior. We're going to give opportunity right now for that. We're going to have a word of prayer. And this is what I'm going to do. Now, please listen carefully. I'm going to offer a simple little prayer that you can pray along with me in your own heart between you and God. But I want to give a caution. Just saying these words is meaningless. It's not some religious ritual. I repeat these words and bingo. No, no, no, no. It's from the heart. Calling on God, Jesus Christ, to forgive me. I'm in my life. Give me a new life. Accept me to heaven. Forgive my sins. It's by faith. So it's just a tool to help express that desire to God, I want you to forgive me and be my Savior. So let's bow our heads together, if you would. Maybe God's been speaking to your heart, and you'd say, Preacher, I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. I don't want to die and go to hell. I don't want to live in sin. I want God to forgive me I want God to save me and give me a new life and I can know I'm going to heaven someday. You understand What I just said, and you're wanting to call on the Lord, here's a simple little prayer. You can pray between you and God, just personally, between the you of you, from your heart. Here it is. Your Lord Jesus. I know I'm a sinner. Broken your law. I believe you died for my sins and rose again. I'm turning to you and calling on you to forgive me and save me for Jesus' sake. Amen. Now with our heads bowed, eyes closed, just for a moment, how many would say, Preacher, I've prayed that prayer with you. I meant it with all my heart. I was praying, Cole Nord. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Say, Preacher. I prayed that prayer with you. God bless you and you and God bless you and you and you. Any others? Preacher, I prayed that prayer. I meant it. Meant it with all my heart. Any others? Now, if you prayed that and you meant it with all your heart, my Bible says, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I want to urge you, but before you leave, see me, I want to give you some literature to help you what that means and how it will impact your life. Now how many others here say, preacher, uh I know I'm saved. God saved me, there's no doubt about it. But you'd say, pray for me. I have a loved one. Somebody is dear to me. And they need Christ. I can't imagine them being out of the family of God and I'm burdened for them. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that I'd be a good witness this Christmas. And I could see my friend or family member come to Christ. Any like that? How many believers like that? God bless you. And let's make that an earnest matter of prayer that we'll see our family and friends come to Christ Our family and friends. One other thing. How many here say, Preacher, I'm saved? I'm so glad the Lord forgave me and saved me. But you say my Christian life isn't everything it ought to be. There's areas in my life that need to get in tune. I need to get in tune with the Lord. I need to get right. And maybe this Christmas as a gift to God, so to speak. Say, I want to give the Lord my heart. I just want to live for Him. I want every area of my life to be right. I want my life to please the Lord. Is there any like that? Preach or pray with me. I know there's areas that need attention. God bless you. Many, many hands around. Father in heaven, bless now our invitation I pray in Jesus' name.