This morning on a Christ-centered home. I'm not going to address the mother directly. The Bible speaks a lot about mothers, but I'm going to talk about the home. In general. Notice in Deuteronomy chapter number 6, verse number 4 says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and thou shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house. And when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes And thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house and on thy gates. It sounds to me like God wants his word to be the center of the home. Sounds to me like God wants the home to be saturated with the Word of God. I remember as a young boy going to my grandparents' house and uh my dad's parents and b and my mom's parents both uh uh were very faithful Christians. They loved the Lord. But I remember particularly my father's parents, my uh grandpa Leatherman, Grandma Leatherman. We go to the house. They had Bible verses up all over the house. Above doors, they'd have a little placard as a Bible verse on the walls, different places. My grandma, is it crocheted Is that what it's called? Uh so she she made these little things, and uh it would have a Bible verse on there, and they'd put a frame and put it up around. Embroidery. Embroidery. And uh and all just the home saturated. And so, like I said, I want to speak this morning on what is a Christ-centered home. What does that mean? Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we've come to you this morning, and our our hearts are mine at least, and I believe all of us, our hearts are grateful for our mothers. And they come in different size and shape, different backgrounds, or different personalities. But we're so grateful for each and every one and the miracle of motherhood. So please bless now as we talk about the home and we study what your word says about the home and help our homes, revive our homes. Heal our homes, strengthen, purify, be glorified in our homes, we pray now on this Mother's Day. I yield my will to you. With all my heart, I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, please be the preacher, speak through me, and touch our, open our hearts and minds to your will for us. In Jesus' name, amen. I believe a healthy nation, a healthy nation, a spiritually healthy nation, is very much dependent on healthy homes. You've heard the old saying: the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world. The influence of the home. The influence of a mother. Somebody said, as the home goes, so goes the nation. I believe a healthy nation is very much dependent upon a healthy home. Now, I want to be careful here, but if you just look at our nation, if you look at the regions of our nation where the chief characteristic of the homes is brokenness Corruption, absentee parents, those are the parts of our country where you find the most unrest Would you agree with me? Rioting, destruction, vandalism, crime. Generally where the home has deteriorated, or in some cases, doesn't even exist in a biblical sense. You have the most unrest. Then there's parts of the country, maybe where the homes are a little bit more intact, the homes are a little stronger, homes are a little closer to what the biblical model is And you'll find in those communities, you'll find a little bit more stability, a little less chaos. Now, none of us are perfect. We understand that, right? But what I'm trying to say is this The home has a profound impact. The condition of the home has a profound impact on the condition of the nation that home is in. Home. I put this down, a healthy community. Let's bring it down to a little more local level. A healthy community is very much dependent upon a healthy home. Oakland, Garrett County, surrounding areas, over across the state line, different areas. Good, strong, healthy homes will be good for our community. Strengthen us, stabilize us. And let me bring it even closer. A healthy church It's very much dependent upon a healthy home. A healthy home. The spiritual well-being of a body of believers. It's very much dependent upon the spiritual well-being of the homes that make up that body of believers. And so the importance of the home, the importance of the home. I believe marriage and the home is the foundation of society. I believe the breakdown of our society can be traced directly to the breakdown of our homes. So what I'm trying to say is this the importance of a good, strong, healthy, spiritually healthy home Is vital importance for the well-being of humanity and a community and a church. Marriage is God's idea. Nobody invented this, some uh uh social experiment in a university somewhere, God came up with the idea of marriage. Um uh Evan and Roberta getting married in three weeks. I walked up, I saw him before. I said, how long? Three weeks. He went, three, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, three weeks. No, I d he didn't. He's excited. Raymond's getting married this Saturday. How about that? In Loch Lynn, you're right. That's God's idea. That's God's idea. Man didn't come with it. The home is God's design. Mother, father, children, that's God's design. He came up with it. In fact, scripture speaks a lot about marriage and the home. We could do a series for five years. A marriage in the home, children, child rearing, interpersonal relationships in the home. Bible talks all about that. The roles. Husbands, wives, children, parents. The Bible's, there's no question about any of it. The Bible's very, very clear how all this plays out. If you would, take your Bibles, and we're going to look at a number of verses, so keep them handy. If you would, come back to Genesis chapter number 2. This is the beginning of the history of man. Genesis chapter two. And if you would notice with me, I'm going to begin reading in verse number 18. And here we have the introduction of the home. Genesis chapter 2 and verse number 18. And the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him a help meet for him. Now just stop there. It's interesting to note. Up to this point, everything that God had made, as soon as he made it, he made this statement, and it was good. And it was good. Chapter 1. And it was good. He made the heavens. It was good. It was good. Now he comes to the point. He says, here's something that's not good. That man be alone. Now, question: did God fail? No, he wasn't done yet. He's not finished. So he designed man. Here's what I'm trying to say. He designed man with a need. He was designed that way. With a need. So it's not good that man should be alone. I will make him a help meet for him. That simply means adequate. A helper that's adequate, sufficient, will meet his needs. What a I'm telling you, us men are needy men. A man says, I don't need nothing. Liar, liar, pants on fire. So verse 19, and out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them. And whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the name thereof. So God brings all these little animals, all the animals by Adam, and uh God says, all right, let's see what he comes up with, these names And so uh God uh you know first is the uh the rhinos, uh Mr. Rhino and Mrs. Rhino and all the little R Rhinoettes come by and he calls them rhino. Then uh then the big uh hippo and mister Hippo and Mrs. Hippo and all the little hippies and um And so he's naming all of these animals. Verse 20, and Adam gave names to all the cattle and the fowl of the air and to every beast of the field. Wow, what an accomplishment. But for Adam, there was not found a help meet for him. None of these animals were able to meet his need. They didn't fit the bill. And the Lord God caused the deep sleep to fall upon Adam. And he slept. And he took one of his ribs. Closed up the flesh instead thereof, and the rib which the Lord God had taken from mad made he a woman and brought her unto the man. You say, preacher, you think that you don't believe that really happened like that. Yeah. Yeah, I think it happened exactly the way God said it happened And the Lord God uh and uh verse 42 And the rib which the Lord God had taken from the man made he a woman And brought her unto the man, God's gift to a man. And Adam said, This is now bone in my bones, and flesh in my flesh. She shall be called woman. God wanted to see what he called different things. He called her woman because she was taken out of man. Now look at this. Verse 24 is the institution of marriage and the whole. Therefore, this is God speaking. He just created man, he just created woman, he's brought them together. He goes, All right, here is marriage. Therefore Shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be made one flesh They were both naked, the man and the wife are not ashamed. Here we have the institution of the marriage, the foundation of the whole The home began in the Garden of Eden. It's the one institution, the home, marriage and the home is the one institution that came out of the Garden of Eden after the fall of man. Everything else was left behind. But when Adam and Eve before the fall in the Garden of Eden, they were husband and wife, male and female, they were joined together, cleaved together, they were one. And when they came out of that Garden of Eden, they brought that relationship, they brought that reunion, they brought that marriage with them. What I'm trying to say is this: marriage is a good thing designed by God in a perfect environment, and designed men and women specifically for that relationship. It's God's idea. First institution established, the home predates the church, the home predates the government The home is God's institution, the only one to come out of the Garden of Eden. The home began when God established marriage of one man and one woman for life. Let me say this: there is no other design for marriage. Now that uh to me two things about that. Number one, it boggles my mind that you have to even say that. And number two, we live in a society where that needs to be said. There's no other design. Husband and wife, one man, one woman for life. There's no other design. There's no other framework for marriage between a man and a woman. How many people your mind is boggled that we even have to say that? Sin came into the world. And sin is terrible, and sin had a terrible effect upon that marriage relationship. And some of us have felt it sting later on. We felt the sting of sin and its effect on marriages. And from the introduction of sin, marriages began to struggle Families, homes began to struggle. Very first child, children born, murdered. Marriage breaks down. Just a few chapters later in Genesis. We don't have time to look at this. Just a few chapters later, a man starts taking multiple wives. And sin has had a devastating effect on the whole. Now, thank God we have a Savior. Thank God we can find forgiveness and new life, and we can find healing and restoration. And so the home, what I'm trying to lay the groundwork here for the message is this: the home and marriage is God's idea, mom and dad and the kids. That's God's design. I mean right from the get-go of humanity, right when man was first created, this is established Not intended to live outside of that, not intended to redefine the marriage in the home, to redesign the marriage in the home. No, this is the way it was designed to be by God. Satan wants to divide the whole. If you would, come back. I found this interesting. Come back or come ahead here to chapter 3. So you got Adam and Eve, and they're joined together, and they're married now, and marriage is instituted. Look at verse 1 of chapter 3. Now the serpent was more subtle. That means he's tricky. I'm here to tell you, Satan is tricky. Then any beast of the field which the Lord God made, and look at this, and he said unto who? The woman Yea, hath God said, Thou shalt not eat of any tree of the garden. The woman said, We may eat of the fruit of the tree of the garden, but of the fruit of the tree of which is in the midst of the garden, tree of knowledge, good and evil, God has said, You shall not eat of it, neither shall you touch it lest you die. I think it's interesting Satan's tactics. Did you notice he did not come to Adam and Eve? He came to one of them. People speculate a lot on that. New Testament talks about that a little. But you know, I think not only was he wanting them to sin, that was his primary objective. But I think he was out to bring division between Adam and Eve. He comes to her, get her to act independently. He didn't approach both of them together because he wanted to break that thing up. He wanted to bring division in there. Satan wants to divide the home. He wants to divide husband from wife. Bring division in there, fussing and mad and different things. I tell you, fussing between husbands and wives is of the devil. I'll say that again. It's of the devil. That is not God and is not the Holy Spirit leading a husband to fuss and fight with his wife. And it is not of God, and it's not of the Holy Spirit, for a wife to fuss and fight with her husband. It's of the devil. It's the flesh. And so Satan wants to divide. The world wants to distort the home and the marriage. We see that on every hand, don't we? I mean it's forced down our throats. That's the fallen world. And the flesh, the flesh wants to defile marriage. His old flesh gets swelled up. It's all about me. My way or the highway, and we lose that union and we lose that cleaving mentally, emotionally, spiritually, physically, we lose all that And this whole flesh wants its own way. But God wants to bless the home. And I believe the home that follows God's design is blessed of God. I tell you, I just thank God for my grandparents, my grandpa Leatherman, and And and uh Ada, she said they used to call her Ada Batata. It's my grandmother. Just simple old old order Mennonite. Back up outside of Philly. I'm telling you those two were inseparable. Grandpa died in the 70s. Grand Grand we called her Grammy, she died when in her early 80s, 80, 81, somewhere around there Now I'm telling you, I still have them, till the day grandpa went in the hospital, if they were with arm's reach of each other, they were holding each other's hand. They just admired each other. They just loved each other. God wants to bless that. And God honors that. A contractor follows a pattern when he's building a house, right? We built this building up here and we came up with a pattern with drawings, this is the way it's going to be, the measurements, all of this, how I. This here, pipes there, electric there, and uh uh what else is in it? Um air conditioning It's all designed, all laid out. Plan, pattern, laid out. And then you build it according to that pattern. You build it according to that plan. When we're building and maintaining a healthy, happy home, we must follow God's pattern. Follow how He has it laid out. Building a house requires work, right? We put uh Brother Mark and Tim and others put a lot of work. And they're building our new building over here. Contractors came in. I still remember putting that metal roof up there and building the frame and these guys are up there it's like December. It's pouring down snow and they're walking up on that metal roof. I had 911 sitting there, I was just ready to match it. Waiting for 'em It takes a lot of work. It's not easy. It's a lot of effort and investment made to build a building. And I'm here to tell you to have a good godly home, to have a kind of home that God can bless and God's presence can permeate that home. It takes a lot of work. It takes a lot of effort. There's inconveniences. Well, Brother Tim spent hundreds and hundreds of hours over there. Helping that. And I'm telling you, it takes a lot of work, a lot of investment if we're going to kind of have the home we ought to have. Amen or not? Some of y'all have been married a long time. Talk to me here. Amen. Takes time, effort. Got to die to self. Building a house requires work, time, investment, and having a Christ-centered home requires work, time, and investment. So let me give you three things. I've got a couple minutes. Let me give you three things here, real quick, about what I believe a Christ-centered home requires. Number one, there needs to be a commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to have a Christ-centered home. There needs to be a commitment in that home to the Lord Jesus Christ. A Christ-centered home does not is not a simply a religion You can have a religious home, but not be Christ-centered. In fact, let me say this: if your Christianity is anything other than a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, then you do not have biblical Christianity. Christianity is a relationship, a personal relationship with a living Savior, Jesus Christ. Personal relationship It's not just religious activity, religious rituals. And so a Christ-centered home is a home where there's a commitment not to religion, but to the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. God's intention is that every member of every family know Jesus Christ as personal Savior. God wants every daddy to be saved. It's God's will. God wants every mother to be saved. That's God's will. God wants every child to be saved. That's his will. If I'm going to have a Christ-centered home, daddy needs to know Jesus Christ as Savior, mother needs to know Jesus Christ as Savior, and the children, as soon as possible, need to know Jesus Christ as Savior. If you're a daddy or a husband here this morning and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm telling you, it's God's will you trust Jesus Christ as your Savior. If you're a mother or a wife, if you're a child. So a Christ-centered home requires a commitment to Christ in this matter of salvation. In Acts 16, and we're not going to have time to go to these verses. But you have this jailer that there's an earthquake. He thinks Paul and Silas have escaped. They haven't. They're sitting there. He's going to kill himself. And so he gets a sword out, thinking uh the the the Roman authorities are going to kill me anyway, I might as well get it over with. So he's gonna literally kill himself, commit suicide. Paul says, whoa, whoa, whoa, don't don't do yourself no harm We're all here. There's no reason for you to do that. This guy's under conviction. He says, what must I do to be saved? Paul says, listen to this very carefully. Acts 16, I think it's 31. He says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, but he doesn't stop there, and thy house, your whole home. Your wife, your kids. I want them all. If they'll believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, they'll all be saved. And we could read on there, again, we don't have time, but Paul, he brings Paul out of the prison into his home. He cleans him up. He's been in this filthy, nasty prison. He's bloody stained. This guy calls on the Lord, believes in the Lord, but he brings Paul home to his house. His wife and family are there. He cleans Paul up, probably gives him a little bit to eat. And the old boy gets baptized and his family. His whole family got saved. Not just the jail, not just the man. I'm here to tell you: God wants everybody in the home to be saved. A commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ is necessary if we're going to have a Christ-centered home. But not just a commitment to know Christ as Savior, but a commitment that every family dedicate their life to the Lord Jesus Christ. Joshua 24 verse 14 or 15, Joshua said, As for me and my house, he said to the nation of Israel, you choose this day whom you're going to serve. But as for me and my house, my wife and my kids, we've made the decision. We're going to serve the Lord. That was a home dedicated, not just trusting Jesus as Savior, but dedicated to live for God, to function and operate as a husband and a wife and children, as a home as God dictates, as God instructs us to. I tell you, I've seen the homes the world produces. I'm not impressed. But I see the homes that follow the instructions of Scripture and follow the guidelines given in Scripture And I tell you, it's an impressive day. It's an impressive day. A Christ-centered home. I thought about little Zoe Hardesty. How many people remember little Zoe? What a blessing. She rode the Sunday school bus in it. I'm telling you, for months, I'd stand back there like I always do greeting people as we leave. She'd come up from children's church and she'd come and she'd say, Pastor, Uh, Pastor Lederman, will you please pray for Pappy that he'll get saved? I mean, every week, please pray for Pappy that he'll get saved. Please pray for Pappy that he'll get saved. So I sent Charlie and Ed out to visit her papy, Bushrod Hardesty. They show up. He's there watching uh Billy Graham on TV, how to be saved. He's telling people how to be saved. The old old old Billy Graham program He's watching it. Charlie and Ed knock on the door. He answers the door. They said, hey, we come by and we want to tell you how to be saved. So I'm just watching it. I was just thinking that. I was just, I need to be saved. And he led Bushrod Lord. How many people remember when Bushrod got saved Baptized. And I mean to tell you like a like a like an aftershock that salvation just went through his family This visit is brother this week. So many of his family got saved. Bunch of them have died since then, now in heaven What I'm trying to say is this, a Christ-centered home is a home that's committed to Jesus Christ, where the folks are saved, mommy saved, daddy saved, the kids are saved, and they're living for God Serving God. Number two, I put this down: a Christ-centered home is a home where there's not just a commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ, but there's a commitment to the Word of God. As a Baptist, our number one distinctive, the first distinctive of a Baptist church is the Bible is our sole authority. As a church, as far as our faith and our practice is concerned, there's no other authority than the Word of God. This is our authority right here. Amen or not? If this book says it, it's so. If this book tells us we're supposed to do something as a church, we ought to do it. This book tells us there's something we ought not to do as a church. We better not mess around with it. It's our sole authority. The Bible's a unique book. There's no other book like the Bible None of there's some great books out there, but nothing comes close to the Word of God. It's an unchanging book. Now I listen, I'll just say this. I'm not interested in the Bible of the month club. We got the Word of God. We hold to it. It's unchanging. It's unchanging. The Bible is unfailing. If the Bible says something so, it's so. It's our final authority on right and wrong. Hey, if the Bible says it's wrong, it doesn't matter what the government says, it's wrong. If something's right, it doesn't matter what society says it's right. And the authority in the church is the same authority in the whole. And there needs to be an old-fashioned commitment to the Word of God in our homes again. We've seen the effect of removing the Bible from our schools, right? Have we not? We've seen the effect of removing the Word of God from our government, have we not? And we've seen the effect of removing the Bible from our homes. I'm all for getting the Bible back in the White House. I'm all for getting the Bible back in the schoolhouse. But I'm saying, how about we get it back in our homes again? A commitment to the Word of God. A Christ-centered home functions under the authority of Scriptures. The Bible instructs us on the roles that the members of a home play. God's designed it this way. The husband, the Bible is very clear. Pastor Matt read it in our scripture reading. There's a ton of other scriptures. But the husband's role in the home is to provide leadership and unconditional love. The husband is responsible before God. To provide biblical, godly, compassionate leadership in the home and love the wife and the family unconditionally. As Christ loved the church. How many people here are glad Jesus how many husbands here you're glad Jesus loves you unconditionally? Even if you mess up, he still loves you. Alright? Even if you're a knucklehead, he still loves you. Even if you're not doing what you should be doing, he still loves us. Amen? That's the way we're supposed to love our wives. Preacher, if you knew what she was like, then you'd know why I don't love her. Doesn't matter what she's like. It's how how is God? How's God love you? Right? And so the Bible gives us the roles are clay laid out very, very clearly in Scripture. The wife is to support and respect the husband. Preacher, if you know what a knucklehead he was, I probably do. Most men are knuckleheads. Can I get an Amen? All the ladies said, Amen. But I'm not responsible. Listen, I'm not responsible for God for my wife to fulfill her role. I'm responsible for God for me to fulfill my role. My wife is not responsible for God for me to do my part. She's responsible for God for her to fulfill her role, whether I do or not. You say that's not fair. Welcome to reality. I tell you, to hear God say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant, is sure worth putting up with some headaches. Amen or not? Worth it all. The husband, leadership, and unconditional love. Wife, support and respect. Parents, train up our children to live for God. Teach our children the Word of God. I tell you, that ought to be the highest priority in the full in the home is training our children to live for God, teaching them the Word of God. We teach them everything else in the world. Listen, I love sports, I love academics, I love hunting, fishing, all of that. But brother, If my kids, if my boys know how to fish, but they don't know the word of God, I failed. That's my responsibility. To raise them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. That's the role of the parents. I thank God for our children's many. We talk a lot about it. But listen, the church's children's ministry does not replace the parents' responsibility to train their children up for the Lord. We dish all that stuff out. We help, we support that, but it's the parents who suppose, all right, what about the kids? All right. All the parents saying, oh yeah, well, what are the children supposed to do? It's simple. Kids, your responsibility in the home is the simplest thing ever. Children, obey your parents. That's it. You say you don't know what my parents are like. Yeah, but I know what God says. Right? And they could probably tell me some things about you. Huh? Honor your parents. Love your parents. Obey them. Obey them. It's a very simple thing. So all I'm saying is this: a Christ-centered home, first of all, has a commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ in salvation and dedication. Then there's a commitment to the Word of God in each of us fulfilling the roles that the Word of God instructs us to fulfill, to be what God tells me to be in my particular capacity in that home. And then the uh the Bible instructs us on the atmosphere in the home. Say what's the what's this what's the atmosphere supposed to be? I tell you, getting some homes, and we've probably all had this to some extent periods of time over the home the the life of a home. But a lot of times the atmosphere in the home would be described as tense Right? And it's just tension there. And and in many cases, just anger permeates the home. Tension belts in the bitterness. I'm telling you, that is not God's design. That is not of God. You can say what you want. You can come with every excuse and justification for it you want. It is not God's design. Ephesians 4. 32, and again we don't have time, but be ye kind. One to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you I think a Christ-centered home where there's a commitment to the Word of God is permeated by the presence of the Holy Spirit. and the fruit of the Holy Spirit, which is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, goodness, gentleness, temperance That is what permeates a Christ-centered home. Not anger and frustration and not talking to you. Christ-centered home. Christ-centered home. Christ center home, if we if we heed God's warning, and if we claim God's promises and we follow God's instructions, I believe we can have a blessed, Christ-centered home. Let me give you one last one. I'll end with this. Number one, a commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ in salvation and dedication. Number two, a commitment to the Word of God. As far as our roles are concerned, and the atmosphere. I'm going to work on having this atmosphere I'm going to work on fulfilling my role. I want God's blessings on my home. I want a Christ-centered home. And then the last of all, a commitment to one another. I believe commitment in the home to one another is absolutely necessary to have God's blessings to have success in the home. The husband ought to be committed to the wife. The wife ought to be committed to the husband. I tell you, those marriage vows are the most sacred vows a person can take on planet Earth. I don't know of anything more and more sacred And by the way, those vows are not primarily one to another, those vows are made to God. Love and cherish. Forsaking all others. Better for worse, richer poor, till death do us apart. That's a vow before God God's blessings and success on the home are necess are dependent upon a commitment in the home. The husband to the wife, the wife to the husband, the parents to the children. I believe sincere commitment in the home to one another brings security to the home. The children are more secure. They're more stable When they know there's a commitment there. I think it nurtures loyalty and faith in the home when it's characterized by commitment one to another. I believe it protects the home during dark hours. Sin finds a way into the home. Devastation hits. But I'm committed. I'm committed. I'm not walking away. I'm not bailing. I'm committed. I tell you, there's a powerful book in the Old Testament. Powerful book. The Old Testament on the home. Or marriage. It's a book of Hosea. Go to read that. God tells Hosea before he marries his wife that she's going to be unfaithful. Can I use biblical term? Excuse me. She's going to play the whore. That's God's term. And he knows that. And God's going to use that all to be an illustration to Israel that they, excuse me, Bible term, they played the whore against God. And God faithful, and God didn't bail on them, and God loved them. He says, I want you to illustrate that. I'm gonna marry you're gonna marry this girl and she's gonna be that And Hosea's commitment to his wife sees him through all of that. And when that book's done, they're back together. They're committed to one another, and God is glorified. Now listen, I know that's that's the ideal. Please believe me, I understand But that that illustrates to us, that illustrates to me, the power of commitment Now, whatever's in the past is past, alright? I hope you all understand what I'm saying. God doesn't throw us on guilt trips He convicts us and challenges us. But whatever happened in the past is past. I'm saying this to some of us. Let me say this to you. Whatever's in the past is past. Let's take us where we're at and go forward God's way from here out Amen? Let's just go forward. Whatever. But a Christ-centered home is characterized by a commitment to one another. I think it protects in the dark hours I tell you, we need Christ-centered homes in our country. Needs some Christ-centered homes in Oakland. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church needs Christ-centered homes. Lord Jesus, the word of God, commitment. Fireman was standing, holding a little boy's hand. His house had just burned down. I mean devastated, lost everything. And a little boy standing, and a fireman reached down. He says to the little boy, he says, Sonny, sorry you lost your home. Little boy looks up and he says, Oh, we didn't lose our home. We just don't have a house to put it in right now. That's what we want. Amen. It's not a house. I tell ya, I tell you. Some of the most godly, happy, blessed, Christ-centered homes I've ever seen were in a tar paper shack. Husband and wife love each other, love the Lord, Bible's honored, kids obey and honor their parents, blessing and happiness, peace, commitment in a tar paper shack. Now, I'll say there's been some miserable homes in star paper shacks also. But what I'm trying to say is it's not the material, it's the heart. Let's pray. Father, I pray maybe you can use these thoughts to challenge us. God, we don't want to we don't want anyone discouraged because of maybe what's in the past. That's Go on. We all got a past. We all do. But Lord, help us to see where we're at now and then go forward. Thank you for mothers. God, thank you. Help us to honor them and love them, not just today, but 365 days a year. Lord bless our fathers, our husbands, our children. Stir us and help us, Lord. We need your help. It's not easy. We need your help, Lord. We trust you Our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder, I know it's Mother's Day, but I wonder how many husbands would say, preacher, I sincerely want to be a good, godly, spirit-filled husband. For my wife and my home. Is there any like that, preacher? I really do. God bless you. I think every Christian dat husband would want that How about it, ladies, wives? I really want to be a good, godly, spirit-filled wife for my husband or my home. Any like that, ladies, sure. God bless you. Who wouldn't Children, say, preacher, I really want to be a good, godly, spirit-filled Christian child to my parents. Any like that? How about it, young people? Any like that? Sure. Sure. Now it's not easy and it takes work and investment. A lot of times it's hard. We've got to die to sell Maybe an old altar this morning say, Lord help me, here I am. As for me and my house, I want to serve you. There's some here this morning. Say, preacher, there's some areas in my life that I know are not right. Maybe the Lord brought something out. I don't know. I want to urge you to hit an old altar this morning. Say, Lord, I want this to be right. Lord, make it right. Help me do what I need to do If you're not saved, you've never trusted Christ, you'll have assurance. I plead with you this morning, married or not, regardless of your home situation, you need to get saved. You get that settled. Father, bless our imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, let's stand together, heads are bowed eyes.