And I was trying to think, what hymn would that be? I was thinking different ones, and Jesus loves me. Can't beat that. Great, great. Matthew chapter five, if you would, turn your Bibles there, Matthew five As usually happens, I am gotten stuck on a couple verses here But they're good verses. I haven't found a bad verse in the Bible yet Well today is a wow, today is a national holiday, sort of sorts. Anybody know what today is? Tax day. How many people sent their taxes in today? How many people are going to try and work on it tonight and get in there? I sent mine in, I was very bitter. Sending them in. I saw a guy put on the computer. It was after I mailed these. If I'd have seen it before, I'd have done it. And he said he'd put in his tax. He says, um, I hope you spend my life savings wisely. Uh a couple weeks after hearing a sermon about um God knowing all our secrets and God knowing everything about us, and you can't lie and deceive, a man got very convicted. And so he wrote the following letter to the IRS. Listen very carefully to this. He said, I've been unable to sleep, knowing that I have cheated on my income tax. I understand my taxable income and I have enclosed, I understated my taxable income, and I have enclosed a check for $150. If I still can't sleep, I'll send the rest. So Matthew chapter five, I'm going to begin reading in verse fourteen. We're looking at this phrase, ye are the light of the world. He says, ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick And it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven I want to look at verse 14 and 15 again tonight. I know we've I've dwelled on this, uh we've dwelt on this here a couple weeks, but I want to look at again, and Lord willing, if the Lord continues direct, I'm going to bring another message on verse 16 next week. But um I've called it just this a city on a hill and a lighted candle. Let's pray just quick. I just want the Lord to bless here real quick. Father, fill me with your spirit is my prayer. I pray you'd use these thoughts from this passage that I've jotted down. I pray you'd use them to challenge us, to be effective witnesses, and to be the Christians you've saved us to be. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. It's one thing clear in this whole passage. In fact, if you go up to verse thirteen, where he talks about us being the salt, which we looked at that at length. God, one thing you come from this, one conclusion you make, I just don't feel like I'm a little too loud, Dave. It's really blasting my ears. One thing that uh you come to the conclusion is to me it's obvious, God expects us to make a difference in the place that we're at. You're the salt of the earth, you're the light of the world. Now a lot of people make a difference in their world, in their realm of influence. Some are good, some are not so great. He's not talking here about just making a difference. He's not talking about necessarily making your neighborhood a lot cleaner, picking up the trash and making it a nicer appearing neighborhood, although that may be a byproduct. He's not talking about people living in nicer houses or or having an influence that way. That's not the primary subject that he says that we are to be an influence is. What he's talking about is we are to be a spiritual influence. When he says you're the salt of the earth, you're the light of the world, he's talking to us about being a light and salt spiritually in this world. You know, the Mormons can do a lot to clean up neighborhoods and make houses nicer, but they cannot be a testimony for the Lord Jesus Christ. Um, you know, even an atheistic group could go out and have an influence in the neighborhood and make things nice and help kids get pencils for school or whatever. You know, you just think of all these social things you could do to make society a nicer place. And that's great. We're certainly not opposed to that. And I think that could be a byproduct of meeting the spiritual needs, people being better off. But What the Lord is talking about is about us having a spiritual impact in our neighborhoods. Um, we should, uh, our neighborhood should be affected by our presence as Christians in that neighborhood should be spiritually affected by it. Our cities, our community, Oakland should be affected spiritually because there's a body of believers at 1005 Broadford Road. It should be affected just by us as individual Christians being a light in this community. Our country, United States of America, should be, and I believe has been affected because of Christians living for God and having a testimony has influenced this country in years gone by and we trust we can see a resurgence of that. We hope there's still a little bit of light left here. And our world. You say, how can we as a how can we as a church in Western Maryland, how can we be a light into all the world, to the whole world. Well, the the intensity of the light not might not be the same around the whole world. Obviously we have a far greater influence, I trust here in our immediate area than we do in Europe, but I would like to think we do have a little bit of influence in Europe through our mission support, through our prayers and through our efforts, our adoption of Kazakhstan. Our prayers certainly have an influence. And so this world should be affected by your testimony, my testimony, as well as our local neighborhood. Sadly, the opposite of that is too often true. Rather than Christians having an influence on the world around them, sadly, it's the world that is having the influence on Christians And we're seeing that more and more and more. And I don't know why this is, but I kept coming back to Romans chapter 12, verse 1 and 2, as I've been studying this salt and the light and the distinction that salt is from what it's placed on and the distinction that light is from the uh from the darkness. And of course I think many of us uh uh are familiar with Romans 12, 1 and 2, a tremendous passage, a powerful passage of Scripture. He says, I beseech you Therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you what? Present your body, the living sacrifice holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. But then he goes on and says this in verse 2. And be not Conform to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what's that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. I might have had the order out there at the end. But what he's saying here is he says, listen, as Christians, we are to sell out to the Lord. We are to fully give ourselves the Lord. The second verse or second or third verse that Connie's saying, he s he says, You've died for me, I will henceforth try to live for thee. is what Romans says. I present my body, a living sacrifice. I'm giving myself over to God. My future, my life, my everything, my body, everything. I'm giving it to the Lord to live for him. And I'm not going to let the world influence me. I'm not going to be conformed to the world. But I'm going to be transformed. I'm going to be different to the world. I'm going to have an influence on the world. By carrying out God's will And so, as I said, sadly, the opposite is true of what this verse is talking about. Rather than Christians being a light and an influence in the world, too often are we allow the world to influence us. We become more like the world than we are like Christ in a lot of ways. In the book of Acts, the believers had a profound impact. on their communities. I love the book of Acts. I'm reading through it now in my devotions and I just get stirred as I read it. Keep your place here. We're going to come back and look at these verses a little particular, but Come with me to Acts chapter number five, and I want you to look at a couple of these verses. This is a passage, when I came here in 1993, when the Lord led us here, This this passage, Acts chapter 5, and this little phrase out of a verse, I'm telling you, had gripped my heart. And it has been, that little statement has been, in many ways, a driving force behind my heart as pastor of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And I've referenced it a number of times before, but uh I want to look at it here again. Acts chapter five and towards the end of the chapter, not all the way at the end, verse number 28. Acts 5. 28. Here you have the apostles arrested are arrested, and they're told not to preach in the name of the Lord Jesus anymore and um and uh they're facing persecution. I mean they are just going at it. It is like track month on steroids, these guys. Except no tracks, you know. They're just going out and confronting people. Intense. No teams. And here's the Pharisees rebuking the disciples, Peter and others. Verse 28, saying, Did we not straightly command you that ye should not teach in this name? I always call that Satan's Great Commission. Don't preach the name of Jesus. And look what look at the accusation they throw out. Look what they say they did. And this is the phrase that I'm referring to. And behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine. I love that phrase. I tell you, when I came here, I thought God helped me to fill Oakland and Garrett County and surrounding areas with the doctrine of the gospel. Just fill it. I put in the words of my Bible. Saturation evangelism. That's what they're doing. You know what they were? They were a light intensely shining in Jerusalem. They were a spiritual lighthouse. And I mean to tell you these Pharisees are getting blinded by it They said, good night every alleyway, every nook, every little apartment that's on the top of a building behind a business, storefront business. Uh every little place that somebody can live, you've been there and you've told them your doctrine. You've absolutely filled this city up with it. Man, they had a profound impact on that community. I like uh what Paul says about the church at Thessalonica, and I'll just read it to you. We studied it a year or so ago on Sunday night But in First Thessalonica uh First Thessalonians uh and verse number chapter one and verse eight, he says this, uh complimenting the church, saying how what a great strong church they were. He says, For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achai, but also in every place your faith To God word is spread abroad. He's complimenting. He says, listen, not only in your immediate area, but that whole region. The faith that you have in the gospel, the message of the gospel is everywhere. Then he ends that verse and he says, So I don't even need to say anything. And I think what Paul is saying to him there, listen You have so influenced your region with the gospel. I go there, no matter where I go, people already know about the gospel. Now, Paul's mission was to areas where nobody has reached And he says, I don't have anything to say there. I don't have a ministry there because you've so saturated that area. You know what they were? They were a light. They absolutely influence that area, not with not with uh little uh cleaning the neighborhood gutters out from trash, you know, and doing all that. That was all fine. And by the way If a neighborhood gets saved, everybody gets saved, it'll be a cleaner neighborhood, I think. But what the Lord is talking about is about the spiritual impact, getting people to know the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. And this is my thinking. If we put all our focus and effort onto cleaning gutters and and fixing houses up and all of that, if that's our time and effort, which is fine And the people have a clean house and a cle a nice house and a clean gutter, and they die and go to hell. What good did we do them? And so he's talking about a spiritual light. The truth of the gospel. And uh and uh man, these believers in Acts have absolutely saturated area. This church at Thessalonica. I can't wait, get to heaven. I want to talk to some of those folks that were part of that church And just see what it was like. Now, back to our text, Matthew chapter 5. And this salt and this light idea has absolutely captivated me in this little series we're doing I want to give you some thoughts about light, whether it's on a city on a hill or whether it's on a candlestick, some thoughts about light. Now last week we talked about you need to be exposed to light, you need to embrace it, you need to emit the light I want to talk about the light itself, not a response to it so much, but about the light itself. Number one, if you want to jot these down, here's my first thought First thing I want you to consider. Number one, light requires an energy source. Light can't produce itself. And I meant to bring over. I have in my garage a spotlight and what you have to do is you have to plug it into the car. I won't tell you what it's used for. But um uh I'm joking, of course. Of course. And uh if somebody has to tell you they're joking ten times, chances are they're not really joking, right? But I got this light and and it's like I think it's a million candlelight spotlight. How many people have one of those? You know what I'm talking about? Those things are incredible. And um But, and I meant to bring it over here, I left it in the garage, but uh you hold that thing and I can click that little button all I want, it ain't gonna go on until what? It's plugged in until there's some energy source. The bulb and the light itself is powerless in and of itself. That light has no light without the energy source. You have a torch I have on our back deck I like to in the summer uh I think we have about two weeks where I can actually do this. sit back there and in the evenings and I like we like these tiki torches. Tiki torches. And uh you know, you got them and those are nice. They keep the bugs away a little bit, not much. And you light them and it's just kind of like you're camping, but you're not really camping. And we got them burn a little fire on the pit and I just enjoy doing that. I could click a lighter on those sticky uh wicks all night long and they're not gonna burn much unless there's what Fuel in there. There's got to be a source of power. And here's the point I'm trying to make. When the Lord Jesus says that you and I are the light of the world, we need to understand we are not the light ourselves We're just a light bulb. We're just a little wick. Unless there's a so a power source there, there's not going to be any light given out. And we need to understand that the per a person, as as nice as they can be, as sharp as they can be, as moral as they can be, if they don't have the presence of Christ in their life in the person of the Holy Spirit, They are not a light. There's no light there. They might be a light bulb. They might look like someone that would have spiritual influence, but if there's not the presence of the Holy Spirit in there They're not going to be a light. Now here's the great thing. How many folks here tonight? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. I trust that's all of us. Here's the great thing. If that's true, and I trust it is The moment we trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit of God took up residence in our bodies. And somebody says, well, I didn't feel anything. No, you don't feel anything, really. It's just a statement of Scripture that we are indwelt by the Spirit of God the moment we trust Christ as Savior. So you don't have to The Bible does not teach us, and I'm not teaching this now, that you have to ask God to give you the Holy Spirit if you're saved. If you're saved, the Holy Spirit of God is dwelling within us. So we have the energy source. It's there. What we need. Without the Spirit, if a person doesn't know Jesus Christ the Savior, if they've never trusted Christ the Savior, they don't have the Holy Spirit of God. They could have a lot of influence in the world. But they're not having any spiritual influence as far as the w the the glory of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ is concerned Um there's a lot of people in the United States that are very uh what's the big word they give a lot of their money away, ph uh philanthric. Is that the right? I don't think um Yeah. They give stuff away. And um you I are a college student and I try to prove that by the way I talk. And uh but um you know they have a tremendous influence and they build houses in Dominican for poor people and all that. That's great That's not what the Lord's talking about. He's talking about God's people filled with God's Spirit having a spiritual impact on the lives and homes and people around them. And without the Holy Spirit of God, we can't do that. Every light needs an energy source. Turn with me, if you would, to Acts chapter 1. This again is a pretty familiar verse for a lot of people, anyway. I like this verse, one of the first verses I memorized after I got saved. It's a good one to underscore in your Bible. Acts chapter 1 The Lord is about, he's been resurrected, he's meeting with his disciples one last time. He's given them final instructions before he leaves planet Earth, before he ascends to heaven. And He says in verse number eight, this is the Lord talking to the disciples. But ye shall receive power. Aha! After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me. Both in Jerusalem and Judea, all Judea and Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. You know what that is? You have the energy source, the power source, the Holy Spirit. And then you have the light. Be witnesses unto me. Spirit of God comes upon you. In Acts chapter 2, the Spirit of God came upon him. And they began to be tremendous lights into all the world. But they needed that energy source. They needed that power. This is what I'm challenging us from this passage, this thought. I'm challenging us. We must seek to live daily in the fullness of the Holy Spirit. I I've done this the before a number of times. How many people here you would expect that your pastor should be filled with the Spirit as he ministers as a pastor? How many people would expect that? The pastor should be you agree with me The pastor should be filled with the Holy Spirit. I'm telling you, there's nowhere in the Bible where it says just the pastor is to be filled with the Holy Spirit. The Bible says every single Christian should be filled, controlled, and empowered by the Holy Spirit of God. That means every one of us that God can and will lead us by His Spirit, will direct us according to His Word, and accord with His Word. But he will lead us and direct us and enable us to have an influence on people around us as we let the Holy Spirit empower us and fill us. That means we've got to die to self. We've got to get ourselves empty of self and filled with the Spirit. I've often thought this, and I think I mentioned it in messages before, but I've often thought this. What if Now, uh this wouldn't happen not until the rapture, but suppose, what if the Holy Spirit was removed from one of our church services? Just imagine We're in the middle of a Sunday night service, we're in the middle of a Sunday morning service, and this Holy Spirit was instantly removed. I often wondered, would we notice any difference? How much of what we are doing are we simply doing ourselves? And how much of it is the Spirit of God actually working and going through us? I wonder how that would affect church just churches. Suppose the Holy Spirit was just removed from all the churches in the middle of a service. I wonder if America would even notice the difference Whether we operate in the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit or we're operating without it. That's a challenging question in my mind. What about our ministries? You know, we're doing different things. What if the Spirit of God was removed and suddenly we weren't filled, we weren't indwelt, the Spirit was moved, would there be any difference in us just going through the motions and doing that Now let's bring it a little closer. What about our homes? The moment we got married, my prayer has been for my home and I No, we haven't lived up to it all, but my prayer has been that my home would be anointed with the presence of the Holy Spirit in my home. Now I wonder if the Spirit of God was removed from our homes, would there be any difference? Would there be any difference in how we got along? And the things that were said, stuff that was watched, the music that was listened to? If the Spirit of God was removed, would there be any difference at all? And what I'm asking is this, is the Holy Spirit filling you? Is Holy Spirit in, and are you yielded to the Holy Spirit? Or is it you living your life? Is it you running the home? Is it you running that ministry? Is it you coming in here and partaking part of the spirit of the of the service, or is the Spirit of God empowering us and filling us? What if the Holy Spirit was removed from my individual life? Would I live any differently? Or would I just go right on? There'd be no difference. And so a light, he says, you're the light of the world. Well, a light isn't a light unless it has some sort of power source. And you and I are not much of a Christian unless that Holy Spirit is empowering us and filling us and directing us and using us. So my first thought was this. Number one, a f light needs a a power source. My second thought is this I'd like you to consider. The primary purpose of a light. You got a light. What's the primary purpose of that light? I put it this way, to dispel darkness. To eliminate darkness. That's the primary purpose. Now there may be some other uses that would come in, but the primary purpose of a light is to eliminate the darkness, dispel the darkness. So you can see what's going on. I think it's interesting the Lord uses in Matthew chapter 5, he uses the phrase a city on a hill I thought, well that's interesting. And as I was studying that, I got thinking we lived in uh in Colorado, in Boulder, Colorado for three years, just north 35 miles northwest of Denver, right up against the mountains Denver is known as the what city? Mile high city. And it's a mile high, almost to the foot. It's five 5,200 some feet. And when you're coming from Kansas, and some of you truck drivers might know this, you're coming from Kansas across 70, you come out of Kansas into uh Colorado, I'm telling you, a long way off, especially at night. You see the lights of Denver. I'm talking about an hour or so out sometimes. You can see those lights in there. It is a city on a hill. And what that city does is it really in a lot of ways provides a city on a hill in a lot of ways provides direction for people. At night, you know, well that city especially before they had roads and whatnot, but if a city had some lights burning and whatnot, they had had uh street lights or whatever out there That city's over there. It's up on the hill. I can see exactly where the city is. I know where I need to go to get to that city. It provides direction. And here's the thing, the application, if you and I, if we're the Christians God saved us to be, and if we're living the life that God saved us to live, Then we are a light and we should be providing direction for people in their lives. People want to be able to hear us and see us and our ministry and our influence on them. ought to be providing them a direction to the city that hath foundations whose builder and maker is God Listen, there's no other people on planet Earth that can give this world directions to heaven. Nobody else. God's people, we're the city on the hill, we're the one shining, we're the one giving directions. And as we're filled with the Spirit, yielded to the Lord, and God's empowering us, and it's not just our ability, but it's a supernatural influence that the Holy Spirit is is it has on people around us. One of the results of that is giving people direction how to know Jesus Christ. How to find forgiveness of sins. How to find eternal life. Just like that city of Denver up there shining, and you know you're heading the right way. That is where the lights are, that's where I'm headed. We ought to be shining so people can know how they can find eternal light through the Lord Jesus Christ. So a city on a hill provides direction. That's the purpose of the light, is to dispel the darkness, and people can see where to go. I put another thing, a city on a hill gives direction. This light from this city on the hill gives direction. But a city on a hill that's lit up also gives protection It provides warning. Um uh it is safer um I grew up north of Philly. So I wasn't really in the city. We were just outside the city. But we go down there a lot. My mom worked at the market down at Union at uh at the train station. There's a huge market down there that was. She worked there for years to take the train down. And uh You didn't want to go to certain parts of the city at night because it was rough and it was dangerous. And so what would they do? To help keep it safer, they would put streetlights up. They light it up. It's more protection. And you can see if something's coming, there's more danger. You know, if there's somebody coming at you, you can see them. They're not right on you in the dark. It provides protection. It provides warning. You come up to an intersection on our interstates Just about every intersection on a on an interstate will have huge lights up all around it. So you can navigate that thing safely and cross the roads and get on the exits and all uh on and off safely. The light provides protection. It provides warning. You can see if someone's coming a whole lot better. And so as Christians, we are, in a very many in a very real way, we are a protection to this whole world When Christians are gone, what's going to happen to this world? We've got a seven-year tribulation. It's going to be a mess. Can you imagine? Listen, think with me. Can you imagine if there was no Christian influence in this world, what would the world be like? We hear so much in the media how awful Christianity is and how terrible Christians are and all this, how awful Christianity is. Let's suppose we would remove all Christian influence. That means all the hospitals built in the name of Christ are gone. All the charities in the name of Jesus Christ are gone. All the morals and the laws that are based on scripture, all that's removed, and the world can do whatever they want, and no influence by Christians. I don't think it'd be a pretty place. And what we are as Christians, we are those streetlights in a lot of ways. And we can warn people of the consequences of sin. We can warn people of what happens if we just do what we want and we don't yield and trust Christ and yield our lives to Him. And so these this city on a Hill, this light, its purpose is to dispel the darkness. And that Gives direction to people. They know where they need to go. They know how to get to their destination that they need to get to And it protects them. It has an influence there that keeps the the the the uh keeps the boogeyman uh out from coming out. You know what I'm saying? It keeps it a safer place when you have these lights up. So Jesus says you're the light of the world. He's making a profound statement here, what we are as Christians. And a light needs a power source. That tells me we've got to seek the filling of the Holy Spirit. Maybe I don't preach on this enough. Dr. Robertson preached on this all the time You have to be filled with the Spirit. You have to die to self. We have to be filled with the Spirit. And there's no reason in the world, a little kid that knows the Lord Jesus Christ, say you're 11 or 12 years old, can't be filled with the Holy Spirit, and there's no reason a senior citizen can't be filled with the Holy Spirit. And all points in between controlled and empowered by the Spirit of God, bearing the fruits of the Spirit and having a witness and pointing people to the Lord Jesus Christ, providing direction that they can know the sick. Jesus as their savior and having an influence to keep back the moral depravity, the spiritual darkness My last thought is this, number three, I put this down. A light, and I get this from verse number 15, a light is no good if it's covered It can have all the energy in the world, it can all the power in the world. And it can be up it can be up on the highest mountain. But if it's covered up It has no value. It's no good if it's hidden. And he says, this is how the Lord words it, verse 15, neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel. But they put on it but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. So he's saying here is: listen, you're the light of the world. Don't let that light Be covered up. Don't let that light be uh uh don't put a blanket over it. Don't put a bushel over it. And the bushel there, uh my understanding of the bushel is it's just like a big bushel basket and set that thing down over top of it and you're just covering it up. We hide the gospel of Jesus Christ. We put a bushel over our light when we are silent. I put a little thoughts here. What uh how do we hide the light? How do we hide our influence? How do we put a bushel over our spiritual influence in the world? Well, when we should preach the gospel and we don't, we're putting a bushel over our light. You've heard the saying, silence is golden, right? And I agree with that. I wish I'd keep my mouth shut sometimes when I open it. That's not the time to say amen. But how many people would give a witness? You you're the same way. Anybody here? I think I give twenty-five illustrations in the last twenty-four hours where I should have kept my mouth shut So silence is golden. Often it's it's good to be silent. It's good to keep your mouth shut. But sometimes silence is yellow. And just afraid to speak up. And afraid to s be a witness. And afraid to let that light shine And if we're not careful, we can let fear become a bushel over our light and we're afraid to talk to people and open our mouth and share the tree of the gospel. Some people say, well, I just want to live it. Well that's fine. We ought to live it But my Bible says go into all the world and preach the gospel. That's words. Nobody can know how to be saved unless they hear the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Faith cometh by hearing. And so when we do not give the gospel out, when we do not verbalize the gospel, whether it's in track form or with our lips or whatever. When we do not do that, we are putting a bushel over that light. That influence is being stifled. And so one of the ways we hide the light of the gospel, one of the ways we hide the uh put a bushel over our light and our influence is by silence. I put this one down. Another way we cover our light is by selfishness. In other words, when my will supersedes God's will, my influence is covered Or I get so focused on myself. Here's what some, and I can relate to this. This is my tendency. Well, I don't think I could do that. I don't think I could be a witness. I don't think I could have an influence. I don't think I you know what the problem with that? There's too much I in that. Fact of the matter is none of us can be that light if it wasn't for God. One of my favorite passages in 1 Corinthians where he says, God is not chosen, I'm wording, I'm putting this in my own wording here. But he says basically God has not chosen the great, the wise, the smart, the powerful of the world to be used. God's chosen the base, the weak, uh, basically, to put it in my words, chosen the incompetent. So that he gets all the glory for it. And so what we need to do is get our eyes off of ourself and say, well, I can't do it. The other danger looking getting selfish is thinking I'm more than what I am. And thinking that I am the light, I'm something wonderful. No, it's not both views are wrong I need a diet to self, get myself, get get my eyes. Oh somebody sometimes we get this infliction, ingrown eyeballs. Right? And and we just see me, me. And we think too highly or we think too lowly. It shouldn't even be thinking about us. It ought to be Christ. And when I look to Christ and I'm trusting in him, I'm filled with the Holy Spirit. That bushel is taken off, and man, I can be a light, I can shine, just die to self, just lose it. Um there was trying to remember where I saw this. I was somewhere I want to say it was down in Houston. I was doing a Bible time right there. There was this little old lady, I mean she was about that tall, just as uh petite and frail as could be And there was some big old guy who was picking up his kids, and she was over there just witnessing a way to that guy and telling him that he needed a savior and this big old burly guy and she was just going at it I got to look at that, smiled, and uh she wasn't being rude. She was just very confident, very emphatic. You need to be saved. I got to thinking about that. You know, the last thing on that little old lady's mind was herself She wasn't thinking about her at all. If she'd have stopped and thought about the situation, she probably would have put a bushel over that light pretty quick. But she was dead to self. It wasn't about her. It was about this guy needing Jesus Christ as Savior. It was about being a light. To show this guy the path, to warn this guy so he can see clearly what he needed in his life. And so silence, we should speak up and we don't Ah, that's putting a bushel over it. Selfishness, looking at ourselves and rather than seeing the need and what we call to do and our eyes on Christ. I put a third one down here that puts a covers up light, and light's no good if it's covered I can do a bit of good. Um I I've been uh and uh this church wasn't real bad that way, but if you remember we had the old chandeliers in here, do you remember that? And they were nice and they were but the problem was they had they had tinted glass around them. And it was like hiding that light inside there. And that's why I uh after we were here for a while, I said, I'd really like it. So let the light out. And we kind of went overboard maybe, but um But that's that's what happens if we cover that light up. It hinders it. It doesn't have the influence it should. So self, uh uh silence, we'll bushel we'll put a bushel over our light. Uh selfishness, I put a third one down. Sin. Sin. When we tolerate sin in our hearts, when we regard iniquity in our hearts Boy, that dims that light. You know what sin in the life of the believer does? It does two things. One, it grieves the Holy Spirit. God is sad when we have sin in our lives. He's grieved by that. I want to suggest to you: sin in our lives hurts the Lord. I don't mean we injure him, but it hurts him emotionally. Our God's emotional God that grieves him. The Bible talks about grieving the Holy Spirit Boy, when we grieve the Holy Spirit, we don't have much influence. There's not much spiritual influence. Oh, we can go through the motions, we can say all the words. But as far as having a profound spiritual impact on the hearts of the people It's not there, because the Spirit's grief. So one thing sin in the life of a believer does, it grieves the Holy Spirit. Another thing it does, it quenches the Holy Spirit. And the idea of quenching is to suppress The Holy Spirit's wanting to fill me. He's wanting to work through me. He's wanting to. You and I, this is the only body the Holy Spirit has, the body of the Christian. So he's wanting to work through us and influence us. The primary ministry of the Holy Spirit is to testify the Lord Jesus Christ. And he wants to work through us and touch the hearts of people and draw them to Christ. But when I have sin in my heart, I'm regarding iniquity in my heart, that Holy Spirit's being quenched. He can't do that. And I can go through all the motions. I can look good and put on a show like I'm really something If I've got sin, that spirit's quenched. That influence isn't there. That influence isn't there. So here's my challenge and my invitation at the end of the message. This is what we want to in uh I believe God is inviting us to do, the decision to make. Number one, get the bushel off of our light. If God's prompting you and the Spirit of God is prompting you to witness or be involved in some ministry, the Spirit of God stirring your heart, and you keep saying, No, I'm not going to do that. I can't Uh uh I want to talk you're you're putting a bushel over what the Spirit of God is trying to use you, the light he's trying to be through you. You've got to yield to the Lord and let him put you in that position or involved in that ministry or speak to that person. Get that bushel off Maybe there's some sin there. The Spirit of God has already dealt with you about it. I say tonight before you go home, forsake that sin. Confess it. Get it out. It's not worth it. Maybe selfishness is coming. Well, I want it my way. Here's a big thing. This is a whole nother message. Here's a big thing. Christians wanting to serve God their way, not God's way. That's just putting a bushel over it. And so we need to get the bushel off. The second thing I think God is inviting us to decide tonight is be filled with the Holy Spirit. Every one of us ought to seek to be filled with the Spirit of God. You say, how do you do that? It's a good question One is just yield my will to the Lord. I think another thing is this is what I do. One of the things I pray for more than anything else, I think I have a list of things, but one thing I pray for, as much I should say, than anything as anything else, pray Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. In the mornings, I go out and I go out witnessing, Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. We have visitation Thursday nights. We always pray. One of the things I ask the Lord to do, fill everyone with your Holy Spirit as we go out and visit. Because we've got to have that. We cannot do it in our own power. So before you leave tonight, maybe you say, you know, I've never really thought about God filling me and controlling me with this Holy Spirit. Maybe you need to come and say, Lord, I yield myself to you. I present my body to you. Take me and fill me. And direct me and lead me and use me however you see fit. And then the third one I put this is, let's get out and engage people. I mean, that's the whole point of these two verses. One, a city on a hill, out there where the people are, a light, a candle on a stick, out there where it engages people. And uh can you imagine if everyone in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church on a regular basis would go out and engage people with the gospel, one way or another. It doesn't have to all be the same way, but one way or another finding someone and engaging them with the gospel and endeavoring to share with them the truth of Jesus Christ. Can you imagine the impact it would have just in this area here? And so those three things, get the bushel off, get filled with the Holy Spirit, and let's get out and engage people And just one way or another, in in our own unique abilities that God has given us, let Him lead us and direct us and be willing to engage people. Isn't that good? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that you would help us to do at least one of these three things. I know we all need the filling. Some of us need to get the bushel off completely off in some cases, not just propped up And Lord, all of us need to get and engage people with the gospel on a regular basis, whether it's giving a tract, inviting them out, spending time, talking to them, whatever. But help us motivate us, provoke us, Lord, to engage our community, our neighbors, people, with the truth of the Lord Jesus Christ. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many folks would say, preacher, At least one of those three parts of the imitation has spoken to my heart. God has dealt with my heart in at least one of those three areas. Bushel Fill with the Spirit, engage people. How many people would say that's true? God's Holy Spirit has dealt with my heart in at least one of those areas. God bless you, a bunch of hands around Now here's my advice. Don't leave here without doing business with God, yielding that over. Whatever decision you need to make, whatever needs to happen. Maybe it's simply saying, Lord, I really do want you to fill me with your spirit. I want myself out of the picture. I want Christ. The Holy Spirit filled me. Maybe that's all it entails. Now we don't have the piano player, so the invitation makes it a little challenging for the invitation, but maybe right there at your pew. I'm going to pray in a moment. Maybe you want to just kneel down at your pew or whatever. Just pray there and let the Lord have his way and respond to what the Lord has spoken to your heart about. Now, Father in heaven. I thank you for challenging us, challenging me in the preparation of this message. And I ask, dear Lord, that you would please help us get the bushels off Get these issues taken care of so that the light can shine clearly. Lord, fill us with your Holy Spirit from the pulpit all the way on down. Through every pew, that we would be believers filled with the Spirit of God, bold with the gospel, pure in our heart. And Lord, I pray you give us the The determination to engage people with the gospel, to invest our lives and our time in sharing the truth of Christ with others around us. Help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.