Ye are the soul of the earth, verse 13. I said, please pass the soul. We called that little mini-series. Now we're in verse 14 through 16. Ye are the light of the world. I've called that this little series, I called it please turn on the light. And I want to look particularly at this one phrase, uh, verse fourteen. I'm kind of ringing, I think, Dave, a little bit, at least in my ears He says, ye are the light of the world. In verse 14, he says, A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. And that caught my attention for this part of our study, a city that is set on a hill. And when I got studying this, I never really actually got to that section. So I'm going to give you the introduction to the third part of the series that's part of the series that's part of a series of the Sermon on the Mountain. So let's pray. If that made any sense to you, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our study tonight Thank you for the word of God and Lord the depth of the of your word. So I pray you'd bless as we look at this one little phrase here. Pray you'd challenge us, speak to our hearts, and uh have your way, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Maybe because this isn't on. There we go. That phrase now I'm way too loud. A little bit strong Phrase uh a city on a hill. Does any has anybody ever heard that phrase used outside of Scripture? Anyone ever recognize that? It's a couple of pretty famous. It's pretty key in uh in American history, that phrase. Does anybody recognize the name John Winthrop? John Winthrop. He was the Puritan preacher And uh on uh came over uh to uh Massachusetts Bay en route from England to the New World in 1630, he preached a sermon on this passage. uh to the the Puritans there on this passage, particularly on the phrase, a city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. And what his What his message was was this, is that this new community that they were anticipating starting was going to be a city on a hill. And the thought was this, the whole world's going to be watching what the Puritans do when they get there. The whole world's going to be analyzing the success or failure of this great adventure. to set up a pr a distinctively Christian colony. And he said they were a city on a hill. The whole world's going to see whether they succeed or fail. If they succeed, then um they would uh see that the principles of Scripture work. This was their idea. And if they failed uh then the whole world would know that they failed in their efforts of implementing implementing the p principles of Scripture. He also meant by that that This new colony here, this new community that they were establishing by being a city on the hill, would have a positive influence in the world, and particularly in the new world, for the gospel and for Christianity in general. The city that they envisioned eventually became the city of Boston. And Boston, as I don't know if it still is, but for a period of time was known as a city on the hill. Did you know that, Brian? Yes. And you've got more information. The name of the hill where the state capitol building is located is called Beacon Hill. How about that? Because it's supposed to be For Christianity and the truth. Isn't that an amazing thing? And so the nickname for Boston that for a while was a city on a hill. And so this little phrase here, when Jesus says, You're the light of the world, a city that is set on a hill cannot be hid, had a profound impact on the beginning of our country. It was used throughout our history various times. Another famous event that this phrase is associated with was on January 9, 1961. Uh J. F. Kennedy uh gave a uh significant speech uh up in Boston on that phrase, a city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. I think the most famous speech from this, apart from the message the Lord Jesus preached here initially, Ronald Reagan, actually he spoke from this passage twice On January twenty-fifth, nineteen seventy-four, uh he was at some con uh conservative uh political thing But on 18 on 1984, when he received the Republican nomination to be run for president, he gave a famous speech, and it was entitled A City That Is Set on a Hill. And his his point was this. Is that the United States of America is a city on a hill. In other words, the world looks to us for leadership, for enlightenment, for freedom, for defense. Uh his other idea was is that we have profound influence throughout the world. And I tell you this, I've seen that firsthand. uh in Mongolia seeing little kids running in and out of their little yurts that they live in wearing Michael Jordan t-shirts and uh Boston Red Sox hats Um, you see the influence of the United States of America, New Zealand, and even in Kazakhstan we saw uh some American type things And so these guys are referencing, particularly the presidents, the politicians like this phrase, they're referencing the fact that America can be and should be an influence for good in the world Now, my little comment on that, this city that set on a hill as far as the United States, and I hate to be negative, I hate to be critical, but the facts are facts, this city is deteriorating. And the light is going out as far as the United States is concerned. But when we read this here, Jesus Christ was not speaking about the United States of America. He was not addressing that. In fact, Jesus was not even addressing the nation of Israel. He wasn't saying that Israel is this city that's set on a hill that cannot be hid. Israel, as you know, in the New Testament time and what we're living in, Israel's been set aside. They are not God's institution for working in this world today. Israel has rejected their Messiah, God set them aside. God now works through the what? The local church. And God is now working through us. And so when Jesus addresses his disciples and he says, You're the light of the world, a city that is set on a hill that cannot be hid, He's addressing uh the the s uh he's addressing his disciples. He's addressing those that have accepted him and have and made the decision to be followers of him He's addressing you and I. He says we are light of the world. We are like this city that is set on a hill. I was reading different folks and different comments they made on this passage and Some have suggested, and I don't know, it m there might be something to it, but some have suggested that in verse 14, when he says that a city is set on a hill, that he's referencing the church, particularly uh as a collective body of believers, a city, collective body of believers. Then on the next verse when he says he references a candle, there he's referring to individual believers. And um that may or may not be the case, but the fact of the matter is every one of us is a light. We've been talking about that. Now As I was working on this and that phrase, I got thinking about this matter of the light. Ye are the light of the world. And I want to give you tonight a four-fold response to the light of God. Now, when God when we're talking about the light of the world, we talked about this before. We are what gives the information about the Lord Jesus Christ. We give the gospel out, the light of the truth of the gospel. And so how do we respond to the light? There's a fourfold response every person should have to the light of God's word, the light of the gospel. Here's the first one I put down. I put this down first. Number one, we need to be exposed to the light. We need to be exposed to the light. Now we're going to use our Bibles a little bit, so if you would, turn over to John chapter number three with me. The very first thing every person needs is to be exposed to the light. We already pointed out in l in depth and at length that we live in a dark world, dark spiritually, dark morally. dark as far as the um spiritual understanding is concerned. So if a person needs to be exposed to like look at John chapter 3, verse number 19. And this is the condemnation. That light is come into the world, and men loved what? Darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. For everyone that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. Now what's he saying here? Let's stop right there Jesus saying light has come into the world. Who's he talking about in this phrase when he says light has come into the world? Who's he referencing? He's referencing himself in this point. John 3. 16, for God's low world, he gave his only begotten son. So he's referencing his self here So he's saying, I have come into the world, I have come, I'm a light to the world, I'm spiritual awareness, I'm spiritual enlightenment, I'm I'm here, I am the truth. In fact, he says, I am the way, the truth, and the life He says, I've come into the world, but what's the well how do men respond? It says the men love the darkness rather than light because they don't want their deeds to be exposed. They don't want to be told they are wrong. They don't want to be shown that their actions are sinful. The Pharisees perfectly illustrate that. They raised their hackles. They fought the Lord Jesus Christ. He's pointing out their sin. I mentioned this Sunday morning. I mean he just lambasted them. You guys are hypocrites. You put on this show, you're white and sepulchres, you look good. Inside, you're as rotten as a dead corpse And he goes on and on. He says, you clean the outside of the cup, the inside of the cup, and I'm putting my own words here, but inside of the cup is all rotten and moldy and nasty And I mean he just laid it on them. And rather, the Pharisees, rather than saying, Jesus, thank you for coming, pointing this out to us, thank you. This needs to be taken care of. This needs to be dealt with. Rather than do that, what'd they do? They hated him and they ended up killing them. And uh so that's what he's pointing out here. He says, Listen, I've come in here to to deal with the truth and And uh deal with the situation man finds himself in so that it can be fixed and made right. And people didn't want it made right Um I've known folks and uh I've known folks go to the doctor get mad at the doctor. I'm thinking of one person in particular, they're not around here, but um uh every time they go to the doctor, the doctor says you need to lose weight. So they quit going to the doctor. In fact they told me. They said I can't stand that guy. So why? Every time I go in, he says I'm fat. And uh so does he say it that way? No, but he tells me I'm overweight, I ain't going there no more. Um and so that's what he's saying here. But look at verse 20. For everyone that doeth evil hateth the light. They don't want to be shown for what they are. They don't want their sin pointed out. They don't want their disobedience to God confronted. Neither cometh to the light lest his deeds should be reproved. You know, another way to say that, they don't want to come to light. Because if they do, they're going to have to make it right. They're going to have to change things. They're going to have to make some hard decisions. They're going to have to make some changes in their life If I'm going to be right with God, if I'm going to live in the light and be what God wants me to be, then I've got to deal with my sinful heart, then I've got to deal with my sinful actions, and I don't want to be reproved That's a sad picture. But look at the next verse. But he that doeth truth, what? What's the next phrase? Cometh to the light. Complete opposite response. That his deeds may be what? made manifest uh that they are wrought in God. He's saying now, light came into the world, I came into the world, I'm the Savior of the world. Man has to see their sin. They have to confront their sin. It has to be dealt with. But man don't want it to be dealt with. They love their sin. They love to do wrong and so they'll stay as far away from the light as they can, like Like rats at night, they'll hide when the light comes on. They don't want to be around it. They don't want to be around the Lord Jesus. They don't want to be around the preachers. They don't Want to be around the people of God they want to stay away from it because they like their sin But, he says, there are some folks that come to the light. They want it. They want to be made right with God. They want their heart pure. They want to be forgiven. They want their life to be what God intends for it to be. Listen, we paint an awfully dark picture, but I'm telling you, there are some people in the world that really do want to be right with God. There's some people in the world that in their hearts they really do want their life to please God. They really are thinking that someday, when I stand before God, I want him to say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. And he says, those people, they come to the light. They come and they expose themselves to the light. Now, if you've been saved any length of time, if you've tried witnessing or whatever, you maybe even track month And you'll come across folks, uh, and it depends how you approach it, but you'll come across folks that you offer them a gospel tract It's like you've got a a cobra snake in your hands and they want nothing to do with it. Anybody can they get a witness on that? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean it is like, ah what are you crazy? You some kind of fanatic? You know what that tells me? That makes me think of John chapter 3, verse 19 and 20. I don't want to read that. They don't want to be exposed to the truth of who they are and who God is and what needs to take place to be made acceptable to God, turn from my sin, trust Christ and all of that. They don't want that. They don't want to be exposed to the truth about their condition. And so when light comes into the world, this light that the Lord's talking about and that he references throughout the New Testament. The very first thing we need to do is we need to just get honest with ourselves and say, I need God to help me. I need God to show me what the deal is. And help me make the decisions and do those things that need to be done so that I can be accepted to God, accepted by God Well, that word cometh there. Look at verse uh twenty twenty-one. But he that doeth truth cometh to the light. The word cometh there has the idea of approaches it Or I like this one definition, opens himself up to it. It's kind of like this idea. Here's a person. They say, you know, I know I'm not right with God. I know there's sin in my life. I know I've failed God. And I want God to show me what I need. I want God to correct me. I want God to deal with me and convict me and challenge me and Do what he needs to do in my life. That's the idea behind that phrase, he cometh to the light. He's opening himself up to it. I think I mentioned this, but when I was preaching up in Connecticut, a young fella Came Sunday night with a gal, she didn't come Monday or Tuesday, but he came back by himself. First time visitor at the church. He came back by himself And we all stirred up about that and Pastor uh Steve talked to him for a while Tuesday night, Wednesday night he came back again, the gal was with him again, and uh but he stayed after he came up and he thanked me and we talked a little bit and I asked him he said he was saved. I didn't really get the press so much, but there was people around, but we talked a little bit. And he made this statement. I said, well I said I noticed you'd been coming back. He came back a couple of nights by yourself. I said that encourages me. I'm glad you came back. He says you know And I think I told you this, but he said, I was going I got my church I go to and Brother Steve Heimbel told me it's a real contemporary, just party time church He said, but I come here. He said, I came Sunday night, Monday night, Tuesday night, and back again tonight. He said, when I come here, I'm convicted. And uh I wasn't sure exactly at first what he was saying, if he was upset about that or what. And so we talked about and I started to say I started to say, you know, that's what the Holy Spirit does. The Holy Spirit takes the Word of God, applies it to our heart. That's why we're convicted. And he goes, yeah, yeah, I says, I know that. He says, it's a good thing. You know what he was doing? He was coming to the light. He was exposing himself to the truth of the Word of God. He was opening his heart and his life up to the Word of God, and he was basically saying this and I may be reading more into it what uh than what he meant, but I think this is what he meant, is hey, I know I need the Lord. I know things aren't what they ought to be. And we talked a little bit and he uh I want God, I want to open my heart up. I want to open my life with God. I want God to show me, shed his light on me, show me Those dark corners. Show me where the cobwebs are. Show me where the the where the show me where the old rotting moldy food is in the back of the refrigerator, so to speak. I want my life to be right. And so when it comes to the light, the very first thing we need to do is expose ourselves to the light. That's why we come to church. That's why some people, you can't drag them to church with wild horses. Because they don't want the light. They don't want to get convicted. I was thinking when I was preparing this, I thought about the prodigal son. And he's such an example in so many ways. This guy takes off and he wastes his father's living on father's finances that he gives him. He wastes it on riotous living. He is living in sin. And he could care less about the light. He could care less about what's right or wrong. He could care less about what God says. He's doing his thing. Well, of course, that only works for a while. And his world starts falling apart, which it always ends up doing And uh the Bible makes this phrase, and for sake of time, we're not going to turn it, but the Bible has this little phrase, and when he came to himself Ah. You know what he's doing? He's starting to open his heart up. He's trying to say, hey, you know what? I ain't what I ought to be. I ain't living like I should be. I ain't right And he starts reasoning, he's thinking, you know, my father's servants are living better than I am. I'm going to go back. And he says, Father, I've sinned against heaven and against you. You know what he's doing? He's opening his heart up. He's exposing himself to the light, and of course, uh he made everything right. Nobody gets saved. I like this phrase. Verse 21, but he that doeth truth cometh to the light. This is the way I see it. What he's saying here is he that's honest with himself. He that says, you know, I am this is I'm Jesus is right. I need him. He that's honest with himself comes to the light. And I put this down, nobody ever gets saved who isn't, first of all, honest with themselves. We go soul-winning, we take our Bibles out, we always start with the same first truth. Now there's a lot of different verses that address it. Well we always start at the same place spiritually, for all have sinned. Because a person is never going to get saved until they're first honest with themselves about their condition as a sinner. And by the way, no Christian ever gets right with God, ever has the blessings of God on the like until they come clean with God as a Christian. And say, Lord, I'm not living for you like I should. I need revival in my heart and life. And so whether it's for salvation or whether it's for revival, the beginning point is exposing ourselves to the truth of God's Word, exposing ourselves, opening up our heart to the Holy Spirit to apply God's Word. And then just being honest with ourselves. Lord, you're right. This is what my condition is. I've thought before, I wonder maybe we have something a little backwards I wonder if we shouldn't start our sermons with the invitation. And start at the altar and saying, Lord, I'm opening my heart up to you. You speak to me. You show me what I need to do. God uh I'm exposing myself to the light of your word. Wouldn't that be something? I've done that on occasion with especially with the teens. I used to have a prayer opening prayer and I'd say, all right, before we pray, I just want to invite you, how many tonight And don't do this, but I would say to them, how many tonight say, Preacher, I'm going to open my heart up to God's word and I'm going to be willing to do whatever the Spirit of God applies God's word to my heart about? And I'd have kids raise their hand and pray before we even did it that God would help them. That's exposing ourselves to the light. So number one, fourfold response to the light of God. Number one, expose myself to the light. Number two. Now this is kind of a corny phrase, but it fits. Number two, embrace the light. Embrace the light. It's one thing to be exposed to the truth of the gospel. To be exposed to the Word of God, say, all right, God, show me what I need, show me where I'm at, show me what needs to take place. God, I'm opening my heart up. It's one thing to do that. It's another thing to say, okay, I'll do it. Follow what I'm saying? Turn to John chapter 1. It's one thing to be exposed to the truth of God's word. It's another thing to embrace the truth of God's word or to receive it. Um John chapter one, look with me at verse number twelve. Bible says, verse 11, he came into his own, and his own received him not, but as many as what received him. As many as accepted who and what he was, accepted the truth of Jesus Christ, as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. So there's not just uh an exposure to the light, exposure to the word of God, exposure to the truth of God, but there must be an embracing of it. God has to be, yes, that's correct. God, you're right, I'm wrong. God, you are true. What you're saying is correct. What your word tells me I need is true. What your word tells me about myself is true. I accept what you're saying. Embracing the truth. Simply knowing the truth is not enough. I've got to accept it and take it into myself. I thought about the two thieves on the cross. We referenced one Sunday morning. But there were two guys crucified with Jesus Christ. One on the right hand, the other on the left. One of that I I can't help but believe, as far as we know, and I can't help but believe, both those thieves Knew this, had the same information about Jesus Christ. As far as we know, both of these guys had the same information about who Jesus was and who he claimed to be. One of them embraced who Jesus was, embraced the truth of what Jesus was saying. The other one refused it. And so when he says, uh, you know, they're mocking, and apparently they're both caught up at the beginning, and finally the one guy says, you know, we're wrong here. We're dying. We deserve this. We're sinners. We failed completely in life. This guy's done nothing amiss. It has to he they had to have had the information who Jesus was. The other guy doesn't say this, but I can see it. I don't care what he says, I don't care who he says he is. I'm not buying it. So they both were exposed to the light of Jesus Christ. I have no doubt about that. They both know who he was. They both know the truth about Jesus Christ. One embraced it, the other one rejected it So simply having the fact, you know, there's a lot of people gonna be b there's a lot of people die and go to hell who know this know the plan of salvation. There's a lot of Christians that are not right with God, living in sin and direct disobedience to God, and they know what is right. They know what God says. The difference is some embrace the truth of God's word and they say, Yes, I want this to be true. I accept that what he says and I'll respond to it. Others say, I don't care what God says. And so, first of all, we need to be exposed to the light. We need to know what it says. Number two, we need to embrace it. We need to embrace it. Number three, I put this down. We can't stop there. We need to endure in the light. Number one, expose, number two, embrace, number three, endure. And what I mean by that, we need to progress in it. Once we accept Jesus as our Savior, once we make things right with God once we accept what God has said and we start living in that light, uh then we need to go on. Turn with me to Ephesians chapter five and verse eight. And then we're gonna when we're done there, we're gonna go to first John. They both address this. Ephesians 5 and verse 8. The Bible says this. For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord. Kind of goes along with Matthew 5, 14, you're the light of the world. He goes, all right, listen, you used to be in the darkness. You didn't you didn't know or you didn't care what God said, you didn't care what about salvation, you didn't care about any of that But now you're in the light. You've exposed yourself to it. You've been exposed to the truth of the gospel. You've embraced it. You are in the light. Now look what he says Walk as children of light. In other words, go forward in that. Don't just, to simplify what I'm trying to say is don't just hear the gospel and believe it and get saved. Now go on and live for God. Go on in that light. Go on in the truth. Let it lead you and guide you and direct you in your life. Come back to 1 John. He kind of expands on a little bit more there. 1 John chapter 1 Everybody with me? First John chapter one. And uh let's start reading in verse five. This then is the message which we have heard of him, and declare unto you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. Alright, we all understand what he's saying there. God is absolute pureness, goodness, holiness, absolute, no darkness whatever. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. Listen, if I'm living in disobedience, I'm not living in the And uh in in obedience to God's word and what I know God wants me to live. Even as a Christian, he's addressing Christians here. Don't tell me you're in fellowship with God I can't go around and tell people, oh yeah, I'm in fellowship with God while I'm living in disobedience to God when I'm doing what I know God says is wrong. And I'm not doing what I know God says is right. I mean I'm uh I'm lost my salvation means I'm not in fellowship with God We lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanseth us from all sin. So that word to walk, what are you doing when you're walking? You are making progress, right? You're going from one point to another. That's why I hate treadmills. The thing the stinky thing about treadmills, I always say the stinky thing about treadmills is you get off the same place you got on. I did all that walking and I'm at the same place I was. And the scenery doesn't change And so I'd rather get out and walk down the road or something. But uh he says, make some progress. Grow in your understanding of what you know God's will is. Do follow on, go on doing, and let God lead you, directing you from His Word, showing you what to do and how to live. And listen, you never outgrow spiritual growth We're always growing. I'll tell you something I've observed in 21 years pastoring the same church. This is something I've observed. I've observed this. When a person stops making progress spiritually, They begin to regress. You never get to the point in your Christian life, and this is sobering. And this is a warning we all have to heed. If I don't keep growing in my Christian life, it's not like I get to a certain point in my spiritual growth and I say, all right, I'm okay here, and I stop there, and that's just where I stay the rest of the time As soon as I stop progressing, it's like that treadmill. As soon as I stop progressing, I start what? Going backwards. Did you ever stop uh somebody left their phone on How about that? I wonder who that was. Man, that's the first time in my life I've done that. Oh, I'm regressing. I'm I'm so disappointed in myself. I'm discouraged. So anyway, what was I talking about? Regressing. Treadmill. Yeah. I found in uh in the years of pastoring I found you don't get to a plateau, you don't outgrow your spiritual growth. I've got to keep growing, I've got to keep pressing Because as soon as I stop and say, all right, this is good enough. I'm fine here in my spiritual life, I immediately begin to go backwards. I think I started to say this. If you stop walking on that treadmo, what happens? Zing You shoot out the back. Do you ever see those little YouTube video clips of people Zing? Wow. And I've seen it spiritually, and it's true. And I tell you, you can bust the nose and scrape yourself up on a treadmill if you stop going forward, but in your Christian life it destroys you. I've seen it over and over and over and over. I've experienced I hate to say this, I've experienced in my life Somebody says, Well, I'm good, but just Sunday morning, Sunday night. And they quit going to church Wednesday night. Now I'm talking a Wednesday night crowd, so. But you know what I've seen? 99 out of a hundred times. Now if they work or whatever work schedule, I understand that, but it's just like I don't I don't want to go. I don't care to go. I don't feel like it. You know what I found out? To keep that up. Soon it's Sunday night. And keep that up, and it's Sunday school. And for some reason, usually Sunday morning's the last to go. They keep that up, then Sunday morning's gone. I could take I I could write a list as long as my arm of in the 20s plus years I've been here, folks, that followed that exact pattern. Over and over and over and over. Bible says you need to you need to endure. You need to press on. You need to go forward in your Christian life. Don't get to a flat. Listen You and I never get to the point where we know the Bible so good I don't need to read it every day. I never get to the point where I'm so strong spiritually I don't need to pray and ask God to help me and direct me. Now, this is me personally. I'm telling you, as your pastor, I've never yet have gotten to the point in my spiritual life where I don't need to hit that altar every now and then and do business with God. You've got to endure. He says, walk in the light. Keep going on. Keep pressing on. Because if you stop going forward, you immediately Start going backward. Might not be outwardly obvious I'm going backward, but immediately go. So number one, we said what it I need to be exposed to light. Number two, I need to embrace it, I need to accept it. Number three, I need to endure, go forward, go on in that letter God keep growing and developing. Salvation is the starting point. It's not the goal. So when I get saved, it's the start of a whole new life. Walking in the light, living in the light, letting God lead me and direct me and change me and mold me and conform me to the image of Christ till the rapture or I pass away and go on to be with the Lord. And then last of all, the fourth response I need to the light is to emit the light. Emit the light. Let me give you one more passage, Philippians, and this is where My message I intended to come back to our text, which we'll have to do that later. Philippians chapter 2. Would you turn over there real quick with me? That's in a New Testament for the deacons team. Philippians chapter 2, look at verse 14. It says do Philippians 2 verse 14. Let's try 1 14 Mm, I hate it when I write the wrong verse down. Two fourteen. Says about shine. Somebody find that for me real quick. Man, my phone goes off and I write the rule. Where's it at? Two fifty All right. Are you still with me? You don't know where I'm going. I know where I'm going, I'm just not sure how to get there. Look at verse 50. That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation. There's the darkness. Among whom ye shine as lights in the world. That's tying right back into what he's saying in Matthew 5. You're the light of the world. He says, listen, we live in a dark world, a spiritually dark world. They're ignorant of the gospel. They're ignorant of what's right and wrong. They're trying to figure it out. They're stumbling around here trying to figure out what's right and wrong And he says, you and I, as believers of the Lord Jesus Christ, we've been exposed to the light, we've embraced it, we're trying to live and walk for the Lord, let God lead us, and we need to emit that light. That word shine means to shed forth. It means to be seen, to be visible. What he's saying is, you and I are to be a city on a hill that can be seen and visible from a long way off. When a Christian doesn't stand out in a dark world, something is wrong When you and I as Christians, if our testimony is not a contrast to this old wicked world, something's wrong with our testimony. You know, even a even a tiny little light in a dark room stands out, right or wrong? Um I can't stand I hate pitch black bedroom at night I I can't stand I've said this recently, but I've said it before. But I don't you do you ever get up in the middle of the night, pitchback b bedroom, and you're trying to stumble around, get to the bathroom. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And if you've got little kids in the house, it's even worse. I mean walking into stuff, stubbing your toes, stepping on Hot Wheels cars. Man, I hate that And what cats. Yeah, no, we didn't step on the cats. We did other things. Jacks! Oh yeah. Yeah. I guess now it would be stepping on video games and stuff like that But you know what? All you do is get a little tiny night light. You stick it down in the corner of the hallway or in the corner of the bathroom. You flip that little thing on and boom changes everything, doesn't it? Would you agree with me? If you have a little night light And you get up at two in the morning and that night light doesn't stand out from the darkness, it just blends in the darkness. Would you agree something's wrong with that light? It's not working For whatever reason it's not working. Hey, and listen, when you and I as Christians, and I'll have to be next week or something, but I was going to go down a list of the ways that we ought to stand out in the world When we don't stand out, when we're not a contrast to this old sinful wicked world, something's wrong with us. Because this world is darkness. And we need to admit the light of Christ. We need to admit the light of the Lord. I got a little uh illustration here. Uh Woodrow Wilson. Told the story of an encounter which reflected the light of a changed life. I'll just read it to you. He said this. I was in a very common place. I was sitting in a barber chair. President Woodrow Wilson. This is back in the day when the presidents would mix in with the normal people. I was sitting in a barber chair when I became aware that a powerful personality had entered the room. This is what the president is saying. A man had come quietly in upon the same errand as myself to have his hair cut, and he sat in the chair next to me. Every word the man uttered, though it was not in the least moralizing, showed a personal interest in the man who was serving him. And before I got through with what was being done to me, I was aware that I had attended an evangelistic service because Mr. D. L. Moody was in that chair. I purposely lingered in the room after he had left and noted the singular effect that his visit had brought upon the barber shop. They all talked in undertones They didn't know his name, but they knew someone had elevated their thoughts. And I left that place as I should have left a place of worship. What was he saying? He was saying D. Al-Mudi came in that place and he m he emitted the light of God. And people became concerned about their spiritual well-being. People's thoughts were elevated. I think what he was saying is their thoughts were directed to God. He was a light in that place. Now that's what God wants you and I to. That's what he says. You're the light of the world. City set on a hill cannot be hid. And we're to stand out. We're not to go around and blow our trumpet and say, hey, look how good I am. We're just to go around doing good. We're not to talk about how great a Christian we are. We're just supposed to be good Christians. And share the gospel and live the Word of God and be a light in this whole world. Reagan and Kennedy and different people referenced America as the city on a hill. Jesus isn't talking about America or any other country. He's talking about our church and he's talking about you and I Be in light in this old simple world. We cannot let that light go out. If we're not distinct, if we don't stand out, something's wrong Something's wrong. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you could use these thoughts, Lord, in our Christian lives. We'd be a testimony. We're trying to be a light, Lord, with these gospel tracts. We want to point people to Christ any and every way we possibly can. So we ask you'd help us, not just with a track, but with our life. With our personal witness, through our activities, our appearance, everything, we'd be a testimony to the glory of God and the holiness of God. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I'm I know what God's sword says. I've trusted Christ as Savior. I've embraced the gospel. I'm trying to grow and live. But you'd say, preacher, I've got some areas in my life that really need God's help. I need to get completely thoroughly right with the Lord. Completely manifest by God's light. Or maybe you say, preacher, I'm not being a testimony ought to be. My my testimony isn't the state in this old world as it ought to be. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that God will help me be that light that God wants to be. Any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. My hand's raised. I don't want to get stagnant. I don't want to be satisfied. I want to press on Maybe tonight, midweek service, we just take a moment and pray and ask God to give us victory, give us courage. To make the decisions we need to make, make the changes, surrender the areas that need to be surrendered, and just let God have his way. Father, bless us, I ask. And Lord, as we just do a homemade invitation here. God, I pray that uh in our hearts and at our pew, you would just help us do business, surrender and trust you and respond. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. Alright, if we could have the ushers come on down, we'll have to do our imitation that way.