Uh Proverbs twenty-five. I was reading my devotions this past week. I read a Proverb every morning. First thing when I wake up, I try to read a Proverb every morning, one of the chapters, I should say, a chapter of Proverbs uh correspond to that day. And uh I read this uh the other day and verse 28 just stuck out in my mind. I got thinking about that, looking at that, and I started to preach on this this morning Says this, he that hath no rule over his own spirit, he that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down and without walls. I've entitled the message A City Without Walls. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, so grateful for your blessings to us, Lord. And even when even when we face trials and disappointments, Lord, when we face adversity, you always come through, Lord, every time. And you are just consistently good to us, God. And we thank you for that. And we praise you for that, not just because it's thanksgiving, but just because we are grateful. Now, I ask that you would speak to our hearts from this particular passage of Scripture. Lord, you've given this to us for our instruction, for our reproof, that we can be corrected and live righteous. So I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me, and Lord, that you would speak through my lips, my body, your word to our hearts and lives, and that we would not be a city without walls. But we our lives would have walls up. And so please, I yield my will to you, I present my body. And again, I ask, fill me, Lord, be the preacher. This hour is my request. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'm reading a book now. I'm just about finished. I got it some time ago on Satan and not the most pleasant subject in the world. But the fellow makes some uh pretty good observations from scripture about Satan. And in there I read uh I read this statement. He said, um, of course he's using an analogy here. But he said this, he says, Satan has a filing cabinet. And he said, in that filing cabinet, he has a file with your name on it. And in that file with your name on it, he has listed the things that it would take to ruin your life. The things that he could do, the things that you and I would be vulnerable to, that he could take advantage of, and destroy our testimony and ruin our life. I thought that was an interesting way of looking at Satan's tactics and Satan's objectives. Now, I want to remind all of us that Satan is a very real being. We if we fail to realize that, uh, we're setting ourselves up to be destroyed. Satan is just as real as God He's just as uh real and exactly as the Bible presents him as anything else in existence. And so Satan is a very real being, and he has, I believe, two primary objectives. Number one objective of Satan is to keep an unsaved person unsaved. I believe that is number one on his list. And by chance there'll be somebody in here or somebody online, uh part of this service, and uh you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you're not a child of God through faith in Christ. Satan's number one objective is to keep you in that condition. To keep you from being saved. To keep you from coming to Christ and finding forgiveness of sins and having eternal life. Number one objective. I believe that's one reason we have so many nations in the world with few, if any, missionaries, so many billions of people that have nobody to share the gospel with them, because Satan's number one objective is to keep lost people lost. And if he can keep Christians from sharing their faith, he can keep the gospel away from them, he accomplishes his number one objective. So if you're this morning, you're not saved. And uh you never trust in Christ, that's where Satan wants to keep you. And my plea is come to Christ now. Not later, not someday. Now is the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. Do not allow Satan to achieve his number one objective, keeping you unsafe Now I believe Satan's secondary objective, objective number two, is to destroy the Christian's fellowship with God. Now, once we're saved, he can't get our soul. Everybody understands that, right? We're secure in Christ. We're kept by the power of God. We're in the hand of God. We'll never perish. For Satan to be able to get a believer to go to hell, he would have to destroy Christ because our security is in Christ. So he can't destroy our soul. He can't get us back in our sins. But what he can do is break our fellowship with God. And get us to live and behave and think in such a way that we no longer have God's blessings, we no longer have God's protection, we no longer have God's leadership in our lives. And along with that secondary objective to break our fellowship with God also, he wants to destroy our witness to the world. Are witness to the world. I tell you, I think every Christian ought to witness, but one of the most harmful things to the cause of Christ is a Christian who tries to witness but doesn't live the Christian life That does more harm than good. And uh it damages the cause of Christ. So if if Satan's primary objective is to keep unsaved people safe, unsaved, his secondary objective is to get saved people. To live like they're not saved, to destroy their fellowship with God, to destroy their witness to the world. And that helps accomplish number one objective of keeping people lost So Satan knows that's his objective. And he has a filing cabinet according to this fellow. The filing cabinet in that filing cabinet has your he has a file with your name on it and my name on it And his objective is to keep us from being what God wants us to be, and he knows how to do that. That's what I'm trying to get at. He knows our weaknesses. He knows Hebrews chapter 12 mentions laying aside the weights. Now in the Bible talks about spiritual weights. Now Pastor Matt lifts physical weights, but the Bible speaks about spiritual weights and what a spiritual weight is. Is anything that is not necessarily sin in and of itself. It's not necessarily bad in and of itself. It can be a very good thing. But it distracts me from my relationship with God. Let's have a little bit of a group participation here this morning. uh plays an impact. Uh what would be something that's not necessarily sin, not necessarily wrong in and of itself, but it could interfere with my relationship with God. Can anybody think of something? Just help me out now. Yes. What? Sports could be a weight. There's nothing wrong in and of itself playing games and sports, but boy, it can sure interfere with our walk with God. Social media. Absolutely. What else? Anybody else think of something? That could be a weight Television. Actually, it can be just about anything. It could be a job. We just get consumed with it. Any type of hobby. Weights can be anything. And now here's what I'm getting at. Satan knows exactly which weights you and I would be vulnerable, which weights we would have a tendency To allow to take over our life. How many in your own life, this is the Holy Spirit, not me. How many in your own life right now you're thinking of something that could be or is a weight in your own heart and life? Anybody thinking of anything? Yeah. That filing cabinet, Satan pulls that file out. Right there it is. What you just thought of, what I just thought of, it's on that list. He knows. He knows. So Satan knows what weights you and I would be vulnerable to. The Bible also in Hebrews chapter 12 mentions besetting sins. Sins that so easily beset us. Now, I'm not going to ask for suggestions on this one, but the fact of the matter is, all of us have things that are sinful or wrong. God forbids. That we have a vulnerability towards. We have a tendency to fall for these, to get involved in these And uh what may be a besetting sin for me might not be the same besetting sin for you. It could be various different people or vulnerable to various different sins. And Satan knows exactly what these are. And here's the thing, he knows, he knows when to bring out that enticement For whether a weight or a sin to draw me out away from the Lord, to draw me out of fellowship with God to hinder and harm my witness to the Lord. He knows exactly. He studied you and He studied me. He knows us and He knows what tactics to use I put it this way, he knows how to entice us in our weak spots. 1 Peter 5 and verse 8 says this. Listen carefully. Tell you what, keep your place here in Proverbs. Let's go ahead and turn there with me if you would. 1 Peter, way back towards the end of the New Testament. Now we're going to come back to this text here in Proverbs, so don't lose that. But 1 Peter 5, verse 8, I believe, ties in with Proverbs 25, 28. 1 Peter 5, Verse number eight, first Peter. First Peter is right before 2 Peter, so if that helps you, there 1 Peter chapter 5. You got it? Now, if you're in the habit of underscoring or highlighting verses in your Bible, this is a good verse to do it. I highly recommend it. 1 Peter 5, verse 8. Look what it says Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the who? The devil. Now look how he describes them as a roaring lion. Walketh about. That is the idea of just pacing. Just going around, circling. Walketh about. Your adversary devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may what? Devour. Boy, what a verse. And he's telling us here that you and I are to be sober And we're to be vigilant because our adversary, the devil, just like a lion Is looking for that opportunity, that opening, that time when we let our guard down, that time when the walls are down, that He can come in and devour us. Now, I got looking at that word sober there. It means this. Now, this brings us into our message. One of the definitions, one of the aspects of that word sober there is this: self-controlled. Sober, I control myself. It means to the ability, it means to restrain my desires and my impulses To be able to control that. How many people here ever reacted to something and afterward you regretted to how you didn't think, you just reacted. Anybody know what I'm talking about? This verse is telling us don't do that Be controlled. Be sobered. Keep that under control. Keep those reactions, those impulses. Keep them restrained. Restrain them. Those desires. I want to take over and lead me out of the will of God, lead me away from being a good witness. I need to restrain them. Be sober. And then he uses this word, be vigilant. The word vigilant means to be on constant guard. This is my definition. I was looking at all different ways it's used and spent a little time looking at that word. And this is my definition. Be on red alert. Hm. How many people know what red alert means? Meh meh meh meh danger, red alert. You know? He says, be sober and be vigilant. Can I put it this way, bringing it tied in with our verse in Proverbs? Don't let the walls fall down. Keep those walls in place. A man that hath no rule over his spirit, not sober, not disciplined. It's like a city without walls. The city that is broken down and without walls. Proverbs chapter 4. Come back to Proverbs now with me. Now we're going to get to 25 here in just a minute, but go all the way back to the beginning of Proverbs chapter 4. He makes a statement similar To this, with this same idea in mind. In Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 23, again, this is a this is a good verse to commit to memory. And a good verse to underscore in your Bible and keep before us here. Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 23. Notice what he says: keep thy heart with all diligence. For out of it are the issues of light. Now out of our heart are the issues of light. Out of our heart is where we make our decisions is where our desires come from. Our heart has our will, our volition, our our emotions. Very similar to in chapter 25, verse 8, where he says, He that has no rule over his spirit. Sometimes the words spirit and heart and mind are used interchangeably in Scripture. So he's saying, keep your heart for out of it. He says, let me quote it correctly here, keep thy heart with all diligence. There's that idea of that vigilance, earnestness here, seriousness. Keep thy heart with all good, for out of it are the issues light. Now what caught my attention is that word keep The word keep there has this idea to control, to constrain. I like this definition I came across. It's used sometimes to mean imprison something. He's kept in prison. In other words, what I need to do is I need to keep my heart in check. I need to keep some reins on my heart. I need to have self-control. Over my desires, my impulses, my actions, my words, my attitudes. I've got to control that because out of your heart are the issues of life. It determines the condition of your heart, the spirit of man, the mind of man, that is what determines the kind of Christian I am. And so come now. Now let's look at our passage here, Proverbs 25. And I've got three thoughts this morning I want to give you. I'll give them to you now, and then we'll explain them First of all, I want to give an explanation of this text. And I found that interesting. Second of all, I want to look at examples from Scripture that this text would apply to? Examples. How many folks here, if you're learning something, you like to see How it affected somebody else, how somebody else did that to help you have something to follow. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I want to see an example. Show me an example of what this means. And then that last of all, I want to give some applications for life. Now, these are what I get from studying scripture. There may be others, but I'll share with you what I have. Number one, the explanation of this text. Let's look at it here. He that hath no rule over his own spirit. I just broke it down. I I enjoy doing word studies and Looking them up how they're used, other places, what they mean, what words they come from. Just helps me grasp the meaning of the passage. And that phrase there, he that hath no rule The word role again fits into what we've already been looking at. No restraint. No control over. Has this idea unable or unwilling to resist. I did a little bit in years going by, I did a little bit of substitute teaching in the public schools Brother, uh before I did that, I always thought these teachers, they got it made. And uh, you know, they got half the year off paid vacation and they just go and horse around with kids all day Brother m uh after a first day substituting, I changed my tune on that one, I'll tell you right away. My hats are off to the teachers And as I would help in these different classes, I didn't do it a lot, just a few for a few years that I did off and on. But um I I noticed something Some teachers are much are more better more better or uh more gooder. Um how many people are glad I'm helping substitute? Yeah, more gooder Some teachers are very effective at controlling that class, and then others not so much. And I'm thinking of one lady in particular, I was helping a sister in the class, and I'm telling you, she had a big class, and those it was like fifth grade, I think, fourth or fifth grade, and they were they were naughty Those kids were just naughty. And she had them all around. She didn't have it set up in a typical classroom up front and she had them around and she stood in the middle And she had them all around her. And I'm telling you, I'd tell you what it reminded me of. When I was sitting there helping out with different I move around, help kids with different stuff. What it reminded me of, do you ever go to a circus and see the lion tamer and he's got lions all around and he has a whip and he's just Shhh, and he's keeping it. That's exactly the way she was. Man, she had those kids going boom, boom, boom, and they were working. You know what? She had rule. Over that classroom. She could control that. She had it under control. She could restrain the children's natural inclination to run wild. She had rule over that classroom. That's the idea behind that word rule, to control, to constrain, to keep under. And he says, he that hath no rule over his own spirit. Now the word spirit there is used interchangeably, as I said, with mind. Or your will or your desires, your heart, sometimes those spirit and heart will be used interchangeably. But it's the part of us, it's the master control center of our being. It's what prompts us to do the things we do. It's what prompts us to say and act the way we say and act. And he says, the person, he, that person, that is unable to control and restrain That which prompts them to behave and act and say the things they say and behave the way they behave, if they are unable to restrain that, control that, rule that. He said, they're like a city that is broken down and without walls. Without walls I got looking up, and it meant kind of what I thought it did, but I got looking up the walls. What's the significance Here's the question, what is the significance of walls to a city? Now in our day and age, they're meaningless. It doesn't even make sense. We don't have walls around our cities today. But for thousands of years, cities would begin with first of all putting a wall up Be uh around the houses and all that. The wall, somebody help me out. What would be the purpose of having a wall around the city? What would be the primary purpose having a wall around the city Because of enemies, a what? A protection or a defense against the enemies. It was it the wall for a city was literally the first line of defense And protecting themselves from marauding armies. And, you know, back then you had city-states and they're constantly at war with each other And a city without walls was a city without what? Without any defense, without any protection from those that sought to destroy them, those that sought to pillage them. Destroy them. It's interesting. I got studying about walls in ancient cities. Did you know there are books? written just about the significance of walls around cities. One fellow wrote several volumes just about walls And uh he he made some interesting statements, some gave some interesting information. A wall was a first line of defense, it was the most im he said this, the wall around the city was the most important feature about that city The desirability of living in a city, among with other things, but towards the top of the list was do they have good walls around the city? If their walls were wheat, if their walls were small, if their walls were thin, the walls were unkept, well you didn't want to live in that city because you're probably going to lose everything you have. You're probably going to be destroyed, maybe kidnapped or killed. You're going to be pillaged. So a wall was a very, very significant aspect of a desirability of living in a city. It was the first line of defense. He said walls play actually played other roles. Walls would help control immigration Anybody hear anything about building walls to control immigration? Yeah, I've been doing it for thousands of years Put a wall up and they can control who comes in and who is allowed to influence that city. A wall was used to in a city, a wall enabled a city to control their trade What type of uh things they would allow in there to be sold and not sold when? Uh Nehemiah, you read that in Nehemiah where folks came to show uh showed up on the Sabbath To sell goods and of course being Jews, that was uh that was anathema. So what'd they do? They had the wall up, they closed the gates You're not bringing your goods in here on Sabbath day. They were able to control the trade. It ables the city to control the immigration. And this one, we can relate to this one. He said that the walls, and this was written years ago, this book I was referencing, he said the walls enable the city to deal with uh epidemics. When an epidemic would break out, a sickness or a disease or a plague or some pestilence, they could shut that thing down, close those gates, and keep that thing out of the city. Can you see? Can you see? Do you understand now the significance that walls played in the life of a city, in the in the well-being of a city? Uh they would um uh they said he also suggested and enabled them to control crime So what I'm trying to say is this walls are extremely important to the well-being and success of any city. In fact, he went on and said that of the great empires, ancient empires, the great ancient empires, he said they all started with a city with good walls. That enabled them to strengthen, develop, and be able to expand and expand and expand because they had good walls. You say, what does that have to do with us? God tells us here, God tells us here that a person that has no rule over their spirit, has no self-control, has no discipline. It's just like a city as walls are broken down and there's no walls there. Just like a city without walls. Just like a city without walls. Oh, by the way, this fellow that I was reading, he made an interesting statement that I thought ties right in with what God's telling us here. He said, even a small city with few resources And a very small army that had good walls could withstand some of the most powerful armies that would try to destroy them. Said they didn't have to have a lot of resources, they didn't have to have a lot of big fancy weapons, they didn't have to have a large, powerful army, but if they had good, strong, high walls. That little city could withstand some of the most powerful armies that would attack it. And I got thinking about that for you and I. You and I may not be The smartest. We might not be most educated. We might not have a lot of resources. We might not have a lot of gifts and talents. But if we can learn to self-discipline, If we can control our emotions and our desires and our impulses, if we can rule our spirit, we can be something for God. We got a powerful enemy out there. And he's like a lion walking about seeking whom he may devour. And we need to be sober. We need to be disciplined. We need to be self-controlled. We need to have rule of our spirit. Or Satan will absolutely eat us alive. Individually, as a family, as a church. I forget who it was that said this. But they said, speaking of government, they said any nation that cannot that does not have self-control cannot be self-governed. There's a lot of truth in that statement. We see America as losing any sense of self-discipline and self-control, and we see the government taking over our lives, right or wrong. He that hath no rule over his spirit is like a city that's broken down without walls. No defense, no defense. And so the explanation of this verse is very, very clear. A Christian may not be highly gifted, he may not be very educated, he may not be very wealthy, he might be a small city But if he has rule over his spirit, he can be a victorious Christian. If he has rule over his spirit, he can be a growing Christian and have a powerful influence in this world. We just have uh walls. If we just have these walls. Christian may not be very talented, may not be highly educated. Oh, oh, let me take that back. A Christian may be very talented He may be highly educated. He may be very wealthy and very gifted. But if he has no rule over his spirit, he is going to be devoured. I've seen when I was in Bible college, I saw some young fellas, and there were some sharp fellas. I was friends with we had within the school there, we called us the Fundamentalist Club. We were the right-wing hardcore King James Bible uh radical uh um hellfire and brimstone group in the school. And uh some of those guys were so gifted and and so uh so intelligent and smart and and just like they had it all But they had no rule over their spirit. And within years, getting out in the ministry, we'd see them starting to fall. Fall. Guy ran off with some woman. This guy did this. This guy did that. They'd start to fall. Walls. Walls. He hath no rule over his spirit. It's like a city. It's broken down without walls. Just the enemy comes in and just destroys. Here's my question to myself and all of us. My rule and my spirit. I have self-discipline. I have self-control. Let's look at some examples of people in the Bible that had no rule over their spear. Now we won't turn to all of them, I'll just reference them But the first one that came to mind to me, uh, was uh Cain. How many people remember Cain? Cain brought his offering, not the way God said to bring it. God had clearly told them, obviously told them, to bring a blood offering. Abel brought the blood offering, the sacrifice. Cain brought fruit of the field Grain and uh vegetables and that type of thing, harvest. And God had respect to Abel's offering because it was the way God instructed them to do. But he did not have respect to King's offering because he altered it. He disobeyed God. You read down in there Genesis, I think it's chapter four, you get down there about halfway through the chapter and Cain is out in the field speaking with Abel. Now, my impression and looking at that and reading that and studying that, I don't think he was out there with the initially with the intention to kill Abel. But he was very wroth is the term the Bible uses. And he got talking to Cain, he got talking to Abel. And because Cain had no rule over his spirit, anger took over. Before they left that field, Cain's blood was shed in the ground, and he was dead. Right off the bat, we see an example of someone that had no rule over their spirit and how it destroyed their life If you would, I'd like for you to look at this one. If you would, come to Genesis chapter number uh forty-nine. Now, I've referenced Reuben a number of times in previous messages, and I want to again because he fits this exactly. He is such an example of this. Genesis chapter 49, first book of the Bible, second last chapter of the first book of the Bible. Genesis chapter 49, and Jacob is blessing his boys. Jacob's about to die, and as the custom was then, he brings the boys in, he blesses them, and he kind of makes these somewhat prophetic statements about them a little bit, but often in this case, he summarizes their character. He highlights their strengths and he points out some weaknesses. And in chapter 49, and in verse number three, Jacob brings Reuben in He's the firstborn. Now look what he says. Look what Jacob says about Reuben. Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my mite. And the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power. How many people agree with me? That's pretty good. Boy, I uh how would you like to have that said about you? Reuben, you're you're strong. You're dignified. You're a gifted young man. My summary of what he says there, Rubens got everything he needs to succeed in life and be a man of God. But Jacob's not done. Look at his next statement. He said, You're the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, the excellency of power. But look at verse 4. Unstable as water, thou shalt what? Not excel. You're not going to succeed, Reuben You're going to fail. You're going to be destroyed. Why? Because he's not gifted? Oh no, he's gifted. Why? Because he doesn't have any dignity? No, no, he's dignified. Why? Because he's weak? No, he's strong. But he's unstable as water. You know what that phrase is referring to? He has no self-discipline. He has no control, no consistency. He's just as unstable as water. We could go all through scripture. We could talk about Samson. David at times did not rule his spirit. He allowed pride to take over. He allowed lust. And if we had time, we could go to Proverbs chapter seven. Solomon said he's looking out the casement of his window and he sees a young man in the evening at the dark of the night standing on the street corner and there met him a woman with the attire of a harlot. And he goes on and describes what he observed transpire between this young man and this woman, dressed as a harlot, and she entices him with her much fair speech And she basically seduces him. And because he has no rule over his spirit, he gives in to that, Satan knowing what his vulnerability is. And he has no rule of his spirit, and he ends up uh committing adultery and destroying his life. So all through scripture we see over and over and over and over again examples, illustrations. Of a man that has no rule over his spirit, just like a city broken down and without walls. And our enemy, Satan, like a roaring lion, rushes in there And destroys them. Destroys them. This idea of having self-discipline, having self-control is all through Scripture. Take your Bible with me if you would and turn to 1 Corinthians chapter number 9. First Corinthians chapter number nine. I hope you brought your Bible to church. How many folks are glad we got a church that uses the Bible? Amen. I wouldn't want to be a part of a church that didn't use the Bible. Use the right one, by the way, also. 1 Corinthians chapter 9. And notice with me, if you would, at verse 24. Paul understood this importance of walls in the life of the believer, of this discipline, this self-control, this restraint. In 1 Corinthians 9, look at verse 24. He says, Paul writing to the church at Corinth, he says, Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize. So run that ye may obtain And every man, look at now, verse 25, every man that striveth for the mastery. He wants to win. He's working towards winning, is what? Look at what's the word? Say it. Temperate. I underscored that in my Bible. That means self-controlled, disciplined. Is temperant in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown You notice, do you ever notice this? Now I'm not as big a sports fan as I used to be. They lost me when they started disrespecting our country. That's when they lost me. But if you'll notice athletes, every without exception, every athlete that is successful for any length of time, consistently successful, is highly disciplined. In what they eat, in their exercise routine, in their training, they are absolutely disciplined. They rule their spirits Now for a corruptible crown has no eternal value, I just want to give you a little reminder, throwing a ball in a hoop has no eternal value Might be fun, might be a little fun at the time, but as far as etern uh you know we're not going to stand at the judgment seat of Christ and say, boy, you were really good at three-point shots, man, that was I'll give you a reward. That's not gonna happen Everybody understand that, right? Now these guys rule their spirits for a corruptible crown. But what about us as Christians? Do we apply the same amount of discipline? Do we apply the same amount of self-control and restraint for eternal values, for eternal rewards? as they do for corruptible. I'm afraid in many, if not most, situations, the answer is no, we don't They put us to shame. Paul said they do it for a corruptible crowd. Now read on, look what he says, verse 26. I therefore so run. Now he's not talking about physically, he's talking about spiritual, he's making spiritual application here. I shall run not as uncertainty, so fight I, not as one that just beats the air. Look at verse 27. I underscored this statement, but I keep under my body and bring it into what? Subjection Lest that by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway. You know what Paul's saying? He said, I've got walls put up I discipline myself. I bring myself other. I do not want Satan to have an inroad into my life and to be cast away as a useless, valueless Christian in the cause of Christ. I discipline myself. I bring under my body into subjection. I rule my spirit. City with walls, with walls. 2 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 5, for sake of time, we won't turn there. He says he brings every thought and intent of the heart into subjection. He controlled his thinking. Anybody ever here try and control your thinking? That's tough. That is tough. James talks about controlling the tongue. He said it's easier to tame a wild animal than it is to control and discipline the tongue. Set on fire of hell. Dr. Lee Robertson used to tell us down at Highland Park, he used to say this, you can only have one thought at a time, make it a good one. I thought, I'm going to think two things at one time I tried to think two thoughts at once. You know what happened? I got cross-eyed. My eyes wouldn't. Discipline. City without walls. The explanation of the verse is simple. A man that has no rule, a man that has no discipline over his desires, his impulses, his actions, his words, his thinking, doesn't control that. Man, he's as vulnerable as a city in ancient days that has no walls, and the enemy just comes barging in on him. You and I, as Christians, we have an enemy He is smart. He is powerful. We don't keep our walls up, man. He'll just combarging in. And we see all through scripture, we have examples over and over and over of that. Now let me end with this very quickly: the application to life. You say, all right, preacher, I understand that. It's clear. How in the world do I learn to rule my spirit? I I got looking at this, I got thinking, you know, you almost have to be really disciplined to develop self-discipline. You know what I'm saying? How do I get where you say, preacher, I'm not rule in my spirit, I'm not as disciplined as I should be. I don't, I uh I the you know, desires and impulses and and my tongue and my emotions just take over. And I I have a how do I control that? Well, one, it's not easy, but it's possible. I put down some suggestions. Number one, I put this down. Pray. Pray. I wish we had more time. We don't, but Mark chapter 14, verse 38, Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane is about to be taken by the soldiers and scourged and falsely accused and crucified. But before he's taken, he said to the disciples, he says, watch and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. I thought that's an interesting way he phrased that. Watch and pray lest ye enter into temptation. And I came to this conclusion that prayer helps me, helps guard me against temptation. Prayer is a type of a wall that helps me, uh protects me from these tactics that Satan has his devices that he has, he uses, to entice me out of the will of God, to entice me into situations where my testimony is harmed and my witness is ineffective And he says, pray, pray, pray. I wonder how many of us pray like God expects us to pray. I wonder why how many of us could have victory in areas of our life if we simply pray as God tells us to. Prayer is a powerful, powerful resource. In establishing rule over my spirit. Um in Psalms chapter 19 and verse 14, uh David understood the importance of prayer in self-discipline. And in the la the last verse of Psalms 19, he said this. Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. You know what he's praying? He is praying that my words and my thinking would be kept controlled Would be walled in, would be ruled. What area? Hey, what area do you and I? What's that area on that list, on that file that Satan has on us What's that one thing that uh we keep we have lose control over? What's that one thing that we struggle with ruling in our spirit? Why don't we bring that to God in prayer? God help me. God, let me have control in this area. Let me rule that. Let me give you another one. Number one, I suggest prayer. Number two, I put this down. Meditate in Scripture. Meditate in Scripture. Joshua chapter 1, God told Joshua, he said, this book of the law shall not depart out of my mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do all that is written therein, for then thou shalt make thy way Prosperous, and thou shalt have good success. Says you want your little city To be strong and healthy, your spiritual well-being, you get in that book every day. You meditate day and night. And what it tells you to do, you do it. And what it warns you to stay away from, you stay away from. And what promises it gives you, you claim them. And you'll have good success and you'll be prosperous In Psalms chapter 1, he says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord And in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, whose leaf also shall not wither. In other words, he'll be successful, he'll be healthy, he'll be strong, fruitful. But it's based upon meditating on that day and night. Day and night. David said, Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. He said, God's word is a wall, protects me. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed thereto according to thy word. The Bible is a wall. Helps me roll my spirit. Helps keep me from my vulnerable areas where Satan would come in and take advantage of. So number one, daily prayer, constant daily prayer. Number two, daily meditation in the Bible. I put this down. I know we're in unusual days now, but faithful church fellowship I think that is so important for the Christian. That is part of the wall we build up. Hebrews 10, verse 25 says, Forsake not the assembling of yourselves together as a matter of sum is But so much the more as you see the day approaching, I'm not quoting this directly, but he says this: exhorting one another. That word exhort means to build up, to strengthen, to encourage, to make stronger. You know what the importance of church is? It helps us be stronger, helps us rule our spirit, and to be more careful. The problem, uh, somebody put it this way, uh The problem with missing church is soon you don't miss it. Right? Soon you don't miss it. I'm concerned. I thank God for our church. I thank God for folks that are doing everything they can to be a part, either online or here. But when this is all said and done, I'm just a little concerned. I wonder how many no longer miss it No longer miss it. City without walls. Let me put it this way, a church, a Christian without church, it's very much like a city without walls. A Christian without prayer, very much like a city broken down. A Christian without Bible. Christian without walls. I have two I have two uh three others here, I'll just give them to you because I don't have time. I put this down, submission to God It's part of being disciplined. James says, in James chapter 4, verse 7, he says, submit yourselves therefore the Lord, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Part of having victory over Satan, part of having a wall around my life to protect me from Satan is being submissive to God. I woke up this morning. I don't know why. I woke up this morning singing trust and obey. I was in the shower early this morning. Kathy was in bed. Trust and obey. I was just saying away. For there's no other way. The dogs were howling, all the birds flew away. It was sad But submissive God, there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to just trust him and obey him. Submit to him I put this down, separation from the sin, from the world, having standards. Boy, I want to preach a message on that. 1 Thessalonians 5. 22, abstain from all appearance of evil. Better have some convictions. You better have some standards, Dr. Roberts said. If you don't have personal Bible convictions of your own, borrow mine till you get some. And then last of all, and this is the most encouraging one to me anyway, is be filled with the Holy Spirit. In Galatians chapter 5, verse 22 and 23, he lists the fruit of the Spirit, and one of the fruit of the Spirit is temperance. And the word temperance, anybody want to guess what the word temperance means? Self-control, to restrain my impulses, to have rule over my spirit And that is the fruit that the Holy Spirit gives. You say, preacher, I try. I just don't have that discipline. I just don't have that self-control. Why don't you come to God You pray, read your Bible, do what God says, be with God's people, and then ask the Spirit of God to fill you And that fruit of self-discipline, self-control, the Holy Spirit will enable you. Oh, I've got to be disciplined. No, no, no. Lord, I yield myself to you, you enable me. You bear that fruit through me. Are you a city without walls? I don't have to be a big city to be strong and used of God. But I do have to have walls. I do have to have walls. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that the truth of this verse would grip us. Lord, that you would help us to put the things in place that we could rule our spirits through the power of the Holy Spirit. For the grace that enables us to live the way you instruct us to live, I pray that not one person, under the sound of my voice, that Satan's objectives would be accomplished in not one person's life. Those that are unsaved, I pray they'd be saved today. Or those that are defeated and Satan is devouring. I pray, Lord, you'd help them establish walls. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, boy, it don't take me long. I know where those walls are down in my life. I know where I'm vulnerable. I know where those besetting sins are and those weights. I know what they are. Right now, the Spirit of God has them on my heart and mind. And you'd say, preacher, I want to bring that to God and build up that wall. So I can have protection. Is there any like that, Preacher? I know what it is. Spirit of God, I know what it is, and it would be different for all of us. None of us can stand in judgment of the others because we all got them They're all different, but we need the Lord to help us. So any that would say, preacher, I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. I need to get that settled. Don't let Satan's objective Be accomplished in your life. Come to Christ. Any like that? Online? If you're not saved, please contact us. We'll show you from the Bible how you can know for sure sins are forgiven. Have a home in heaven. May the Lord grant us to establish walls in our lives. Father, bless the invitation I ask. In Jesus' name, amen.