Chapter fifty one, look with me if you would, at verse number ten. I'd like for us to read it together. We're trying to memorize this verse. And would you read it together with me all together in unison? Uh verse ten. Here we go Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. I want to talk about this clean heart. A clean heart. Let's pray and ask the Lord to have his way in our lives today. Father in heaven, we come to you on this Lord's Day morning. We're very grateful for your goodness to us. And Lord as a pastor, my heart is full to overflowing. after what we saw you do yesterday and what your church did. And we just praise you for it. But now we want to go forward. And Lord, we are concerned about revival. I am. My own heart, in my home. Lord, I'm concerned about revival in our church and in the churches of our land. And so I pray as we continue this theme, we continue this thought and expressing this concern, I pray That your Holy Spirit would meet with us this morning in a in a definite way, an obvious way. I pray your presence would be here, Lord, in a very evident way And so, Father, I just want to yield my will to you. Lord, I want to present my body anew at this hour, and that this verse and these truths that you would speak through me That our hearts and minds would be open to the will of God. Lord, that we would agree with you as concerning your will for our lives. And I pray now, Lord, you'd have your way. Help us, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm 51, as Pastor Matt was reading it, And you can't hardly read Psalm 51 without a sense of sobriety coming down. Do you know what I mean? There's just a soberness. About Psalm 51. It is one of the most, if not the most thorough confessions of sin in all of Scripture. You will be hard to find anywhere else in Scripture somebody confessing and acknowledging their sinful condition as thoroughly As King David does here in Psalm 51. Not only is he very thorough in his confession of his sin, but he's very biblical. Here's the thing about David. I've said this often. We're studying his life on Wednesday nights. But here's the thing about David. David was a very passionate man. And whatever he happened to do, he was doing with all his heart. And like I've said often, when David messed up, he messed up thoroughly. I mean, he messed up. But I tell you, I gotta give it to King David. When he made things right, he made things right thoroughly. He came to God the way God says we need to come to him when we've sinned and failed. You see, here's the thing. We mess up sometimes as Christians. By the way, this isn't my message. This might be another message someday. The fact of the matter is, Christians do sin. Christians do sin. We don't lose our salvation when we sin, but brother, it costs us dearly. Christians do sin. And when that happens, not if But when that happens and we come back to God, we come back to God the way God says we come back to God, not the way we think we should come back to God. Man has all kinds of ideas out there. There's every kind of idea and philosophy and thought and suggestion out there in the world. We need to put all that aside, and we come to God, we come to God God's way. Say, preacher, how do I know what God's way is? I'll tell you, he's written it all out right here for us. And so David was very, very thorough in his acknowledgement, his confession of his sin, but he was very biblical. He came to God's way. Excuse me again. Not only did he come, not only is this confession, Psalm 51, a very, very thorough confession of sin, it's a very biblical confession of sin. He deals with it exactly the way God says to deal with our sin. But here's the thing. Psalm 51 is one of the most public confessions of sin you're ever going to find. Now think about this. This is a psalm in the eternal word of God This was written and then used as a song in the temple worship of the nation of Israel. When they would assemble together on the Sabbath day to worship God around the temple and in their synagogues throughout the land, eventually later, they would sing David's confession of his sin. It was a song to be sung by Israel and was sung by Israel. How many people here would like if some sin you had was publicly sung in every church around the world on Sundays. How many people would enjoy that? I don't think so. But that's exactly what took place with David. Every time they would assemble together and the the I don't know how exactly their format was, but song leader, somebody gets up and he says, All right, turn to Psalm 51. Of course it didn't play out this way. And they start singing, have mercy upon me, O God. And their thoughts immediately go to what David had done. It's a public confession of sin. It's been read by believers for thousands and thousands of years. Men and women like you and I, young people that know the Lord as Savior, have come to this psalm when we messed up When we've gotten out of the will of God, and many of us on our knees before God have prayed this prayer and said this song to God, oh God, have mercy upon me. This is a very sober psalm in the book of Psalms. It's a powerful It's been sung by Israel and Sabbaths for thousands of years, been read by believers for thousands of years. We study the Psalm 51, and we have. Time's past, messages gone by. We preached on this and studied it. But what we find here is we find David intensely wants to be right with God. We can't read this and not feel the heart of this man who wants more than anything else in the world to be right with God. David has gotten to the point in his spiritual life where he is serious about his spiritual condition. He is serious about his heart's spiritual condition, his heart's moral condition. It's not a game anymore. It's not a show anymore. David is at the point where I have to be right. I've got to be right with my family. I've got to be right with my people. I've got to be right with my God. No more playing. David's gotten serious about his fellowship with God. He's gotten very serious about his spiritual condition. You know, when Christians are more concerned about the value of their house, than they are about the condition of their heart. They're in desperate need of revival. When we're at the point where our popularity with others is more important to us And whether I'm pleasing God or not, it's time to get serious about our spiritual condition. I I said this and time going by But I I in my my attitude is if there are more Christians in the movie house on Sunday night than there are in the church house Sunday night We desperately need revival. That tells me we're not serious about our spiritual condition. We're not serious about our standing with God. David got to the point where it's no more games, no more play. Gotta be right. I've got to be right. I put down when we're more concerned about our next vacation. And we are our own spiritual well-being. We need revival. And we're more concerned about our bank account than we are with our standing with God. When what clothes we wear are more important than our Christian character, we need revival. We need to get serious. I tell you, we could learn a good lesson We can learn a good lesson from Joseph. Potiphar's wife comes and approaches him in an attempt to seduce him. In an attempt to uh everybody, okay, thank you, thank you. Uh we can learn a l we can learn a good lesson from Joseph When Potiphar's wife comes in attempting to seduce him and entice him into an adulterous relationship, into a sensual, fornicacious relationship And Joseph is more concerned about being right with God than he is about a moment of pleasure. The Bible says he left his coat behind and he fled. He says, I'm not going down that road. My relationship with God is more important to me. And anything that can I see bring pleasure to my life. Somebody put it this way, Joseph was more concerned about his character than he was about his coat. I'm afraid a lot of times we're we get more caught up on what clothes we're going to wear and what the latest fashion is than whether we're right with God or not. Popularity, vacations, bank accounts, houses and cars. We're more concerned about being comfortable than we are about being faithful We need revival. We need revival. David's getting serious about his relationship with God. Now in all seriousness, I don't know how long my voice is going to hold up this morning. So I want to give some points kind of quickly in case I run out of voice. My first thought is this. David's serious about getting right with God. David is serious about his spiritual well-being. First thing he does, number one, is he tears down his facade. He tears down the facade that he has been putting on. In other words, he does away with this fraud testimony he had established. For maybe up to two years, David had been hiding the fact that he was an adulterer. David had lied. David actually murdered Bathsheba's husband in order to cover his sin. In order to hide his sin. And for a year, maybe up to two years, as far as he in his mind, he got away with it. And he had lived this phony, this phony life. Finally comes the point and say, I can't live this way anymore. Tired of the show. Tired of the phoniness. No more facade. Look at verse number six. If you would, there in uh chapter 51. Notice he says, Behold, thou desirest what? Truth. Where? The inward parts. Oh, he didn't have truth in his inward parts. He was living a lie This whole image he portrayed as this man of God. This whole image he portrayed as someone that loved the Lord. This whole image he had portrayed for a year or two now. That he was walking with God, that he's this wonderful spiritual man. All of it was a lie. It was phony. Finally, his will breaks. His hard heart melts. He says, God, I gotta be right in my heart. God, do you want truth in the inward parts? He's pulling down this phoniness, this hypocrisy. Look, go on and notice what he says. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and in the what Look what it says there, and in the what? Hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. He's saying I've put on a show long enough. I need to be honest. He says, I want to be real. Anybody ever hear this statement? They'll say something like this, boy, it's about to get real right now. Anybody ever hear that? I tell you what, David says, I want it to get real right now. No more show, no more phoniness, no more facade. I want to be right with God in my heart. I want to be right with God sincerely, genuinely. I tell you, Christianity Biblical Christianity has been around for over 2,000 years, now about 2,000 years. I tell you, we've gotten pretty good at putting up Christian facades. We have thousand, we have two thousand years of practice putting on a show Carrying our our our Bibles and our biblical attire and being phony as can be in our hearts. For two years David been putting on a show. For two years David been covering up sin. Finally comes a point, says, no more. No more. He's not talking about He's not talking about somebody else, he's talking about himself. He's not saying, yeah, that person in front of me in the pew, they need to get real. No, that's not what he's saying. Preacher, I pray pray my spouse, so get real. That's not what he's saying. He's saying I gotta get real. That's where revival begins. When I want to get real, comes to me Do you know hypocrisy is a very real danger for believers? Oh yeah, those unsaved people, yeah, those lost people, bunch of hypocrites acting all this, and they're lost Yeah, I agree. That's true. I tell ya, a genuine child of God can be a hypocrite A born-again believer in the Word of God can be just as much of a hypocrite. You don't believe me? Alright, good. I'm glad you don't believe me. Come and that way you give me an opportunity to prove it. Matthew chapter number 23. Would you turn there with me? Keep your place in Psalms. Matthew 23. The reason I have you turn to your Bible, it gives me a chance to take a sip. Look at me, Matthew chapter 23. And notice with me verse 25. I'm telling you, Jesus was a hellfire and brimstone scorcher preacher I mean to tell you, you study the sermons of Jesus Christ, he laid it out. Now nobody loved people more than Jesus did. But nobody shot straighter than what Jesus did. And look with me if you would at verse number 25. Of Matthew chapter 23. He says, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Now he describes hypocrisy. Now he's talking to scribes and Pharisees. Questions, were the scribes and Pharisees believers? No, not at this point, for the most part. These people that were rejecting him. They were very religious. Do you know you can be religious and be lost? You know you can be a member of a church and be lost. This will hair lip some people. You can be a member of a Baptist church and be lost. And so he's preaching to these scribes and Pharisees, these unsaved people, and he says, Woe unto you, you hypocrites! You're putting on a show. And he describes hypocrisy. Notice what he says. For ye may clean the what? Outside of the cup and of the platter, but within They are full of extortion and excess. Oh, outwardly you look like you're doing the will of God. Outwardly it looks like, oh yeah, this is all about God's will, but inwardly you're doing your own thing. That inwardly you're pursuing your own agenda. He says, that's hypocrisy. He says, woe unto you, hypocrites! Oh, you wash the outside all up, but inside you're full of excess, your own wills and uh and extortion Telling you what, hypocrisy is a very real danger even for the children of God. Goes on and describes it further. If you would come down there, uh verse 26, thou blind Pharisee, but not a shell, your hypocrite. Cleanse first that which is within the cup and the platter, that the outside of them may be clean also. Verse 27: Woe unto you, Pharisees, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For ye're like unto whited sepulchres. That's a tombstone, a grave. You're like a whited sepulchre, which indeed appear beautiful outward. Oh, you look great. Boy, you're just the greatest Christian. You're just the greatest church member. You're just the most wonderful. But inward, outward, but are within full of dead man's bones. Of all uncleanness. Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within you're full of what? Hypocrisy and iniquity. And David has come to the point in his life, and he says, No more facade, no more show. I'm more concerned. David got to the point where he was more concerned that the inward inside of the cup was clean. And if the inside was clean, the outside will be just fine. No more show. No more games. No more play. No more facade. Come over with me if you would to Matthew chapter 6. Now in Matthew 23, he's talking to these unsaved scribes and Pharisees, religious hypocrites. They weren't even saved. They're putting on this show. Matthew chapter 6, he's talking to his disciples. Completely different category. And to his disciples he gives a warning. Notice with me if you would verse 5 of Matthew chapter 6. He says, and when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the what What's he saying? You know he's saying he's saying it is possible for a disciple to be hypocritical in their prayers A disciple of God, a disciple of Jesus Christ, a saved, born-again child of God, can be a hypocrite. He says, oh, you pray, you put on this big show in your prayers. Oh boy, everybody's impressed with your great prayers. He said, and that's all you're doing, you're just putting on a show. Come down if you would to verse number 16. He's talking to disciples here. I'd like to believe I think there's a lot of people in the auditorium would agree with me on this statement. I would like to believe that I'm a disciple of Jesus Christ. I would like to believe that's true about me. I've trusted him as my savior way back in 1979 I've sought all these 44 years now, just about, to live for him. I've tried to please him. I've certainly come up short I've tried to be a follower of Jesus Christ. I've tried to follow his teachings. And many of you also. Amen. That's who he's talking to, folks. You and me. He says, you be careful, you don't be like a hypocrite. Tells me that God's people can be hypocrites. We can put on shows. And we can convince everybody that we're something we're not. David said, I don't want to be that anymore. No more. God, I want to be right inside. No more games, no more show. I think hypocrisy is one of the greatest hindrances to spiritual growth. I've never seen in all my years in ministry. I'm coming up on 38 years in ministry, 39. And in all these years, I've never one time seen somebody who was phony who was a strong Christian. Oh, they fool me for a while. They'll fool people for a while. But I've never seen somebody who is a hypocrite putting on a show make wise decisions. Never. David says, I don't want to be that way anymore. I want to grow. Be what God wants me to be. Hypocrisy is one of the greatest hindrances to spiritual growth. I believe hypocrisy is one of the greatest hindrances to God's blessings. On my life. Now I would like to be able to stand here and say that in all 40, 44 years of Christian knowing the Lord, that I've never been hypocritical. I might disappoint some of you, but there have been times in my Christian life where I played the fool and was hypocritical. Alright, come on now. You're all looking at me so pious. I've known some of you for a while. You know what I found out? When my Christianity devolves, deteriorates down to where it's just a show I'm putting on when my spiritual walk with God deteriorates towards just a show and it's not for real in my heart. You know what I found out? God's blessing is gone. You know, I found out the peace of God is gone. You know, I found out the joy of the Lord is gone. Look back and think when I was walking with God, when I was sincere, when I was right, all the joy that was there. I'm telling you, I'm just testifying now right now, okay? Some of you could say the same thing. There have been times where my world has been falling in all around me. But I knew I was right with God and I was walking with God. And even in a world that is collapsing, you can still have the joy of the Lord. You can still have the peace of God. You can still have the leadership of God in your life. When everything's falling around, If I'm real. I'm real. I'm just a hypocrite. Okay, don't pass notes when I'm preaching, please. We would be real. We want to be real. Amen? We're not going to have revival. We're not going to have God's blessings. We're not going to make an impact on the world. If all our rel if all our spirituality is a show, not going to make any difference. We're not going to have God's blessing. We're not going to have God's leadership. And David said, I don't want to be there anymore. I've done that for years now. No more of that. Bringing the facade down. I lived out west for a little while for several years And um out west they'll have different places, Wyoming is where I noticed them. But they'll have old movie sets, and I've talked mentioned this before. They'll have old movie sets. And you drive by it'll be an old Western, you know, some Louis Lemour book they made into a movie and boy they'll have the They'll big saloon and stagecoach and they'll have that whole thing. And you drive by there and say, Boy, that's a look at that old fashioned town. If you ride down there and look at that movie set, you know what it is? It's just a facade. You're standing here and Out in the distance is the desert and everything, the mountains, and you go through the door of the store and you're on the other side. You're still out in the wilderness. There's nothing there There's no walls, there's no ceiling, there's no chairs, there's no nothing. That is hypocrisy Looks like something. Looks like there's spiritual blessing. Looks like there's walk with God. Looks like there's fellowship with the Lord. But you open the door, it's empty. We were down in New Zealand with uh missionaries down there and uh we we had a full week. We had one a conference, a two-day conference at the last minute, actually it was on our trip down on the way down, I think, in the air. Preacher called said, I can't do it, I gotta cancel it So we had um two days that we did not anticipate were just open. We tried scheduling something for it and we ended up having a service the one night. So we ended up with a with a couple extra days than w that we weren't planning on. Preacher says, one of the preachers says, hey, um they filmed this movie down here. I never saw it. I read the book years ago. They filmed this movie, Lord of the Rings. Down here, it's all over New Zealand, everywhere you go, because they have a movie set not far from us. I'd like to take you and go see that movie set. I said I said, well, I don't know. I wasn't that interested, but uh they were all fired up and others were, yeah, we'll go see it. I said, all right, I'll go along. And um it was and again I I never saw it, but I read the book back when I was a teenager, and um it it's a movie set of these little critters that live in holes in the ground and they're hobbits How many people know you are familiar with that? You've probably seen it. It's very popular. And so we were going to go see it. And I'll be honest with you, we got there and it was like, wow, it was incredible. And they had this whole little town, this these little doors, round doors, you go in and had everything set up and everything was to scale. I mean, you know, they were just uh small and We're going through there and they're explaining how they filmed this and how they did that. And they were here. And they were there. And I was reading a book on my phone. And uh But uh anyway, I got curious. I thought, I wonder what the inside of these little houses look like So we went up and we said, what's inside? They said, well there's one up here, the door's open, you can look in. I looked in, guess what was inside there? It was just dirt. It was about the door went in about that far. There was nothing inside there. It was just this show out there. Everybody follow what I'm saying? It was just this outward. It looked like windows. Things that had smoke coming out. I said, how in the world is that smoke coming out? All this is a just dirt. They said, oh, we dropped these little tablets down there and they smoke. Makes it look like there's a fire going on inside there. We made our way around there and it was interesting. Made our way around there and I got thinking, brother, this could be your average church. Oh, there's smoke going up. There's little paths and there's clothes hanging out on the line. They have little gardens there and it looked like fruit was growing on it. All of it was fake. Stony. David said, David said, no more. I don't want to be phony anymore. God, you want me to be true in my heart. Not just in a show. Just a facade, no life, no use, just a show. So the first thing I notice here when David says, God created me a clean heart. Renew a right spirit within me. He's taking down the facade and he's saying no more playing, no more games, no more show. Then I want us to notice, second of all. And that's our newest church member, Amen and me back there. And getting good practice in. Praise the Lord. Derek's been teaching her how to say Amen. And then, second of all, my last thought, he comes to God in faith He gets to the point, say no more games. God wants truth and the part, no more show. And then he comes to God. He comes in faith. You know when you want to get right with God, you know where you go to? You go to God. You go to God. David comes to God, and notice in verse 10 he says, Create in me a clean heart, oh God. It's an earnest prayer he's praying here. He's wanting God to do for him something he cannot do for himself. He says, God, I can't create a clean heart. I can't do that. I don't have the ability. I don't have the capabilities. And God, I need you to make me right with God. I need you to make me right with yourself. Anybody here ever try and clean up your act and you end up making a bigger mess than what you had before? Remember when I was under conviction coming to salvation, I decided I'm going to turn over a new leaf. I wasn't going to do this anymore and I was going to do that and I was going to grit my teeth and I'm going to make it happen. I'm going to straighten my life up. You know what I found out when I turned over that new leaf? The bottom side of the leaf was just as corrupt as the top side. You know, you can have a poison ivy, you can turn that poison leaf over, still poison ivy David said, I need you to change me, God. I need you to clean my heart. I need you to make my spirit, my attitude, what it ought to be. Create in me a clean heart, O God. He's wanting God to do something he can't do for himself. Our heart is what God's concerned about. Our heart is what God is primarily concerned about. In Deuteronomy chapter 6 and verse 5, God told the children of Israel, told the nation of Israel, Love the Lord thy God with all thine heart. He says, I don't want phony love, I don't want verbal love, but you love me from my heart. For real. The heart is the command center of our lives. It controls us. It dictates our attitudes, our actions. The condition of our heart is where our decisions are determined. The actions we take, the direction we go in life is all determined by the condition of our heart. And David said, if I'm going to be in your will, if I'm going to know your blessings, if I'm going to have your hand upon my life, if I'm going to be what you want me to be, my heart has to be right. And only you can make it right, God. The heart is God's primary concern, the condition of our heart. Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 23 says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. In other words, the condition of your heart, that's the direction your life is going to go. Proverbs twenty three and verse twenty six God says, my son, of course it applies men and women, but he says, My son, give me thine heart. Let me direct your paths. Let me cleanse your heart. Let me do a work in your life. That requires surrender. That requires submission. Lord, I give you my heart. David comes to God in faith. He says, Oh God, created me a clean heart. Oh God. Oh God. Our heart is our unseen cause of all our actions and behavior. Luke 6, verse 45 says, A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good. And an evil man, out of the evil treasure of his heart, bringeth forth that which is evil. Then he said this: for out of the abundance of the heart The mouth speaketh. The heart. The heart. Proverbs 23, 7 says, as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. You know why a person lies? Young or old? You know why a person lies? Because they have a dishonest heart. Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. Do you know why a person steals? Because they have a thieving heart. So, well, their situation, their environment. You know, the heart plays on that, but it comes down. Did you know you can be in a bad environment and still be an honest person? Do you know you can live in poverty and yet still not steal? By the way, rich people steal often as much as poor people steal. It's the heart. It's not the environment. Not the condition, oh preacher, if I was in a different environment, if I was in a different condition situation, if I was in a different home, oh then I'd be a better Christian, though You and I are the Christians we are because of the condition of our heart. Not my spouse, not another church member, not even the devil. It's my heart. David said, I want my heart right, and God, only you can make it right. You know why a person is unforgiving and bitter? Because they have an unforgiving and bitter heart. You know why a person is lustful? Because they have a lustful heart. You know why a person talks dirty? Because they got a dirty heart. You know why a person's hateful to others? Because they have a hateful heart. It's nothing to do with the behavior of others, it's everything to do with the condition of my heart. David said, I don't want that anymore. I don't no more. I want this to be right. I want to be real. I don't want to show Christianity anymore. If I have a clean heart, I'm going to have clean hands. If I have a clean heart, I'm going to have a clean tongue. If I have a clean heart, I'm going to have a clean mind. Listen to Matthew chapter 15. Let me just read it to you real quick, verse 18 through 20. Notice. What Jesus said. He said, but those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart, and they defile the man. For out of the heart proceedeth evil thoughts, murderers, adulteries, fornication. thefts, false witness, blasphemes. These are the things which defile a man. It's the heart. The heart David said, God, create in me a clean heart. Take away that bitterness. Take away that lust. I take away that dishonesty. I take away that hatefulness. Cleanse me Created me a clean heart. It's interesting the word create there in Psalm 51. 10 is the same word that's used in Genesis 1. 1 In the beginning, God created the heaven and earth. David uses that exact same word, and he says, create in me. A clean heart. God, you created this world. You created this. What we're beginning to believe is an infinite universe. God, you created life. You created these falcons and these incredible birds we learned about last night. God, you created the molecular structure of everything, all of matter God, I want you. Create a clean heart in me. Now here's my question. I've got to end with this. Most of the time when a preacher is preaching he says that it's meaningless. But I do mean it. Sincerely How here's my question. How did God create heaven and earth? How did he do that? His word. His word. And God said, Let there be Whatever, light. God said, and God said, and God said, and God said How does God create in me a clean heart? How does God move in my life in such a way that there's no more phoning? I'm genuine walk with God. My heart is completely right with God. My heart is clean and my spirit is renewed. How does that happen? The word of God. It happens by the word of God. Let me give you a few thoughts here, real quick, on that. David's humbling himself before the Lord. He's submitting himself to the Lord. Lord, I'm submitting yourself to your word. You created this world, this universe by your word. I'm submitting to you to create in me a clean heart. Ephesians 5. 26 says that God sanctifies and washes the church, believers, the church, with the washing of the water of the Word. Only God can create in you and me a clean heart and he uses his word to do it Joshua 1, 8 and 9, be not afraid, neither be thou this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. But thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, for then Thou shalt make thy way prosperous, then thou shalt have good success. He says, You want a clean heart? You want to be spiritually prosperous? You want to be successful Christian life? You meditate on that word and you do exactly what God tells us to do in that book. Amen? Psalm 1. Blessed is the man. That walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, that's not biblical counsel, that walketh, that standeth not in the way of sinners, and sitteth not in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night, and he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper You know what that is? That's being real with God. Say, preacher, I'm tired of being a show. I want my kids to see what real Christian is. I want this world to see at least one genuine Christian. Seeing plenty of hypocrisy. And by the way, this is just me, but I blame America's rejection of Christianity upon hypocritical Christians. I think if our nation saw real Christians again, we could see revival. David said, no more phony. Lord, I just submit myself to you. I want you to clean me a clean heart. The way that's going to happen, we need to get in the Word of God. Salvation begins in the heart Thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thy heart that God hath raised them from the dead. Thou shalt be saved. Believe in thine heart. Restoration begins in the heart. You're away from God this morning. You're not right with God. You know it. You know it. The way to come back to God is my heart. The Bible says the prodigal son in Luke chapter 16 and verse 15 and verse 17, the prodigal son, it says he came to himself In other words, he looked at himself in the mirror and said, You're a phony. You're out of the will of God. You're not right with God. His heart, he turned, came back. Revival begins in the heart. Oh God, create in me, O God, a clean heart. Renew a right spirit within me. You're here this morning, or maybe you're tuned in, say, preacher, my Christianity's a show. What I project myself to be and what I really am is not the same. I want to get real. I want to get real. Maybe here some morning say, preacher, I'm out of the will of God. I know I'm not even in the will of God. Submit to the Lord, say, Lord, here's my heart. Bring me back. Bring me back. We're praying for revival. Maybe some of us come and say, Lord, bring revival to my heart. Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray you take these thoughts. Pray you challenge us and convict us. Stir us, Lord, like David. Get to the point where it's Not my will, but thy will, Lord. No more show, no more facade, no more movie-set Christianity. I want to be real. With heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, preacher, God spoke to my heart this morning In a very real way. Any like that by the uplifted hand. And I'm not going to get specific. I want it this between you and God. I just want us to be honest with ourselves and with God. I'm out of the picture Everyone else is out of the picture. And you say, preacher, pray with me. I need to get real. I need to get right. Any others? A lot of hands raised. How about it? Any others? God bless you. God bless you. Hands all around. David said, no more show, no more phony. I need to be for real. Does there someone here say, preacher, I'm not even saved? I don't know for sure if I die now, I'd go to heaven. I don't know where I'd go. They say, preacher, I don't want to live that way. I want to know that my sins are forgiven biblically. That my sins are forgiven, that I go to heaven, not to hell when I die. And you say, Preacher, pray for me, that God will help me get that settled. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me I need to know where I'm going when I die. I don't want to risk that. Any at all? Any at all. Father, I ask you to bless now our invitation time. I pray you'd have your way. Holy Spirit of God, move in our hearts, do what we can't do, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's