Your Bibles turn to Proverbs twenty-nine, verse number eighteen. We're going to get there. I gave a lot of uh background to our ministry in Sunday school, so I'm not going to repeat the majority of that, but I do want to encourage you as to the importance of voting. I'll give you this number that I did give in Sunday school in my U. S. Congressional District race in 2020 in Iowa where I reside Uh there were three hundred and ninety-four thousand six hundred and twenty-five votes cast. Three hundred ninety-four thousand 625 votes cast. The Republican Marionette Miller-Meeks won by six. In fact, I looked it up while I was sitting here a little bit ago. If you look up Marionette six votes in Google, it will bring you up uh all those facts that she won by six I'm not just making this up. So uh you will find it. Uh goo the internet might be making it up, but I'm not. But um but uh she won by six votes And so, folks, it does matter. I believe we have a civic duty. God ordained the home first. Secondly, when Noah came off the ark, Genesis 9. 6, he ordained government. And thirdly, of course, if we get to the New Testament age, he ordained the church. Those three institutions And if we would say, well, you know, I don't uh sometimes we say uh government and pol or politics and religion don't mix. How many of us have heard that? Amen? And but we would never say the home and religion don't mix. We would certainly never say the church and religion don't mix And I'll tell you this, the fact of the matter is, I not only say that that is incorrect to say that government or that politics and religion don't mix, in they are inseparable. I could sit down with you for Twenty minutes and talk to you about nothing but your faith, what you believe about the Bible what you believe about salvation, what you believe about marriage, what you believe about life. And by the time we were done, having never spoken one word about politics, I would have a very good idea how you were going to vote on Election Day Likewise, we could sit down and talk nothing but about politics. What party you belong to, what you believe, what you believe about the party's positions, what you believe they should be. And uh which we and when we got done, having never talked one time about church, I would have a very good idea of what kind of church you would be happy in and what kind you would not Folks, because as we'll see this morning, I'm going a little different direction in this with it, but it's all based on your worldview. And they're inseparable. And we have believed this lie as Christians in too many cases that the two are not to be mixed. And folks, government is power. And I'll tell you one thing the devil wants, he likes power. And if Christians are willing to abdicate that to him, he's willing to take it and run with it. And we can see all you have to do is look around the world and find out what happens when Satan gets absolute power of a government. And you know what? When Satan has absolute power for government, there is absolutely no liberty for Christians to practice their faith publicly. And one of our misconceptions is this idea that in America that could never happen. There is a book I'm listening to right now called The Letter to the American Church by Eric Mertaxis. He also wrote the biography of a fellow, and I'm trying to draw the name right here, the Lutheran pastor. Why am I not, I'm that name's escaped me. No, what is it hungry? Bonhoeffer, who was martyred, one of the last people hung by Hitler before Hitler died, just a few weeks. He was a Lutheran pastor who opposed Hitler, and Martaxis did an excellent job of writing that biography on how he stood up against the government in Germany. There were 18,000 churches that they estimated that in the state of Germany, 3,000 strongly opposed to Hitler, 3,000 uh strongly in line with Hitler and 12,000 in the middle who did nothing. But the argument of his book, Letter to the American Church, is that we are in much the same place as the church was in Luther's in in that day going in to the Second World War So that's an interesting book to read and to listen to. But the point is this, I believe we have a role to play, and don't think that it can never happen here. And folks, independent Baptists, if religious liberty is lost, and by the way, right now, your religious liberty more than anything else, The reason we are meeting here freely today with the government we have today is by and large a result of the First Amendment. Nothing is protecting you and us and me more than the First Amendment is right now I'm not going to give you the history of the First Amendment this morning, but I will tell you this. We have the First Amendment because of a Baptist pastor named John Leland who was not afraid to stand up in 1787. for the right to religious liberty. So we have a role to play. We must wake out of our sleep and do the little we can do. And let God, look folks, there's so much we can't do, but there's a little that we can. And we have a big God. Our advantage, two advantages. Number one, we have the God of heaven on our side who is alive, as the pastor mentioned. He's alive and well. And secondly, we have the truth. Something that the left, neither one of those things, does the radical left have today and we'll talk a little bit about that. So I encourage you to be to to vote. It's probably, I don't know if it's too late to register. Maybe you can register on the when you vote, I don't know. But vote. Get your friends to vote. It's important that everybody votes exercise that I believe responsibility that God has given to us and uh and vote for the candidates who are closest to a biblical worldview. Look, Jesus is not on the ballot. Alright? There's no perfect candidate. But there are candidates who are closest to a biblical worldview and candidates who are further away from a biblical worldview. And so we need to be voting for candidates who are closest to a biblical worldview. And if there still is nobody you can vote for in good conscience, then maybe you are the one who needs to be running City level, county level, state level, dog catcher, amen. Uh maybe you are the one who needs to be running for that position and I am one hundred percent serious about that because we cannot elect godly believers with a biblical worldview, if they do not run. And there is no law, even in Maryland, as far as I know, against Baptist running for political office. So having said all that, let's take our Bibles turn to Proverbs chapter 29. Pray for us as we work with pastors. We've helped pastors in a number of states build organizations going to their state capitals, protecting religious liberty, a pastoral presence there, sharing the gospel. and following and tracking the legislation, being a resource for religious liberty legislation, those are the kind of things we do. And we work aggressively with pastors in seven states focused on our independent Baptist churches Six of those, so five of those states on the East Coast, Iowa in the middle of the country, and then California on the west coast. and uh and pray for those folks, but they have some good by the way, you have some very good godly legislators in your state capitol. I tell people, don't tell me everybody down there is a crook and a thief Because some of the best Christians I know, and I if if I'll challenge you, come out to Iowa and we'll spend two or three days now uh talking to them, some of the best Christians I know are legislators in state capitals What we need is more of them, and we need to support those who are there. Proverbs 29, verse number 18, says this familiar passage says, where there is no vision The people perish, but he that keepeth the law, happy is he. And let's pray. Lord, we come to you this morning. I thank you for this time. We can look into your word. Lord, I pray that you would challenge us with truth. I pray that you would give us what we need. I pray if there's anybody here that doesn't know you as their Savior, or who's watching, Lord, doesn't know you as their Savior, I pray today would be the day of their salvation. And Lord bless us now, strengthen us, encourage us, if we ask in your name. Amen. One thing I forgot to say is fill out those cards. Please, if you're in West Virginia, just put West Virginia on there. We'll put you in our, if you live in West Virginia, we'll put you in our West Virginia Baptist for Biblical Values Group Don't worry about the fact that it says Maryland at the top. We'll figure that out. And so, and if you're watching online, you can sign up at MarylandBaptist. org, or if you live in West Virginia, you can sign up at WVBV. West Virginia Baptist for Biblical Values, wvbbv. org. And right on the front page is a place where you can sign up to get those emails And whether or not I get lunch tomorrow depends on whether or not I get cards collected. So please help me out, amen. Or I'll get very hungry throughout the week. So we'll collect those at the end of the service if you're here in the auditorium You take these verse this verse at face value, and it makes perfect sense. Where there is no vision, the people perish. Using the analogy of physical vision, the scripture uh is focused on uh obviously spiritual vision and a biblical worldview as we'll get to in a minute in a minute. But with you don't have any vision, if you're blind, you are much More likely to perish. You are much more susceptible to the dangers in life. Just talking about physical blindness. But he that keepeth the law, you have kind of a second idea here, he that keepeth the law Happy is he. And it's almost like it's a second thought, and we see that sometimes in Proverbs. He the keeper of the law, happy is he, and that makes perfect sense on its own. uh face as well. You know, hopefully you are happier here today than the folks down at the county jail. Amen. And he that keepeth the law should be at least a little happier. But when we focus our attention on that word perish, I think we can see a connection between the two. Because the word perish is translated from a Hebrew word, and one of the meanings of that Hebrew word is to be loosened from restraint. To be loosened from restraint. So you could accurately explain the verse where there is no vision, the people are loosened from restraint and therefore perish. Have you ever met somebody who refuses to wear a seatbelt? Maybe you're here today. And uh, but suppose I could convince you that this week Sometime while you were driving, you were going to be doing the right thing. It wasn't going to have a thing to be to do with how you're driving, but somebody who was on a cell phone, somebody who wasn't paying attention Somebody's going to run a red light, going to run a stop sign. They're going to hit you broadside. Your vehicle is going to roll. It's going to twist. The frame's going to twist. The doors that were locked are going to come flying open And that was going to happen to you this week. Now, here's one of two things I would recommend you do. Number one, stay in bed all week long. Amen. Number two, at least for this week, put your seatbelt on. Because folks, we've all heard stories of And hopefully it's not happening to somebody you know, hopefully not a loved one, but somebody who is thrown from a vehicle in an accident. And I know this. Whenever I hear of a story like that or hear that happening, then my first thought is they didn't have a seatbelt on. And at the same time, all of us have probably seen wrecks, maybe been involved in an accident, but seen accidents Where you say, how in the world did that person walk away from that? And more than likely It's because they're seatbelts, and in today's world, the airbags that save so many lives. But what's the difference? One was restrained and one was not. And folks, if you put that in the context of the verse, he that keepeth the law, happy is he, that person that was restrained Because they knew there was a potential for danger. Therefore, they restrained themselves. When they walk away from that accident, happy is he. Amen. Happy is she. Uh that they had their seatbelt on at that moment. Now The application of the message this morning is much broader than to help you to keep from perishing in a car wreck. Because unfortunately, in a fallen world, there are many ways to perish. And the primary application of the verse, that word vision, as we mentioned earlier, is a reference to your world view. Or you could say, seeing the world through your mind's eye, not your physical eye. To be more precise, it is the lens through which you determine right and wrong Good and evil, truth and error. It's what enables you when you look at a situation, read about a situation, see something happen in front of you. You we all we immediately begin to assess that and say, is that good? Is that wrong? Is it right? Wrong? Good? Evil? Truth? Error? So that assessment Is being made by the lens called your worldview. Now, Proverbs 29:18 is advocating for a biblical worldview. Or in other words, seeing the world or having an understanding of the world through the lens of this book right here. Determining right and wrong, good and evil, truth and error, not by what I think By what somebody else thinks, but by what the Bible says. Folks, we believe in a literal interpretation of the Bible. If the Bible says it's wrong and it's immoral, then if you have a biblical worldview, you say, hey, that settles it. That's the lens through which I'm going to make that determination. Now, unfortunately, we live in a world where all too often we are hearing people talk about my truth Your truth. Folks, can I tell you something? There is only the truth. And it's found in the Word of God. Now, when you have, there is a fundamental truth to having a biblical worldview. This, what I'm going to say next, is critically important. to understanding what we see, this cultural war we see going on in society. And hopefully, if I tell folks, one, we need uh godly people to run for office and by God's grace to win. But secondly, we as believers in society need to have a better understanding and do a better job of explaining why our worldview is superior to what is out there in the world. And that's what I hope this message will help us to do this morning. And one of the most important, if not the most important fundamental truth of a biblical worldview is taught to us clearly all through the Bible, but clearly in Romans 3. 10 Where it says, as it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. Fundamentals To a biblical worldview, and everything else I'm going to say this morning is the acknowledgement that we are born with a sin nature. It's fundamental. Absolutely fundamental. It's explained a little more a little more in detail in James 1, verses 13 through 15. Where the Scripture says, Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust. That's the sin nature. And enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. You perish You perish. So fundamental to a biblical worldview is this truth that we are born with a sin nature. My wife and I, by God's grace, have raised eight children And uh they are twenty-one and older now, seven are married, and so uh they're on their own. Well, kind of sort of, amen Until they have a problem. Amen. Then it's like a situation call up and one of the older Saw daughters called us and said, I told One of her sisters, she said, I told him you need to call dad. You know, she's married. She said, You need to call dad. Amen, you got a problem. And uh maybe he can help you fix it. But And we're glad to be there for that. We raised eight children, but when they were all at home, we never had we every once in a while we'd have to have some family meetings. Anybody here ever have a family meeting? Amen Where like the chaos just gets to the point where, okay, we gotta we gotta all get together. We get together. We never had a family meeting where we all got together and I said, kids, now the problem in our home Is that you are all getting along way too well? Nobody is fighting, everybody is sharing, everybody's thinking of others first, and we need to fix this. We never had that meeting. Amen? We never had a meeting where I said a family meeting where I sat down with all the kids and said, Look, here's the problem we've got, is I don't think you kids know how to lie. And so we're gonna have to practice you're all telling the truth all the time. We're gonna have to practice online. Folks, I never had one of those, you never had one of those, nobody ever had one of those. You know why? Because there is a sin nature going all the way back to the Garden of Eden that all of us are born with. Now, what's the benefit of understanding that we have a sin nature? When you understand that you have a sin nature, you understand that that sin nature presents dangers. Presents dangers. Dangers in this life, by the way, dangers in the life to come. If you don't trust Christ as your Savior, if you're here this morning or you're watching this morning and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, the greatest danger you face because of your sin nature Is spending eternity in hell. And you need to put your faith in the Savior, not in this church, not in good works, but in Jesus Christ alone. Who made the payment for your sin? He paid your debt. Well, I tell you what. I'm just about to the age now where In a few years I'll finally have my house paid off. But you know what? I'd have been real thankful along the way if somebody would have come along and said, Hey, you know what? I want to pay that mortgage off for you. I'd have said, Man, let's let's go down to the bank and get it done. Amen Folks, why would you not let someone pay your sin debt when the only way you can pay it is to pay for it yourself, burning forever in an eternal hell? That's the gift of salvation that Christ has offered to us. So that's one of the dangers of sin nature. But the sin nature also presents dangers in this life. And folks, knowing those dangers enables us to take action and restrain ourselves. For those who wear your seat belts, do you know why you do it? It's because you realize when you get in the car that driving down the road presents dangers. Sometimes dangers you don't even have any control over. I used to tell my kids when they were When we were driving and have the kids in the car, I'd say, look, can we go by an accident, a bad accident? I'd say, look, kids, those people did not wake up this morning. And say, today's the day. This is it. This is when we're going to be in the accident. Everybody put your seatbelts on. Hold on. It's not how it happens. They recognize you put your seatbelt on because you recognize the potential for danger that exists And folks, when it comes to living in this world, knowing that we have a sin nature enables us, with the help of the Holy Spirit, God has given to us. Amen. To take action and restrain ourselves. I hope, I doubt there's anybody in this room who went to work this week and said everything you thought And just did everything you felt like doing at work. You know what you found at work? If you want to keep that job, you gotta restrain yourself Like when a boss comes, you say, eh, well yeah, oh yeah, happy to do that. Are you really? Amen. But we restrain ourselves. We restrain why? Because we know this thin nature can get us into trouble You can't say everything you're thinking, you can't go everywhere you're going. You can't look at everything that this old flesh wants to look at as a believer I'm talking about now. Got to be a difference with a believer It's because with God's help and the Holy Spirit we are to restrain ourselves. That's where the law, the commandments of God come in. He that keepeth the law, happy is he. Think about it, God did not give Israel the Ten Commandments. To make them miserable, he gave them the Ten Commandments as restraints on their sinful human nature to prevent them from perishing Thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet. Those are all temptations to the sinful flesh And we've got to say no. If we're going to live a holy life right before God that can be blessed So a biblical worldview enables us to understand the dangers of the sin nature, take action as believers, and restrain ourselves. You know what the time of Bible reading and prayer that we should be engaging in every morning before we start the day, you know what that is? That's us putting our spiritual seatbelt on. Lord, I don't know what's coming today. Lord, I don't know what's going to. But Lord, help me to walk with you. Help me to keep my heart right, my mind right, my mouth right, my eyes right. Oh, I'm telling you what, folks We need it. That's a biblical worldview. We see the danger of the sin nature, we take action and restrain ourselves But there is another worldview dominating our American society that presents a very different vision. It is called secular humanism. Secular meaning worldly with no belief in God. Humanism meaning that faith is to be placed in humanity and in mankind. In its most depraved form, secular humanism sees God and the Bible as nothing more than fairy tales. They literally, folks, have no use. In fact, They are against the word. They have an antipathy towards the Word of God. Years ago, back in 2003, before we have the Lord ever laid on my heart to start this ministry, even in Iowa, Back in the early 2000s, we were fighting a gay rights ordinance in our state in our city of 30,000 people, where we continue to reside to this day. And we'd go to the City Hall, the Human Rights Commission every year would bring up the Gay Rights Ordinance and we'd go down and read scriptures. This is before uh the homosexual marriage was legalized in the state And before we had sexual orientation and gender identity as protecting classes in our state code, before all that, and the city was trying to pass this Human Rights Commission, we go down and read scripture uh and other pastors from other denominations would come and and at that point there was still sort of this mentality in society uh of a of a biblical worldview regarding marriage and so we'd read that but One at one of those meetings we were leaving the going down from the third floor where they held the meeting and it was myself and the mayor, uh, who were in the s I was at the top of the staircase, getting ready to go down. He was part way down, was an open staircase, and so he was just one level down from me. And he looked up and he saw me standing there. I just had my Bible in my hand. I was had some other things. I was Just getting ready to leave, kind of getting everything together. And he looks up at me and he says, Look, you need to get that blankety blank book out of this city hall. This is back 20 years ago. I had the Bible. I held it up. I said, are you talking about this book? I had several things in my hands. He looked at me. I looked at him. You say, what'd you say? I didn't say anything. His problem is not with me. And I'm not the one, you know what? I just put that one in the Lord's hands. Amen. He looked at me, I looked at him, he went on his way. But I'm just showing you Folks, they have they hate this secular humanism, hates this book. They don't believe a word of it. And folks, in a secular humanist worldview, the worldview uh truth and error, good and evil, right and wrong In a secular humanist worldview, those things are determined by each and every individual. As we talked about earlier, I've got my truth. He's got her truth. It's determined by the individual. It advocates for a society where every man, as the book of Judges says, every man does that which is right in his own eyes. It's a worldview. Folks, that's how we can live in a society today. Thank God for the way abortion's been limited in the state of West Virginia by a good law Whereas I talked to my good friend Brother Bo Bo Burgess, who leads the effort in West Virginia, Pastor Burgess, and he told me just last night that the recent count he got of surgical abortions in West Virginia to this point this year is six and there's an exception for incest rate and life of the mother, but he says just six. I hope that's I I've not researched that myself, but uh but if that's true, that's amazing In Iowa, up until our Heartbeat Bill, which just went into effect this year, we were aborting about 4,000 babies, surgically aborting, kid murdering 4,000 babies a year. The six-week Heartbeat Bill is hoped to preserve the life of at least two-thirds of those. But uh the point is this If you live in a society where abortion is being performed, and over here in Maryland, that would certainly be the case, and God help you to vote against this proposition that would legalize abortion, folks. If you don't vote for any other reason, go and vote on against that. God help you you do, folks, you have a biblical responsibility to vote against that law. You say there's more of us than there are of them. Alright? Are you going to teach your class next week the story of Gideon, or are you just going to ignore that one? Amen. Sometimes we get, well, there's more of them than there are of us. And yet then we go to Sunday school and teach nothing about how God doesn't need numbers. He just needs faithful people. But that's another point. But that's how we end up with people in our society who wake up in the morning like you and I wake up in the morning and they might they're probably sharing some texts with friends and family like you and I would share texts with friends and family And they go by the coffee place and they get their coffee on the way to work and they get to work and they joke around with their friends and they start their day and they do their work and if you were to ask them what do you spend your day doing If they were honest with you, they would tell you I spend my day killing unborn babies in the womb. And they live among us. You know why? Because they don't have a biblical worldview. They have a secular humanist worldview where they themselves have decided that that unborn baby is nothing more than a blob of cells. Interesting that heard this argument the other day. Interesting, you never hear doctors on any other organ in the body talking about it as a blob of cells. In that interest, never heard somebody, well you've got trouble with your blob of cells. What are you talking about, doctor? I'm talking about your heart. No. You never heard a doctor say that But they'll refer to that baby. You know why? They're trying to justify what even they innately know is wrong and evil. But the point is this, they do that because they have a secular humanist worldview. I would hope that somebody with a biblical worldview couldn't even couldn't even begin to do something like that. But here's the point as it relates to the message. In contrast to a biblical worldview that reveals the sin nature of man and the dangers that come with it, thereby demanding restraint to keep from perishing, a secular humanist worldview, this is very important now. sees man as inherently good and his nature as presenting no danger That's a secular humanist worldview. Man is basically good. Therefore, a secular humanist worldview, which again Opposite Christianity is the dominant worldview of America today. A secular humanist worldview demands the elimination of all restraint. We want to do whatever we want to do. And nobody should be telling us what we can and cannot do. That's a secular humanist worldview. The removal of all restraints. That's why to go to California, it's le you can go into the store and steal nine as long as you don't steal over nine I don't know what the magic deal with nine hundred and fifty dollars is but you can steal up to nine hundred and fifty dollars worth of merchandise from a store and run out the front door and at the most it's a misdemeanor. You're certainly not going to spend any time in jail for that. Why is that? Because in a secular humanist worldview, you say, hey, it's not the individual's fault. By the way, there's no personal accountability in a secular humanist worldview. You're basically good. It's not your fault, it's society's fault. It's society that makes you bad. It's society that has mistreated you, and therefore you had no other choice. But to steal. That's a secular humanist worldview. It demands the elimination Of restraint. And by the way, folks, that's nothing new. It goes far as far back as the Garden of Eden and the serpent telling Eve to do what? Ignore the command, the one restraint God put on them. Satan came along and said, You don't need that. God's just trying to keep you from what you really want. By the way, young people, you know what the devil's gonna come along? He's gonna say, These rules that your parents have, you're growing up in a Christian home They're just trying to keep you from the real fun that's out there. Let me tell you something. That's not a new lie of the devil. That's what he told Eve back in the Garden of Eden. And by the way, the whole purpose of those first 18 years in the home is not so you can turn eighteen or nineteen. By the way, somebody came to you came to me as my kids were turning eighteen and I explained very carefully what changes when your child turns eighteen is still living in the home? And my answer to that was very, very concise. Absolutely nothing. Amen. And so and uh but Those first 18 years, the whole point of that is to teach you how to buckle your own seatbelt spiritually. It wasn't until you can get to 18 and say, hey, I'm going to go out and just do whatever I want now. You know what? That's a good path to perishing. It's learning how to put your own seatbelt on so somebody doesn't have to tell you to do it. But it goes as far back as the Garden of Eden Command it it Satan came into the garden, convinced Eve that though God had said they should not eat of the one tree, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, he said you don't need that. God's just trying to keep you from knowing everything you should should know and they defied that law, that one law, and what happened? They perished physically. I know spiritually the sacrifice was made for them, and by God's grace we'll see them in heaven. But my point is, spirit, physically they perished. Why? Because they removed the restraint It's been going on for a long time. It's nothing new. The cry of no restraint. Its cries can be heard in Psalm 2 of the Old Testament, where the scripture says this, Psalm 2, 1 through 3, why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. And what are they saying? By the way, it's nothing new for governments to aggressively go after people of faith Here we see it right in Psalm 2. But what are they saying? Let us break their bands asunder and cast away their cords from us. Get rid of the restraints. What restraints? The restraints of the Word of God that God gave us for our own good, for the good and order of his own creation. Because we live in a sin-cursed world. And folks, they've come so far today they not only want to be freed from the commands of the Bible, they want to be freed from the very laws of nature. In the Declaration of Independence, our fathers had the wisdom to identify the laws of nature and of nature's God. That's two separate sets of laws. If you study that out, the second set is the laws of nature's God What laws are those? Those are the laws revealed to us, the truth revealed to us that can only be found in Scripture. The truth about marriage, folks, if we didn't have a Bible, we wouldn't know what marriage is Wouldn't know it. The truth of salvation, how we can be saved, that's revealed to us in the scriptures. And many other things, many other truths. Spiritual truths revealed by the scriptures. If we didn't have the Bible, we would not understand them. Spiritual laws that God put into place in this world. But there's another set of laws, the laws of nature The laws of nature is God is the scripture. The laws of nature are laws that we can, that God put into place when He created the world for the good and order of His creation, but you don't need a Bible to know them. The sun comes up in the east and sets in the west. God put that into place for the good and word of his creation. You don't need a Bible to know that. It's the law of nature. Let me give you another law of nature. If I walk one more step right here, which direction am I going to go up or down? I'll promise you this, if I took one more step and went up, you would remember this service for a very long time. Amen. You would definitely come back tonight. Amen? And uh but Folks, you're gonna go down. That's called the law of gravity. You didn't need the Bible to know that. You learned that the first time you fell down the steps at two years old, amen. You learned all about the law of gravity. Folks, let me give you another law of nature. You are born male or female. Period. Period. You can't change that. Nobody can change it. Folks, that's not hate speech. That's truth. But my point is this: we are living in a generation, they not only have rejected the law of God, they've rejected the laws of nature. You don't, folks. The Bible does talk about God creating male and female, but can I tell you this? There's people all around the world, unfortunately, who in many cases have not heard the scriptures and you know what they do know They know that you're born male or female. They need a Bible to know it. But we're living in a generation that thinks they can literally change the laws of nature. Now, there may be one case I tell people where you can change your gender. And that's the day that the sun comes up in the west and sets in the east. And after that happens, you go out to the closest bridge and you step off and you go up and not down on that day in that order. You may be able to change your gender. Until that happens, it's not happening, folks. But that's where we are today, with this generation that wants no restraints. No restraints. If we are to take the basic tenets of God's creation order and plan for flour human flourishing, man, woman, mother, father, home Uh you're born male or female and you m males become men and and females become women and we're to put that all on the chalkboard and you're supposed to raise your children in the home and teach them discipline Teach them discipline and teach them respect for authority and teach them how to work hard. If you were to put all that on a chalkboard and figure it all out and have a secular humanist come and say and give them an eraser and say, erase the parts you don't like, they would erase every letter up there. They don't believe in any of it, and you follow these radicals back to their roots. They literally believe that the fact that a female born, a woman born female, just put it like that, and a uh person born male, the fact that the females grow up to be women and the males grow up to be men, they literally believe that to be a social construct man made for the purpose of controlling and keeping people in oppression. They literally believe that, and I can give you the documentation to show it to you. The removal of every restraint. Everything, everything, everything you can imagine, and everything you can't imagine, by God's grace, shouldn't imagine. That's what we're up against. This is where critical race theory and DEI is all about. It's the destruction and theft of a culture based on a biblical worldview replaced by a culture based on a secular humanist worldview. Critical race theory, without taking a lot of time, go provides the justification for the robbery. Just as a bank robber might use the justification that the bankers have become rich off the backs of those who use their services and therefore deserve to be plundered. The socialist believes that America is an evil nation founded on slavery and therefore deserves to have her riches taken away, and they're the ones who want to take them By the way, secular humanists, socialists, Marxists never build anything. Everything they believe is based on lies. It doesn't work. They can't build a society. They've tried and it fails every time. You know why? Because there's a thing called human sinful nature that they don't like to acknowledge. What about DEI? That's being pushed on probably maybe some here have had DEI training. Let me tell you something. It is socialism, it is communism, it is Marxism, it is evil, and it is an attempt to steal the culture, just in case I'm not clear. DEI diversity is the theft of position in power. It's the left. And think about, we're thinking about this as a bank robbery. So uh justification, critical race theory is the justification for the robbery. Diversity is the theft of position in power. It's where the bank robber comes in and says, okay, the first thing we're gonna do, we're gonna replace the tellers and we're gonna place the bank president because we want to get ev ultimately we want to get everything in the vault We're going to replace all the employees, even though the employees have no expertise, even though the employees are not qualified, they have the same ideology we do, so we're going to replace everybody in the bank. Under the guise of empowering allegedly oppressed people groups, those chosen for positions of power don't need any expertise as long as they adhere to secular humanist ideology. On the opposite side of the coin, diversity is the rejection of meritocracy, excellence, and a truly colorblind society. And by the way, it's now worked into corporate America. By God's grace there's been some pushback against it effective in the last few months, but it's what has overtaken corporate America, and that, in my opinion, is how you run an airplane company that's been building jets for years and you have doors falling off the plane at 16,000 feet because somebody forgot to put the bolts in them. And you have wheels falling off the planes occasionally as they take off. And you get two astronauts to space on a Boeing Starliner. But unfortunately, we can't get them home. We had to send that space capsule home without them a month or two ago. But thankfully, Elon Musk is going to send up one of his SpaceX rockets to get them back. Isn't that an irony? Can I tell you this? I have no belief that Elon Musk, there's no reason to believe he has biblical faith, but I will tell you this, he does not hire based on EEI. I can promise you that. And by the way, just Wednesday morning, it was Wednesday morning, a Boeing I didn't know they had satellites, a Boeing satellite just blew up in space, no no reason. I hope you saw that or not. Took out some ATT customers Diversity is a theft of position and power. Equity is a theft of material wealth. Equity and equality are not the same. They have folks, they have redefined the terms. You say equality, that sounds good. They're not talking about equality, they're talking about equity, and even uh a woman who is running for the highest office in the land, there's a clip online you can find where she will tell you that equity and equality are not the same thing She will tell you that equity is everybody ending up at the same place. So I guess we're all supposed to end up as president of the United States. I don't know how it's supposed to work, but We're all supposed to end up at the same place, and since we didn't all start at the same place, we have to give to those who didn't start at the same place to get them equal so everybody's on the same footing. What they forget to tell you is that to give to those, they have to steal it from those who were producing. Folks, it's the old Marxist redistribution of wealth. It is nothing new That's equity. It's the unloading of the bank vault, coming back to our analogy of robbing the bank. And finally you have inclusion. Inclusion is the theft of the moral high ground. It's where they have instituted the sexual and gender confusion. It stands for the inclusion of immoral behavior and the rejection of morality It's purity until marriage is bad. Promiscuity is good. One man, one woman marriage, bad. I had somebody come to me after a church service and say, I cannot talk about one man, one woman marriage being good at my workplace I would just say this, maybe you need to start thinking about where you're working. But they said now they can fly the rainbow flag and they can talk about homosexuality and talk about men marrying men, women marrying women, and and and male and female being old you can do all that. Born male or female, you make that statement? That's bad. You understand? What I have said this morning is considered by the secular humanists absolutely and totally to be violence and space hate speech. That's what we are. We are living in America. Thank God for the First Amendment. Thank God for the First Amendment. Transgender. Oh, that's good. That's wonderful. Come out, everybody, come out. Isaiah 5. 20. Woe unto them that call evil good and good evil, that put darkness for light and light for darkness, that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter. Inclusion, as defined in DI, is the rejection of everything that you and I would consider to be normal, right, and good. It is the flipping of the moral high ground. In the analogy of the bank that so you've replaced the bank people with people that have the right ideology, not Don't have the qualifications for the job, but they know how to rob the bank. Then you steal all the money out of the bank. Inclusion is, hey, that was a good thing, and anybody who comes and tells us that that was wrong to steal that money, they're the ones that are evil and wrong. That's inclusion. It's the inclusion of everything except a biblical worldview. It's the rejection of DI is the rejection of excellence, equality, meritocracy, and morality. for the purpose of overthrowing a society based on biblical principles and making it in the image of a godless, secular, humanist man. It calls for the complete overthrow of our constitution, our system of government, and most importantly, a biblical worldview in preparation for a utopia that will rise from the ashes. That's what they believe. And that's what they're after. And folks, you don't need to look any further than the tragic headlines that dominate the news on a given day in America. People are perishing. Suicide rates, violence, breakdown of the home, on and on. Mental illness People are perishing. Why? Because what the left sees as enlightenment is actually blindness. Let's finish up over here in Matthew 6, verse 22. Matthew 6, verse 22. What the left sees as enlightenment is actually blindness. Their light is darkness Matthew 6, 22, Jesus speaking here, said the light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, That means good and functioning properly. Thy whole body shall be full of light. Very simple. If you can see perfectly Your body's full of light. I can see up here. The lights are on. My vision's good. I know where to stop right here, where to restrain myself right here to keep me from getting hurt. I can see, my body is full of light, as this scripture is referring here, using the analogy of the eyesight. Verse 23, but if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. Evil here, physically speaking about blindness. If I am blind, if I was up here and blind, I would not, uh, my body would be full of darkness, I would not be able to see where to go. But now follow me. I could still be blind, one hundred percent physically blind and still preach exactly the same message I preached this morning Now I'd had to have my wife would have had to drive me here, somebody would have had to lead me into the church, the pastor would have led me up here on the platform, he would have showed me the pulpit where I could stand and feel the pulpit, I probably would have stayed right here behind it, but I could have done the same thing If I acknowledged I was blind, I would still be okay because I would take extra precautions. But now look, that's not where Jesus stopped. Look what he says at the end of the verse. If therefore the light that is in me be darkness, how great is that darkness. Folks, here's the danger. The danger is when you think you're in the light and you're actually in complete darkness. The danger is if I come up here and I'm blind, physically blind, but I think I can see better than all of you. In fact, I think you guys are blind. I'm not blind, you're blind. And I can do whatever I want. And you can't stop me because I'm in the light and you're actually blind. Do you understand that is the whole meaning of the word woke? The whole idea of woke is they have wakened up and you are asleep. They are woke. They see the light. The unfortunate, tragic thing is their light is darkness. And folks, when your light, you ever met somebody who's convinced they're right and you know they're wrong? How great is that darkness? Man. Because they don't even acknowledge it exists. They take no precautions. Folks, this is how you can get a woman. Supposedly it's one of the most learned among us. who will sit in Congress and when asked what is a woman, she cannot answer the question, and she is one. But she's smart. She's smart. You think you she's smarter than you. She's smarter than me Folks, you know what you need to do? Get a three-year-old in that congressional testimony room and ask them what she is, and they will tell you. How great is your darkness? With that in mind, everything the radical left sees as light and its march to their godless, secular, humanist, woke, socialist, communist society, is in fact based on lies. It's based on darkness, that's why it's all doomed for failure. They promise freedom and utopia, and the more they try it, and America's large cities are perfect examples, the more they promise freedom and utopia, the more they deliver bondage and destruction. So, how do we overcome it? Very quickly, we turn on the light. Psalm 119, verse 105: Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. Here's the light right here. Number two, we use the light to restrain the sin nature. As believers, you know what, folks? We need to walk as children of light. You know what does more damage to our cause than anything? Christians who are walking, professing Christians who are walking in darkness Walk in the light. Use it to restrain the sin nature. Number three, we share the light with a lost and perishing world. We share the light. Passing out gospel tracts, witnessing living in our workplace, being a testimony for Jesus Christ. Suppose tomorrow morning, close with this illustration, suppose tomorrow morning you were to wake up and find out that overnight Since we're on the border here, the Department of Transportation in West Virginia and Maryland had gotten together and they had decided that they were going to remove all the stop signs, all the Signals in the road, all the all the lights, all the red lights. They were going to take off all the markings for dividing the highways off. They're going to take all the directional signs off. They're going to get all the speed limit signs. All going to be gone tomorrow morning when we wake up Now your first thought might be, man, I don't have to leave so early for work. I'm gonna be able to drive whatever sp man, I'll be able to drive a hundred miles an hour down the road here, I'll be able to get there in no time, man. This is gonna be great. I'm gonna get to find you know, I I hate red lights. I don't know about you, man. They they get in my way, amen. Stop sign, oh gone. Man, this is great. I'm gonna be able to do whatever I want to do when I drive. If the highway's packed on one side, I'll just switch to the other Folks, by this time tomorrow night, you know what the headlines would read? People perishing. That illustration is a perfect example of what the secular humanist lefts are trying to do to America. And folks, we need God's help. We need divine intervention. Come back tonight, we'll talk about that. We need God's divine intervention. We need Christians who are willing to step up. Lord, we come to you this morning. I thank you for this time. We can be together, and Lord, I pray you'd speak to our hearts. I don't know how the message might have Be applied to each and every person here. Lord, I pray you would take it. Let its truth sink into our hearts.