I have my cordless mic up here. I don't know where it is. Oh, right down there it is. Thank you, Mark. Ecclesiastes chapter two. We're going to look at the last several verses of this chapter. I appreciate the uh research Brother Brian puts into these, and uh I think it's good what he does, and I hope everybody appreciates it, enjoys it. I hate 'em for ruining my favorite Christmas song, but other than that, it was great. No, that was very good. Did you hear about the uh I don't know if I should say this one or not? Do you hear about the the butcher that backed into the meat grinding machine He got a little behind in his work. That one wasn't that one wasn't good. Ecclesiastes chapter two. I'd like to uh ask folks if you would put your cell phones up and um uh out of respect for the word of God we'd like to Put away the texting it can all wait in the little videos or whatever uh we're looking at and uh put those things up and let's give our attention to the word of God. I believe um not because I'm speaking but because of what's being preached The word of God. And we want to show respect to that and uh let the Lord uh have his way in our hearts and lives. Ecclesiastes chapter two, we're in verse number twenty-four. We're working our way through And uh I gotta tell ya, from a pastor's perspective, studying this and preaching this, this is a challenging study. Uh I was all excited about it, going into it, I was looking at it, putting things together, and now I'm digging into it. I thought, ooh, this is uh I've got to work on this a little bit to get to it, but uh there's a tremendous message here, and um uh I hope the Lord will use it to Verse 24 it says this, Ecclesiastes 2, there is nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw that it was from the hand of God. That's an important phrase there, I believe. We'll see here in a minute Verse 25 is tough. For who can eat, or who else can hasten hereunto more than I? For God giveth to a man that is good in his sight wisdom and knowledge and joy. But to the sinner he giveth travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him that is good before God. This also is vanity and vexation of spirit. Wow. Let's pray and ask the Lord to try and teach us what's being said here. And uh I've entitled the message, uh, Cotton Candy Life. I'll try and explain what I mean by that. So let's pray together. Let's put our phones up, please. And uh let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, I do ask now that you would help us to give our attention to the Word of God. And I pray you'd help us to put aside all the other stuff that Would hinder your spirit from speaking and distract our mind. And I pray that you would please, again, I plead with you tonight that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit And that I present my body anew, my will, I yield to you, that you can freely speak through me. I ask that you'd open our hearts and minds, take serious our spiritual condition Take serious our standing with you and um and challenge us, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen As we notice, for those that have been here on the series and been a part of this and giving our attention to this, Solomon is describing his life that he lived under the sun. Now by that phrase under the sun, we simply mean this. Solomon got to the point in his life, as shocking as this is, and as tragic as it is This wisest man that ever walked the earth that had divinely given wisdom had gotten to the point where he had completely pushed God out of his light. And he was living his life under the sun as if there was nothing else in existence except what was under the sun. Just what of this world, and that's all there was. It was a life without God. He was trying to live a life that was exclusively for the material Just the stuff that this world offers. That's all he was living for. No thought for the spiritual aspects of his being, no consideration of the fact that he was a spiritual person, a spiritual being. No consideration of eternal realities, that maybe there is something beyond just the physical. Maybe there is something that lasts more. Than just the material. He pushed all that aside, living it like no thought for the existence of God. And doing so, he was trying to find fulfillment. He's trying to find meaning in life and purpose and fulfillment and some sort of satisfaction in a life without God. What he was trying to do was he was trying to fill the hole in his soul, the spiritual vacuum that is there, with things that are not spiritual And what was his conclusion? He states repeatedly that it was all vain, vanity of vanity, and what's that other phrase? Anybody pick it up? Everything is vain, vanity of vanity, and it is Vexation of spirit. That's an interesting phrase. It simply means this: there's turmoil in his heart and soul. There's vexation there, there's frustration, there's a restlessness down inside his heart and soul. Something is missing, and he's grasping for everything to try and fill that And nothing is. And he's frustrated. He is living a life of he is living a cotton candy life. Now I hate cotton candy. Anybody here like cotton candy? Oh wow. It's great. When you're starving and you want to feel your gut and you really need something, I need some substance, you run and get what? Cotton candy No you don't. I got cotton candy here. Tom, do you like cotton candy? He loves cotton candy. Come on up here, Tom. I'm going to reward him. He plowed the didn't he do a great job plowing the parking lot? Let's give him a hand. That was wonderful, Tom. Crazy. Yeah, now you're gonna have the whole thing. Eat some of that right there. I'll watch this. Eat some of that one. What what happens the moment you put it in your mouth and you eat it? It dissolves, it melts, it's gone. You taste it a little bit, right? There's a flavor there, it's sweetness, and that sweetness just dissolves and is gone. Very good. You can sit down there That's all you no, you can keep it. I hate it. Pass it around. Here's the lid. Don't eat food in church, please. I ho I hope you get the point I'm trying to make here. I hope the illustration I'm using, uh not only am I trying to embarrass Tom, but I'm trying to illustrate The message. What Solomon is saying is a life that's lived without God, a life that is just living for the material here and that just disregards the things in God, is like cotton candy. He says, I enjoyed the pleasures. I went after education. I learned a lot of stuff, but it was just there was nothing there. There's no substance Oh, I enjoyed him. Remember that one message he lived the wildlife and went out and just lived it up, wine, women, and song. And boy, there was a lot of pressure. Boy, it was sweet, but it was just. It was all said and done, there's nothing. He got wisdom, he got wealth. Man, if anybody was rich, it was Solomon. He had the wealth of the world. He would put Donald Trump to shame. But when we got it all, it's just pfft. It's just nothing. Empty. And so he's living this cotton candy life. Um sad to say is we live in a world full of people who are living cotton candy lives. And they're one running from one flavor to another. And they grab this and they go to that. And I'm not talking just young people, but young and old. Just chasing this, trying to find some kind of substance in cotton candy. And there's no substance there. There's nothing real. There's nothing that lasts. People are investing their lives into cotton candy and just running from one people who are sacrificing their eternal destiny for cotton candy. Neglecting the things of God, not even considering their eternal destiny, so they can enjoy a little bit of sweetness that just dissolves. What a tragic picture. You agree with me? This is dark. He's presenting this incredibly dark picture of life without God under the sun. A life that excludes God, that excludes spiritual realities. And so I'm preaching my way through this and we're studying this, and I come to verse 24, 25, and 26, and it's All of a sudden now there's like a surprising insight that Solomon presents. There's kind of a change in the tone here a little bit. I wonder as I study this, I wonder if this isn't a bit of a flashback in Solomon's mind back to the days when he was walking with God. Back to the days when he's writing the book of Proverbs, that is phenomenal in its substance. It's kind of like This is coming back to his mind the the days when he uh understood the reality of God in his life, and he understood that Life was more than just what meets the eye, and he had gotten away from that, and that he he had had uh drifted from that, and he he it's like he has this little flashback and and he gets glimpses here again. Of what his life was like when the Lord was the center of his life, when there was meaning and purpose in his life. And he makes a few statements here. Notice here, I'm just going to try and give you the outline real quick. I notice in verse number 24, I notice his conclusion he comes to Again, verse 24, he says this, there is nothing better. Now it's like he's making this conclusion. There is nothing better for man. Then that he should eat and drink, and that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labor. Look at this. This also I saw that it was from the hand of God. He actually makes this statement about five or six times throughout the book, very similar to this statement. If you would notice in chapter uh here in verse 24. But notice over in chapter 3 and verse number 12, he makes a statement very, very similar to what he just said here. Look at verse 12. I know that there is no good in them but for a man to rejoice And to do good in his life, and also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor, it is the what? Gift of God. It's very similar to what he says in chapter 2, what we just read. Then come over to chap uh notice verse 22 of the same chapter of 3. Wherefore I perceive that there is nothing better than that a man should rejoice in his works, for that is his portion. For who shall bring to him to see what he shall be after him? Here again he references this rejoicing in what I've accomplished and what I've been given. Look over chapter 5, verse 18 And we'll preach on these later on as we get to them. But I want to just note them right now. Chapter 5, verse number 18 He says, Behold, that which I have seen, it is good and comely for one to eat and to drink, and enjoy the good of all his labor that he taketh under the sun all the days of his life. Look at this which God giveth him, for it is his portion. You agree with me? That sounds very similar. Statements going through here. Look over at chapter 8 and verse 15. He makes this statement. Then I commended mirth, because a man hath no better thing under the sun than to eat and to drink and to be merry. For that shall abide with him of his labor, the days of his life, which God giveth him under the sun. Again, here's a reference to rejoicing and God giving something. It's like he's flashing back and thinking, you know, these things, God has given us these things. Chapter 9 and verse number 7. Go thy way, eat thy bread with joy, and drink thy wine with merry heart, for God now accepteth thy works. Let thy garments be always white, and let thy head lack no ointment. Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest, all the days of thy life of vanity, which He, God, hath given thee under the sun, all the days of thy vanity, for that is the portion in this life and thy labor which thou takest under the sun. One more, chapter 11, and verse number nine. Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart and in the sight of thine eyes. But know thou that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment. Therefore remove sorrow from the heart, and put away evil from thy flesh, for childhood and youth are invading. Now It's not as clear in some of these as in others, but he's making reference. He's coming to this conclusion that these things That he was looking to for fulfillment in life, the education, the material possessions, these houses he built, and these gardens that he had and these fantastic accomplishments and the wealth that he had accumulated and even the pleasures he had indulged in Outside of the perimeters of God's will, obviously, but nevertheless, the pleasures themselves, he's recognizing that all these things That he was looking to for fulfillment and for meaning in life were actually gifts from God. That in and of themselves they were not wrong. God gave these things. God gave him wealth. God gave him this wisdom. God gave him the opportunity to have an education. God gave pleasures in life. These are gifts from God. And they're to be enjoyed. And he's saying, rejoice in these things. God has given them to us. Now here's what I think he's saying Recognize that all this stuff that he's looking for to fulfill this spiritual vacuum in his heart and soul, and they're not working, he's looking to these things, and they're not working. It's vanity, it's it's frustrating It's producing vexation in his spirit. And he's saying this, listen, these are gifts from God. I cannot find fulfillment in these gifts because I'm neglecting the giver of the gift. This is what I think he's saying. Don't look to the gifts to do for you what only the God that gave the gifts can do for you. Make sense? Remember the little illustration I gave with the daddy that had the necklace, the little cheapo one? And he wanted the girl to love him, not the gift he gave. And I think that is a little bit what uh uh Solomon is referencing here. He says I'm all wrapped up in these gifts and these have become gods to me. And it's frustrating. They're not working. They're not doing for me. And what I need to do is recognize these are simply the things God has given to me in their place. Take your Bible with me, if you would, and turn to 1 Timothy. Now stay here in Ecclesiastes, keep your place, we're going to come back. But 1 Timothy, Paul kind of references this, I think, in 1 Timothy when he's writing to Timothy, the little young preacher boy that he's mentoring. And in chapter 6, 1 Timothy 6, verse 17, he's addressing rich people By the way, if you're an American, you're you fit this category. Compared to the rest of the world, we're rich for the most part. So look what he says, verse 17 of 1 Timothy chapter 6. He says this: charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded. Nor trust in uncertain riches. Doesn't that sound like what Solomon's been trying to do? He's looking to these riches, this education, this entertainment, all this He's looking to that to meet his spiritual needs, and it's not working. He says, tell them not to trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God. Now look what he says, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy Is education in and of itself wrong? No. It's a good thing. I think it's you're better off educated than you are uneducated I think a person if they and I'm not disparaging a lack of education, but if I have the opportunity, it's a gift from God. In and of itself. Is wealth in and of itself wrong? No, it's a gift from God. Deuteronomy says God gives wealth to some. He gives it. He takes it away. If you and I have any amount of wealth, it's because God has been gracious to us. And God has given it to us. And so what he's saying is, don't look, here's his conclusion, I believe, don't look to the gift. To do for you and I what only the giver can do. I believe that's exactly what America's doing. We have pushed God out of the picture and we worship our stuff, our sports. Our education, we push God out of education and it becomes nonsense. It becomes foolish. We know so many facts and we have so little wisdom. Um pleasure. Entertainment. Man, we've got people who can't sit in church for an hour and twenty minutes without looking for some entertainment. We're addicted to it. We worship it. And in and of itself, there's nothing wrong with that. You know, if it's decent, you know, you know what I'm saying. And so we're looking to the Paul Solomon was looking to these things to do for him what only God could. He pushed God away, and he dove into the gifts. And it was vain, vexation of spirit, nothing there. So that's his conclusion he comes to. I think it's a little flashback to what he knew earlier in life What he knew to be true. Then the second thing I notice here in the last part of verse 24 and verse 25, I notice a concept he gives. Notice he says here back there in chapter 2, if you would, he says, this also I saw that it was from the hand of God. He's kind of dawning on him. You know, God's the one that gave me all this stuff. And he says, For who can eat, or who else can hasten hereunto more than I? Now, and I I'll be honest with you, this is very difficult to understand. I'm looking at it, and I think that phrase where he says more than I, I I think that is referring back to the hand of God. He's referencing God here. In other words, this is the difficult verse. But I think this is what he's saying. This is the concept I think he's saying. However enjoyable the things of the world may be, They are empty unless they are enjoyed in the context of God's will. However, enjoyable the things of the world may be They're not as enjoyable as they are when they're under the Lordship of Christ. How many people are totally confused what I'm talking about? Let me try and illustrate. Before I got saved, did I ever mention I got saved May 7, 1979? That New Year's before I got saved, which would have been New Year's nineteen seventy-nine, January first, that evening before I was living New Year's like I did many years before that. We went out partying and everything that goes along with that. Was it at the moment? Was it fun? Yeah, I mean we're living it up, having a big time. That cotton candy tasted good. But as soon as it was over, it just dissolved. And I was empty. after the big time as I was before. My spirit was as vexed afterward as before, maybe more so. Got saved, then that was January, February, March, April, May. May I get saved. Christ comes in my life. I see things completely different. I see my life and and and and life and values and priors are completely different. And so now it's New Year's Eve 1980. Going into 1980. And I went out with my friends. But now this time it wasn't dope ed friends. It was my Christian friends. And we had a good time. We played games and do all that. And you know what I found out? That having a wonderful fun time laughing and playing games and doing was far more fulfilling in the will of God than it was outside the will of God. You know what I'm talking about? Uh before I got saved, we were we'd go hunting, we'd go fishing, we'd camp out and do that stuff. Kind of similar to what we did with men's mountain getaway, except we didn't have four-wheelers back then. We had bicycles. But um It's terrible. But I found out going to Men's Mountain Getaway with my Christian friends in the will of God, with Christ in the center of it, is far more fulfilling Than doing just about the exact same thing outside of the will of God. You follow what I'm saying? What I'm saying is this: these things that Solomon was looking to for fulfillment, in and of themselves, they were fine. God gave them as gifts to us. But by excluding God from it, it was vain. It was empty. And education without God is empty. Wealth without God has no purpose or meaning other than cotton candy. It just gets pleasure for a moment, it's gone. Even many of the pleasures of life that God gives us, when used within the context of God's will, with Christ in the center of it, is fulfilling. And outside of the will of God, with Christ pushed out of it, is empty and vain. What I'm trying to say, what I think he's saying here, and what I'm trying to say is this: a Christ-centered life changes everything. A Christ-centered life gives meaning to the things. Now, if I have a little bit of money, it means something. With with Christ being the Lord of it than it did before Christ was a part of it, then it was just live it up from whatever. Am I making sense? And I think that's what he's saying. There's a concept here. With Christ in the life, it gives meaning and fulfillment even to the gifts that God gives to us. And so he has a conclusion he makes. All these things are gifts from God. His concept is the gift without God is vain and empty and meaningless, but the gift with God's will and him be in the center There's great enjoyment there. And did you notice in these statements that we read throughout, he makes the reference to rejoicing and enjoying it? If it's in the will of God and it's under the Lordship of Christ, there is great joy. There is great fulfillment in it. And then he gives a contrast back here, real quick. Verse 26, he says, For God giveth to a man that is good in his sight, wisdom and knowledge and joy. But, here's the contrast. To the sinner, he giveth travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him that is good before God. This also is vanity and vexation of spirit Now again, this is you have to look at this a little bit to grasp what he's saying. But he's saying one here is, takes the gifts of God, education, finances, possessions pleasures of life, and he uses them wisely for God's glory. And God is honored in that and God blesses that. And the other one, on the contrast, takes these gifts that God gives. And he uses them for himself. And he uses them for momentary pleasure. And he uses them for only what's under the sun. And it leaves him frustrated. And it leaves him vexed and dissatisfied. For instance. One person, God blesses a person with a house, a big mansion. There's rooms and all of that, and what he uses it for is his own pleasure. And we're going to party and live it up. God's not even a consideration why God may have given me this great mansion. And he uses it for self, he uses it for pleasure. Anything under the sun. God's excluded just for us here and now Another person, God blesses them with a huge house and a big mansion, and they enjoy it They're grateful for it and they have fun, they play games, they have family, but they understand there's more to this than me just enjoying this for myself. I can use this for the glory of God And so they bring missionaries in, and maybe they have Bible studies there, and they use it to advance the cause of Christ, and they use it to bring glory to God, and one finds great fulfillment in the gift that God has given to them. And the other goes to bed empty at night and unfulfilled and vain and vexed in their soul, emptiness in their soul, because they're using it all for self Am I making sense? I think that's what he's saying. One person uses it for God's glory, and the other uses it for themselves. One finds their heart and soul empty and vain and vexation of spirit, another one finds joy and blessing and fulfillment. I think what I'm trying to say is this. I think what he's saying is this. To apply it to us, God has blessed us tremendously. God has given us so many gifts. Let's just think about us as a church Look at the facilities God has given us. Isn't that a tremendous thing? Buses, the radio station. Mission house, property, building here. I'm roasting tremendous heat in this building. And all these gifts of God, we could use it for one of two things. How many of you would agree with me if all we use these gifts that God has given us, all we use them for is for us to have a good time. We're just gonna fun have let we never preached the gospel, we never invited sinners, we never never we never did anything for anything beyond just what we wanted to do, have good time fun. I feel that would be pretty empty. Here we are Sunday night. Now we're not trying to blow our own horn. We're just trying to illustrate something, but here we are Sunday night. I believe we've used, all of us have used these facilities for the glory of God today. You know what happened? There were some people called on the Lord as Savior. We had folks that God used his word today to speak, encourage hearts, people at the altar making good decisions. People standing around laughing and rejoicing, their hearts full and happy, the joy of the Lord. We can go to bed tonight. Not vain. Our spirits aren't vexed. Our spirits are full, our hearts are full and overflowing. I think that's what he's saying. We can use these gifts, as Solomon did, just to find meaning in and of itself, the gift, the gift, the gifts. And he says, that's frustrating. That's vexation of the spirit. Or we can say, here's the gift. God gave it to us. And there's meaning and purpose behind it. And we use it for God's glory, and there's great fulfillment. There's great joy. Here's another way of thinking this. I'll end with this. We must not compartmentalize God. You know what I mean by that? We take God and we put him in a little box and he gives us all these gifts. It's like Christmas. The parents give all the gifts to the kids and they open the gifts and they all they do all this and this. And they never come over and hug mom and dad. I never come and thank the mom and dad and say, oh, I love you. You gave this to me. I want to use it. I want to be responsible. They just do it for themselves. And the kid's miserable. And they compartmentalize, we just use God. It's like God's a vending machine. And I need something. And we get what we want from God, and we never pay any more attention to Him, and that person is miserable. Don't compart my life. Don't just get God out every now and then when you need him and say, oh here's God. I'll hug him and I'll squeeze him and I'll pet him and I'll call him George That's not what God's about. He says, I want to be Lord of your life. I want to be the very center of every part of your life. And when that's true, then there's fulfillment. Then there's purpose. Then there's meaning in life. If all we're running around is the gift, the gift, the gift. So what I'm trying to say is this, and especially at Christmas time, but all year long, this isn't a Christmas message. Let's keep Christ the center of our lives. Let's, if ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, not under the sun, above. Where your life is hid with Christ. And so let's enjoy the gifts. God gives them to us freely to enjoy. A couple of us guys going fishing. Well, I plan on having a good time. But you know what? We want Christ right in the center of all of that. Be a witness for him and for his glory. The ladies went up and had a good time. I don't know what all they did, but um no, they kept Christ in the center of all of that. So Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us, young and old, to be very, very grateful for what you've given us. Help us to freely enjoy these things like you tell us to. Lord, help us to use them for their intended purpose and understand the gifts and the things you give us are Help us to use them for the role that they are to play in our lives. And we want to keep you the Lord of our life. We want to keep you the focus of our affection. We want to keep you the one we are committed to, not the stuff. And so help us to do that. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many of you say, preacher, uh uh my heart stirred, and I uh and I want God, I want Christ to be the center of my life, I want my mind to be stayed on him, I want my eyes to lift the things above and not things of the earth. And understand the role that the gifts play. How many like that? Preacher, my heart's stirred. I'm challenged in that. God bless you. What a great, great place to be. I tell you, if that's not where we're at, then I know one thing about us we're frustrated. And our heart and soul is empty and we're restless and we're f and get angry. And we we're just like this old world. Father, I pray you bless now and help us, Lord, we ask. In Jesus' name, amen.