Thank you. Well, Amen. Great to be able to be back with you. How many glad to be here today? How many'd rather be here than in the grave? Amen. My dad used to say, any day you wake up and you're on the right side of the grass, it's a good day. Amen. I woke up this morning, I saw the ceiling, it's a great day. Amen It really is. Well, good to see everybody here. Good to see Chip. Man, I can't believe it. I didn't think he'd be here. He only comes out to church once or twice a year, but it's good to have you Good to have you here. Great to see everybody here. If you had your Bibles, turn over to First Corinthians chapter fifteen. First Corinthians chapter fifteen. Always good to be here. Uh you know you uh as you go through life, I know as preachers, you go through you just have special friends and And uh I count your preacher as just one of my very, very special friends. He's just been a real encouragement, a real blessing to me over the years. I I often think wish we lived a little bit closer, get a chance to see him a little bit more, but Then I'm just reminded that because we're saved, someday, uh we have plenty of time to fellowship. In fact, I'll probably get sick of him after then someday. Amen. But uh by Wednesday, he said. Oh, I'll tell you. That's what friends are for, amen, just to tell you the truth. First Corinthians chapter fifteen, look at verse one. For the sake of time, we're just gonna we're going to uh jump over just a couple different scripture passages just for the sake of time. Verse 1. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also ye have received, and wherein you stand. By which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain For I delivered unto you, first of all, that which I also received, now that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried. And that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures, and that he was seen as Cephas. Then are the twelve. We talked about this in the Sunday school hour. Look at all these people that saw the Lord after he rose from the grave. Like I said during Sunday school hour. You ever y you ever stop and think about how hard it is to keep a lie secret? Huh? This many people don't see you. Uh you know, I mean some people it's just a big clue, you know, no no no no. You don't have that many people see ya, and and it's never been it's never been debunked, it's never been uh you know, i it's a true story. It's a true story. And that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present But some are falling asleep. After that, he was seen of James and of all the apostles. And last of all, he was seen of me also as one born out of due time. Now look down at verse 17. And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. You are yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. That's true. Look down to verse 53. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption And this mortal shall have put on immortality. Then shall be brought to pass the same that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy state? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin. The strength of sin is the law, but thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord. Jesus Christ. I want to bring you a message this morning. I won't be long. How many believe a preacher when he says that? That's horrible. That's a terrible indictment on my good friend. I won't be long. I'll have you out of here by 2. 30. Is that okay? I'm only kidding if you're, but don't worry. Here's the title of the message: A Day of Hope. Huh? A day of hope. And that's what this day is. Let's pray. Father bless the time that we have here this morning We thank you for the good crowd that's here. We thank you for the faithful church members that have come out today. I thank you especially even for the visitors that have come out today. And uh, Lord, I pray now that you might help me to be a blessing and an encouragement to them. Lord, if we have somebody here today that isn't saved I pray that today, what a day this would be for them to be saved. Easter Sunday, Resurrection Sunday. I pray that today would be the day they trust Christ as their Savior. Lord, for those of us that are saved. I pray, I I couldn't help but think this morning, as Pastor Leatherman urged and pushed the idea of giving tracts and giving the gospel out, that this is our message. And uh I pray that once again you'd burden us to go out into the highways and hedges, even if it's only given tracks, and we give the great, great news Of what has resulted from the resurrection of our Savior Jesus Christ. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You know, uh uh, and I'm not, I don't have any convictions against it, but uh You know what the world calls Easter. Isn't that what everybody you know? In fact, I got a I got a number of emails, even for preachers today. Happy Easter. Not against that. That's fine But you know what what the world calls Easter in reality is really Resurrection Sunday. But but uh you know for the bo for the vast majority of people today Easter for them, anyway, Easter for them is basically the Easter money. Easter eggs. Uh new clothes. And again, I'm not I'm not against new clothes. Hey, a big meal. I'm not against a big meal. Amen? I like food, amen. You say, what kind of food? Meat and potato. I'm conivorous, amen. The bigger, the fatter, the greasier, the juicier, amen? He said, Preacher, you're gonna die young. Yeah, but I die happy. Huh? But but you know, it's going out to a big meal and and and and and sad, you know, for a lot of people in America today it's going out to church and and punching a time clock card for for basically their one hour in church. And uh when the average person today is done with what we might call the Easter traditions. They're going to walk, hey, think about this, they're going to walk out of church, still unhappy. No peace, no joy. You know why? Because the Easter money doesn't bring peace and joy and assurance. He can't, huh? You see As in everything scriptural, man likes to create substitutes. Christmas we have created Hood. Santa Claus. Easter we have created The Easter money. Now, yet why is that? Because the world, maybe not you personally, but the world wants to take away from the impact and the importance of the resurrection of Jesus Christ and the message that it brings. You know what's interesting if you study all the other major religions, Buddhism, Hinduism uh Islam, stuff like that. And every one of them had somebody that they followed. Every one of them had somebody that died. Every one of them had somebody that went to the grave, and every one of them had somebody that never came out of the grave. Huh? But Christianity is different. This morning we serve a risen Savior. You see, the re think about that, the resurrection, what's that? That requires a death. Christ died, he was buried, and he rose again from the grave. That's the reason for our faith Now sometimes people get a little bit, you know, when you say faith, well, you know, let me explain that to you, that that idea of faith. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 17, the Bible says this And if Christ be not raised, your, you see, you've got to make it personal, your faith is vain. Ye are yet in your sins. In other words, this idea, if I can just kind of simplify this idea of your faith, that's what you're counting on to get you to where you're going. You are trusting in something. Amen? That's the idea. Brother Chip, you drive a lot, right? If I told Chip after the service, uh Chip, you're gonna have to drive to California Okay? And uh right outside the door of this church is uh what passes for a car The tires are so bold you can see the inner treading. It's leaking transmission fluid. It's uh uh it's it's uh the the oil. Uh there's not much oil Now, here's the point. Your faith in getting you to California is what? Slim and none, and slim is walking out the door. Amen. Now listen, your faith, you know what that is? That is what you are depending on, that is what you are counting on. to get you to where you're going to go the day you die. Huh? That's our hope. That's what we hold on to. 1 Corinthians chapter 15 verse 19. If in this life only, this is your life right now, this is your one life you're living, amen. That's what it's saying. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. If all you have is Christ to depend on just in this life only, you know what? Nobody here has any reason to be happy. All of us ought to be miserable. But because we serve a risen Savior. It's a great day. Huh? I mean it's a happy day. Huh? Come on, get your goosebumper going, amen It's an exciting day. First Corinthians 15, 4. He was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scripture. You see, folks, listen. We're not here this morning to celebrate the Easter Monday. We're not here this morning to celebrate candy. I'm going to say it again. You know, if you've got some vanilla chocolate, I'll take it. Amen. Especially especially Easter bunny ears, eh? I mean I cotton oh I love that stuff, eh man? Huh But we're not here to celebrate candy and eggs. We are here to celebrate this morning the fact that Jesus Christ rose from the grave. He is, he can be your Savior. Now, because of that, because Jesus rose from the grave, all of us here this morning, we can have or we do have three great hopes. I want to give them to you real quickly this morning. In fact, I'll give them to you ahead of time, and I won't take long on either one of them. On any of them. First of all, because Jesus rose from the grave, we can have hope for the heart. Secondly, we can have hope for happiness. And then thirdly, this is the good one. I have to keep myself wound down for this one. We also have hope for heaven. Huh? First of all, because Jesus rose from the grave, we have hope for the heart. Now what is that? That is your your heart. It's not just that thing that pumps blood, amen. That is what we call the seat of emotion, the seat of affection. Have you ever said this? Oh, I hope so. Huh? Somebody got something's going past somebody. Hey, preacher, everything's gonna be okay. Oh, I hope so, huh? Now I'm gonna tell you something, folks. When Jesus Christ rose from the grave, we no longer have a hope-so salvation, we have a no-so salvation. Huh? Isn't that great? You see, if Christ has not risen, then your faith, what you hope to get you to where you're going, it's in vain If Jesus Christ didn't raise from the grave, you know what? All of everyone from me on down, all of us are still lost. We're on our way to hell. God's a liar. We might as well walk out of here today, pitch our Bibles in the parking lot, and just go out and live for the world. Hey, doesn't that make sense? Listen, if we don't believe this, why are we even here this morning? We're just wasting our time. But wait a minute, he did. And that's our hope. You have hope for the heart. 1 Timothy 1, verse 1. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the commandment of God, our Savior, our Savior, and the Lord Jesus Christ, which is our Hope. Ephesians 212. That at that time you were without Christ, having no hope. And without God in the world. You know what? You're here today, don't know your background, but you're here today and you're saved. You don't know where you're going to spend forever. I've got some great news for you. There is hope for your heart. There is a hope that can get you to where you long to go someday after you die. Isaiah chapter 1, verse 18. Though your sins be as scarlet, what's that mean? You may have committed every sin in the record book. That's the idea. Huh? Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. You can be forgiven. Do you know what the resurrection does? It brings you the gift of salvation. Your sin debt is paid. Say, what do you mean by sin debt? Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin is death. When you have a job, just as you earn a wage for working, The Bible says, for the wages of sin is death. You also earn a wage for your sin. That wage, that which you earn, is death. Now, all of us die a physical death. Amen. But if you go back to the to the book of the Revelation, the Bible talks about a second death which is in hell. That's what that's talking about here. Your wage that you earn for sin is the second death, which is hell. But wait a minute, here's the good news. But the gift of God Is eternal. It's a free gift. Hey, how much does the free gift cost? Nothing. Nothing. The only thing that you have to do to receive the gift of salvation is what? Take it. You see, if your preacher, uh he's uh what are you now, sixty-nine, seventy? How old are you? If if I'm sorry, if your preacher has a birthday And I give him a birthday gift, and then I say, well, that'll be 995. Is that a gift? I don't think so. You see, a gift is a it's free. And God says, I got a gift for you. What is it? Eternal life. Heaven. But you, because you have a free will, you have to receive it. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever put your name to anybody in here. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, die and go to hell, but have everlasting life. 2 Peter 3 and verse 8, the Lord is not willing that any should perish Die and go to hell. But that all, everybody in here, all should come to repentance. Repent of your sins, get saved, go to heaven. Listen, God didn't make hell for you. He made hell for the devil and his angels. God doesn't want anybody to die. God wants you to go to heaven. That's what this day is all about. Hey, I was raised. Say what there's a reason I'm going to tell you. I was raised Roman Catholic. Went to Catholic schools most of my life. You know what that means? That means that I was raised on a work salvation. I was always taught that someday they're going to take all my good works, put them over here, all my bad works, put them over here. You think I'm kidding? And I'm thinking somehow if this thing, if I can get this thing balanced out, Hey, isn't that a horrible way to live? You don't even know till you die. And I thought if things if somehow things balance out, I might sneak my way into heaven. That's what I always thought. Get out of high school, I was a rebel. Man, I didn't want anybody to tell me how to live. So I joined the Marine Corps. Nobody ever said you had to be smart to be a Marine, amen. Careful, Chip Stay with me here. I spent I spent fourteen months in a rifle company in Vietnam. I I went through the 10 offensive of 1968. Single worst, biggest battle of the Vietnam War. Over 50,000 casualties. I came back home from Vietnam. I spent two years on the drill field as a Marine Corps drill instructor at Paris Island, South Carolina, the vacation spot of the East Coast for the Marine Corps. I taught young boys to be Marines. Now, I said that this morning to say this. Can you imagine my lifestyle? Think about it. It was as rough, as hard, as far away from spiritual things as you can get But then one day, my future wife tripped me. Into going to a church like this. I planned on going just one time, but I heard the message of salvation. I heard the message of hope. I heard Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, for by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourself. It's a gift of God, not of works. Woo! Not of works! Least any man should boast, and all of a sudden it hit me You know what? If I could work my way to heaven, I could go up to God, I could thumb my nose at God and say, hey God, I didn't need you because I worked my way to heaven But I couldn't do that because Jesus paid the price on the cross account, his resurrection made it a gift for me, a hope for my heart, for better things in the future. Now, I say that to say this. If God think about my background, if God can save somebody like me, He can save you. There is nobody here this morning too hard, too mean, so far gone, men so filled with testosterone that God can't save you. Huh? If he can save me, he can save you. You say, Wow, I I I don't believe that doesn't make any difference Doesn't change the fact that there's a heaven and a hell you need to get saved. You see, you can sit here this morning and say, Well, I I I don't believe I don't believe there's any cars in the parking lot. There's no cars in the that doesn't change the fact that out in the out in the parking lot there's what There's cars. You could say, well, I don't believe it. Doesn't change the fact that, hey, there's a risen Savior. There's a free gift of salvation. If you don't accept it, then you go to hell forever. It doesn't change that fact. And so, first of all, first of all, we have hope for the heart. That hope That faith that someday our faith, our hope is going to get us where we're going to go. Heaven. But it comes through Jesus Christ. Secondly, first of all, we have hope for the heart. Secondly, because of the resurrection, we have hope for happiness Can you kind of tell I uh I have fun? Huh? People ask people ask, hey are you like this? I'm like this all the time Don't get me wrong. I come on, I have my downside. Come on. You say what? I tell you what. I tell you what, the day I got sent I changed. 1 Corinthians 15, 19, here it is. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But we don't. Huh? John 10, 10. I am come that they might have life. First reason Jesus Christ comes, you might have eternal life. But it doesn't end there. And that they might have it more abundantly. Do you know what that is? That's the life that's above the ordinary. I have my troubles, my toils, my bumps in the road. That's good. But you know what? I'm having the time of my life On my way to heaven. You see, if you're saved, then you can have the peace and the joy and the happiness and the insurance and the satisfaction. The world doesn't understand this See, here's what the world says. The world says this. Things make you happy. You gotta do this, you've got to have this, and if you don't do this, and if you don't have this, you're not gonna be happy Hey, i i i if that's the case if things make you happy, then why is there so much unhappiness in the world? Hmm? You take a look Hollywood actors, entertainers, sports figures, whatever. They have everything the world has to offer. Doesn't it make sense they should be happy? They make more in one year than you and I make in two lifetimes. But yet that group, do a study, they've done studies on them. That single group, highest rate of divorce Highest rate of suicide, highest rate of drug usage, highest rate of alcohol. You know why? Because things never have and never will make you happy And by the way, most of the other ones are miserable, depressed, and unhappy. Hey, Tiger Woods. I I don't golf. You know. I'm not if you if you like to run around I mean that's fine, you know. I like I like to hunt and fish, eh? That's what real men do. Amen. But but listen, think, hey, the world the world up till six months ago did not the world look at Tiger Wood and say, Man, he's got it all Huh? Uh uh somebody said that uh you know he had almost a billion dollars in the bank. Endorsements, top of his profession Everything, but I'm going to tell you something. This week, if you're a golfer, and I do follow the golf, you know, but this week, this is the master's. I'm going to tell you something. Say what you want. He's not looking forward to it. He's as nervous as a cat on a hot stove. Am I not right? All that fame, all that for it has not brought him happiness. Mike Tyson, y'all know Mike Tyson, professional boxer. Mike Tyson in his career made over a hundred and forty million dollars. Not long ago, USA Today, Mike Tyson said this. He said, I have wasted my whole life. Michael Jackson did an interview just before he died. In the interview, he said this: I am the loneliest person in the world. Do you know why people are like that? Because listen to me folks, things won't bring you happiness. They don't When I got home, you know, before I got safe, I always thought that. When I got home, in my driveway, I had waiting for me a brand new Pontiac Firebird race car You know what I thought? I really thought, boy, if I could just get this for the rest of my life, I'd be happy. Come on, anybody ever think that way? Come on. Come on. Anybody ever come on How about the rest of you Pharisees? We only got one honest carnal guy here, amen. I just thought, man, if I can just get and so I I mean, hey, I'm I'm listen It was one of the first cars that legally had the white oval race tires. Speedometer went up to 200 miles an hour. Four and a four. Um I had I ordered three sets of wheels with it. I had a regular set, uh you men don't understand, I had a set of chrome reverse and I had a set of mag wheels. When I got tired of one, I changed the others over Whole undercarriage painted pure white. I mean that that thing was the catch meow. And I could I could picture myself, I really could, I could picture myself still at 50. w the age I am now. At sixty, coming down the road, still happy. Anybody know where that car is at now? You know what I learned? Things don't make you happy. Things don't last. Someday when we die, we leave all those things behind. Amen? And the only thing that matters is what you've done for Jesus Christ. But you know what makes you happy as you go through this life? Serving the Lord. You don't see that until you get saved. But that's what will make you happy. First of all, there's hope for the heart. Secondly, there's hope for happiness. But then thirdly and lastly, I gotta really be careful here that I just don't keep on going right here. There's also hope for heaven. You know what? Think about this. If you're saved, you're going to heaven. 1 Corinthians 15, 57. But thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 53, for this corruptible must put on incorruption. And this mortal must put on immortality. Verse 54. Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. The Bible says this, the gift of God is eternal life. Where is that eternal life? It's heaven Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, go to hell, but have eternal life. Where is that? Heaven. First John chapter 5, verse 11. And this is the record. God says this Put it down. Mark it down. Write it down. That's the record. And this is the record that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in His Son You want eternal life? You've got to go through the Son. That's it. Verse thirteen. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may No, you can absolutely know this while you're alive, that you may know that you have eternal life. Hey, listen, how many of you here like a good deal? But you you like good deals? Huh? Anybody here have a hard time passing up a good sale? Huh? Your your preacher here now he's he's he's uh he's jealous of me Number one 'cause I'm so handsome. But but I I I w where are we at here? Where's the cabin at? Over here. I got a new car. You see my new car? Where'd you get a new car? Really, it must be nice to be an evangelist. I got a I got a Lincoln MKX out there. Huh? You know what I paid for that Three thousand dollars. Yeah. Three thousand dollars. Say you're you you're living good on Now listen, my old car, it had hundreds of thousands of miles on it. It was on its last legs When I had somebody come up to me and said, Got a win, would you like well how much does it say come up $3,000? I'll look at the if I just said no You would have called me a what? A fool. Come on. Barons, you are an idiot. Am I not right? Even if I didn't need it, I'd buy it. I could sell it to Chip. Huh Man, that was too good a deal. Man, I write too good. Man, you couldn't pass on something like that. Now, but wait a minute, what about heaven? What about salvation? Think about this: heaven, salvation. Do you really understand what you're turning down when you say no? Oh man. God says, I got a gift. It's a gift. It's free. Doesn't cost you a thing. What is it? Heaven. You live forever. Nope. Have you ever read about heaven? Revelation chapter 21, verse 4. I'm not going to take, but just verse 4. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. This is when you're in heaven. And there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain Where's my buddy at? Where's he at? No more pain. For the former things are pain. Hey, listen, every year. We spend billions and billions and billions of dollars on our health, on operations, on medicine. Am I not right? Why? To push back just a few more months of that horrible word called death Friend, if you're here today and you're not saved, can I give you some good news? There is this wonderful, wonderful place called heaven. Huh? It can be your home. It is a place, think about this, it is a place where you're never going to have to worry about dying again. It's a place where there's going to be no more goodbyes. Isn't that unimaginable? A billion years. Is that a long time? A billion years. That is not even the first minute of forever. Listen, this is not a fairy tale. It's not a wild story. This is God's promise to you who get saved. Yeah. No pain. Huh? I don't know about you, I don't like pain. I didn't like it when I broke my leg. I don't like it when I bite my tongue. Come on. No pain. I have seen people die screaming in pain and agony. No more pain. Think about that. Someday no more cancer, no more diabetes, no more tumors, no more disease, no more sickness. It's all gone. Someday no more glasses. No more hearing aids. Eh. No more canes. Oh, I'm sorry, you don't No more wheelchairs. No more handicapped things on the come on. Someday no more aspirin, no more advil, no more Bengay, no more Maloks. That was supposed to be funny Some of you just remembered, oh I forgot to take my Maylock. No more hospitals, no more prisons, hey, no more funeral homes No more wars, no more IRS. Amen. Bible says God's gonna wipe away all the tears Heaven's going to be a happy place. You say, get this because of two reasons. First of all, because of what's there, secondly because of what's not there Anything that you associate with unhappiness is going to be gone. Isn't that amazing? Ha! No more problems, no more worries, no more weights of the world. Past memories are not going to hold you hostage anymore. Isn't that something? No anger, no bitterness, no meanness. Hey, nothing negative. That's going to be an unusual place for some of you How you doing? Mind your own business. Have a good day. Don't tell me what kind of day to have. You're gonna feel out of place in heaven. Hey, one of the great things, one of the great things in heaven, think about this, one of the great things, we're all going to get along. You will someday. Someday you be my best friend. Amen? Huh? Verse twenty-three, and the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine in it, for the glory of the Lord did lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof. Everything we associate with darkness. Not just night, but fear. Huh? Heaven Isn't I mean it is a wonderful, unbelievable, amazing place. And God has made it as a gift for you How? By what we're celebrating this morning. The death, the burial, the resurrection of Jesus Christ. You say, preacher, how can I grab a hold of this gift? Huh? One verse and we're done. Here's how you grab a hold of that gift. Romans 10, 9 and 10. That if, now you know what that word if means? If you're here today, you say I don't know where I'm going to spend forever. That word if means this. It's up to you. You see, if he's sitting here and he's not saved, if I could, I'd come down there and make him get saved, but I can't. Because he's got a free will. I can't force you have to want to get saved. That if, it's up to you, thou shalt confess with thy mouth In other words, there is a confession, a prayer, a belief. The Lord Jesus You believe that Jesus died on the cross for your sins. Nobody else died, buried, and rose again. He shed his blood on the cross of Calvary. For you. Nobody else, nothing else can get you to heaven. That's what it's talking about. Confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and shall believe in thine heart. Hope It's going to get me to where I want to go. Heaven. Heart. That God has raised him from the dead. There it is. This is from God's own lips. Here's what he says. Thou shalt be saved. Guarantee phrase. If God can't back that phrase up, he's not God. And we're wasting our time this morning. For with the heart, there it is again, for with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made Unto salvation. You see, Easter is much, much more than the Easter money. Candy, rabbits, clothes, ham dinner, in the resurrection you have hope For the heart, present, right now, that you're going to get to where you want to go. You have hope for happiness. You get saved. You don't have to go through life empty Unfulfilled, wasted. You can have the time of your life on your way to heaven. You have the hope for heaven. That's future. That's eternity. What a wonderful, wonderful, unbelievable place heaven is. God made it just for you. Wouldn't it be foolish to turn them down? Huh? Especially when you think of the alternative. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes, every head bowed, and every eye closed Every head bowed, every eye closed, nobody looking around. Let me ask two questions this morning. You know, I I I first I'm I'm talking to Christians, first of all. Today's Resurrection Sunday is the day that we celebrate our Saviors. Death on the cross, his resurrection from the grave But you know what I think? I think every once in a while, every once in a while, it is good that we take a look at our priorities in life. You know, I've talked about this idea of happiness. You know, there's there's Christians that are unhappy too. You know why? Because they let the things of the world creep into their into their life, into their heart. And every once in a while, you know, I think it's just good to say, you know what, I'm going to re-evaluate what's important in my life. I'm going to bring my Lord and Savior back to number one. I hey, I have to do this. I, Bill Bear, I've got to do this. I think every once in a while it's great if we do that. I'm going to bring the Lord Jesus Christ back to number one in my life. And Things of the world, I'm going to push them down. Hey, nothing wrong, folks, don't get me wrong, you're nothing wrong with having a nice house, nice car, money in the bank, nothing wrong with that But too often we let those things become our God. Too often we let those things become number one. Every once in a while it's just good to rearrange our parties. What I gave you this morning is the message that we ought to want to tell everybody too. Hey, you've got a great outlet for it here, not like Baptist Church. The track thing that you're doing here this month, one out given eye track. What a great way to tell other people about the savior that you have. I'm wondering how many here today say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved, but you know what? It is good every once in a while to focus on what's important in life. Rearrange your priorities. Feel the need to share the message. Would you pray for me this morning that I'd do that? Would you