All right. Like I said, uh my name is Mr. Tyler. I am from the great state of Maryland. Amen. And I am from the Glen Burney area. Uh I talked to a lot of you and and a lot of you have never been to the harbor. You've never experienced in Maryland until you've gone to Baltimore and the Harbor. Don't go to the city 'cause yeah. But the harbor, yeah, that's a good place. That's a good place. Uh I grew up around that area. Um uh my family we grew up uh method This for a long time. And then when I was about 11 years old, my dad was arrested for a DUI. My dad, both sides of my family really struggled with alpha. And uh my dad was arrested for a DUI and kind of shook our family. My dad's a chef, so he'd work long hard hours in the week, and on the weekends he would have to go to the community jail and and and spend time there for two years and they kind of really shook our family around and and uh my mom decided that we needed to go to a church where they would preach the word of God. And um we started looking. We went to some different kind of churches, uh kind of scary now I look back at it. But uh we found uh Granite Baptist Church, Pastor Curtis King. Uh we stopped in here a few times for a U conference. So the the lady stayed in here one night and we stayed in the the missions house and um and uh we we went there and on the third week uh me, my brother and my sister uh got saved. And my mom uh got reassurance for salvation and uh just shortly afterwards my dad was saved. And then just a couple uh years ago, uh I think about two years now, uh my little sister Lauren, she's eight years old now, she got saved. And uh our families changed completely. Uh really it'd be uh undescribable to tell you how our families change uh through the Lord and um through our family, uh when we were first saved our other our other family kind of just Deserted us. Our grandmother hadn't talked to her in four years. My uncle hadn't talked to him in four years. My other uncle, he kind of deserted us for a little while. My aunt she always kind of stayed near She's a nut, but uh but she professed Christ as her savior. Uh a little while ago, my uncle, we've been praying for him and he'd come to church for a couple weeks, uh came for about a couple months and then eventually he prayed and accepted crisis stager. And uh the Lord's really blessed. Um my sister, I'll give a short story, my sh my sister was outdoor knocking with the youth group, knocked on the door and found out my my grandma's mother's house and we hadn't talked for her in four years. We left the track there and she found out that she was sick and she couldn't come to the door because she just got back from surgery. We didn't know what it was um and my dad called back uh after not talking to her four years and she just got Back from surgery. She has breast cancer now. Um, and she's not safe. But we're starting to get communication back. And uh my other uncle I talked hadn't talked to in four years, I witnessed to him. Uh he didn't get saved yet, but the Lord's definitely working in his life. So the Lord's been doing something great. Uh I went to public school up to ninth grade. I went to Glen Burney. Um it is a very rough school uh up to ninth grade. And then I Switch the Lord allowed my mom to be the secretary at uh Christian school at Granite Baptist Church in Glen Burney. So I got to go there. Uh around the junior year my junior the end of my junior year I I forsook a lot of things and I got right with the Lord And uh and uh right then towards the end of my junior year, beginning my senior year, I felt called to preach and I surrendered to missions and uh now I'm in Bible college and like I said, uh I can't tell you what Bible college that is. But um I'm in Bible college right now, I'll be a sophomore in Bible college and I will be uh, Lord willing, after I graduate, going and planting a church in England Uh northern Manchester is a very needy country. A lot of people don't think so, but it really is. And uh I believe the Lord's called me to that. And um that's just basically where the Lord's having now. We're looking forward to a great neighborhood bottle time. We already have a lot of teams out there right now. We need extra pews already, which is great. So uh we're looking to forward uh we're looking forward to something great. It's only Sunday night and And the rallies really they don't really build already, but yet we see the Lord working. So we're looking forward to that. And I am the rally time dangerous, if I didn't mention that. And uh I'll be working with the kids first through six. I've already gotten though Austin Uh me and him are me and him are buddies right now. But uh I'm looking forward to meet all the children here, uh having a great time and looking forward to a great week Amen. Amen. Very good. So you pray for Brother Tyler as God uses him this week and we're excited about what the Lord has in store. I think uh the crowd this morning with teens is uh if not the one of the biggest crowd of teens that we've had is taken off Bible time. It is a tremendous group down there. There's a great group back there now and so we're excited. You pray for our teenagers that uh God will send a revival and uh do a great work there. I'm excited about it. Brother Emil is the teen evangelist. He's going to be up here in a few moments. But uh in the meantime we're gonna sing one verse of a song, then we'll have some testimonies from the crowd until he gets here, and then we'll go from there. 419. Number four nineteen, we're Well good evening. Uh as Pat said, my name is Emil Smilo. I am a uh junior uh pastoral student um at Bible College and uh I got saved when I was about uh about eight years old. Um and I I I started out wanting to go in the military. Uh that's what I w always wanted to do. Uh but my mom and par and my dad said uh you know you gotta go to one year bio college first. Um so I did. And uh throughout that year uh the Lord really worked in my heart and uh he changed my direction. Um and He gave me a burden uh just to preach. Uh I believe that's where the Lord is calling me. I don't know exactly where. Uh I do have a burden uh at the church plant out in the western United States. Um There's a great need out there. Uh great need all over the place, but uh out there especially. Uh so I'm not sure exactly what the Lord has called me to do um eg exactly, but uh I've got that little So main goal is just to finish college and I know he would direct me from there. And it's such a great blessing to be with you all this week. Uh I got to travel neighborhood Bible time uh this summer. It's a great privilege. uh excuse me privilege uh to work with uh teenagers and um it it's awesome. Uh we're just starting the games out there it's it's a lot of fun. I'm really enjoying it even though uh working with your teenagers and uh looking forward to to the end of this week just see what the Lord is gonna do. Um it's amazing uh how fast the week goes uh but how great it is. I love I love it. Um just seeing that the Lord work in the teens' hearts and uh change them. And uh so I'm praying and I hope I hope you would do the same, that the Lord would uh give us a great week, uh that many would be saved, uh many would uh We dedicate their lives to the Lord. And uh so I'm I'm really looking forward to this week. And uh thank you so much for having a lot of time and having us Amen. Amen. Very good. So we're going to keep our fellows in their prayers. And uh I tell you, I view this as pastor as a great opportunity to have these two guys come in and spend a week Even if we didn't have the rally going on, just having them come in and hang out with our teams is a powerful influence and having their experience and what an opportunity for two young men to give a whole summer to serving the Lord, I tell ya And I I pray so hard that we as a church can be a blessing to them and be a part of their development in the Lord's ministry. I thought when he was giving his testimony, he went from the American military to the Lord's military and uh that's pretty neat. All right, someone else. Any other testimonies? Real quick. Uh Vicky. Yes. Yes. He is so more confident this year and just doing a great job. I'm thrilled. Amen. Someone else, any others? Uh Andy. Um I'd like to say more on the my foundation and um everybody probably knows and so about his own because to be major that's like anything. And so we did pray about that and as a family, which is fabulous. Lithuanian, um praying that whoever stole it and I would work in their own home. We have to text me this morning, you know, that she was praying and you guys were praying for us. And um also that, you know, how God would use the Brendan's life to not just this other person which is important, but very much so I thought, you know, we're sitting down to breakfast this morning and we're praying and I mentioned that too. And Brent said about how God can use this in your life. If there's something God wants you to learn from this, he said, Well I've already asked about that for God's word I is there something I need to learn from it? So that was just I was just like, Yeah, it's light. And what is it about, you know, so Amen. Amen. That's good. Praise the Lord for that. Excellent. Someone else, any others? Brother A. Yeah, I thank the Lord for that. church here. You know, it was a real privilege this morning to see Bob Truck at that time. You can see here a while back and you know a lot of people pray for him. Uh I know you go not there is to discuss And funny thing is he was here uh during our Bible time training class, he brought Kathy and said in I don't know what he thought of that, but uh he got a dose right there too, so uh it's exciting and he's just gung ho and excited about being saved and living to the Lord. I tell you it was an exciting morning this morning. I had the Frocs join the church and And uh it's always exciting to baptize, but Brother Bob being baptized is exciting. And then top of all that, uh Becky came up after church and said we had five young people in children's church calling the Lord and trust the Lord as Savior And then Mike showed up this afternoon and said I I led a ninety year old lady to the Lord. I said, Man, turn it on, turn it on, come on. This is great. So exciting day. Who else has testimony? Real quick, anyone else this evening? Cindy. blessing going to the nursing home um this afternoon and and just thrilled that uh um uh this this uh young lady was like the Lord. And uh but it it's such a blessing to serve the Lord and um I shared with you the you know, you try to serve the Lord sometimes you do the cookie thing I shared um before where um I sat on one of the uh chairs that apparently um rise off and I was in service with Morgan sitting next to and I actually accidentally sat on the remote and I started elevating But I had another um chair incident today. Another chair I tried out. But it was after the service and Mike was in the other room um leaning um Big new price. And I was at with another resident. I tried out a new chair and uh I I thought I think she would probably lean back a little And it does and the front came up real quickly. And I'm like, okay, this is good. I can just kind of relax here. So it comes out. And then it comes out and I go to get up and I can't can't get to the front and I said can't get out of the chair. He's like, what do you mean, kids? So he thought, okay, I'll I'll handle this and put his foot on the foot route to push it down and he about launched me with a finger too for that I need was the machine came over And I don't know how she did it, but I'm not going to sit in that chair and only keep you think that hope that happened, but we it's really a a blessing and a joy to serve there. Amen. Amen. The antics of the nursing You know, if we were charismatic, that would have tremendous significance. These things happen. Anyone else? Other testimonies? Any others? All right, very good. Well, I tell you I gotta do something. I kinda goof. We're a little short on our meals for our evangelists this week, and that is my fault. I failed to uh Get it out there and give opportunities. So I don't mean to put anybody on the spot, but I am going to do it this way. I'm wondering if we could get someone to provide lunch for our two evangelists and James for tomorrow afternoon. This is a big main meal. Can we get somebody to do that? I feel like I'm putting folks on the spot. Is there anybody at all would be able to provide a meal? Becky, Becky, could you do that? Okay. And then we need a light meal for tomorrow evening. Uh like just sandwiches, just something not real heavy for after the rally tomorrow night that the evangelists could have in their thinkings Helen, could you do that? Okay. And then we got the next couple days uh covered and then Thursday and Friday. If you're able to help Thursday and Friday, uh let me know. All right, that was my bad. Let's get our hymn books out. Brother Jerry's gonna come and lead us another Stand will sing three verses. Number 233. Little as much when God is in it. Little as much when God is in it. 233. It's all. Or is feel downright that there's a word for all of you. Work the voice of God is calling to the heart is calling you. Little in place when God is in it Little There's a crown and you can win it in your God In Jesus' name, does the place your call through labor seems so small that little know it is praise if God is dead. And will not forsake it so it looks like God is in it. Labor not for God or day. There's a cry. Now then you can win it if you'll go in Jesus Or you made a side for service, body war from Holland Bear, you can still be in the battle, in the same. Place of prayer. Lill with life when God is in it. Labor not for well for pain. There's a ground and you can win it. Give your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. You may be seated. You wouldn't take your Bibles turn to Second Kings. Second Kings. Chapter number seven. Appreciate so much everybody that's involved in Bible time and uh putting a lot of time and effort in. I don't know about you, I'm worn out already, and we haven't even started yet. But uh we're looking forward to a great week. 2 Kings chapter 7. I'm gonna read verse 9 through 20. We're not gonna cover all that. What I'm gonna do this evening is uh just uh make some Really, it's basically my introduction to the message on this section and just uh try and be to the point and so we can focus on Bible time this week. I'm going to begin reading in verse 9. I'm going to read a fairly lengthy portion, but we're just going to give a few thoughts. Then they said one to another, verse 9, 2 Kings 7. Then they said one to another, We do not well. This day is a day of good tidings, and we hold our peace. If we tarry till the morning light, some mischief will come upon us. Now therefore, come, that we may go and tell the king's household. So they came and called under the porter of the city, and they told them, saying, We came to the camp of the Syrians, and behold, there was no man there Neither voice of man, but horses tied, asses tied, and the tents as they were. And he called the porters, and they told it to the king's house with him. And the king arose in the night and said unto his servants, I will now show you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that we be hungry. Therefore they are gone out of the camp to hide themselves in the field, saying When they come out of the city, we shall catch them alive and get into the city. And one of his servants answered and said, Let some take, I pray thee, five of the horses that remain Which are left in the city. Behold, there is all the multitude of Israel that are left in it. Behold, I say, they are even as all the multitude of the Israelites that are consumed. And let us send and see. And they took therefore two chariot horses, and the king sent after the host of the Syrians, saying, Go and see. And they went after them unto the Jordan. And lo, all the way was full of garments and vessels which the Syrians had cast away in their haste, and the messengers returned and told the king. And the people went out and spoiled the tents of the Syrians. So a measure of fine flour was sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, according to the word of the Lord. And king appointed the Lord, on whose hand he leaned, to have the charge of the gate, and the people trode upon him in the gate, and he died, as the man of God had said, who spake when the king came down to him. And it came to pass, as the man of God had spoken to the king, saying, Two measures of barley for a shekel, and a measure of fine flour for a shekel shall be to-morrow, about this time, in the gate of Samaria And that Lord answered the man of God and said, Now behold, if the Lord should make windows in heaven, might such a thing be. And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but thou shalt not eat thereof. And so it fell out unto him, for the people trod upon him in the gate, and he died. I've entitled the message, and again, we're not going to get to the message tonight. But I've entitled it A Day of Good Tidings. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, as we now look into your word, Lord, this is a captivating story. And as we picture in our minds these events that took place so many years ago, Lord, you've recorded it for us now in your eternal word. And we ask that you would teach us that your Holy Spirit would be our teacher tonight and how these truths, these lessons here apply to our lives as believers. I yield myself to you anew in this hour, Lord. I present my body anew. Fill me, I plead with you, Lord, with your Holy Spirit. Speak through me. And bless now as we have this message in Jesus' name. Amen. I think most of us know the situation here. Israel has been under siege by Assyria for a considerable period of time. The situation in the city of Samaria is absolutely desperate. They are on the brink of starvation, and in a very real sense, the entire population of the city of Samaria is on the verge of total annihilation. They are driven to the point. Now, we've discussed this, but I want us to get us back in the frame of mind of what the situation is. They're driven to the point where they are selling the head of a donkey. For monstrous prices, outrageous prices, to eat the face, uh the the meat off the head of the donkey Um, it gets even worse. They are selling doves dung For large amounts of money. For well, the debate in studying this is whether they're selling it for fuel or for food. Some suggest they were wanting it for fuel. Of course, in uh if the place is besieged, there's no f firewood or anything. That's getting scarce. Possibly for food. I venture to say they're driven to the point where they're just uh buying this doves dung for food. Now if it was me, I'd get to find where that dove's coming from, you know? But um it's a desperate situation. Gets even worse. They're literally to the point where you have some women are cooking and eating their own children. And not only are they hiding it. They're coming to the king justifying, defending, doing it again. Now, how desperate does a person have to be? Let me put it this way. How desperate does a mother have to be? So we have a little bit in our mind the seriousness of the situation Samaria is facing. The king, Jehoram, blames God for this whole situation. They were not in the terrible condition they were in because of it wasn't God's fault. It was the consequence of decisions Jehoram had made And as we touched on before, how many times we blame God or we blame others because of the consequences of decisions we've made ourselves? He blames God. He sends a messenger down to Elisha, whose life we are studying, and this is all part of that. He blames God. He sends a messenger down to Elisha to tell Elisha that it's all God's fault. And Elisha makes a startling statement. God promises through Elisha that within 24 hours the city would be Filled with food. There would be abundant food to be sold at prices that were not even, that were even better prices than when Solomon was in his heyday. In the best economy Israel ever faced, you could not buy barley and whatnot at the prices that are offered here. Of course, they mock them The Lord there, the assistant to the king, mocks and says, Oh, yeah, right, if the windows of heaven open, might it be? Elisha says, Oh yeah, you'll see it, but you won't eat it. They find there are four lepers outside the city, and we talked about them, I guess, last week. They're at a point and they begin to reason within themselves. Alright, we're lepers. We're outside the city according to Jewish and sanitary law. We can't be in the city. We're out here, we're starving to death. We're dying of leprosy, we're starving to death. What are our options? So they begin to discuss it. They think, all right, if we stay out here, we're going to die. Option number one. Behind door number two, we can go into the city, and what are we going to do there? It's not the heat and air. We're going to die in the city. There's one other option where we have a slight chance of survival. We can go out to the Syrian camp. Who knows? They might shoot an arrow through our head as soon as we get in sight, and we die. Or We may find some soldiers that feel sorry for us. May throw some scraps out. Who knows? And so they go for it. They get to the camp. And lo and behold, as they approach, I mean, put yourself in their shoes. This is the enemy. They've been seizing the city for months, maybe a year. And they're approaching the city and they see the tents. There's smoke coming up. It's of an evening. The sun is setting. It's getting dark. There's some campfires burning. And they see the tents and they hear the horses neig. And they see movement around the horses, and they're approaching up there. Hello! Nobody answers. And so they come a little closer. Hello? Come closer, the horses are moving around, smoke coming up from the campfires, but no voice, no sound, no human movement. They get a little closer, finally they're up to one of the tents. Can you see them looking at each other? They're afraid to talk. I don't know what that means, but they always do that. And uh they get to the first tent, peek in, no one's there. There's there's ham and cheese subs sitting on the table. And uh iced tea, French fries, quarter pounders with cheese. And uh they get walking around, and lo and behold, and as they go and there's no response, they're getting braver, right? And you see it? I mean they're getting a little more bold. They're looking at each other. And uh so looking around this tent and that and lo and behold, they look in the tent, and there's a stack of silver bars. And there's some money laying around. And they get looking a little closer, and there's clothes strewn out in the in the uh between the tents. Now remember they've been camped out here a long time. This is like a city almost, tent city And there's clothes strewn out, and there's money around, and the fires are burning, but there's nobody around. They're little campfires and whatnot. No doubt they had food on over fires that was cooking and burnt And these guys get through the whole camp and they said, nobody's here. And uh they said, dig in. So they get in there and start feeding their face. Eating. Now I don't know about you, but I would be looking over my shoulder the whole time, right? I'd be a little nervous. And they're eating and eating and finally they're stuffed. And they walk through nobody's around. In fact, they look at it, we find out later the clothes and supplies and whatnot are strewn all the way over to the Jordan. You can kind of see where the army went, and we're going to talk about that in another message. They figure themselves full, they get some clothes. And finally one of them says, and I like verse number nine Of 2 Kings. Let me read that again. And we're going to preach on this a little later. Then they said one to another, We do not well. This day is a day of good tidings. And we hold our peace. Now, this is interesting, and again, we're going to develop this in a future message. If we tarry till the morning light, some mischief will come upon us. Now therefore, come, that we may go and tell the king's household I put in the margin of my Bible, and this is not part of my notes, I put in the margin in the Bible. We'll die before we do any good Some mischief will come upon us. Before we are able to help anybody, we might die. We've got to do it now. We have got to get these good tidings to the people who need it before we die. They're saying basically this, what a tragedy it would be if I come to the end of my life And I did nobody else any good. What a mischief that would be. Now I have three observations. This is just my introduction, and we'll get the message, uh we'll get to it next week. But I want us to notice a few things. First of all, these four lepers, now remember, these are lepers. These four lepers stood between the dying And between life. The people in the city knew nothing about the resources that are out in the Syrian camp. These four lepers knew all about the resources and they knew about the needs of the people. The people in the city are dying. What is available, there is available to them that which will let them live, and the lepers stand between famine and plenty. I thought about this week of Bible time. There are children, as you and I are sitting here. Now, are you with me? Everybody with me? As you and I are sitting here tonight, the Word of God in our laps, Spirit of God in our bodies, saved on our way to heaven, spiritually, spiritual feast. There are little children this very moment in Ter Alda, in Crowan, in Deer Park, in Laughlin. in Kitts Miller, in Mountain Lake Park, in Oakland, McKendry, Grantsville, sitting there watching garbage on TV Out in the yard playing, and they are spiritually dead. They know nothing of what is available in Christ. And you and I, like those lepers, stand between the resources of the gospel and the spiritual poverty in the hearts and lives of these children this week. Hey, hey, we have some good tidings. Children and teenagers can have their sins forgiven, have new life in Christ. Have a life that has purpose and meaning that's good and fulfilling, living for the Lord Jesus Christ. We have that resource available. They may know nothing of it. We stand between the living and the dead. There may be some children next Sunday this time on their way to heaven because somebody like these four lepers says, Hey, I'm going to go to those kids and I'm going to tell them what's available this week at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church so they can learn of the Lord Jesus Christ. Can I give you the negative side of it? Negative side is this. Next Sunday night, there may be some kids still on their way to devil's hell, still lost in sin. Because we said, hey, you know, I just don't got time. Hey, I I've got to make my living. Hey, I've got to feed my belly. This is, I found this, I'm satisfied. I just don't have time. Hey, listen. Wouldn't it be awful to die? Stand before the Lord and know that I had the opportunity to share the gospel with others that they desperately needed, and I didn't do it because I was too wrapped up in my own world. That would be mischief. That would be sad. So these four very literally stood between life and death. Famine and feast. And if anybody in that city was going to find out about it, it would have to be these four guys to let them know. You know there's some people that they're ever going to hear about the gospel it's going to have to be you. Say, yeah, well that's the preacher's job. You know, there's some people you can reach the preacher can't reach. There's some people who listen to you that won't open the door for me. I did a funeral some time ago And uh I was asked to visit the fellow, he was sick and dying, I asked to visit him, went and visit him, somehow the Lord was just in it. We hit it off He's able to witness the guy a little bit. He had trusted the Lord with another fellow, but he got saved. Visit with him, visible with him, visited with him, and man, we just hit it off. Finally he died, was born again, died, went to heaven. I did his funeral and it went beautifully. A little while later, his daddy got sick. And so the family called him and asked if I do that. One of the family members says, I don't want Brother Leatherman there. I don't like him. That's hard for me to believe, but um he didn't like me, he didn't want me there. And I said, you know, that's all right, that's fine. It's uh it's an honor for me to do it if if you guys don't want They said, I don't know we'll do it. We're gonna ask Brian Schofield to do it. I said, Praise the Lord. Brian's gonna say the same thing I said But Brian, this is what I'm trying to get to. Brian had the ear of that fella that I didn't have. Brian was able to say something to that guy that I wouldn't be able to say. He would listen to Brian, he wouldn't listen to me And what was true in that situation is true in 10,000 other situations. There's people you can take the message to that nobody else could do. If anybody's going to get the message to that city about the feast that's available, it's going to have to be one of those four guys. And there's some people, if they're ever going to hear the gospel, it's going to have to come from you. Second observation I made. I noticed God's sovereignty to move on the hearts and minds of those four lepers to go out to the camp at that particular moment. Now think through with me on this. If they had gone out a few hours earlier They would have met the Syrian army. And there's no doubt in my mind the Assyrian army would have killed them. These people were ruthless. This was a desperate act on the part of the of the lepers. And if they are gonna now think about the mentality of the Syrian army They are watching a slow, horrifying death of these people, and they're the ones causing it, and they're okay with that. Do you think they're okay with mothers so desperate they're eating their children? Syrian armies, hey, that's what we want Do you think they'd be sympathetic to a couple lepers? Brother, there'd be arrows through their skulls before they got anywhere close. I guarantee it. I mean I don't guarantee it, I don't know, but I would guess that's the case. So if they got there a few hours earlier, they'd have been dead. Suppose they would have waited until the next day. Now here you have out in the wilderness, out of the city, out in the countryside, cheeseburgers, French fries, cheesecake, all this food setting out. There's fires burning in the fireplace. What do you think would have happened to all that food overnight? Let me ask you a question. How many folks ever made the mistake of putting your trash out the night before trash goes? Anybody know what I'm talking about? What happens when you got all that stuff outside overnight? Raccoons, cats, possums, skunks, and then if it's the day, all the crows show up. And it's gone. I believe if the lepers would have gone the next day, wild beasts and all kinds of stuff would have gotten in there and spoiled that. It's a hot Middle East The food would have spoiled, no doubt some fires would have gotten out, could have burned half the camp. Any number of things could happen. But in God's sovereignty, I'm going somewhere with this. In God's sovereignty, he stirred the hearts and minds of those lepers to go out to that camp at that very opportune moment. The food is fresh, no damage done, the army has just left, and it is the perfect time for that food to meet the needs of that city You say, all right, what's that have to do with me? I don't think it's a coincidence we have Bible time this week. I don't think it's a coincidence that The events that take place when we give the gospel out, it's not just a coincidence. I believe there are certain people God has for this week to hear the gospel, and you and I are the folks that need to do it Now I have I have I have no beef with other churches. Well, with some of them I do. And there's other churches having Bible time and not. But this is, can I tell you the way I see it? I see it if we don't get the gospel of these kids, who's going to do it? I appreciate anybody that makes an effort. But I'm looking at it, I've got we as a church have to stand before God and give an account for our influence on this community at this time. And God is working. And I and like I said, I don't believe it's I don't believe it's a coincidence that the teens that are out there now are out there now. It's not a coincidence. It's not a coincidence that you're hearing this message right now. God is in control. God stirs our heart. God puts in our mind, you know, I could I can do this for the Lord. How many folks here ever somebody came to your mind you think I really need to give them a gospel tract? They just came to your mind, I really need to say something. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Ever happened to you? You think that's just a coincidence? You know what I think? I think it's God stirring your heart, knowing that that moment they need to hear the gospel. And so I see the sovereignty of God. If they'd have gone sooner, uh they might have been killed. Uh no doubt. If they'd gone later, beasts, the food would have went to waste, beasts would have gone in a let me give you my third thought. Wow, this is a record. Point three, Ed, in 15 minutes. Point three has 27 sub points. And this is what I end with. All God needed was somebody willing to communicate the message. For lepers, probably uneducated, no doubt not wealthy. How do you think they were dressed Uh what'd they look like? Nasty, rotting. How they what they smell like. All God God didn't need a king. God didn't need a, excuse me, doc. God didn't need a doctorate. God just needed somebody that had a brain and a mouth and could get to where it needed to go. To communicate the message, hey, there is food that can save your life over there. And if all it was was a dirty, rotten, dying, stinky, ignorant leper. Then God will use a dirty, rotten, stinky, ignorant, dying leper. All he needed was somebody to tell that city That what they needed was available. And all God needs in Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Now, I think you ought to get the best education you can. I think you ought to earn the money you can without compromising your convictions. I'm for all that. But all God really needs is somebody willing to tell lost people about Jesus. All God really needs is you regardless of your financial standing, regardless of your education, regardless of your health, regardless of anything. All God needs is somebody to tell lost people about the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's all we're going to do this whole week. Morning, afternoon, night. We are going to tell people about Jesus. Tell people about Jesus. Tell people about Jesus. You know what I thought of when I was reading this? This point came to mind. I thought of, and I've used this many times over the years, but I thought of Jim McRoby. I wish y'all could have known Jim McRoby before he died, nine as husband. I first moved here, Nina's came out of church. He goes, Pastor, I need to visit my husband. He hates preachers. I said, Great, I can't wait to go meet him. And I went up and sure enough he hated preachers. Didn't invite me in, had said two words to me, wham, I was gone. A couple years went by, he developed cirrhosis of the liver, he got sick, and the whole to make a long story short, he's dying. It messed up something, he couldn't get the transplant. Jim trusted Christ. I'd been visiting him in the hospital witnessing. I wasn't with him when he trusted Christ, but I'd left tracks and whatnot and one night in his bed at night he called on the Lord. To be a savior. I'll be honest with you, I was skeptical at first. But I'm telling you, in those coming months, God transformed Jim's life. Not his body, not physically, but his attitude. And he begged me. I had to go over there every day. If I didn't go over there every day, he was mad. I go over, we'd bring him cassette tapes and and stuff, and we'd visit with him, I'd pray with him every day. I had to be there. Finally, he got on hospice and he was in the hospice room at the hospital and it was just a matter of days that was obvious And I'd go up he I had to I had to I had to. I had to go and sit there with him. He'd be he'd be hurt if I didn't. So I'd sit there for hours. I'd bring my books and study and whatnot, and he's there and wouldn't say ten words. But while I was there, Lo you've heard this story before. While I was there, his old drinking buddies would come in. And they they're all humble and sad and I'd be sitting there, they'd walk in and look at me and I'd look at them, they'd go over and Hey Jim How's it going, Jim? I felt like saying, how do you think it's going? And uh they'd say these things and then finally, Jim, is there anything I can do for you? Yeah And they lean down. What is it? Let my preacher tell you how to be saved. Huh? He'll tell you how to be saved. Uh okay, Jim. I get the Bible out and we go out in the hall and go through the gospel with them. I don't remember. I think there was a couple that profess faith, but and we go back in a few half hours so there, another guy come in and saying, I got when they walked in I just started getting my Bible out. You know what? Jim was dying. He couldn't walk. He couldn't read. But you know what he could do? He could communicate the message that they needed to hear. Now these lepers can do that, and if old Jim McGroby can do that, you and I can do that. You say, oh I can never, I can never tell someone someone how to be saved. If you've got a tongue and a mouth, you can. Just tell the message. Jesus loves you, died for you, rose again. And that's what we're going to do this week. Now, God was in all of this. There's no doubt about it. The lepers, the timing, God was in all of it. I'm telling you folks, God is in what we're doing. We're giving the gospel out, God's in it. And he wants to use you and I. Let's ask the Lord to give us boldness. Let's ask the Lord to save souls this week, change lives. I'm praying. We prayed last night. I begged God Friday night. God give us moms and dads to get saved Friday night. Why don't we pray? I think a lot of us could come to an old Old-fashioned order and say, God, here I am. Take me and use me. Maybe the Bible time teachers and workers, Lord, help me to spread the message. Communicate the message this week Let's ask God to use us. Father, bless our invitation now we ask. Help us, Lord, to be just like these lepers. Make ourselves available, spread the communicate the message. We believe you're in this Lord. Our heads abound, eyes are closed. Let's stand together. Jennifer's coming to the piano. Let's stand as she gets the piano. I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand. I'm going to ask you to come to an altar and ask God to use you. Neil at an old-fashioned order as a piano plays. Maybe just need to say, Lord, give me the boldness of these lepers. Lord, maybe as a Sunday as a Bible time worker, teacher, Sunday school worker, teacher, children worker, teacher. Say, Lord, help me just to be bold enough to share with others the good news that what they need is available. Say, I'm a little timid about it, ask the Holy Spirit to fill you.