We've parked it here on verses 7 through 11. I'm going to turn this on, Jamie, just give you a heads up. And we parked it here. Let's read this again. Verse 7. Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek, and ye shall find, knock, and it shall be open unto you. Alright, so the Lord makes his statement. There he gives us that tremendous, tremendous promise. Then he expands on that. He elaborates. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. He doesn't stop there. He's already made the promise, and he expanded on it. Now he uh illustrates it And he says, uh, for what or what man is there of you, whom if his son asks bread, will he give him a stone? If he asked a fish, will he give him a serpent? If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? What a tremendous passage. The Lord God promising us that He will answer our prayers and He will do what is best for us. And so we've looked at this And uh I'm kinda I'm gonna use kind of this as a springboard, and we want to talk about prayer. I've just been spending, I want to spend a little, little, little time, several weeks, preaching on prayer And tonight I want to preach on a day without prayer. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now, or time in your word. Lord, I've been and I continue to ask you for a revival in my own heart. Lord, a revival of prayer, a revival of my love and walk with you. A revival of my soul winning burden and um and uh involvement and Lord of revival in our church And so we ask that you would hear us. Maybe you could use some of these thoughts and principles from your words tonight to spark a little revival in our hearts. in this matter of prayer and and uh looking to you and trusting you and and uh getting things from you and seeing you do things, great and mighty things for us, Lord, is what we want. So please, Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. I yield my will. I just pray you'd speak through me tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Does anybody know what today is? Today is International Women's Day. How many people knew that? How many people were excited? Uh what's that? International Women's Day. Isn't that exciting? I'm I'm looking for International Men's Day. I don't think there is one, but And then they had, along with that, you all heard this, I'm just stirring the pot here a little bit, but um you heard today they had a day without women. How many people heard about that Uh they were gonna protest. We're not gonna go work. We want you to appreciate us. We're not going to work. A day without women. I heard that it went pretty well. It's pretty quiet. And um No, I'm sorry. Day without women. Um on a more serious note, I think we ought to they ought to be, I'm not on. All right, how about now? There we go. I think on a little more serious note, there ought to be somebody giving some attention to the women that are we without that were aborted over the years the millions and millions of women that are not around that are boarded and and that type of thing. So it's kind of ironic they tell they want to protest how b I'll just work off of this one, Jamie. I'll I'll tie myself to it. And so a day without prayer, a day without women. I want to say this about that. I thank God for women. A church, can you imagine Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church without the women of this church? We would not be able to function at all. And so uh very, very important. But I got thinking about that the other day And I was had the message for denial that was gone. And then the other night I was watching the news and they started talking about a day without women. And looking at my message, and I thought, what is a day like without prayer? A day without prayer, what would happen? I think we need more prayer. The more prayer we have in our nation, the better off our nation's going to be. There was a day when prayer was very prevalent through all public meetings were started with prayer. It was an issue. And in Jesus' name You know, and uh I think our nation the more prayer we have in our nation the better we off I think the more prayer we have in our schools, the better off the schools are And uh anybody that's been around any length of time would agree that once prayer came out of the schools, the schools began to go downhill in a lot of ways And so schools are better off with prayer. Our nation is better off with prayer. Uh I don't know about how you feel, but I think the workplaces would be better off with prayer in the workplace You know, there was times and years gone by, there was a tremendous revival up in New York back in the early 1900s that came out of a prayer meeting at a at a at a factory A couple guys got together at lunch and prayed, and then a few more, and God started stirring, and next thing they knew, uh, within a year's time, there's thousands of people. people getting together and praying. I think our workplaces would be uh better off if we had more prayer in the workplaces. If you have some influence at your place of work. And you're able to, you know, initiate some time of prayer there, that might be something to consider. I think the workplace is better off. I believe the more prayer we have in our churches, the better off our churches are Churches need prayer, and uh I always say this, and I believe this, I say it all the time, and I really believe it. This is the most important meeting of the night. Uh when we get together and pray. And so the more prayer we have in our churches, the better off our churches are. Let me say this: the more prayer we have in our homes, the better off our homes are I think the whole tenor of a lot of homes would change if there was more prayer in there. And I've been beating this drum for years. I'm going to keep on. I think every husband and wife ought to pray together every day Or to get together, I think, on your knees before God, pouring your hearts out, pleading with God, telling God what you need. I'm telling you that will do more. You say, Oh my husband and I, my wife and I, we're just we we're not getting along and da I'll tell you what'll fix that. It's kind of hard to really pour your help heart out before God in genuine prayer and then get up off your knees mad at each other. And uh that changes things. And kids, I think parents ought to pray with kids. I think every child, the first person they hear praying, ought to be mom and dad. First people that he prayed. Lord, pray with our children. I think our homes how many of you agree with me, our homes would be better off, more prayer in our homes. I'm sure of it. I know that's true. And then in our individual lives We'd be a whole lot better off if we had more prayer in our lives. So today was a day without women. I got thinking, what happens? What happens when a Christian has a day without prayer? What happens? If you got your pr uh prayer little list there on the back's a place to write things down, I'm going to give you about six, oh, I don't know what I got here, five or six things. Six uh things that are true. If I go a day without prayer. What happens when we have a day without prayer? Now keep your Bible handy because we're going to jump around a lot of verses because I want to document what I'm telling you is true biblically And so what happens when we have a day without prayer? Number one, a day without prayer is a day with no answers to prayer. A day without prayer is a day with no answers to prayer. Write this reference down behind that. James chapter 4 and verse number 2. A day without prayer is a day without any answers to prayer. James chapter 4 and verse 2. A day without any answers to prayer. How sad it is to go through a whole day and not have any answers to prayer. Nothing for God to answer. James chapter 4, I tell you what, I'll just read it. You guys are busy writing there. I'll just read this. Verse 1 says, Whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not hence even of your lust that war in your members? Ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have and cannot obtain, ye fight in war? Listen to this statement. Yet ye have not, because ye ask not. A day without prayer is a day without answers. You hear voices? Me too. Uh a day without prayer is a day without uh without answers to prayer. Men and women all through scripture, if you read through your Bible, you find that uh men and women that saw God do great things for them were men and women who prayed How many people here, and uh I know we've done this a lot, but how many people here you have something in your heart you really, really need God to do for you? Maybe very, very personal, maybe very, very intimate, very, very personal Or maybe not. But uh you have something you really, really need God to do for you. Anybody here like this? I have a little list. Kathy and I have a little list. Um You know what I found? I found that the men and women of the Bible saw God do great things for them and met those needs like we just raised our hands for. Those were men and women who prayed every day, prayed earnestly, prayed diligently Throughout history, uh I found that those that saw God do great things and God meet their needs and see them through dark trials were men and women who prayed. Men and women who prayed. So a day without prayer is a day without answers. prayer. And um uh and what does prayer require? Now this is nothing new for any of us. I put this down. Prayer requires effort. Every day I've got to put some effort into prayer Uh we're probably more of us are guilty of this and we like to admit, but we think, oh I'm gonna pray. I'm gonna when I get a chance, I'm gonna need to stop and pray. Alright, when I get a chance Uh, I'm gonna I'm gonna pray and next thing you know you're laying in bed dozing off and you think, Oh man, I didn't even pray today. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about Oh, I need to pray. I need to get that prayer list. I need to pray. It requires effort. I just have to put some effort into it and make that prayer happen. Prayer requires effort. I put this down. Prayer requires discipline. Oh, what a bad word that is. Discipline. I found that every area of the Christian life, a successful Christian living, requires discipline. Discipline. If our Christian life consists of only what we feel like doing, we're going to be pretty pitiful Christians We're going to be weak, we're going to be anemic, if we don't put any effort into it, and if we don't discipline ourselves to pray. Somebody said, Well, if I don't feel like praying, that's the time we need to pray the most When we don't feel like praying. Undisciplined I I I came up with this. Undisciplined Christians are defeated Christians If I can't discipline myself to do what God has instructed me to do and to incorporate into my life the uh most basic elements of a successful Christian life, I'm going to be defeated. So I've got a discipline. So uh praying every day. A pray day without prayer is a day without answers to prayer I'm going to pray every day. I've got to put some effort into it. I've got to discipline myself. And then I put the third one down this. There must be faith Here's the thing, if I don't really believe God's going to answer that prayer, why should I bother making the time to to pray Um, you know, if I don't believe it's going to have any effect, it's not going to do any good, then I'm not going to be very motivated to pray every single day. But when I get to the point where I have faith That God hears and God answers prayer. I'm going to be more highly motivated. I'm going to be more disciplined to get and actually pray. You go down to the bank every time and try and withdraw ten thousand dollars, they keep telling you, you don't have ten thousand dollars. You can't withdraw, you don't have after a while you say, Why should I go down there? I never get it. Right? That's why I don't go down there But if you knew there was $10,000 in that bank and you needed to withdraw it, you'd have no problem. You'd run down there. Oh, it's there, I can get it. Listen, God has given us phenomenal promises Now there's some conditions that go along with it. We've been looking at that. But we've got to believe that God hears and answers prayer. It'll keep us going, keep us praying. Without effort, discipline, and faith, there will be no uh there's no prayer, and when there's no prayer, there's no answers to prayer. Here's what we're guilty of. And I'm saying we. This is what we are guilty of. We're spiritually Weak. We're spiritually immature in a lot of ways. We don't want to admit it. We excuse it. We ignore it. But a lot I think it boils down to the fact that we don't pray We don't pray like we should. It is impossible to be a mature, strong Christian and neglect daily prayer. That is impossible. I can put on a show, I can sing the songs, I can carry a big Black King James Bible, I can do all that stuff. But if I don't discipline myself to pray on a daily, regular basis, regular, daily basis I am going to weak. It's going to hurt me spiritually. So number one, what happens if I have a day without prayer? Then I've got a day without answers to prayer. Put this one down. Number two A day without prayer is a day of disobedience. Ouch. Is a day of disobedience. There is no way we can deny the fact that God has commanded us to pray. Pray or wrong? All through Scripture. Pray without ceasing. Pray. Pray. Men ought always to pray. God has instructed us over and over and over and over and over to pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. He has instructed us to do that Uh there are sins we call them sins of commission. What do we do what do we mean by that? A sin of commission Is a sin that I am committing. It's committing. A sin of commission. In other words, the Bible says, thou shalt not lie. If I tell a lie, I've told a sin. I've committed a sin. Thou shalt not steal. If I steal something, I've committed a sin. So we generally think of sin as things of commission, things we commit. But there are also sins of omission. Things that God has not things that God has told us not to do when we do it, but God has told us to do some things And if we don't do them, then we are omitting that. It is a sin of omission. And I'm suggesting to you, God has so clearly stated in his word that we are to pray and to pray continually on a regular daily basis. That when we neglect that, if I go a day without prayer, I am disobeying God. I am committing a sin of omission. Now I want you to see a verse. I've referenced this number of times throughout the years, but I want you to see it in 1 Samuel chapter 12. Now this verse, it just struck me. Years ago, I came across this And Samuel, of course, is a tremendous prophet, and he's trying to lead Israel, and um they're going through uh a series of success and failures and In 1 Samuel chapter 12, way back in towards the front of your Old Testament. 1 Samuel chapter 12. Everybody there? Did you find it? Give everybody a chance to find it. Because I really want you to see this, and I would highly recommend highlighting this verse somewhere in your Bible. Because he makes a pretty significant statement. 1 Samuel chapter 12 and then verse number 13 or I'm sorry verse number 23. Towards the end of the chapter, 1 Samuel, chapter 12, verse 23, look what he says. Well, verse 22, for the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it has pleased the Lord to make you his people. Moreover, as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. Then he goes on, he says, But I will teach you the good and right way, only fear the Lord and serve him in truth with all your heart, for consider now how great things he hath done for you. But did you catch that? In verse number 23, he says, God forbid that I should sin against what? The Lord in ceasing to pray for you. Now I know I've mentioned this a number of times over the years, but it just intrigues me That Solomon's approach was if if I cease to pray for Brian, all right, I'm not gonna pray for Brian today. I'm not going to pray for him. I'm going to forget about him. If something's going to come up, I'm not going to pray for Brian. That sounds to me like I would be sinning against Brian. You know, I'm not doing him right by not praying for him. But Samuel says, God forbid that I should cease sin against God. in ceasing to pray for you. He viewed uh prayerlessness as sin against God. Isn't that something? And so if I go a day without prayer I am, according to Samuel, and we have all these instructions in God's word, I am living, it's a day of disobedience. I am not obeying God. Prayerlessness is sin against God. I came across another verse in studying this. Go to Jeremiah with me. Now I never caught this before. Now it's pretty strong language here. Old Jeremiah, he didn't pull any punches. Of course, he's preaching at Israel, and they're a mess. You know, they are absolutely a mess. They're about to go into captivity And they are just things are falling apart pretty bad. Their hearts are hardened as a nation and as individuals. And in Jeremiah chapter 10, over there, Jeremiah chapter 10. He makes a statement, and again, I ne I never caught this before, but there's a little phrase in here that uh gives us a little uh insight here about the Lord's attitude towards prayerlessness. Look at verse 23. Jeremiah chapter 10 verse 23. O Lord, I know that the way of man is not in himself It is not in man that walketh to direct his steps. O Lord, correct me, but with judgment, not in thine anger, lest thou bring me to nothing So he's saying, Lord, you know we're not right. I need you to make things right in my life. Lord, don't overdo it. Don't destroy me. Just correct me. Make me right. Then look what he says in verse 25. Pour out thy fury upon the heathen that know thee not. Look at this. And upon the families that what? Call not upon thy name. I want to suggest to you that phrase, families that call not upon thy name, that would include prayer. They're not praying. And he's calling down the judgment of God on these families Who aren't calling on the Lord. Families that aren't calling on the Lord. Now I'm not going to stand here and suggest that God's fury is going to be poured on you because You didn't pray, but I am suggesting this. Prayerlessness, would you give me this much? Prayerlessness upsets God Fairlessness upsets God. And um uh how how many of your kids, you want them to come, if they have a need, you want them Come and tell you the need. They want, sure. And uh so um a day without prayer is a day without any answers to prayer. You have not because you ask not and ask anything, so there's nothing there to get. Uh it's a day with uh it's a day of disobedience I put this one down, number three. A day without prayer is a day that I am vulnerable to temptation and satanic attack. I'm going to give you two references for this. A day that I am vulnerable to temptation and satanic attack. A day without prayer. Now here's another intriguing reference, and I've preached on this before, but this verse captivates me. Mark chapter number 14. A day that I am vulnerable. Temptation and satanic attack. Mark chapter 14. And verse number 38 Give you a chance get that written down and turn over there. I hope I hope you'll look at this. This is the Garden of Gethsemane. The Lord has gone up. He's Judas has gone off to go to the priest or he's about to uh betray the Lord. And the Lord is up in the Garden of Gethsemane. What's he going to do in the Garden of Gethsemane? He's going to pray. Tremendous prayer. And he takes some disciples with him, and uh before he slips off by himself, he gives some instructions to the disciples. Um he gives them, he tells them to pray. Uh verse uh uh while I pray. And he taketh verse thirty-three, he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began to be sore amazed to be very heavy, he saith to them My soul is exceeding sorrowful unto death, tarry ye here and watch. And he went forward a little and fell on the ground and prayed that if it were possible the hour might pass from him. And this is his prayer, Abba Father All things are possible unto thee. Take away this cup from me, nevertheless, not my not what I will, but what thou wilt. Now look at verse 37. And he cometh and findeth them sleeping. And he saith unto Peter, Simon, saith unto Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? Sleepest thou? Could not thou watch one hour? Now look at this statement he makes. Watch ye and Pray, why? Lest ye enter into temptation. The Spirit truly is ready. But the flesh is weak. D'ye catch that. Watch and pray lest ye enter into temptation Now, I get the idea that I get the idea here the Lord is telling us that there are some temptations we may and will face if we don't pray And I believe that's true. I think some of us are struggling with temptations we wouldn't have to if we would pray like we should. I really believe that. Um this is the crucifixion. This is Satan's hour. This is when Satan, at least in his mind and by all appearances, for at least three days, has dominion over Jesus Christ. By all appearances, Satan is winning He's crucified Jesus Christ. He's got Jesus begging God that he would take this cup away from him. This is the hour of darkness. This is the hour of Satan's dominion And he's telling the disciples, you need to pray lest ye enter into temptation. In this, would you agree with me? This is a period of time spiritual warfare is going on. At perhaps its most intense time. And he's telling the disciples, you need to pray. You need to pray. Watch and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. This is a time of satanic assault. And I am convinced that you and I sometimes are dealing with temptations. If we prayed like we should, we would not have to face those temptations. I think there are spiritual battles that we allow ourselves to get involved in that we would not have to get involved in them if we would pray like we ought to. I want to show you another verse here, Ephesians. Come over there Ephesians chapter 6. Some of you are familiar with Ephesians 6. It's the armor, Christian armor. Put on the breastplate of righteousness, the loins girt about with what? Truth um the the helmet of salvation, uh your feet shod with the gospel of peace. Verse number 11, Ephesians 6: Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. I'm telling you, Satan is having a heyday in some lives. In some homes, Satan is having a heyday. We don't have our armor. There's no armor put on there. What is the armor? He says, verse 13, wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to what Withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand, therefore stand therefore, having your loins gird about with truth Having on the breastplate of righteousness, your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel peace, above all taking the shield of faith, where what Wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked, take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, and then without missing a beat, he says this, praying always With all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto, with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. Did you catch that? In the armor here that is necessary in the spiritual warfare with Satan and his fiery darts Uh the principal the the uh the uh uh principalities and powers and ruler of darkness and spiritual wickedness were in this spiritual warfare, and he says, pray He says, praying always, and he says, watching. That sounds like just about the exact same thing Jesus said in the Garden of Gethsemane. Watch ye and pray. So that tells me that prayer is a vital, vital part of spiritual victory. Prayer is a vital. uh piece of armor maybe so to speak, although it's not identified as specifically as any particular piece of armor, nevertheless it's included right in this category And you and I need to pray. You and I need to pray. And a day without prayer, I'm afraid, is a day that we may be vulnerable to temptation I've found I've seen over the years and to some extent even in my own life a lot of times sin uh shows up unexpectedly I mean, we're just doing great, we're doing good, maybe we're in a revival meeting, God stirred our hearts, and uh one day, we next one and one day and we just blow it Anybody know what I'm talking about? Can I get a witness? It's like how in the world did that happen? I'm telling you, we're in a spiritual warfare, and we need to every day put this armor on and Prayer is such a vital part of our spiritual victory, the spiritual warfare that we are in. And so a day without prayer, a day without prayer I wonder, and I just thought of this now, but I wonder when David was up on that rooftop. Know what I'm talking about? And Bathsheba was over there. I wonder if he wouldn't have slipped away and gotten his knees and got alone with God if that whole thing might have turned out differently. Might have been some victory there instead of defeat. Because that's sure enough with Satan looking to take him out. So a day without prayer is a day without answers to prayer. A day without prayer is a day of disobedience, God's instructed us. A day of without prayer is a day where I could be uh vulnerable to temptation and spiritual attack, satanic attack. Number four, I put this one down A day without prayer is a day of missing blessings for others. Missing blessings for others. I wonder if there aren't other people missing blessings because I neglected to pray for them or something. Uh I want to be careful in this one. I think you have to be careful. Uh I think each person is individually responsible for my own victory and my own walk with God. But I think there's a part, we play a role in that. God's designed us to be a part of a spiritual body. He doesn't design us to be individuals in the body of Christ. Paul talks about in Corinthians that we're one body, and that body needs one another, and prayer is such a vital part in the life of the body of Christ. If I neglect that, uh I'm wondering if there isn't parts of the body that maybe are m missing out or are hurting a little bit because of that. I got thinking about, remember when Jesus was up on the Mount of Transfiguration? And he comes down, and there's a big hubbub going on with the disciples and a crowd. Anybody remember what that situation was? There was a daddy there. And he had a boy, and the boy was devil-possessed, possessed of devils. And he said, my son, and he came to the Lord, the Lord said, what's going on? He said, My son is a lunatic. I've claimed that verse a few times myself. But um No, I'm kidding. I tease the boys with that Uh no, uh but uh he said, My son is a lunatic, and the devils come upon him, and I'm not quoting this exact, and they throw him in the fire and try to destroy him. And the disciples couldn't cast him out. And the Lord said, bring them to me. And the Lord cast out the devils, and the boy was fine. Daddy took him up and took him home. The disciples came and said, why couldn't we cast him out And he said, this kind cometh forth not but by prayer and fasting. I got thinking about that. What if that daddy wanted to pray to Jesus? What if he wouldn't have prayed for his boy? The boy would have gone on and been destroyed, no doubt. But the daddy prayed. He came and sought the Lord on behalf of his boy. Would you agree with me? That daddy seeking the boy on his behalf was a blessing to that boy. Sure it was. I thought of Darius' daughter Say, came and sought the Lord. I thought of the Philippian jailer. If you'll study Acts chapter 16 real carefully, you'll find just a few verses before that Philippian jailer comes in and falls down before Paul. What must I do to be saved? Just a few verses before that, you find Paul and Silas there praying and singing praises in the prison. And the Bible makes it a point to make this statement, and the prisoners heard them. Paul is praying. Silas is praying. Now don't tell us what their request was, but we can maybe get an idea. An earthquake rattles that place. To the point where the Philippian jailer wants to get saved. And and I don't know, this is speculation, but I wonder what would have happened if Paul and Silas would have been complaining and griping instead of praying and praising I wonder if that old Philippian jailer ever would have gotten saved. I wonder if there'd ever been an earthquake. But they prayed. Instead of complain and gripe and go on and make a sea and throw a fit. They prayed and they praised God And uh the Philippian jailer was blessed as a result of that. And I got as I was studying this, I thought, you know, if I I neglect the day of prayer, I wonder if there's somebody that day that my prayer might have been a help to My prayer might have been a blessing. How many folks here ever got up in the morning? How many folks here ever got up in the morning and a church member or a missionary was heavy on your heart right from when you woke up in the morning? morning. Anybody ever happened to you? Or you're driving down the road? Boy, out of nowhere somebody comes to mind. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know what I think? I think that's the Spirit of God prompting us to pray for them Now what if we neglect that and just push that aside? Uh you know, we don't know what the consequences are and and you know God God can overrule that I'm sure, but uh I think a day without prayer may possibly be a day of uh with missing blessings for others. I put this one down, number five, a day without prayer Is a day with no revival. Day without a revival. How many folks agree with me? We desperately need revival. I I love our church, don't misunderstand, I think God's blessing us, I just thank God for it. But how many people agree with me? Our church could use revival. Really could. Sure. Surely Our nation, of course. 2 Chronicles 7. 14, we're familiar with it. Says this: If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray. Seek my face and turn from their wicked confess their sins, turn from the wicked way, then will I hear from heaven, then will I heal their land? Then will I forgive their sins? I didn't get that in right order But the point there is, he says, if my people humble themselves and pray, what if I don't humble myself, I don't pray? I just get up and go on, whatever. There's no revival without prayer. There's no revival without prayer. I'll tell you, I came across a fascinating story. I'd read it years ago, and I'd kind of forgotten about it, and I think I've read and referenced in in messages before, but D. L. Moody. Recognize that name? Chicago, Great Moody Tabernacle and Chicago, Moody Bible Institute, one of the most phenomenal evangelists this world has ever seen. Chicago fire hit, whatever the year was, 82, 1872. And his sh and his Moody tabernacle, uh Moody Church is in ashes. And Moody decides he's going to go to London. And he's not going to preach. He just wants to go over there. Some great preachers in London. You've got Spurgeon, McLaren, a bunch of these other guys are just powerful preachers, powerhouse preachers. And he just thinks I'm gonna get away, I'm gonna go over there, I'm gonna sit under some of these men, and uh just refresh my soul, get m get So he gets over there and uh he has an open Sunday and he ends up in uh one of the church uh folks there and I don't I don't know how it came about, but um uh one Sunday morning, uh let me tell you this, one Sunday morning he was prevailed upon to preach in a London pulpit. Now listen to this. Uh I'll just read it to you He said, but somehow the spiritual atmosphere was lacking. He confessed afterward that he had never had such a hard time preaching in his life. Everything was perfectly dead, and as he vainly tried to preach, he said to himself, What a fool I was to consent to preach. I am here to listen, and I am preaching. And I tell you, it's miserable when you get up and preach and the Lord's not in it. It is absolutely miserable. The awful thought came to him that he had um what a fool I was then the awful thought came to him that he had to preach again that night. And only the fact that he had given promise to do so kept him faithful to the engagement. But, listen to this: when Mr. Moody entered the pulpit at night, he faced a crowded congregation. He was conscious of a whole new atmosphere. The powers of an unseen world seemed to have fallen upon the audience, he said. As he drew towards the close of his sermon, he became emboldened to give out an invitation. It wasn't real common back then to give an invitation. As he concluded, he said, If there is a man or a woman here who will tonight accept Jesus Christ, please stand up. At once, over 500 people rose to their feet. Thinking that there must have been some mistake or misunderstanding, he has everybody sit down again. And then in order that there might be no possible misunderstanding, he repeated the gospel, repeated the invitation. And uh more in more definite, difficult terms, invited them to stand, and again, over five hundred people stood to their feet wanting to be saved. Mr. Moody for the second time asked the standing men and women to be seated, then invited all who really meant to accept Christ to pass through the lobby into this other room. Now he's thinking they don't understand what he's saying. Over 500 people didn't, as he said, and packed the roof. It was the beginning of a revival in that church and throughout that neighborhood. Then he found this out. That morning, when he was done preaching, one of the ladies in the church went home. She had an invalid sister. Who couldn't get out was house house uh house bound. She said, What happened to church? She said, You won't believe it. Mr. Moody from Chicago preached at our church The invalid sister turned pale when she heard this. She said, what? Mr. Moody from Chicago? I've read about him some time ago in an American paper, and I have been praying to God to send him to London and to our church. If I had known he was going to preach this morning, I would have eaten no breakfast, I would have spent the whole time in prayer Now, sister, go. Go out of the room. Lock the door. Send me no dinner. No matter who comes, don't let them see me. I am going to spend the afternoon and evening in prayer. And that night when Mr. Moody stood in a pulpit, that place was afire with the presence and power of God. And he attributes it to one young, one little invalid lady who committed herself to pray for revival. Now what I'm saying is this: if we neglect our prayer, we're not going to see revival. Every revival is born in prayer all the time. Let me give you one more, and I've got to quit. One more, number six, put this down. A day without prayer is a day without Christ-likeness. A day without prayer is a day without Christlieness. The Bible record of Jesus Christ's life is a life of prayer. Nonstop prayer. The entire three and a half years of Jesus' ministry was saturated in prayer. Up before daylight, praying all night long Praying with his disciples, praying for his disciples, teaching them how to pray, teaching them to pray, showing them how to pray. And if I'm going to be Christ-like, I have got to be consistent in my prayer life, continually in prayer, earnestly in prayer. Now you say, preacher, you miss one day. You know, something comes up and you can't, surely all these terrible things wouldn't happen if you miss one day. Listen, if we miss a day, that happens. But what I'm saying is this. If we do not discipline ourselves and make an effort to spend time with God on a daily basis in prayer, it hurts us. And we need God and we need revival of prayer. I need it in my life. I believe we need it in our church. I believe we need it in churches across our land. And so let's ask God tonight, would you with me ask God tonight to give us a revival of prayer in our own hearts that it would be a daily discipline? And I'm spending time every single day in prayer. You know, we go through the day without prayer and we'll get out of that day what we can get. But we saturate that day in prayer. We get out of that day what God can give us. And that's what we want. Amen. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I wish we could give an invitation at the altar here tonight and tap the piano. I guess we could, but Lord, we just want to make our cues here in the altar tonight. And I believe there's a lot of folks that feel like I do that, Lord, we really want you to stir our hearts. That there would be a genuine revival in our hearts That we would be so hungry for your blessings and your power and your answers to prayer that we would discipline ourselves and apply ourselves. To pray every single day, earnestly, thoroughly. So hear us, Lord, hear our desire tonight, hear the cry of our heart, revive us again Teach us to pray, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. How many folks, that's your prayer? I want God to teach me to pray.