2 Samuel chapter number 21, we're studying the life of David, and uh we are actually in a bit of a transition period now in his life. And uh if you would notice verse 1, and I'm going to read all the way down through verse 14. So bear with me a little extended scripture reading tonight. I don't know. I don't think it's a bad thing to read a lot of the Bible And so um I'm going to read down through verse 14. Verse 1 begins, says this there was a famine, then there was a famine in the days of David, three years, year after year And David inquired of the Lord, and the Lord answered, It is for Saul and for his bloody house, because he slew the Gibeonites. And the king called the Gibeonites and said unto them, Now the Gibeonites were not of the children of Israel, but of the remnant of the Amorites And the children of Israel had sworn unto them, and Saul sought to slay them in his zeal for the children of Israel and Judah. Wherefore David said unto the Gibeonites, What shall I do for you? And wherewith shall I make thee? What's that next word? Atonement. Interesting word right there. What shall I do for you, and wherewith shall I make the atonement that ye may bless the inheritance of the Lord? And the Gibeonites said unto him, We will have no silver nor gold of Saul. We don't want your money, they were saying. We will have no gold, silver, or gold of soul, nor of his house. Neither for us shalt thou kill any man in Israel. And he said, What ye shall say, that will I do for you. And they answered the king, the man that consumed us. and that devised against us that we should be destroyed from remaining in any of the coasts of Israel, let seven men of his sons be delivered unto us And we will hang them up unto the Lord in Gibeah of Saul, whom the Lord did choose. And the king said, I will give them. But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, because he was of because of the Lord's oath that was between them, between David and Jonathan, the son of Saul. But the king took the two sons of Rizpah, the daughter of Ahah, uh Aha, whom she bare unto Saul. are Monai, Mephibisheth, and the five sons of Michael, the daughter of Saul, whom she brought up for Adriel, the son of Barzeli, the Maholaphite. Now there's two Mephibosheth mentions. One's the soul of Jonathan, the other one would be like a cousin of his, I guess. Same name, two different fellows. Verse 9. And he delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them in the hill before the Lord, and they fell all seven together, and were put to death in the days of harvest. In the first days of the beginning of barley harvest. And Rizbah, the daughter of Ah, took sackcloth and spread it for her upon a rock. From the beginning of harvest until water dropped upon them out of heaven, and suffered neither the birds of the air to rest on them by day, nor the beasts of the field by night And it was told David what Rizba, the daughter of Ah-Aha, the concubine of Saul, had done David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan, his son, from the men of Jabesh Gilead, which had stoked stolen them from the street of Bethshan, where the Philistines had hanged them. when the Philistines slain Saul in Gilboa. And he brought up from thence the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son, and they gathered the bones of them that were hanged. The bones of Saul and Jonathan, his son, buried they in the country of Benjamin in Zelah, in the sepulchre of Kish, his father. And they performed all that the king commanded, and after that God was entreated for the land. There's some passages of Scripture that are a little difficult to understand. Peter said that back in 2 Peter, he mentioned that some of Paul's writings were difficult to understand. Anybody ever read some of the Bible somewhere? And you say, boy, I don't understand what that's saying. Anyone? Yeah. So some parts of the Bible understand, some are very easy, very obvious. And there's some parts of Scripture, there's some passages in Scripture that are difficult to read For me, Romans chapter one, where God describes the descent of man into depravity. And the last half of that chapter just gets so perverse and so ugly, it's a difficult passage when he talks about the perversity and the depravity of what mankind has become. There's other portions in Revelation where millions of people are slaughtered in blood And the violence of the tribulation period described there. Sometimes that can be a little difficult to read. Some of the history in the Old Testament. You read some things that took place, people being dismembered and and hung. And this is one of those passages when I came realized we were preaching this a few weeks ago. I saw what we were leading up to and This is a little bit of an ugly event in David's life. So we're going to look at this tonight, and we're going to ask the Lord maybe teach us some things from this. So let's pray together. Father in heaven We ask now you would speak to us from this passage of Scripture. I pray that there would uh I know that there's lessons here for us, and I pray that your Holy Spirit would open our eyes to see these lessons. And I'm praying that he would apply the principles that we'll see here to our lives, that we can be stronger in our faith, that we can walk with you, that we can be warned. And Lord, we could be the person that you intend for us to be. So I yield myself to you. I yield my will. I present my body. I ask again with all my heart You fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. From this point on to the end of 2 Samuel, we're kind of getting the final record of David's life, the concluding record of David's life. He only lives another thirteen years after this. From this event on, David has about thirteen years to live So these are some statements that God, through the penman of 2 Samuel, has put together information about David, his final days here on earth that is important for us to know. We go over to Chronicles, we'll probably, before we finish out the life of David, we'll probably end up in Chronicles a little bit. There's some information there we don't have in Samuel. And so what I'm trying to get at is we are concluding, coming to the conclusion of the life of David. Now, it's possible that this passage here, I just read what we're going to study tonight, it's possible that this is the record of an event that took place earlier in David's life. Some Bible scholars, as I was studying this, have uh suggested that this isn't necessarily a chronological order of events for David. And if you go to verse 1, you'll notice why they say that. It says Then there was a famine, and it just says in the days of David. It doesn't state clearly that this is just following on after the uh previous study of Sheba and all of that. This could have been early in his life. Some have suggested it took place back uh whenever uh he took Mephibosheth into home. Remember our study of that? Jonathan's son was down in Lodibar. And he went and sent for him, said, Bring him up to the palace, I'll raise him as if he's my own son. Some suggest this took place thorne. Uh I don't know. My personal opinion is, I think it's probably chronological here And there's several reasons for that. I think this probably happened in the order that it's recorded here. But whatever the case, there's some things for us. I want to get right into the outline. The first thing I want us to notice in the first part of verse number one Is this unrelenting famine that takes place in the land of Israel? Notice it says there, and I think the wording of it is interesting. It says, There was a famine in the days of David, three years. And so, and so it's three years. But then it doesn't stop there, kind of elaborates on that, three years, year after year. That sounds to me, the way that's worded, that sounds to me like this famine was dragging on a year, then another year, and then another year. Now I don't know. I've never really lived through a famine, but I would imagine a three-month famine would be dead. That would seem like forever. A one-year famine But seemed like forever. And this was three years. Now, there was longer ones in the Bible, but there was something about this that it just drug on year after year after year Now famines were fairly common in ancient Middle East. In Israel and surrounding areas in Egypt Uh back in the day they were they were pretty common. There's a lot of them recorded through scripture. In fact, if you remember when Abraham left Ur the Chaldees to go to the promised land by faith, didn't know where he's going. When he finally did show up in Canaan, what was the very first thing he had to deal with? Family He got there. This is supposed to be a land of you know plenty, and I got there and there's famine. And all through the Old Testament, over and over and over, you find various famines. Some of the famines In uh these ancient times, some of the famines were natural. They just are part of living on a fallen planet, on a sin-cursed planet. Sometimes there's famines. And you know, I found out that sometimes the weather changes. And then whenever it gets hot, we have global in the summer it gets hot, we have global warming. In the winter it gets cold, we've got global freezing. You know what? Fluctuations and famines and weather incidents, that's part of living on a fallen planet You're gonna have floods, you're gonna have earthquakes, you're gonna have storms, you're gonna have hurricanes, you're gonna have tornadoes, you're gonna have droug And so some of the famines are just natural part of living on a planet that's sin-cursed. Someday we'll have a new earth, and all that will be in the past. So some famines were natural, just part of dealing with the reality. Some famines were God's judgment Sometimes when God was going to judge a nation, he would send a supernatural famine. He would directly cause that famine to happen to teach that nation a lesson. And the lesson was always to humble themselves, turn from their sin, and come back to the Lord. And so some famines in Scripture and throughout history have been God's judgment. Some famines were man-made. In other words, there were some times when one nation is attacking another nation, they would um uh uh surround a city or surround a region And they would let nothing in. They'd destroy the crops. They'd destroy everything. And they would make this man-made regional famine in order to starve out their enemies. And so they could come in and conquer them. And some were man-made and um through war or they deliberately uh would cause a uh a localized famine. This famine here, as we saw, if you paid attention where we were reading This was a deliberate judgment of God on Israel. God sent this famine, and it went on year after year after year. And a famine can be devastating. A famine is no water, the crops die off, the cr the uh cattle Become emancipated, become useless, they're no good to eat. Many of them will die off. And you go three months without rain, your stuff's dying off You go a year without rain. It's bad. You go three years. No crops. No rain, no water. And uh they're hurting. They're hurting bad. A three-year famine would be catastrophic. Now remember their economy was an agricultural economy They were they didn't have factories like we do. They didn't have uh uh technology b world business and technology economy. Brother, if the ground wasn't producing, everybody's hurting. They didn't have the means fertilization and irrigation. They didn't have all that stuff we have today. It is hard for us to comprehend how devastating and catastrophic a three-year famine would be Now we read of it in in uh Africa sometimes there will be areas of famine and whatnot. And can I just say this? I'm not an expert on this, but from my uh From what I looks like to me and from what I'm reading and studying, a lot of these famines in some of these countries are unnecessary. It's mismanagement on the part of the leadership of that country There's plenty of facilities, there's plenty of uh food, there's plenty of uh technology to be able to overcome those. So it's hard for us to understand what David and the nation of Israel were facing when they had this famine extending on just unrelenting, just year after year after year. Nothing. The farther they get into it, the less crops there are, the less cattle there is. So we notice that David is having to deal with this famine. First, the second thing I want us to notice is the response of David. We have this unrelenting famine, it's just dragging on, dragging on, dragging on. It don't go away. Then David responds, look at verse 1 again, the second part. Says there was a famine in the days of David three years, year after year. And what'd David do? He what? Inquired of the Lord. Hey, uh, that's a pretty good thing to do, right? He comes to God and says, God, what's going on here? Now, what it looks like to me is that initially in the beginning of the famine, there wasn't a whole lot of concern. Because it's not until after three long years that the Bible says David finally came and inquired of the Lord. How many people agree with me? It might have been better to inquire of the Lord a little earlier on in the famine. Might in fact I want to say it wouldn't have had to go that long Because when David inquired of the Lord, he got the answer, he got the reason for it, and what needs to be done to stop it. And isn't that a lot like us? David sought the Lord. If he'd have sought the Lord earlier in the famine, they wouldn't have lasted three years. They wouldn't have had to suffer so much. I think it is best to be quick to seek the Lord. Something's gone wrong, something's gone bad, you've got a spiritual famine, you've got a financial famine Maybe the best thing to do is come to the Lord early on in that situation, early on in that adversity, and say, God, I need you to help me, I need you to teach me, I need you to show me And just find out exactly what's going on. It's a good thing, I believe, the best thing is to be quick in seeking the Lord. And by the way, this kind of ties into the situation here I think it's best to be quick to deal with our sins. Now, I don't know everything about all of us here, but I do know this about all of us here. We are all sinners. And we deal with sin on an ongoing basis. Am I right or wrong? About the time we think we got everything licked, it rears its ugly head again. And when we deal with that sin, and when that besetting sin shows up, or whatever it may be, that thing shows up, don't let that thing linger year after year. It's going to turn into a spiritual famine. The best thing is to make short accounts, keep short accounts with God. When we do or say something we ought not to, deal with it right away. So for whatever reason, David waits three years. I mean, the place is barren. And then he finally begins to seek the Lord. I like the song, Oh what peace we often forfeit. Oh what pain, oh what needless pain we bear. All because we do not what Carry everything to God in prayer. Oh, what needless famines we endure. I'm glad David inquired after the Lord. That was the right thing to do. But my my thinking is, and it's easy for me to say this looking back, but my thinking is it might have been better to do this before three years passed. Oh, what needless pain we bear. 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verse 28 to 32, it's talking about the Lord's Supper there, and he's uh Paul under the inspiration of God is is confronting this church at Corinth because they made such a uh horrible mess of the Lord's Supper. They had twisted it around and uh wasn't even closely resembling what it was intended to be. And he says to them, he says, uh he says, um, uh, that we should not take part of the Lord's Supper unworthily. And they were it was a drunken brawl, basically, what they were doing. It was unbelievable. And in that correction, as he's confronting them and addressing their situation, telling them to get that straight out He says this, he makes this statement. If we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged And he's telling them some people are sick in your church. Some people have died because you're blaspheming the Lord's Supper. Because you're making a mockery out of it. And he says, you need to judge yourselves, and if we would judge ourselves, then we don't have to face the chastening hand of God. And if we would come quickly to the Lord when we mess up, when we fall short, when we're going through a trial, a difficulty, we come quickly to the Lord How much better that would be than to face the chastening hand of God. How many people here know what I mean by the chastening hand of God? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Let me put it in a uh on my level. God taking you to the woodshed. Now we know what we're talking about. I would rather make that when I was it would be far better when I was young to make things right with Daddy while we're in the house than wait till he takes me out with the switch. And so David inquires of the Lord, but uh his response is to inquire of the Lord. But the only tr trouble I see here is he waited so long to do that, let the famine go on for three years. So, one, we have this unrelenting famine. It just goes on year after year after year. Then we have the response of David. He finally comes and said, Lord, what's going on here? Lord, what is this all about? What do we need to do? And then I notice God gives him the reason for the famine. Again, verse number one. There's a famine in the days of David, three years, year after year. David inquired of the Lord. He says, God, what's this, what's going on here? What's this all about? What do I need to do? Look at And then look at the last part. And the Lord answered, It is for Saul, and for his bloody house, because he slew the Gibeonites. And God answers David. Now let me just touch back on our previous point. How many people think maybe God would have answered David two and a half years earlier had he inquired of the Lord? I think probably would have But God answers them. God gives the reason. This is why you're facing this devastating, catastrophic famine, is because of the Gimeonites. Saul, King Saul, murdered a slew of these Gibeonites. In fact, he tried to totally exterminate them. And in doing so, he brought the curse of God upon Israel, which brought produced this famine. Now you say, who in the world are the Gibeonites, and who cares if Saul killed them? The Gibeonites were natives, you could say, of the land of Canaan. How many people remember Joshua? Joshua followed who? Moses. Remember Moses brought him out of Egypt? Joshua he followed Moses, but he defeated Jericho, Ronya. We don't have any pictures up here, so he's have a hard time. Moses died, Joshua takes over, and he leads the nation of Israel out of the wilderness, across the Jordan River, into Israel, the promised land, Canaan, and he defeats Jericho. Well, as they're making their way into this promised land and they're defeating uh these groups of people here and these different nations in here and they're gaining ground And they're spreading throughout the nation. They came uh and and words start spreading that Israel is defeating everybody in their path. It's hopeless where they're just wiping everybody out And so some of these nations form coalitions and fight Israel and they get defeated. And so the Gibeonites who were living there, they're natives of this promised land, that Israel was taken over They get a bright idea, and actually it was pretty clever. They said, let's act like we're somewhere, we're from somewhere way far away. That's no threat to Israel whatsoever. And we'll get old moldy bread and we'll put it in our supplies and we'll get old uh uh worn out uh bottles and stuff and we'll make our clothes all worn out like we've been traveling for a half a year. And they do that and they show up and it's interesting, we don't have time to get into details here, but Joshua and Israel never praise about this. They simply take them at their word. And they say, oh, you guys are from far away. And they say, yeah, we just want to make peace with you. We heard about you. And look at our bread, it's all moldy, we're so far away. And uh how about we make a treaty You don't kill us, we won't fight you. I mean we're so far away it wouldn't even matter anyway, but let's let's make a treaty And so without inquiring of the Lord, without praying, Joshua in the leadership says, okay, that's fine with us. Shake on it. And they make this treaty that we will not kill the Gibeonites. You will be spared. It was a national treaty, the nation of Israel with the nation of the Gibeonites. And it and Joshua to his credit and Israel to the credit they honored them. And they made them servants and chopped wood for them and drew water, but they didn't kill them. And the Gibeonites were fine with that. It's actually a pretty good move on their part. They got in on the blessings of Israel. They weren't killed. They had to chop wood and draw water for them, be kind of servants to them, but they made out pretty good on this whole deal They never became part of Israel, though. They never were assimilated into Israeli life and worship. They remained distinct themselves. And all through the years of the judges, Israel honored this treaty with the Gibeonites. I mean, hundreds of years they honored this And Saul becomes king. And we know about Saul, a very self-willed, proud, lean on his own understanding. And Saul takes it upon himself to try and kill these Gibeonites. Now, this treaty was very binding. Nowadays, nations make treaties and they last about a week. But these treaties were very binding. They were honored. By the way, If God's people make a treaty, it ought to be honored. If anybody does, God's people, if they say, yeah, we're going to do something, they ought to do it. Now we have no record of when King Saul did this. There's no record in Scripture of when he tried to kill all these Gibeonites We don't know how he tried it. We assume he used his military and came in and just started slaughtering them. They were pretty much defenseless. They had lived at peace within the nation of Israel for many, many, many years. And out of nowhere, Saul turns on them. Now, the only glimpse into why he did that Was uh is given to us in verse two. It says, the children of Israel had sworn unto them, and Saul sought to slay them in his zeal. to the children of Israel and Judah. So the only thing I can come up with, his only motivation would have been trying somehow make him h self out to be this great hero. I'm going to kill these non-Jews I'm wondering if David killing his thousand uh uh Saul killing his thousands, David killing his ten thousands, if that praise didn't mess Saul up and he thinks, oh yeah, let me show you how many I can kill. So he picks on these innocent Helpless people. It's like these knuckleheads go into a gun-free zone, start opening up on them. That's what Paul did on these Gibeonites, or Saul did on these Gibeonites. So he tries to slaughter them. He's murdering them. And God held Israel responsible for their vows. They had made a vow, they had made a treaty that they would not hurt these people, and God held them to that. And Saul, King Saul, was violating a promise that God's people had made. I believe God takes our words and our vows very seriously. We vow to do something. God pays attention, and I believe He holds us to it. For instance, wedding vows. I think God tolds them very seriously. God hears that and he takes it very seriously. Um other vows, promises. So we make a uh we sign something with an employer, I'm gonna work X number of hours a week for so many days a week uh in exchange for my salary. I think if we say, if we agree that we're gonna work so many hours a day, so many days a week We ought to work so many hours a day, so many days a week. I think every Christian ought to put a full day's work in for a full day's pay My point I'm trying to make is Israel made this vow, this promise, this treaty with the Gibeonites, and Saul broke it, and God held him accountable. And God held the whole nation accountable for it God takes our words and our vows very seriously. Another thought out of this is one man can do a lot of damage for a long time. Saul's been gone for a period of time now, and Israel is still suffering the consequences for his foolish, sinful, wicked actions. And so the first thing we see here, we're told about this famine, this unrelenting famine. David responds by inquiring the Lord what's going on. God gives them the reason for it. Saul killed these people that Israel had made a vow they would not kill. And then the fourth thing I notice here is the requirements of the Gibeonites. So David gets this information from God. Saul tried to kill the Gimeonites. He killed a bunch of the Gimeonites, and that's why this famine is happening. So David he responds and he goes to the Gibeonites and he says, What do you need? What do we got to do for you? Look at verse 3. Wherefore David said unto the Gibeonites, What shall I do for you? And uh wherewith shall I make the atonement that ye may bless the inheritance of the Lord David immediately goes and tries to make things right. You know, if something's not right with somebody, we ought to go right away and try and make it right. But the Lord said, David said, man, okay, I understand the situation. Get the Gibeans on the hotline. Gibeonites on the hotline. He gets over there too. He said, What do I got to do to make things right? And it's interesting, he says, What do I have to do? I pointed this word out as when I was reading it. What shall I do for you? Wherewith shall I make atonement? Boy, that's a Bible word, huh? That's a salvation word. And it's interesting that David uses it here. The word atonement means this: a substitutionary payment. Made to satisfy an offended party. Are you with me? Atonement. The Gibeonites were sinned against. They had a treaty, they had a promise, a vow from Israel, they would not be hurt. Saul violated that treaty, he broke that promise, he broke that vow, he tried to exterminate them They are sinned against. David says, What do I have to do to make atonement with you? What do I have to do to satisfy you? You were offended. You were sinned against. What do I have to do to make that up to you? That's what atonement is. That's what Jesus Christ did for us on the cross. We sinned against God. We broke God's holy law. What do we have to do to make atonement for our sins? Well, the only thing we can do is die and go to hell for all eternity And Jesus comes down as our substitute and he makes atonement for us. He satisfies the holy demands of God so that you and I can be accepted and be uh God's holiness can be appeased. Isn't that great? So David's taking that same principle between a sinner and God, and he's applying it to Israel and the Gibeonites. He said, What I got to do to make atonement? How do I make things right? And by the way, look what he says there, the last part of verse 3. He goes, Wherewith shall I make the atonement that ye may bless the inheritance Of the Lord. Who's the inheritance of the Lord here? It's Israel. You know what he's wanting? He's saying this. This is what David's saying. He's saying, I want to get the respect back that we used to have with you. For all these years we kept our vow and everything was good. And Saul broke that and we lost your respect. We lost your blessing. I want that back. What do I got to do to earn your respect back? I think that's great on David's part. We have to be careful. We go around. We don't demand respect from others. Respect must be earned. Nobody owes me their respect. Sometimes youth passes from the young people who say, I don't get no respect. I said, start acting respectable. And so David says, we want your respect back. What do we got to do to make things right? Now I don't know. We're not given a lot of information. But what the Gibeonites require for things to be made right is pretty brutal. And I don't know what Saul, I don't know what he, how he went about this, but Saul's murder of these Gibeonites must have been especially grievous. Notice up there in uh verse number five. Down in verse number five, said they answered the king. Well, verse 4, they say, we don't want your gold or silver. We don't want Saul's money. We don't want his house, his family to give us any money. That's not what this is about. This is more important than that. Neither for us shalt thou kill any man of Israel. We don't want just anybody else, though kill this person in place of the ones that we were killed. And it says, no, that's not what we're about What ye shall say, and he said, and David answers them, what ye shall say, that I will do for you. Now here's what they want, here's their requirement. They answered to King. The man that consumed us. I looked up that word consume. I did a little study on that. It means this: to exterminate. To completely obliterate. I don't know what Saul was up to, but his plan, now it didn't all work out, but his plan was to completely exterminate. The Gibeonites. Does that remind you of anybody in the last hundred years or so? What Hitler wanted to do with the Jews Saul put himself on for no other reason than these people were this nationality. And he was going to exterminate exterminate them, no Gibeonites left on the planet. Would you agree with me? That's pretty grievous. That's pretty wicked. And uh and so he says he uh uh they said uh he's got his man, they say, this man that consumed us And that devised against us that we should be destroyed from remaining in any of the coasts of Israel. What Saul did to them was horrific. And their demand, verse 5 down through verse 9, was basically this. We want seven of Saul's descendants. You give them to us and we'll hang them. And we'll be okay. And that'll satisfy us. Now at first I thought, man, these Gibeonites are being brutal. Man, they want these innocent offspring, these innocent ancestors of Saul, and they're just gonna hang them for something their father, their grandfather did Man, that sounds awfully cold-blooded. In fact, look look, they go into a bit of detail here, verse um Verse 6, he says, Let seven of his sons be delivered unto us, and we will hang them up unto the Lord in Gibeah of Saul, whom the Lord did choose, and the king said, I'll give them to you. I thought, what in the world, David, you're agreeing to this? These innocent men are going to die deliberately? And then I got thinking, I got looking here a little bit, and it just and it tells us a little bit who these guys are. And for the sake of time, we're not going to break it all down, but I'll say this There's a very real possibility. In fact, I want to say there's a probability that these seven guys were in on Saul's attempt to exterminate These Gibeonites. I don't know. I'm not convinced that these guys were just innocent bystanders or or children or grandchildren of King Saul, it implies to me these guys were cohorts. They were working with Saul To take out the Gibeonites. So David, he knows the details. We don't have all the information. We don't have all the details. David did. And he says, all right, I'll do that. David is basically saying, yes, that is fair. And we'll do that. Do you know the Bible says that if a man sheds another man's blood, his blood should be shed? If a man takes another man's life, his life should be taken. We call it capital punishment. It's biblical principle. And as far as I can tell, studying the New Testament, that law, that principle, that requirement is still in place today. So David agrees. David says, I'll do it. And he rounds these guys up. He hands them over to the Gibeonites. And they do exactly what they said they would do. In fact, look there in verse number nine. He delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them in the hill before the Lord And they fell all seven together and were put to death in the days of harvest, in the first days of the beginning of barley harvest. So the requirement of the Gibeonites was the death of seven of David's sons. And then the last thing I notice here in verse number 10 down through 14, this Rizbagal shows up. And I notice the respect that this gal and David pays to the dead. Look at verse number 10. And Rizba, the daughter of Ah. Took sackcloth and spread it for her upon the rock. Now what she's doing, she's making a tent. She's setting a tent up here by the bodies hanging there on this hill. Two of them are her sons And she sets a tent up here and spread it for her upon the rock from the beginning of harvest, that's when they hang them, until the water dropped upon them out of heaven. That's when the famine ended. Starts raining. Her sons are taken from her. They probably were cohorts and helped kill a bunch of these Gibeonites. They were They uh no doubt, in my mind anyway, they had blood on their hands. They were guilty. The Gibeonites said, we want justice. David hands them over along with five others, and they're all hung and they're left hanging there. And Rizbah comes out, her two boys' bodies are hanging by their necks. She puts a little tent up. And notice what she does. And uh and suffered neither the birds of the air to rest on them, their dead bodies by day, nor the beasts of the field by night. I'd say this this mother's grieving pretty seriously, don't you say? She goes, I don't want no ravens picking the eyes out of my boys. I don't want no hyenas coming by and tearing their bodies apart. Anytime the birds came around, she'd flush them off, and anytime the beasts at night or whatever would come around, she'd run them off Can you imagine this dear lady, and by the way, I was reading about her, she's probably in her 60s, she's probably an older lady. And um imagine her laying in that tent at night and she hears a little sound, a little yipping Some coyotes or whatever. She jumps up and has her stick or whatever and her twelve gauge shotgun. No, I don't think she had a twelve gauge shotgun. She goes and runs them off. This dear lady's grieving deeply for her sons. Saul's sin had a devastating effect on others. Long after it was committed, the consequences go on. I tell you, if we could just consider the consequences of our actions before we act Rather than waiting till after and it's too late to do anything about it. And here's these seven dead men. And a grieving mother. And David finds out about it, verse 11. It was told David what Rizbah, the daughter of Aiha, the concubine of Saul, had done. And so David steps in, he says, Enough is enough. And he steps in, he gets the bodies down, and while he's at it, he goes and gets the bones of Saul, King Saul, who the um uh uh the uh Jonathan the son uh from the men of Jabesh Gilead, they had gotten the bodies of Saul and the bones, and David goes and recaptures them. He gets the bodies of these seven fellows that were hanged and he brings them together and he gives them a decent burial I think David here acted nobly. He showed respect in a difficult situation. I don't know about you, but sometimes, you know, you get in a situation, you get just get frustrated, and you want to say something like this, all y'all are a bunch of knuckleheads. David could have got aggravated with this whole thing, but he did. He kept his composure, and he said, These, as bad as they were, they are people of Israel. They were created in the image of God. They're human beings. And they deserve some respect. And he gathers the bones of Saul and Jonathan, he gathers the bodies that what's left of them from these seven men, and he gives them a decent burial. And so David showed respect in a difficult situation, and he showed respect to a disrespectful family. And I this is a challenge I want to kind of take away from this. I want to leave with us. People can be awfully disrespectful, right or wrong. People can be very rude to us, to one another. People can be very unkind. And I want to challenge us as the people of God. Let's treat even disrespectful people. Let's still be respectful in our actions. In other words, let's not go down on their level. Say, oh, that guy's cussing me out. I'm going to give it right back to him. You know what you're saying? You're no different than they are. Oh, they're gonna Nobody's gonna treat me that way, I'll give it right back to 'em. No, you're no different than they are I want to remind you, as the children of God, we have a higher standard to live by than what this world does. And David said, These people, King Saul, we're going to treat them with respect. And David was respectful. Here's my concluding thoughts. Here's what I leave with tonight. Number one, in times of adversity, let's seek the Lord. You got a famine going on? I don't know what it may that may involve. I don't know what that famine may be for you. But I do know this. We got a God in heaven that cares and we have a God in heaven that knows the reason and the purpose of it and we can come to him to find help. I had somebody talked to me recently, they told me a situation. I said, I know what God wants, but I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do, I don't know how to do what God wants me to do. I said, why don't you go to God and talk to him about it? Why don't you ask the Lord, show you how do I do this? I found that God in heaven cares about us and he knows the answers to our problems. So David inquired of the Lord. And by the way, don't wait three years like David did. Do it quick. Number two, I put this down: when you interact with others, keep your word. Keep your word. You said you'd do something, do it. If you made a promise, keep that promise. And if you can't, go to the person and explain and talk it out and make arrangements. Israel made a treaty with the Gibeonites, we will not kill you. And Paul and Saul completely disregarded that. Let's not do that. Say, preacher, if I keep my if I said I'd do that, I said I would, but man, it's going to cost me, it's going to hurt me. I tell you, it is better to keep your word and pay a price than to break your word and lose respect. Proverbs talks a lot about that. And then last of all, I want to take this away from it. In difficult circumstances, show respect. Let's be respectful. And our actions and our interactions with people you say, oh, they're so rude. Yeah, don't be rude back. Yeah, they're so dishonest, yeah, but you be honest. Yeah, they're so nasty, yeah. Don't you be nasty Let's conduct ourselves respectfully, not better than others and not holier than now, but just I want to be a man of respect. And that means treating people respectfully. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask the Lord you'd help us to learn from this unusual and disturbing event here in David's life. Now you'd help us to inquire of you. Lord help us keep our word. Lord help us to be respectful. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if any of those three points touched home in any of our lives. Anybody at all? Say preacher, there's touched home there, a couple of those. Touched home. Sure. Did me when I was prepared it. And maybe tonight you just want to come and say, Lord, help me help me to come to you. Lord, help me keep my word. Help me to be respectful. And I believe God will help us. Father, bless our invitation now we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together