You see, you mean I become a little god? No, don't listen to Kenneth Hagin. There are preachers that preach that. That's baloney. But Peter tells us that God gives us a divine nature. The life of God Himself is imparted to me the moment I trust Christ. He's the author of life. And so, in a very real sense, even though I didn't possess it before that point, Nevertheless, the life of God has always been. You follow what I'm saying? Now I I I I say that and I hesitate a little bit as I introduce this, because you could go to seed on that and come up with all kinds of goofy things. But the point I'm trying to make here is this: this is the promise of God. When we believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, he gives us life that will never, ever end. Never ha it's his own life he imparts to me. You know what? The next day. Now everybody this plays itself out differently. Everybody gets saved the same way, but it plays itself out differently for different people. For me, the very next morning when I got up, something was different about me. I had a life that I had never had before. Something was changed. All that partying and everything, back driving to work and some of you know my testimony, uh heavily into drugs and all that garbage, that whole lifestyle. And I'll be honest with you, the older I get, the more appalled I am at what I was before. The more I grow in my faith, I look back and I'm absolutely appalled. What I had allowed myself to become. I'm driving to work, I'm throwing all this drug paraphernalia out my windows. Twenty-four hours before, that was some of the most precious stuff I had in my mind. Something changed. God had given me some of his own life. He had imparted to me. And I had a divine nature now. Now the that's that's exciting, huh? My my in my mind, my reaction is cool. Now there's a negative side of that is I still got my old sinful nature. So we have that issue going on. That's another subject. But he says, here's a promise. I'll give you everlasting life. Life forever. What about when my body dies? Still alive? You are not a body, I'm not a body, we're a soul. This body dies, I'm still me. And now, because I believe in Christ, I have everlasting life. My body dies, decays in the ground, but I go on with the Lord, everlasting life. There's a second word here that he promises. He said, will not come into condemnation. The word condemnation itself means to be judged To be condemned. I like this one word in the definition. I was looking it up. The word condemnation. It has one word, said this. I thought this was very instructive: separation. Huh. Because of our sin, we are separated from our holy God. That's what the condemnation is. I cannot be in God's presence I cannot experience the very presence of God as a sinner. My sin must be removed. I must have that condemnation removed so I can be one with my God So I can know and have a relationship with my God. And he says, if you'll hear my word and believe on him that sent me, I will impart to you everlasting life. And you will no longer be separated from me. You will no longer be under my judgment. You will no longer be condemned because of your sins. Isn't that exciting? In fact, look at the last uh last part, and he says, um, and shall not Come into condemnation. That is a promise of God. It will not happen. Last Sunday afternoon we had our big day, 50th anniversary celebration. Millie uh followed the Lord in baptism. Wasn't that a blessing? That just blessed my heart. See her determination Her granddaughter, Catherine? Caitlin, your granddaughter, uh, she stayed up there, chip that told her, and she trusted Jesus Christ as her Savior. Isn't that exciting? Grandma gets baptized, granddaughter trusts Christ. You know what happened when Caitlin believed in the Lord Jesus Christ? God's judgment on her sin as a sinner, just like we all are, was removed. And she will never, ever, ever be judged for her sins again. Isn't that fantastic? See how how does that happen? Oh how does that work? I'll tell you how it works. Jesus, when we trust in Him, rely on Him, Jesus takes responsibility for our sins. The word justified, when a person gets saved, the Bible says they're justified. That word justified means just as if I had never sinned. How can I, how can God see me like if I've never sinned? Very easily. Jesus took responsibility for my sins, and God on the cross saw Jesus as if he had committed all the sins I've committed It's called substitution. And God promises every person that believes in the Lord Jesus Christ they have everlasting life. And they will not be judged for their sins ever again. Because Jesus Christ was judged for them. That's a great promise. That's a great promise. If I, May 7, 1979, I accepted Jesus Christ here, just like Caitlin did last Sunday, and just like many of you all did at different points in time. If I believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, like God says here, the prerequisite, He promises I will never be judged for my sins. If when my body dies, I stand before God and I am judged for my sins. Then God lied to me. Because he says here very clearly in other passages, shall not come into condemnation If a person sincerely believes on Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, and God at some point in the future judges them for their sins, God lied. I've got some news for you. God does not lie. He can't lie. And if he says I no longer face judgment for my sins, then you can bank on it. Verily, verily, I say to you, you will never be judged for your sins again. That's good news. Anybody here ever feel guilty for something you did in the past? Anybody here? Come on. Some of you ought to feel guilty right now for not raising your hand. If I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, I have nothing to fear. I may regret it, not may I do. I may be appalled at what I was. But I don't fear God's judgment on what I was because Jesus was judged for me. And I'll not come into condemnation. That'd make a Presbyterian shout right there. Now, one last thing. Notice the present tense. Oh, that'd be great. Someday I get to heaven and find out that all that's true. Uh no, you don't have to wait till someday you get to heaven. Look what it says. Very I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me. What's that next word? When does that mean? What point in time does that mean? Have as right now. Some say will have, may have, could have. You've got it right now. How many folks here? You've saved and you know it. Say amen. You know you've trusted Christ. God says you have everlasting life right now. You don't have to wait till the j We knock on doors. Ask Letterman, not let him go to church. Go to church anywhere. Uh yeah. Oh going to church important, more important than that. No, for all your sins are forgiven when you die, you go to heaven. You ever get any thought? Yeah, think about that. Um do you know for sure when you die your sins are given on your way to heaven? Well, I don't think you can know that until you die I don't say this, but I think it. I'm gonna start saying it. I'm gonna get up the nerve and start saying it. But I think this. Where'd you come up with that? Well show me that in the Bible. Well, you don't know whether you have everlasting life or not until you die and stand before God. I I've read that Bible through almost my 35th time, and I have yet to find anywhere in the Bible where it even remotely suggests that. You know where they get that idea from? Man. My Bible says that I know right now. I have everlasting life. May 779, I trusted Christ Savior. I've had and I have to this day and always will have everlasting life. How what kind of cruel God? Think about this. What kind of cruel God would wait until after you can't do anything about it, then he tells you whether you're going to heaven or hell or not? What is that? Some joke? I don't want to go to hell when I'll go to heaven. Well, you can't find out until there's nothing you can do about it. I know of no God in existence that operates that way. The only God in existence that I know of, and there's only one in existence, tells me. I can know right here and now that my sins are forgiven. I have everlasting life. I'll never be judged again. And when I die, I'm going to go to heaven. My Bible says I can know that. And I should know that. What a promise. What a promise. What a promise. What's our conclusion? Number one, eternal life comes from God. It's a gift that He gives to us. Not church, not man. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot give you everlasting life. Only Jesus can do that. By the way, the Pope in the Vatican can't give you everlasting life either. Pastor Leatherman can't. Nobody can. Only Jesus. There is judgment on sin. Don't let this world fool you into thinking that sin doesn't matter, that it's acceptable, that God doesn't pay any attention. God does pay attention, and there is judgment on sin. But Jesus has taken man's judgment on himself. When he was on that cross, he cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? He, all of worlds of mankind's sin was placed on Jesus Christ. And God, being the infinitely, blindingly holy God that he is, could not look on Jesus Christ and separated Himself from Jesus Christ. And Jesus suffered an eternal hell. And then Jesus cried out: It is finished The judgment for man's sin has been carried out, has been fulfilled. By the way, a person dies without Christ and goes to hell, they can never, ever, ever, ever say it is finished. For all eternity, they pay that price. But Jesus paid it all. And our last concluding thought is: I must receive this everlasting life by faith No other way. Simply, Jesus died for my sins, was buried, and rose again. I believe that's true with all my heart. I know that's true. And I am going to trust. I'm putting my hope in Jesus Christ. I am letting Him. Be in my life, cleanse my sin and take me to heaven someday. It's an old illustration. I've used it a number of times. You've probably many of you have heard it many times. But the settlers were going west and they got to the great prairies. And as harmless as those prairies seemed, nevertheless, they were very dangerous. And one of the great dangers facing the settlers going west in the prairies were these horrendous prairie fires That would sweep across the dry grass, particularly at the end of the summer, that dry grass, if it was a dry summer or something, and that fire we're told would travel sometimes 30, 40, 50 miles an hour, burning across that grass. They didn't have fire extinguishers. They had no defense against this. They've got horses and wooden wagons. There's no way they could outrun those fires. Many settlers perished. But they found a way, I believe the Indians taught them, they found a way to escape. That fire. And what they would do is they'd gather everybody together and they'd find a place off and they would light another fire. And they would burn that grass all around. As that fire is approaching, they would quickly burn a spot right here, a big enough spot where they could get everybody into what was already been burned. And they would get in there and they would hump her down. And that inferno would approach them and just go around the area that was already burned and move on. And they were safe. Why? Because where they were standing had already been burned. And I, as a sinner, when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, the Bible says I am in Christ, and in Christ I am somewhere that has already been judged. And I no longer face or fear a coming judgment because I am in Christ and He's already been judged for me. Does that make sense? Verily, barely, is the most important thing in life. Brother, listen. Don't spend your life, your time, your energies on things that are not important. Make sure your soul's salvation Say, well, I don't feel I don't I don't think I really want to join this church. Who said anything about joining the church? We're talking about trusting Jesus. Whether a person ever joins this church or not is secondary. The most important thing is receiving everlasting life, getting your sins forgiven. Say, Brother Leatherman, why do you care about me? Whether I go to heaven or hell or not. Well, number one, it just looks to me it would be human to care about someone. And number two, God loves you intensely. God don't want you to go to hell. God doesn't want our neighbors to go to hell. God doesn't want people in Oakland here to go to hell. God doesn't want people in Kazakhstan to go to hell. So we need to make sure of our own salvation, and then we need to commit ourselves to take that same word and share that with others. Father in heaven, please bless us and help us. Take this seriously. Help us keep our priorities straight Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say this morning, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. Maybe it was recently, maybe it was years ago. I trusted Christ as Savior. But you would say this, Preacher, I want to be a witness of this great message. I want to be able to share with others this word of the Lord that Jesus gave us so that others can be saved. And how many this morning would say, Preacher, I have a family member, I have a close friend, a co-worker, a neighbor, somebody that is on my heart here and now that I really believe needs Jesus Christ as their Savior. And you say, preacher, pray with me, that God will help me be that witness God will help me share with them this message. It's more important than who wins the ballgame or how much how big my paycheck is. But the destiny of my soul, and you say, preacher, pray with me that I can be an effective witness to share this gospel message with folks around me and some people in particular. Any like that by the uplift, preacher, pray with me. Goodness gracious, there's hands all around. No believer in their right mind wants someone else to go to hell. No believer in their right mind is indifferent about other people being saved. Surely not. We all want to be a witness. I wonder if there's some say, Preacher, I'm saved. But you say, you know, I'm really not living the Christian life like I should, and I really, even though this wasn't necessarily the subject of the message, I found inevitably when the gospel is preached. God convicts believers about our testimony. And how many would say, Preacher, I need you to pray with me that I would have a better testimony as a Christian, just the way I live my life, the way I talk, my attitude, my actions My work ethic. And you say, preacher, pray with me. The Spirit of God convicts me about being a better witness, a better testimony in living a Christian life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Goodness gracious. How old that's just a continual issue we have to deal with. One last question, and then we'll go to the invitation. How many here this morning say, Preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I'm going to heaven? I don't want to go to hell By the way, God doesn't want you to go to hell either. And you'd say, I'd like to know that my sins are forgiven. I'd like to have this matter settled. I never maybe gave a thought before, but now. You'd say, preacher, pray with me. You got a lot of other people raise their hand. When you pray with them, pray for them. Please pray for me also that God will help me settle this matter. I'm concerned about it. And you'd like for me to include you in the prayers of that. Would you slip your hand up? How many like that, Preacher? I'm not sure when I die I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I'd like for you to pray for me also that God would help me settle that in my life. How about it? Any at all? Preacher, I need this matter settled. I c I don't want to go on. I don't want to risk it. I don't want to neglect this area of my life. I want to take it seriously. How about it? Any at all? Any at all? Father in heaven, bless our invitation. A lot of hands raised You know where we're at. You know what we need. Help us to be the witness. Give us boldness as they prayed in Acts over and over. God give us boldness to speak the word of God as we owe it. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together.