Second Kings chapter number two. Second Kings chapter two And if you don't mind, we can stand for the reading of the Word of God And I I have heard the snow up this place is legendary. Uh we know about it down in Baltimore. And uh some some people call it Snow Clund. And uh there's just uh there's so much snow up here all the time. And uh I like snow but not, you know, snowed in for weeks at a time. So uh I pray we'll get through this week without it and uh hopefully get off these mountains with my R V without it. I thought about it again going down one thirty five. I thought I can't imagine what it's like here on a snowstorm. It's gotta be awful. So uh Let's not talk about that. All right. 2 Kings chapter 2, please. And I'd like to begin reading and I'd like to read, if I may, in verse number 9. And it came to pass when they were gone over that Elijah said unto Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee before I be taken away from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit Be upon me. And he said, Thou hast asked a hard thing. Nevertheless, if thou see me when I am taken from thee, it shall be so unto thee. But if not, It shall not be so. And it came to pass as they still went on and talked, the behold, there appeared a chariot of fire and horses of fire. And parted them both as sung her, and Elisha went up by a whirlwind into heaven. And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father. The chariot of Israel and the horsemen thereof. And he saw him no more. And he took hold of his own clothes and rent them in t in two pieces. He took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and went back and stood by the bank of Jordan. He took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him. Smote the waters and said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? Have you ever asked that question? Where is the Lord God Of John R. Rice. Where is the Lord God of Jonathan Edwards and these great revivalists? And where is the Lord? Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And when he had also smitten the waters, they parted thither, hither and thither, and Elisha went over. And when the sons of the prophets were to view it at Jericho saw him, they said, The spirit of Elijah Thus rests on Elijah or Elijah. And they came to meet him and bowed themselves to the ground before him. Our text is an interesting chapter of the Bible. It is the event where Elijah, the great prophet, is now caught up in heaven in a whirlwind on a fiery chariot. He goes out into glory, and he's one of the two men that we have no record of their actual death, Moses and Elijah. And he goes out into glory. We find that when he was there, a younger man named Elisha The man who poured water on Elijah's feet, the man, the young prophet who served Elijah in the latter years of his life, he goes with him over Jordan. He sees this event And the mantle of Elijah falls on Elisha. It all happened because Elisha requested A double portion of the spirit of Elijah. He said, Let a double portion of thy spirit Be upon me. I don't know when you ever gotten something that was really good. And it was so good they said, Would you like seconds? Yes. And you got more. It's usually about the same day that you start your diet. Amen to that? And they come out bring out a nice piece of pie and a nice scoop of ice cream on there. Would you like some more? Here you go. I well it's it's even worse when they say, I made this just for you. And yes, you gotta have a double portion. But I want to speak for a little while on the subject, a double portion. Of the Spirit of God, of what we need in these days in which we live. Father, help us tonight. Thank you for the Word of God. May it have free course in our midst. I pray that you'll give us what we need, and may every woman and man here have a great thirst, a great desire. To have a double portion of your spirit. May we have a double portion in our prayer lives and a great desire. May you give us a hunger and thirst in our life. Thank you for what you'll do. In Jesus' name we pray. Everyone said together, Amen. You may be seated. Thank you for standing for so long. Our text tonight, as mentioned, is the night when was the day when Elijah the prophet would be carried out in the glory. He knew that this was going to happen, and he begins to make his way down uh over Jordan. If you study your Bible, you know that Elijah the prophet served the Lord And served God somewhere between 860 and 852 BC. And he performed some 16 miracles how that God used him among the people of Israel. We mentioned last night that his uh he was made famous by his relationship with Ahab and his notorious wife Jezebel and how that they hated this man of God. And last night we learned how that he called out fire from heaven down on the sacrifice, and God used Elijah in a mighty way. Elijah's name means, my God is Yahweh. And he had run from Jezebel, who had made a commitment and a vow that she was going to kill Elijah He ran uh from her from the palace and ran all the way down uh to a place called Horeb. And while he was there in the Mount of Horeb, then he was just uh he was discouraged, he was worn out And he requested that he might die, and he made a false statement. He said, I and I alone remain a prophet of Israel. I'm it. I'm the last one. And God showed him that he had seven thousand who hadn't bowed the knee, and God met with him. The place Hora means glowing heat, and God uh stirred him up It gave him fire again in his bones, gave him new uh uh a new warmth in his soul, and when he left that place, he met with Eli Shaq Who began to serve Elijah as the man who traveled with him? Now Elisha begins to take the mantle. His name means Yahweh It salvation. So one would say, My God is Yahweh, the other would say, My God Yet Yahweh is salvation. So uh a play on their name. Three times uh Elijah on the way to Jordan He requests for Elisha to stay behind. And he said, Tarry here. He said it. Let's look at it, please. Uh we find it in verse number two. They're on the way. It was the day when God Would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind. And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord has sent me to Bethel. And Elisha said unto him, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. Again, he does the same thing in verse 4. He says Tarry here, I pray thee. He said, As the Lord liveth, I will not leave thee. Again, in verse number 6, Elijah said unto him, Tarry, I pray thee, here, for the Lord has sent me to Jordan. And he said, As the Lord liveth, as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And they too Went on. So uh each time he said, I am not going anywhere, I'm staying with you. There's a lesson there. younger men, I know the temptation is to follow these newfangled young men who have all these great ideas, all these Henry Fords of the earth, the better idea uh people, and have all these conferences of how to get it done And you know that uh young guys are tempted because a lot of times they know them, they went to school together, their buddies, their cohorts. And they feel like they're gonna be the odd man out. And these young guys are all uh putting on podcasts and teaching young men how to build churches, and they're leaving Good men of God, they're leaving off from following a good pastor, a seasoned man, to follow some kid with a pair of headphones on and a mic I'm going to tell you this, I'm not following a podcaster, I'm going to follow a pastor. Amen to that? I'm going to follow a man of God who teaches me the Bible. And so they're leaving off the things of God, and yet This young man, Elisha, says, I will not leave thee. Now there's fifty other sons of the prophets, and they said, Hey, the Lord's going to take your master from you today He said, I know it. Hold your peace. They knew what was going to happen. Why didn't they follow him? Why didn't they stay with the man of God? There's only one and had that great hunger and desire to have uh the what that man of God possessed. God said in Jeremiah 6. 16, Thus saith the Lord, Stand ye in the ways and see, and ask From the old paths, where is the good way and walk therein just saying we ought to uh walk in the old paths. He said we ought to ask for 'em. We ought to trust God. to give us that right pat that right way and that right path uh in these last days in which we live. Now He gets to the finally across Jordan, and it's almost as if Elisha has passed the test. And Elijah, when they get to the other side in verse 9 He said, Ask what I shall do for thee before I be taken away from thee. He said, What do you want? From me. What can I give you? What can I do for you? It didn't take Elisha long. He didn't have to pray about it. He didn't have to say, oh wait a minute, boy, uh that's a big thing. He knew what he wanted And he said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. Can you imagine that tonight? If God were to come to you and say, uh, what do you want? What is your biggest need? I mean a lot of us might say, a new house A new car, you might need a new car. Your house might be getting too small, got too many kids in it. You might uh need a new job You might need some things, but this man realized his greatest need was not things. His greatest need was not money. His greatest need that he wanted was what Elijah had. He wanted to see the power of God on his life in the same manner as the man of God. I did hear about a young man that He was praying and an angel came to him. And the angel said, I'll give you three things. What would you like? Anything you want. He said, Well, you know I'm on this deserted island and I've been praying for God to get me home somehow. He said the first thing I'd like is a I I'd like a boat speed boat to get me home. She's damn there was a boat right there. Beautiful boat. He said, You got two more requests. He said, Well, I'd like to have Ten million dollars in the boat, waiting for me. Puff of smoke, Shazam, and there's ten million dollars. The angel said one more thing. One more request and I'll give it to you anything at all. He said, Well, you can see I'm not much to look at and I'm not married and I can't find a girl. He said, um Make me irresistible to all women. And uh Shazam, he became a chocolate cake. Anyway, you gotta be careful. Uh you have to be careful what you ask for. Say amen. He said, I pray thee Let a double portion, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. He said, Elijah, I want what you have. And I want twice as much of it. Now, he said, I want your spirit. I want what you are. I want what you have. Study Elijah. You'll find out his certainly was a spirit. Of prophecy. He was a prophet. He had uh the sons of the prophets, he had the school of the prophets, all these things, because he had the spirit of a prophet. He was a man of God. He knew it would happen. He'd already told King Ahab, uh, guess what? It's not gonna rain uh until I say so. And then he said again, three and a half late years later uh let the rains come. He knew exactly what was going to happen by the word of the Lord. So he wanted that with his life. He had the spirit of prophecy. He had the spirit of purity. He was a man who walked with God in a fearless manner It was not popular in Samaria, it was not popular in Israel, it was not popular in Jezreel where he lived. We learned last night uh it was eight hundred and fifty to one against him and the uh the false prophets of Baal and of the groves. And so uh he was one of the last of the Mohicans. He took a stand for God And it was very unpopular. But I believe somewhere in the middle of his life, somewhere along the way, Elijah decided, I'm going to be a prophet Who is not for sale. Do I have an amen? A prophet who's not looking for a little payday on Sunday, not looking for a little uh a little bit of money here and there. If you opened up his coat uh instead of uh Joseph Bank or whatever your name is on your coat, he would have opened up the coat and would have said, Not for sale, and then on the other side for any price. I live for God. I'm glorifying him. They tried to shut him up. They tried to shut him down. They tried to intimidate him. Even Jezebel said, Before this day is true, you're gonna die. And uh he did run from her, but God uh indeed watched over his life and kept the man of God. He had a spirit I believe of a pure heart toward God. His was a spirit of prayer. He was a man of prayer. He knew how to pray. James says it like this in Chapter five. Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are And he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth for the space of three years and six months. And he prayed again And the heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. What am I saying? Elijah, he had his hand on the water faucet of heaven. He said, sorry, I'm praying. It's not gonna rain. It's not gonna rain until you get right with God. And then God said, Okay, now it's time. He prayed again. And the water, the heavens gave forth rain. That's a pretty powerful prayer life. Amen to that? And so understand, he knew how to pray. His was a spirit of prayer, and his was a spirit Of power. The power of God rested on Elijah. And this young man sees that and says, I want what you have. And I want twice as much of it. In Bible College, when I got there, the dorms were full. They said you'll have to live off the campus in a man's house. There are some uh people who have some housing, you can pay them And there's a gentleman named Charlie, you can call Charlie, he has a room upstairs, uh in near uh in in the top level of his house. And uh he's got it uh open to college students for fifty dollars a month. I said, Well the price is right. And I I drove over to Charlie's knocked on the door, he opened the door, and a strange little man answered the door He had little glasses, little round spectacles, like uh and I I found out he was a math teacher in junior high. He wore cardigan sweaters and uh just like Mr. Rogers would and he and he kinda looked a little bit like him, a little frail fella. He said, Hello there, your name's Lou. I said, Yes. He says, Mine's Charlie. Come on in I went into Charlie's house, his little dog came up, his name was Marty, came up and said hi to me, greeted me, a little three-legged dog, and I said, Oh, this is gonna be fun. A little three-legged animal. I said, Oh man, what happened? Oh Marty's leg. He tried to fit a fetch a ball under a lawnmower, a smart little doggy, amen. And so uh I thought this is gonna be great. And then to my horror around the corner walked a big old tabby cat, big orange cat, he came by and I said you might not want to do that. If you know who you're dealing with, uh you probably wrong. But I'm saying that I said this commitment, great. He said, Oh by the way, I didn't tell you you got a roommate up there, his name's Bobby. I said okay. So I went upstairs and Bobby, uh I walked in and immediately I noticed I have a roommate But there's only one bed. And uh I don't mind sleeping, you know, with my little brother or s something like that. Or well actually I didn't have any. I was the youngest of three of four brothers. How many had older brothers growing up We'll have a support group meeting after service tonight. But I mean uh but you know, okay, I can do that. And I looked at this guy and he said, Well, looks like it's you and me, brother. I said, Okay, I've got the outside and uh I'll tell you what, you stay over against that wall there and don't even think about touching me anytime in the middle of the night. This guy Bobby was a comedian. He was a funny guy. He was only eighteen and I was a little older and and twenty-three years old and got saved later in life. And uh he was off the farm in Kansas and I was off to you know Baltimore in trouble and all that and uh very different and uh he said I said man you meet the landlord? He said yeah he's a pretty unusual guy isn't he was different And so uh Bobby could imitate him purse perfectly make fun of him and stuff and he came in one night, stuck his head in the door And he said, Hey boys, I got you something and he gave us a New Testament and I looked up and there was Charlie. He had a fishnet pulled over his head And I thought, what is this? And he he said, there you go, boys, and he just left the room. Well I I kind of looked out when I turned around there was Bobby with a laundry basket over his head. Said, hey boys, and so making fun of Mr. Charlie and Uh he would pull up put that fish net over his head so his hair wouldn't stick up in the morning. So uh I found out later. I came home, we had exams And when I came in from late studying, I noticed under Charlie's little office right off his bedroom that the light was on. There was a large crack under the door where they used to have carpeting, and so pretty good size, and I could see the light on. I came home another night. The light was on again. I thought, what's he doing in there? I thought I'll find out what he's doing. I'll tell Bobby and then he can imitate him and we'll have a laugh. We'll make fun of him. He's gotta be doing something weird And I went over there and uh I tried to look through the keyhole. It was blocked. I guess he had a key in it. And I thought, well, I'll just look underneath of this crack. I got on hands and knees and I looked down underneath of that crack. And right on the other side of the crack There was Charlie. He was right there. And he was on all fours on the floor. And he had a map spread out on the floor. And on that map He had little pins sticking up with flags. And I looked at him and I kind of listened, and then I realized old Charlie was praying. He had a map of the world. He was praying for all the missionaries that their church supported. And as he was praying, I could hear, and then I looked again. under there and he never saw me. I looked again and he's got tears running down his cheeks and said, Oh Lord, I pray for our missionaries in Indonesia. I didn't move I thought the doors, the the floor's gonna creak, God's gonna kill me, I'm gonna die right here, a bear's gonna bust through this wall and eat me alive, something bad's gonna happen. I'm watching this man of God and Finally, uh I pulled away and got back to the room and went to bed. And man, I a couple days went by and I finally said, Mr. Charlie, I've got to talk to you. And I I told him what I did. I said I saw you in there praying. I I was gonna make fun of you and stuff and wondered what you were doing and man, I'm so sorry. I said, could I join you? Oh sure, son, I pray for you and Bobby every night. I'd like to pray with you. He said, I'd love to pray for you Man, I went there with that dear man, one o'clock in the morning, and I I we prayed. He'd pray there sometimes three and four hours for the missionaries, for his church, for his pastor, for us. I mean, I found out what there that there was a genuine, real live man of prayer. And that's who we live with. Never forget old Charlie, he taught at the Washington Middle School in Kansas City, Kansas and he said, Hey Lou, I got a Bible club over at my school and I'm a I'm the teacher. I sponsor it. Would you come over and preach for us sometime in the afternoon? It starts at three fifteen and ends at four fifteen. I said, Yes, sir. I came over Charlie had uh two rooms, they had to open partitions up, his rooms two rooms full of kids. Uh he didn't make he didn't lay he didn't play games, he didn't sing, he do all kinds of crazy stuff. He didn't do cartwheels. He wasn't cool. The kids came in and go, hey, what's up kids? I'm Charlie. Hey dudes, what's going on? He didn't try to act like them or anything. Hello kids. Good to have you here today. Uh I've got a friend, his name is Lou, he lives with me, he's gonna preach to you. Man, I started preaching and I'm gonna tell ya heaven came down on those kids. I don't know how many kids got saved, he got 'em saved every single week. We'd have youth rallies. Charlie would pack his buses out and Almost every month at the youth rally. You know why? He told me one day I said, How do you do it with these kids? He said, I just pray for 'em, Lou He said God's able to uh meet their needs, God's able to bring them in. He was a man of God, and I prayed that that spirit uh of Charlie would be upon me He said, I pray thee, Elijah said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit Now I don't have two cats, but anyway that uh he did have those. But I'm saying that uh I I was praying for a double portion of the spirit To be upon my light. Understand tonight, a man with a double portion. He wants God's will He wants what God can do. He wants the power of God to rest upon him. How many of this tonight? It's not by power. more nor by uh might, but by my spirit, saith the Lord, it is God who is the one who does his works. Amen. I don't want a false revival. I want a real live Holy Ghost revival. I've had some revivals where folks came or the kids thought it was funny and brought their friends out or whatever and got a big crowd And uh man even saw some people saved. I'm not even talking about that. I mean where God comes through and and we can't uh stop meeting and we can't stop calling on God. We didn't think about missing church and where God is doing great things in our midst. Now a man with a double portion First of all, he is a man, I believe, with a consuming desire. He is a man with a great desire to see God's work go forward That's what Elijah was. He was a man who truly was a man after God's own heart. He was a man that loved God and desired to serve him. I don't see any vacillation in the life of Elijah. Yes, he ran from Jezreel, he ran from uh Jezebel and ran for his life. He even got discouraged and uh crawled into a cave and requested God just to take him out of this world. But understand, he was living uh against such an ungodly climate and such a wicked environment that he lived in. Uh he be became very isolated and alone. That can happen to anybody, say amen. It can happen to any one of us. But other than that, he was a man that constantly craved and desired to see God do his work and for God to fulfill his perfect will. I love what David said in Psalm 631. O God, Thou art my God. Early will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee. My flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land where no water is. I believe he wrote that before he got into trouble with Bathsheba. Before He looked on another man's wife and committed adultery. Why why do I believe that? He rose up in the evening tide. He rose up in the afternoon the day when he looked out and saw uh Bathsheba And understand the fact when instead of being out there in battle and seeking God early, uh he got lazy, he got lax in his spiritual life. I want you to know there's no vacations in the things of God, amen. You might even be on vacation, but there's no vacation from prayer And reading and seeking Him and reading your Bible and and pouring out your needs before God. That's a daily thing. Say amen to that. A consuming Desire. In Psalm 42, verse 1, he says, The heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. And so God made it clear that a man like this has a heart for the things of God, a consuming desire. Secondly, a complete detachment. A complete Detachment. I can say this to you. Elijah was dead to the world. He had no desire for the things of this world In fact, he even wore a strange garment. People knew who he was because of the way he was dressed. He kind of dressed like a weirdo. He didn't try to be cool. He didn't try to be vogue. I I believe he was out of style on purpose, amen. And uh he did not go with the trends of his day And God made it very clear that He's looking for people even today who are detached from this present life, who love God And love him more than this present world. This is why God said, Love not the world, neither things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. My daughter uh was with Brother Ricky Martin, a great uh powerful missionary to the Philippines. Ricky Martin will have uh some twenty-five thousand people in church This coming Sunday in the Philippine Islands because of his ministry. They have uh several hundred small churches all over the islands. His is the main island of of Iloilo. That's where his church is. I've preached there before to over five thousand people on a Wednesday night. Amen. No special service, just show up on bicycles and uh jeepneys and get out of the jeepneys and just can't wait to get to church and hear the word of God. And my daughter said Brother Martin, why do the people here why are they so dead to the world? Why do they don't care about the world? He said, Well that's easy, because it's not available to them Available to them, they'd be just as worldly as Americans. Understand, we live in a society that the world is wearing us out. Amen. It is wearing us out. And just the cares of this life, the deceitfulness of riches, the lust of other things, just taking care. Have you learned this? Whatever you get Whatever you finally get, you gotta take care of it. And now all of a sudden you're serving stuff and you're giving your life for stuff. And so I had to go home and take care of my house and uh put our things away and take care of all of our stuff that we have. We were going to one of our big rooms in the back and uh Susan said, Wow I forgot about all this stuff. I said, so did I. And as soon as Thanksgiving's over, we're getting rid of all of it. She said, Oh, honey That'll be a blessing. She said, You think I'll find so I said, when you start going through here, you're going to find treasure here, treasure there. You know, we have stuff hidden under other stuff. Have you ever got to that place where you just said, we're getting rid of all of it? Say amen to that. A complete detachment from this present life. And God said this: Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship Hath righteousness with unrighteousness, what communion hath light with darkness, what concord hath Christ with Balial And God made it clear that the temple of God, our body, our light, has no agreement with idols that we're to be separate. And then he gets to the verse, wherefore come out from among them and be separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing. Sadly, in our circles and independent Baptist churches, we have made uh separation as to how we look on the outside and that's an important thing or how we dress or uh how we conduct ourselves or how long our hair is or whatever we've made it out to be all outward but separation begins in the heart to where we set oursel separate our life unto God. Well we love Him with all of our heart, soul, with all of our mind, and live for God Nobody ever told me to get a haircut. When I got saved, my hair was way over my shoulders. I looked like a uh a mess. My hair looked like an explosion in a mattress back. I was a rock and roll drummer and involved in sin and all that goes along with it. I got saved and I looked in the mirror. Never heard a sermon about it. I looked in the mirror, I thought, that looks bad Went to the uh I went to the barber. I said, I need to get a haircut. He said, Oh uh want the the split ends trimmed? I said, No, I want my hair cut. And he said, Okay, he couldn't wait, man. He cut off my hair. Uh I mean there was fleas jumping off, you name it. I mean, he cut off and and I looked at myself in the mirror, I thought, Now I really look bad. Amen. I hadn't seen my ears in years. I mean, I looked like Mickey Mouse and I said, Okay Thank you, sir. But I I was tired of living for the world. Never heard a sermon on how you ought to dress, but man, God was dealing with me I threw out all my hippie clothes and all my stuff, went to EJ Corvette's, which was the old school for Walmart, went to EJ Corvette's, bought myself A pair of uh cream colored pants with big old green checks on them. I was the nerdiest looking guy. Traded in my sports car. I had a sports car and uh traded in for a Volkswagen Amen. You can't get any weirder than that or uglier unless you get it maybe an AMC pacer. But anyway, it was an ugly car Boy, I just I I said I'm tired of the world. I'm sick of it. I want to walk with God. Pastor said, would you pick up teenagers? I said, yeah, I can put the seats down in my car. I could put a bunch of them in there. And I made a little board and ran it right down the middle of the car and I put girls on one side, boys on the other and just smash 'em in there and uh, hey, I'm being crushed. Hey, we'll get there. Hold on. Hold your breath. We'll be there soon. But I mean we just Uh we started picking kids up and getting excited about having teenagers uh in our life. Why? It was far better than the world. I don't miss it. Say amen to that I don't miss waking up in the morning and wonder where I park my car. I don't miss uh waking up and saying, Wow, I don't have any money. What happened to all my money over the weekend? I'm broke. I don't miss any of that. I'm glad To be saved by the grace of God. I remember Dr. Lee Robertson, we had him in our church and uh I was a young guy pastoring and uh and uh had a little young family and man doctor lee Robertson he he was one of my heroes he was one of the greatest men I ever met. He was coming to our church and I said, Man we're gonna host him Take them out to lunch. It's gonna be an awesome time. And uh I said, uh uh, where do you want to go to lunch, Dr. Robson? Oh, I'm fine, I don't need anything, no lunch, no lunch. I said, Well I have it all set up, the Stone Mountain Inn, we'll get right in there, buffet You won't have to wait in the line to ready for it. No line? No line. Okay. And so we went over there and then he sat across from the table. And I was excited, young guy. And I said, uh, I had my questions all figured out I said, Dr. Robertson, what is the most important aspect of the Christian life? When I said the word life, I was squeezing a lemon into my iced tea And when I squeezed it, that lemon juice shot across the table and it hit Dr. Lee Robertson right directly in the eye. It's like one of these new movies that just went slow motion. And uh the drop of lemon juice looked like a you know like a marble. It looked gigantic And ran over and I watched it go, jeez, right in his eye. I was going, No trying to get it uh too late. Went right in his eye And he went, Oh, oh, oh and he was a man he was just really I never saw him unsettled, never heard him. He was always very stoic. Oh and he he it really just was burning his eyes And I went, Oh man, children, you shouldn't have shot that lemon juice. And so uh then and uh he had a piece of chicken in his hand. He never put it down Never dropped it. Oh and he finally got his eyeballs straightened out. His wife had a uh one of the uh a nice linen cloth, was wiping it out with water, and she said, Open your eye, Lee. And I said, You called him Lee His name is Dr. Robertson, but she she kept got him all cleaned up and got him all done, and he stood there with chicken right in his hand. He looked at me, never skipped a beat, finding the will of God And do it. I forgot about the question. I thought, man, what what what's that mean? What's that have to do with shooting somebody in the eye? He said, Find the will of God And do it. That's what he said you need to do. I asked him the next day, I said, Dr. Robertson, why do you always wear a blue suit like that? Why do you always wear a double breasted suit and white shirt and whatever he said, never have to think about what I'm gonna wear. Always wear the same thing. I have all blue navy blue suit, white shirt, all my ties match. He said Uh I do wear I have a black suit for funerals, that's it. Always wear the same thing. I said, Man, it's amazing. Then I was telling him at lunch the next day I said, Dr. Robertson, we have we've been given a three-octave set of English handbells to our church. We got kids that are ringing them. And we have kids, we had tracks made, Christmas tracks, and we're uh going to the malls and we're set up in all the malls, the kids are gonna ring, people get around, other kids are singing And we're giving out tracks in the balls and people coming up and getting saved. It's it's amazing. And he said, With the ball, can't go to the mall I said, yeah, we they gave us permission. You can't go to the mall. It's much too cold outside. You can't you're gonna be freezing out there. You're gonna you're gonna crack the bells. If you're not careful they get too cold. I said, no, uh uh they're in the mall. I said, yeah, well it's too cold outside. His wife said Lee, malls are inside. He didn't even know. All the way back in 1992, Dr. Robertson didn't even know that a mall is an indoor shopping area. You know why? Never been to one. Had no desire to go to a mall. I said, Mrs. Robertson, have you ever been to the mall? She said oh yeah, you better believe it, Brother Ross. She was funny. She was a wonderful lady And I'm saying to you, he was dead. He had no idea. He had no idea there was such a thing. He wasn't involved in it. And you know why? Uh God used him so greatly? He had a complete detachment He had a consuming desire to win souls and train workers. Those are the two things Dr. Robertson would tell you right now. Want to win souls, train workers. That's what God called me to do. And he would pray He would say, Lord, help us to serve you who would always preach, have faith in God, die to self, be filled with the Holy Spirit, be used of God, be faithful, be faithful. Those are four themes, that was it And he preached them in every sermon. I'm saying there's a complete detachment. There is a consuming desire. There is a consecrated Devotion. Elijah, throughout his life, several times during confrontation, he would say, I am thy servant. I am thy servant. Do this according to thy word. He called out to God when he faced those false prophets. He said, I am thy servant, O God. In other words, he's saying, I belong Solely to God. Have you ever taken everything you have and said, God, you've got it all? I know it's a bad deal We we get the great deal. God blesses us and we give him this mess. Amen to that. He certainly got uh the bad part of the bargain But we give them what we have. And we say, Lord, here it is. It's all on the altar of sacrifice laid. Here I am. You could quote it for me. If I called on you, many of you could, where the Bible says in Romans twelve one and two. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your what? reasonable service and be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that, good An acceptable and perfect will of God. You know how you can know God's will Give your life to God and you'll know it. And don't wait for God to reveal it to you. You give your life to Him. You make that surrender. You say yes to God and you'll know All about it. I heard the uh story of a chicken and a hog were talking to one another, and they said, Hey, what should we do to solve the problem of world hunger The chicken said, I have a great idea. Let's serve the whole world ham and eggs. The hog said, Hey, wait a minute. For you that requires a contribution. For me, that requires total sacrifice And I'm saying that what God wants, He doesn't want a contribution from us. He doesn't want a little egg here and there. God wants our whole life. Say amen. He wants everything we have. I heard the True story of a little girl in Korea. There was a missionary, small village, a very poverty-stricken place. And he was there building a church. While he was building the church, they built a new building, and the building was almost done except for the roof. They couldn't get the money for the roof. And he made an appeal. He said, Pray that God will provide. I'm writing a prayer letter, trying to get money back home. Uh things are a little tight back there. We need the money for this roof. Let's pray that God would give it to us before the monsoon comes and ruins everything we're doing for the building. Well, there was a teenage girl there, and this young teenage girl after service went to the doctor's office She went to the doctor and said, Doctor, I'd like you to do something for me. And the doctor said, What is it? She said, I need to help raise money for the church. We don't have money for the new building. She said, I've heard that medical science will buy body parts. And she said, I would like to sell one of my eyes to medical science so that I will have money To give to the building. He said, young lady, he said, yes. She said, I've been practicing since yesterday after church. I put a patch over my eye. I've been trying it. I can live without an eye But I can't live without knowing the church is done. I want the house of God to go forward. She tried he tried to talk her out of it, said come back, and he named the date And she came back later, came in with the patch over her eye, and he said, Don't do this. You you mean regret this forever? She said, Please, sir Please take my eye. I want you to take it. You see, my body belongs to God. I have given him everything. I can give him an eye, but I can so he can get the money. She had it all figured out He said, finally, all right. Lay there on the operating table, covered her up with claws, only her eye was exposed. And he said, You're sure you want to do this? She said, please, please, just do it now before I change my mind And he said, You won't have to do that. And he pulled a curtain back and there were three other doctors behind the curtain. He had called them. And they said, Well If she would show up, then they would pitch together and they would give the money for the roof. And they gave the money. The roof was completed. The building was done. The girl kept her eyeball. And the best part of the story is, when they had dedication service, the doctor sat over on this side next to that little teenage girl And the doctor came forward and got saved by the grace of God. And I'm saying to you that that was saying, I want God to have my life. How many believe this tonight? God Has a better plan for you than you could ever contrive on your own. There was a consecrated devotion. Elisha said, I'm following you. I see a genuinely devoted man. And finally, there was a convincing discovery. When Elijah was caught up into heaven, Elisha was waiting, and he saw him go up into heaven, and Elisha begins to cry out. And sees him. And he says, My father, my father, in verse 12. The chariot of Israel, the horsemen thereof And he saw him no more. And he took hold of his own clothes and rent them in two pieces. You know what Elisha was saying? I'm about to be a very different person. I'm not going to leave these old clothes anymore. I'm going to have the man of Elijah. I'm going to be the next man up after a man of God is taken out into heaven. And when this happened, verse 13, he took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, went back and stood by the bank of Jordan. He took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, smote the waters, and said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And when he had smitten the waters, they parted hither and thither. And Elijah went over. Can you see this? He walks up to the river. They've already come across from dry land once. Shortly afterward, he takes that same mantle that Elijah had taken and said, let's see if this works. And he hits it. And sure enough, the waters go back. And he crosses back over. And when he crosses back over, the 50s, the sons of the prophets. Which stood afar off. When the sons of the prophets were to view at Jericho's Psalm, they said, The spirit of Elijah The thrust on Elijah, Elisha, and they came to meet him, bowed themselves to the ground before him. Wait a minute. Are you telling me that he didn't need to have A lapel pen that said, I am anointed. He didn't need to have a little t-shirt that said, I'm a man of God. He didn't need to have a Jesus first lapel pen. Oh, I left mine on my pajamas. He didn't have uh some paraphernalia that would tell everybody, look how spiritual I am. He didn't have to do that When the hand of God is upon you, you don't have to make announcements, amen. When God's blessing is on your life, it's evident to those around you. And there was this convincing discovery That he now had the hand of God upon his life. I would say to you tonight That not only did he have the hand of God upon his life, this young man now goes on and he performs literally twice as many miracles. As Elijah. Go home and read it. Elijah 15 or 16, a little bit of controversy there. Elisha 30 or 32. He literally performed twice as many. You know why? Because God gave him a double portion. I think some people I I get ti I love old books and I love reading about great revivals. But Pastor, there's times I get kind of frustrated about it. You see, I'm I'm tired of having to go to a book that's 200 years old and read about revival. I'm tired of having to go back 150 years and read about great men of God who prayed all night and the power of God came and in Tamislang, Scotland, or in Wales, or in the New Hebrides Islands, or in America in 1735, or again in 1858 And again, in the nineteen hundreds there was a great bit of revival in the fifties and sixties. And I would say that I'm tired of having to wait around for that. Aren't you looking for the days where the church house fills up again? Aren't you looking for the days where folks start coming in and saying, You the youth pastor, these are my teenagers, I've been praying for 'em I want to heard you preach the gospel around here. Hey, I heard you have a seniors ministry around here. I want to come here and come in and get involved Hey, I heard Pastor that you're a great preacher and that you preach the Bible. We listen to you in the radio, and we're we're coming. We brought our family here. We don't want to hear from God. When's the last time somebody just stumbled in and said, Man, I'm messed up. Can you help me? And got saved at an old-fashioned altar. That's how I got saved. That's how some of you got saved. I got a plate to the place. I couldn't drink it away. I couldn't smoke it away. I couldn't listen to a loud enough music for it to go away. And I came out under a c case of old-fashioned conviction because my parents were praying and seeking God and their church was praying And I got a case of the can't help us, and I finally got saved by the grace of God on a Sunday morning, and I've never been the same. Say amen. If God can do that for us How many believe he can do that for your neighbors? How many believe he can do that for your your lost family members? And I've got a wayward child. Man, I'm praying for the hand of God Upon my child. I've been to altars like this one and and cried. The pastors have come by and say, You okay, brother? Uh we're ready to go. I'm okay, Pastor. God bless you. Thank you I love my child. I want them saved. Say they are. Who knows? God knows all about that. I've given up figuring out who's saved and who's lost. All I want to do is see them get right. Say amen to that Get their life back in order in the place where God wants them to be. And I would say to you tonight, we're living in a generation We've got twice the population. We've gone well over seven billion people. We're eight billion is not too far away. The world We've got twice the sin going on. You say, well, it was bad when I was a teenage. Same here. It was real bad. It was awful. But not like today. It's worse. Jesus said in Matthew 24, verse 12, Because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold. We're in that place now. We're living in twice the danger. We live in a dangerous society. God said this in the last days, perilous times shall come. Dangerous. I mean danger filled. You don't know who the next one's gonna be. I stopped at a seven eleven last night before I can went home to pick something up, and it was about twelve o'clock close to twelve and I walked in and the guy at the counterman, he started yelling at the lady, give me this, give me this, give me this, and I'm going, what in the world, why in the world, for once in my life, my handgun is in my vehicle instead of on my side They don't do you any good in the vehicle. Do I have an amen? They don't do any good unloaded either. Say amen to that. And So here I am. He said, hey man, can you buy me something? I said, what do you want? I'll buy you a hot dog. How's that? Oh, okay. Well can you get me some uh can you get me some uh He starts getting stuff off the shelf. I said, I'll get you a hot dog. He said, well what about this? I said he had paper towels in his hand. You want the paper towels or the other stuff? They didn't have hot dogs. He said, I'll take the paper towels. I'll buy you paper towels. God bless you. Here's a track And I thought for sure here we go. You never know. That might have been an altercation. He could have pulled out of Glock 19 and started shooting at the place and shooting the place up. You don't know. We live in that world. Amen to that And we're in twice the danger. We're in twice world's twice as liberal as it used to be. Who in the world would ever think people are believing things that they believe? They want people to have operations We're heading towards transgenderism, and I'll be talking about that. We're not just talking about transgenderism. We're heading towards transhumanism Where people are being transformed from human into bots and all that come with it. You say, yeah, that's gonna happen a hundred years from now. No. That's happening Now, people are receiving neuralink lauralink implants into their uh cerebral vortex of their brain uh and they are lit or the cortex of their brain and they literally are about to be taken over and no longer will be human. Guess what? Christ didn't come to pay the price for robots He came to pay pay the price for lost people, human beings. I wonder if that's why the mark you can't be saved after that. The mark of the beast. And then there is we're in We've got twice the need. We've got a needy generation of people. We need a double portion. We need to have power to reach into people's lives and hearts. How many how many know that when we speak on the outside, we want the Holy Ghost to speak on the inside. When we speak to them and give them the gospel and that Spirit of God says, that's right, you need to listen to this man. You need to listen to this woman. That's what you need. We need that. And we're twice as close. Twice as close to the rapture of the church. Paul said in Romans 13, now is our salvation nearer. The one we believed. I talked to our sister. The sister's gonna be ninety on Thursday. I keep forgetting her name, I'm sorry, but Helen? Sister Helen. Talked to her before the service. She said, hey, by the way, uh I've I I've been a member of this church for 50 years, but I've been in church for over 70. I said, Amen to that. And you know. You think about 70 years ago when you got saved. And Miss Helen, she told me about it, went to a hellfire preacher, and God spoke to it to her, and she got saved. And guess what? Now, 70 years later, you're a whole lot closer than you were back then. Christ is coming back. Say amen. If he doesn't, we're all all of us, every one of us, are going to breathe our last breath, and we'll be absent from the body and present with the Lord. And because of that We need to have a double, double portion of God upon our life. Tonight, with our heads bowed, with our eyes closed, first of all, I'm going to ask you this. First of all How many in the room would say, Brother Rossi, I'm saved, I know it. And I know I'm going to heaven when I die. I'm sure of that fact. I'm a hundred percent sure if I died today Heaven is my home. I'm sure of that. Could I see your hands, please? All around the room. Let me see your hands. Just hold them up for a second. You're sure of that. You're sure. Alright, you could put your hands down. Some of you do not raise your hand, and you're not sure. We are so close to the coming of Christ. If you're not careful, you'll miss the rapture of the church. What an awful world you'll face without Christ. Eventually you'll face him in judgment without Jesus, without salvation. And all around the room, there may be one or several here that say, please pray for me. I want to get it right. I want to get it settled. I want to know for sure that I'm saved. Please pray for me. Could I see your hand, please? Anybody like that? Please pray for me. I'm not sure that I'm saved, and I want to get it settled Tonight. God bless you. Anybody else? You want to get it settled tonight? Not sure that you're saved. You want to settle it tonight. In just a moment, I'm going to give an invitation. When I do, I'm going to have one of the people pray for you and show you. Make sure your salvation is secured. It's called the security of the believer. It's called knowing that you belong to Christ for eternity. Others here and say, I know that I'm saved. Here's my challenge. I'm going to challenge you to double up. To double, to double your prayer life, to double your Bible reading. You say, brother, that's a lot. I understand. To double your commitment to Christ, to say, Lord, you can have everything I am. I belong to you. How many take a challenge, maybe at least for a season, just to double up your Christian life? And so I want more than I've ever done before. I want God to have his way. I want a double portion. of the Lord in my life. Could I see your hands, please? Twice as stirred, twice as much. Giving. Give more than you've ever given for his glory and honor. And watch God bless your life. I like as our sister plays whatever she has selected. Once you come and find a place at the altar