Chapter five. If you find verse number nineteen in Galatians chapter five, I'm going to read down through verse twenty five And then we'll go, as I said, back to Philippians. Look at verse 19 with me, Galatians 5. Now the works of the flesh are manifest. Alright, here's the list. These are works of the flesh Which are these: adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, which means basically lawlessness, just anything goes Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations Wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and the such like How many people agree with me? That's an ugly list. That's an ugly list. I read that and it seems like your front page on any social media. Today. It's describing our society in a lot of ways. And look what he says about this, the such like. Of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past. That they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. That's a strong statement. Verse 22. But the fruit of the Spirit, the previous list was the works of the flesh. Verse 22: the fruit of the Spirit is, now here's the list: love. Joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith meekness, temperance, temperance means self-control, against such there is no law. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Now, if you would, come back to Philippians chapter number 4, and I would like for us to read together verse number 4. Philippians chapter 4 and verse number 4. Now let's read it together. You got it there? Everybody have it? A lot of us are familiar with this, I'm sure. But let's read together. Philippians 4, verse 4. All together, here we go. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say, rejoice. I want to speak this morning on rejoicing. Rejoicing. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the good songs that were sung this morning, the choir, the congregation, the special. It's blessed my heart, Lord. I believe they helped me, helped prepare my heart for preaching the message. And I'm grateful for that, Lord. I thank you for the good fellowship we've had this morning. I'm just so grateful for this church And I pray now, as your word is preached, that you would address each of us individually, where we're at in our relationship with you, in our standing before you Lord, I have no doubt I'm speaking to some this morning that are closer to you than have ever been before. They're rejoicing in the Lord. They're walking in victory. I pray you'd encourage them and strengthen them in that state. Lord, no doubt I'm speaking to some that are struggling. Maybe they're far from you for various reasons. And I pray that you would be gracious. I pray you would use your word and draw us back into close fellowship with you that we could have that peace and that fulfillment and that joy. Lord, maybe there's some under the sound of my voice that do not even know you as Savior. They're still lost in their sins under the judgment of God. I pray that you and your grace and mercy would open their hearts and God help them to see the importance of trusting Christ and settling that. Before it's too late. So Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And with all my heart, dear God, I ask that you fill me with your spirit. And yet you speak through me. You address our situation through me with your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The book of Philippians is a letter written by the Apostle Paul, of course, under the inspiration of God and preserved for us here in God's Word. And by the way, the Bible is God's Word. Every word of it is given to us by the Lord. It's perfect in every way. And so Paul wrote to this church at in the city of Philippi. And I just wanted to give a little background on the city where this church is located, where this letter is written to. Uh the city of Philippi is mentioned twice in the Bible, only twice in Acts chapter 16, and if you're familiar with your Bible, I'm sure you're familiar with Acts chapter 16 is where Paul and Silas are thrown in prison for preaching the gospel and uh and uh the earthquake uh and at midnight they're singing and praising the Lord, rejoicing in the Lord. All the prisoners in the prison hear these two nuts. singing and praising God and rejoicing in the Lord. About that time there is an earthquake and the place is uh sh shaken and the doors are open And the uh prison guard, the warden, I guess we might call him, he thinks all the prisoners escape, which if the gates are open, you would imagine they would And so he's going to take his life. You know the story, a lot of you do. He's going to take his life because he's going to answer to the authorities, and they're going to kill him if he lets all these prisoners loose And uh Paul says, wait a minute, don't do yourself any harm. Do thyself no harm. We're all here. Nobody's taken off. We're all here. That was a miracle in itself. The prisoners didn't run out. And he makes that great statement. He says, What must I do to be saved? And Paul answers him in the most concise, clear answer to that question you can find. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved and thy house. And the old boy gets saved, the baptized, his whole family. And uh and then Paul goes on and and uh so that's the city. It's mentioned in Acts chapter sixteen, the city of Philippi. That's where that took place, that event. The only other time it's mentioned is here in the book of Philippians, Paul addressing the church that is there in that city. I thought this was interesting, and this is maybe just some trivia about the city, but uh the city of Philippi, where we get the name Philippians, the city of Philippi was actually named after the father of Alexander the Great. And uh so it has a great history there. And here's the interesting thing that caught my attention, that that piques my interest. Philippi is the first place in Europe Where the gospel is preached. The city of Philippi is a recipient of a missions endeavor on the part of a church in Antioch God stirred the heart of Paul and Barnabas and sent them out. And then later Silas goes out. But because of the missions burden of that church there in Antioch, a city up in Europe Here's the gospel. As the gospel preached and a church is planted. And I don't know about you, but that stirs my heart. As I was studying that and reading about this and I realized that Philippi was the first city in Europe to hear the gospel, a missions endeavor up to that city, and they preached the gospel there. I thought of cities in Kazakhstan I thought of Astana and Almadi and Aktaw and other cities throughout that great nation that are in desperate need of folks. of gospel. And I thought maybe a church in Western Maryland, in the mountains of Western Maryland, would be so stirred and so burdened that people hear the gospel that maybe we could somehow have an influence in that great country and see the gospel preached and churches planted in cities throughout uh Kazakhstan. I don't know about you, but that stirs my heart And I'd like to think that we've had a little bit of an influence there and a little bit of an impact in a minuscule way on that great, great nation. But we pray for it. So that's Philippi And what a fascinating city, and what a uh uh an interesting city to you and I for that one aspect. Now, what about the church in Philippi? What do we know about that? Well, it's the first church planted in Europe. It was established by Apostle Paul through his ministry. Here's an interesting thing about the church at Philippi. It was not a wealthy church. It was uh they were uh somewhat poor. Um it was not a wealthy church. The church suffered persecution pretty intensely. Come back to chapter one of the book. I just want to show you a statement that Paul makes to the church trying to encourage them in the midst of their persecution. And I'll tell you Any Christian that remains faithful to the Lord in the midst of persecution, I have tremendous respect for And a church that stays true to the gospel and true to the Word of God, even when the whole world turns against it, I tell you, I have tremendous respect for that church And so he says in chapter 1, in verse number 29, he says, For unto you it is given on the behalf of Christ. Now look at this statement. This isn't what your average Christian might think of the Christian life For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him on him, but also to what? Suffer for his sake. Because of their faith in Christ, because of their commitment to the Word of God, because of their commitment to the truth of God's Word, they suffered intense persecution. They suffered dearly because of their faith in Christ. Yet they remained faithful. They remained faithful Uh we say this often and I don't I want to be very careful because I don't want to to take it lightly or say it so much and it just doesn't have meaning. But the fact of the matter is, you and I could very well in our lifetime experience a bit of that persecution. We live in a wonderfully free nation And we live in a wonderfully privileged environment where you and I can worship and serve. Pastor Matt and I can go out during the week and many others in the church go out during the week and knock on doors and approach people with the gospel and we have no fear of the authorities coming down on us. We have no fear of being incarcerated. We have no fear of persecution other than maybe be called some names or cussed out or something We have no r fear of any genuine real persecution, but I'm saying this, that could change in a heartbeat. And we need to be careful that our faith is strong. We need to be careful that our commitment to Christ is strong, because like the church at Philippi. We could end up someday facing that. So they suffered persecution. It's interesting, and I wanted to go to this passage, but I'll not for sake of time. Paul uses the church at Philippi as an example of generosity. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 1 through 5, and in chapter 9 of the same book, verse 1 through 5, Paul references the Philippian church uh in addressing the Corinthian church and their uh their shortcoming. They had made their faith promise. They had promised they'd give so much and they were coming short of that. And Paul in addressing them, writing them references the church at Philippi and says, hey, in their extreme poverty and their tremendous lack that they had, yet they gave so generously to missions, and they gave so generously to the cause of the gospel. And he uses the church at Philippi as a model, as an example for other churches in this matter of giving and in genera and generosity. So the church at Philippi, the city was an interesting city. The church itself was a tremendous example of faithfulness and generosity and missions burden. uh there in the midst of that little city. Uh the book itself, and the book of Philippians is a favorite book for a lot of Christians The book itself has a two-fold emphasis. Now you could study it and you might come up with some others, but I see Two uh I see two uh uh themes or emphasis in this book. One is this: the importance of healthy Christian fellowship And he addresses that throughout the book, the importance of Christians having good, pure, healthy fellowship one with another Did you catch that there in verse the first couple verses of chapter 4 when Pastor Matt read that He says here, look with me at verse 1, Philippians 4. Therefore, my beloved, therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved, how many people would say that sounds like Paul loved them. My brethren, my dearly beloved, he loved these believers. He loved this church dearly. Look at what he says: My long for, of my joy and crowd. So stand fast in the Lord. He's encouraging them in this persecution. You stay faithful. They're giving you a hard time. You stay faithful. Maybe you've got some family members that give you a hard time because of your faith in God, because you read the Bible, because of the things you do or you don't do, and they're giving you a hard time about that. Hey, stand fast in the Lord You stay faithful. That's what he's telling them. Then he says this. My dearly beloved, uh I beseech Yod uh Yodius. I thought Pastor Matt did a pretty good job reading these names I just call her Ethel. I beseech Eodius. I beseech Syntece. Look what he beseech he's beseeching them, he's begging them that they be of the what? Same mind in the Lord. Apparently here in the church at Philippi, this good church, a faithful church, strong. Strong in their stand, strong in the midst of persecution, generous in their giving, generous in the midst of poverty. And yet here's a couple ladies in that good church that aren't getting along They're not getting along. They've had some sort of fallen out. We don't know what it is. We don't know what it's about. But it is serious enough. Now this is what I'm getting at. It is serious enough that God addresses it in His eternal Word and for all eternity. The record of these two ladies and the importance of reconciling is recorded in God's word. For all eternity, they will be referenced. And what does that tell me? That tells me that it is a tragedy. It is an absolute tragedy. Particularly in a good strong church, when you have brothers and sisters, or brothers and brothers, or sisters and sisters in Christ that have a fallen out, that don't get along. Don't get along. He says, I'm beseeching you, do not let this carry on. Do not let this go on. This must be dealt with. You must be of the same mind in the Lord. Very, very important. I entreat the Lord also, you uh true yoke fellows, verse three, help those women which labor with me in the gospel, with commen also and with other my fellow laborers whose names are in the book of life. He's referencing the importance of healthy Christian fellowship. And he does throughout. In chapter 2, we have this great passage about the humility of Christ And how he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. And the whole context of that is having the mind of Christ and being one and humbling ourselves before each other. And keeping that fellowship as it ought to be. So there's a twofold emphasis in this book. One is the importance of healthy Christian fellowship. The second is this: the necessity Of rejoicing at all times, in all circumstances. Verse number four, we read it together. It's our text for this morning. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. Now, any Christian that's been around preaching any length of time, you're familiar with this verse You've been in church, you've been around a Bible preaching church. You're very familiar with this passage. Rejoice, rejoice, rejoice. And this here in verse 4 is a tremendous concise statement of an emphasis that goes throughout the whole book Ten times. He uses the word rejoice or some form of it ten times in four chapters. This matter of rejoicing. Rejoicing. Now, everybody wants to be happy, right? Everybody wants to be happy. I met a few folks over the years. I think they liked being miserable. Anyone ever meet somebody? I think there's a few folks that they're not happy unless they're unhappy. Right? They're not happy unless they're miserable. But for the most part, generally speaking, everybody wants to be happy. Everybody wants to have joy. However, we live in a world of sin. We live in a world of heartache, and for many, finding genuine joy, finding genuine happiness in my heart and in my soul, it's hard to find. It's hard to find. Genuine joy. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. Genuine, enduring joy. The joy that's being referenced here, this rejoicing that He's instructing us. Let me put say this. It begins with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Begins with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Somebody tell me. How many folks? Everybody doing all right out there? Everybody survived the storm. Everybody okay? Got lots of rest last night, getting caught up this morning. Amen. That's wonderful. It's one of our ministries. Somebody tell me. How many people would rather be here than stuck in a snow drift? Yeah, it's pretty good. Somebody help me out. How many how many anybody can tell me what does the word gospel mean? Good news. Good new good news. How many people are happy when somebody brings you good news? Yeah Uh, this is the electric company. We just made some kind of goof and you've overpaid for the last ten years and you you don't owe anything for the next fifteen years. How many people oh how many people would rejoice in that? Yeah. Good news. Good news. The gospel is good news. The gospel is better than having your electric bill paid for ten years. The gospel, the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ is this: even though you and I, all of us, are sinners, under the wrath and judgment of God Uh and deserving, if we die in that condition, we're separated from God forever in a horrific, unimaginable place called hell for all eternity And the good news is this, hey, somebody paid that debt for you. Somebody was judged for your sins for you. It's already been paid All you need to do is by faith turn to Christ and accept it. He'll forgive your sins. He'll change your life. He'll deliver you from sin. He'll give you eternal life. You have a home in heaven. I don't know about you. I I listen, I'll pay electric bills my whole life, uh uh rather than go to hell. That doesn't mean it makes sense, I don't think. But um I got an electric bill yesterday, alright, so bear with me. But I'm telling you The fact that I can know for sure my sins are forgiven, that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. I can't think of any better news than that And to rejoice in the Lord, to have genuine, real rejoicing, it begins with that message of the gospel that I can be accepted by God, me a sinner. I can be forgiven, I can be cleansed, and God can accept me. I tell you, I've told you my testimony so many times. But I tell you, when I trust in Christ, and if I realize That God had forgiven me and that He had taken that sin away, and I was no longer a bondage to the sin. Oh, I tell you, I didn't know what happiness was till that point. I didn't know what joy was up until that point. And so genuine, enduring joy begins with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And a reception of what He's done for me and a forgiveness and a new life. Only the gospel of Jesus Christ can fill the spiritual vacuum in every heart and soul. We've been studying the Book of Ecclesiastes on Sunday evenings, and we're getting back to it again tonight. And the book of Ecclesiastes references uh People who are trying to find joy, trying to find fulfillment, trying to find meaning and purpose and happiness in this world, but they're excluding God from the equation. And he says the only result they're going to get, the only result that comes from a life lived by pushing God out of the equation, the only result is vanity and vexation of spirit. And you could term that phrase vexation of spirit is just empty misery. Just emptiness. I tell you what, this world knows how to laugh. Right? I mean they got shows on TV and make your belly laugh. Oh, they can be the funniest thing in the world But there's a world of difference between laughing at something and rejoicing in the Lord. One is vain. One is empty. One is shallow. One does not meet that empty laughter at stuff. It doesn't fill the hole that's in every man's soul. But I tell you, the gospel of Jesus Christ and knowing him as Savior and receiving him, boy, it meets that need and fills that vacuum. And there's real joy there. If you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, if you have never genuinely accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm telling you, you will never know real joy. Until that point. I tell you, we have unhappy people all around us. I hate to say this. We got unhappy people in our churches. That are trying desperately to find something to bring joy. And they'll do stuff to themselves and they'll get themselves involved in things. And it's just empty. And it has to be more, and it has to go farther. It has to become more extreme and more extreme and more extreme. But it's never there. I'll tell you what the answer is. The answer is the gospel of Jesus Christ. To have a new life, to have that spiritual life. And that joy and rejoicing that comes of it. So genuine joy and rejoicing begins, is rooted in the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's where it begins by trusting Him. But it is also a fruit of the Holy Spirit. We read that here in Galatians chapter 5. In fact, if you would, turn back there with me. Real joy, lasting joy, is a fruit of the Holy Spirit. I tell you, there's so many places we could go in the scripture to illustrate this. Paul's experience in Philippi when he was in the prison. Now you and I, it's difficult for us to comprehend what type of uh what the circumstances were for Paul and Silas in the prison in Philippi. Unfortunately, we we uh picture the prison back then, uh our our understanding of the prisons back then is is influenced by our understanding of what prisons are like today. And they are not even remote prisons of today are luxury mansions in Malibu compared to the prisons that Paul and Silas were in. Bound with fetters chained in a damp, wet hole in the ground, basically. No sanitation. I mean, just imagine. No sanitation. None. Dude, thrown in. I mean, it is despicable. It is unbelievable circumstances And yet Paul and Barnabas, Paul and Silas, through the power of the Holy Spirit, the presence of God in their life. The Bible says they sang, prayed, rejoiced in the Lord, even in that circumstance. You know what your average Christian would be doing, thrown in prison for no other reason than preaching the gospel? You know what we're doing? We'd be calling up CLA. Right? This ain't right. I'm threwing the pants off of this place. And we go off. And you know, there's legal recourse, and Paul referenced that a little bit later on. But we'd be mad, we'd be angry, we'd be discouraged. But Paul and Silas, through the power of the Holy Spirit, the presence of God in their life, they were able to rejoice. How could they do that? That is a fruit of the Holy Spirit in our life. Look with me, if you would, here at Galatians chapter 5, verse 22. I know we read this, but I want to read it again in this context. But the fruit of the Spirit is, look at it, love what? Joy Joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance It's the fruit of the Holy Spirit. I got looking up at verses 9 through 21, where we have the works of the flesh, that horrible list. That list of sins that sadly are so characterize our society today I got looking at them, I came to this conclusion, not one of the works of the flesh, not one of them, can produce joy. Not one of them. Oh uh boy, if only uh boy if only I had uh that If only I had that woman's husband, if he was just my husband, if I we could just have adultery and the two of us get together, boy, then I'd be happy I'm telling you this, adultery has never brought happiness to any life or home. Never had a man sit in my office. Years ago. I I'd I'd met him out soul winning. I don't he hadn't been to our church. I no you know he just showed up and said, I need to talk to you, Pastor Lemon. I said, Come on in. I knew him from Soul Winning. He began sobbing. He goes, I love this other woman. It's another man's wife. He's married. It's another man's wife. I love her. I have to have her. I said, I said, that's sin. And he pressed it and pressed it. He wanted me so badly to tell him that it was okay for him to leave his wife for another man's wife. He wanted me so badly to tell him that was okay. And he's crying. I love her so much. He was convinced if he could have that other woman, that then he would be happy. Finally, I said to him, you've heard me tell this before. Finally, I said to him, sister, if you want me to put a stamp of approval on adultery, it ain't never going to happen. I said, now you can go out, maybe find some other preacher in town here and tell you it's okay. But as far as God's concerned, as far as the Bible is concerned, as far as I'm concerned, as far as this church is concerned, it is sin against the holy God. He went out. He left his wife. Took this other woman. I haven't seen him for years, but I saw him after that number of times. And he looked like the saddest person I've ever met in my life. He was miserable. He was looking to a work of the flesh. He was looking to gratify some desire of his flesh. Thinking that will bring happiness, that will bring joy, then I can rejoice. And he was dead wrong. Is miserable. Not one of these works of the flesh is ever going to bring joy. Not one of these works of the flesh. Go down through the list there. Adultery, fornication. Uncleanness was sinners, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance. I never knew anybody that hated somebody and was happy. It's not going to happen. Hatred and happiness are incompatible. Any one of these, we could just stop and rail on any one of these. Murders, envings, drunkenness. Oh, we're gonna go out Friday night. We're gonna have a time. Father, we're gonna get so grumped. I've never met a happy drunk. Never. Listen, some of y'all can testify along, have the same testimony I do. I've been there I'm telling you what, I never got in a nightclub in five hours in a nightclub down on Jersey Shore I have never had one ounce of joy that I have two minutes in the house of God singing his praises. The works of the flesh will never, ever, ever make you happy. Never. It never has, it never will. But the fruit of the Holy Spirit, when I am yielded to God and I am trusting Him, I'm living for the Lord, living by faith, yielded to the Lord. Oh, then the Holy Spirit Gives me joy and rejoicing. The life of the Holy Spirit was dominated by the I'm sorry, the life of the New Testament church was dominated by the power of the Holy Spirit. The life of New Testament Christians was dominated by the power of the Holy Spirit, and they were joyful. Read through the book of Acts. They are rejoicing. In fact, one place they were threatened that if they keep preaching the gospel, we're going to, uh, I'm putting it in my own words, we're going to beat you up and make your life miserable You know what the Bible says? They walked out rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer for the cause of Christ. Where the presence of God is, where the Spirit of God is, there is joy. In the presence of the Lord, there is joy. The Holy Spirit of God in my heart and life can and will produce genuine, real joy. Tragedy is we have Christians that are out there going to the world and just grabbing for stuff for the world. somehow trying to make me happy, somehow trying to be accepted, somehow trying to be uh admired by people. And then I'll be happy, and then my life will have meaning, and then I'll have confidence and I'll have joy And it's a lie of the devil. Come on now, am I right or wrong? It's a lie of the devil. It's in my walk with God. It's in my submission to the Lord. It's in my faith in God and the presence of the Holy Spirit in my life. It's a fruit of the Holy Spirit. It's a fruit of the Holy Spirit. Now look here. Come back to Philippians. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. I notice that rejoicing is commanded by God. This is an instruction from our Savior. This is our Creator is instructing us, telling us, hey, rejoice in the Lord. That tells me that joy is not something that just happens to me. Oh boy, I hope I hope I'll be happy this week. It's like, it's like, well, I hope it rains so the garden gets water. Well, I hope it don't snow. That's not the way it works, folks. It's not something that just happened. Oh, they're so lucky. They're happy. God says, listen, it's up to you. It's a it's something we're instructed to do. It's not some external thing that happens to me that makes me Happy, that gives me joy, some external circumstances or external events or environment. Oh, then I would be happy and joyful. No, no, no. It's from within It's a decision I make. It's a choice I make to be happy. Sometimes I'm happy. Sometimes I'm blue. My disposition depends on you. If you treat me right, then I'll be happy. And if you don't treat me right, then I'll And God's telling us through the Apostle Paul, and he's saying to you and I today, listen, your joy and rejoicing is not dependent on circumstances or treatment or any of that. It's up to you. It's a decision you make, it's a choice you make. Regardless of my circumstances, I can rejoice. Let me put it this way: regardless of my circumstances, I must rejoice. I am instructed to by my Creator. My God tells me to. I got looking at this and thinking about this, and maybe I'm taking it too far. I don't know. But I wonder if we as believers are someday going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ and held accountable for whether we rejoiced or not. You didn't rejoice always. I instructed you to I made it very clear, I gave you all the resources necessary to, and you were miserable, and you were angry, you were bitter. You complained and murmured. I instructed you to rejoice. That was your responsibility. That was your choice. That was your decision. I must rejoice. I'm required of God to rejoice. You say, well, preacher, how can I rejoice in this if you know my home, if you know my family, if you know. And I understand that. But I'm telling you, Galatians chapter 5, 22 and 23 give us the resource, the fruit of the Holy Spirit. God, I I'm in a a very unhappy situation. I'm in a very difficult, sad, troubling situation. But I'm not going to let my heart be troubled I'm going to yield myself to you. I'm going to trust you. And I'm going to decide to rejoice and trust the whole presence of the Holy Spirit to bear that fruit in my life. Am I making sense? So it's a command to rejoice, the command to rejoice. As far as God's concerned, it is a tragedy for a believer to be unhappy. John 15, 11, the Lord Jesus said, These things have I spoken unto you that my joy might remain in you, that your joy might be full. Psalms 37, verse 4, delight thyself also in the Lord. It has the idea of rejoicing. It's an instruction. Psalms 104 verse 34, the psalmist said, I will be glad in the Lord Philippians 3. 1, he says almost the identical statement just a chapter earlier. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. So rejoicing is something we're instructed by God to do. It's a choice we make. It's a decision I make. It's me that decides whether I'm going to rejoice or not. Not my circumstances, not my treatment by others. Second thing I notice here is not just that rejoicing is commanded by our God, but I see, second of all, rejoicing is to be Christ-centered. Notice he says, rejoice in what? The Lord, the Lord Jesus Christ, that is the basis of my rejoicing That is the focus of my rejoicing. That is the root of my rejoicing, Jesus Christ, who he is and what he is. I've read my b I'm working on and in another month I'll finish reading my Bible through for the 38th time I'm not saying that's a brag. I'm saying you can do it. It's just every year. Since I've been saved, I read my Bible through. This year, Lord will, and I'm going to have Psalms twice. I have Psalms twice already. I'm going to read Proverbs twelve times And a part of the Old Testament twice up to about Isaiah. And I've read it through and I've read it through and I've read it through. I study it every week for messages. What I'm trying to say is I'm a little familiar with the Bible. And I can't find anywhere in the Bible where it tells us to rejoice in our financial standing. Rejoice in your bank account. Brother, if that was the case, a lot of us would be miserable I can't find anywhere. I've read this thing through. I can't find anywhere in the Bible where it tells us to rejoice in our circumstances. I can't find anywhere in the Bible that says, rejoice in how others treat you. Rejoice in other people's opinion of you. It's amazing what people do to themselves so that other people think highly of me. It's amazing what other people it's amazing what people will do to themselves so that we get other people's attention. So somehow People will have a positive opinion of me, and then I'll be happy. No. I can't find anywhere in the Bible where it tells us that we're to rejoice in our health. I'll give you this. It's easier to rejoice when we're healthy than when we're not, right? It's easier But my basis of my rejoicing shouldn't be whether I've got good health or not. I tell you, I've I've been around a little while, I'm trying to tell you this. I've seen folks that were so sick in so much pain and were some of the happiest Christians I ever saw in my life. Because their rejoicing wasn't in their health, their rejoicing wasn't how they feel The rejoicing wasn't in their finances. I talked about Anna Nixon Tate down in the ghettos of Chattanooga. A happy, godly, sweet, elderly lady. I mean the joy of the Lord all over her. In the midst of poverty and crime, our rejoicing is to be in the Lord Jesus Christ, the truth of who Jesus Christ is, the person of Christ. The work of Christ, what he's done for me. Jesus told the disciples one time, he sent them out and they were casting devils out of people. Man, how cool would that be? And they come back and they're all excited, man, even the devils were subject to us. Jesus cautioned them, hold it. Don't you rejoice in that the doubles were subject to you. You rejoice in that your names are written in heaven Rejoice in the Lord. Rejoice in what Christ has done for you. Rejoice in your relationship with the Savior of the world. Rejoice in your standing before the Creator God of all the universe. You're accepted by Him. He loves you, he accepts you. Rejoice in that, in the Lord, in the Lord. When Kathy and I were married back in the last century, It's true. Um we ha married, some of y'all relate to this. We had nothing. I know that's not good English, but it's true. We didn't have nothing. We had two things, and we were we had a bed and we had a kitchen table. That's all we needed. We were fine with that. Say, well, you ought to have a 52-inch TV. Why did you have a 10-component stereo and you ought to have a what's that little thing you talk to it? Turn the lights on. What's it called? Alexis? I don't trust her. I don't care. She ain't coming in my house. I'll tell you that right now. I already got a woman in my house, we ain't having any more. You know, our happiness wasn't in the stuff we had. Our happiness was in who we had, each other. I had Kathy. She loved me. I loved her. She accepted me. I accepted her. We were happy as could be. Folk said, you better not get married till you're financially able to. We wouldn't be married today if we did that. And what was true in that very temporal earthly setting, just rejoicing in each other, is what he is telling us we ought to be in our relationship with our God. Oh, Brother Letterman, you don't have this and you don't have that. How can you be happy? Oh, but my God accepts me. He thinks I'm incredible. He thinks I'm worth dying for. Who in the world loves me that much? Rejoice in the Lord. I can't find anywhere in the Bible where I'm told to rejoice in my health or how much money I have or how others treat me or what people think of me I want people to like me. I want people to think positively of me. But if that is the basis for my rejoicing, then man, I may or may not be able to rejoice. But my rejoicing is in the Lord who changes not. He said, I've loved you with an everlasting love. I'm accepted in the brethren. I'm seated in the heavenlies. Wow! Rejoice in the Lord, rejoicing in the Lord. And then I end with this. The rejoicing is to be continual. Rejoice in the Lord. What? Alway. And again, in case you missed it, again, I say unto you, rejoice, rejoice. I told this, and some of you folks have been around here for a while. You remember Nina McRoby. I love Nina. Miss her. She was unique. We loved her dearly. I came past her here and I know bear with me those you've heard this probably a number of times, but I came past her here, she was coming out and she said, she's uh uh she was a charter member of the church. She said, Pastor Lemon, you go visit my husband, Jim. I said, I was new. I didn't know anybody. Sure. Lives down K Street. I said, yeah, I'll give it a goes, oh good. She goes We talked about maybe Thursday or sometime this week I'll get out and see him. She goes, okay. He'll be there. And um she goes, oh, by the way, he hates preachers. And he's gonna cuss you out and tell you to leave. I said, Oh, I c I'm look forward to it. It'll be great. And so I went and visited him. You know what? He cussed me out and told me to leave. He hated me. He made it very clear. He didn't want nothing to do with me. I said, well, God bless you. Some time will you go visit Jim? Sure. Same thing. Alright, five, six times I visit him over a year or so. Same thing, same thing, same thing. Day Zaina comes in, pray for Jim. Said, all right. He's been diagnosed with liver disease. They're gonna have to do a transplant. So, alright, pray. I visit with Jim and witness to him. Now he didn't trust the Lord with me, but after I left, on his own, in his room, old Jimmy McR Jim McGroby trusted Jesus Christ as his Savior. Now I'll be honest with you. I don't know if any of you guys are this way. I tend to be a little skeptical. Anyone, men here? In other words, you don't believe nothing? I said, all right, I know how he treated me. He got saved. I went, lo and behold, the guy got it. Asked another man, come in here. And I began praying with him and reading the Bible. We take him, old, remember cassette tapes? The the kids don't even know what they are. How many people remember eight-track tapes? 45. Now we're going back in history. We'd take the set tapes by him. He'd said, and he would listen to them over and over and over through the week. He just live for the next week. We gotta be thanked me and thank me He said, Pastor Simon, this is the worst sound on these tapes I've ever heard. I can't hardly hear what you're saying. It's terrible. He goes, I'm gonna buy you a whole new wireless sound system with the mics and all that. And that's where these came from initially Jim Jim bought these for the church so he could hear the sermons. They're going to do a transplant. They took him to Cumberland and they did something and in the procedure they inadvertently punctured his liver Cancer got out, and um they couldn't do the transplant. I thought, boy, this is gonna be tough. I don't know how he's gonna react. He's a new Christian. This is pretty much a death sentence How's he going to respond? When in there a psalm he says, Pastor Leatherman, he told me, I said, yeah, I heard. I said, I'm sorry. We're praying. Lord loves you. You're settled. You got a home in heaven. And he made this statement. He said, Pastor Leatherman, if this is what it took for me to come to Christ, it is absolutely worth everything and above. And I saw Jim McGroby with a l cancer all through his liver, waiting to die because of a mistake that a man made I saw him happier in those couple years he had left than I saw him in all the years before without Christ, living in sin, bitterness, and anger. And what the presence of the Lord did in that man's life brought joy and peace and fulfillment that nothing else in this world could have done for him. And you and I can rejoice. You and I can be happy. You and I can be fulfilled and content. Even in whatever circumstance we're in, if our joy and rejoicing is in the Lord. But it's up to us. Amen? So all the works of the flesh, they're not going to bring you happiness. Read that list. Go over it very carefully. Not one of them is going to bring you joy and happiness. But the presence of God. My decision to trust him and yield to him will. Father in heaven, pray you'd use this message this morning to bring some joy into some homes where there's frustration and unhappiness. God, I pray that your Holy Spirit would take this verse and this truth and bring some peace into some hearts where there's bitterness. Bring some joy into some hearts where there's unhappiness. And help us to decide And we're going to trust you and yield to you and live for you and rejoice in you. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, there's just stuff going on in my life? And I want the Lord to give me this joy, to help me rejoice in him, even in the midst of my circumstance. You say, God's Holy Spirit has spoken of my heart And I want the Lord to do that. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray with me. That I can know this peace, this joy, this fulfillment. That only the Lord can give. God bless you. Hands all around. Now it's instruction by God. Rejoice in the Lord. He's telling us to do that. I'm not some would say, preacher, you know, I've allowed some stuff to come in my life that is not what it ought to be. I don't know. Proud this size. Maybe some works of the flesh. You say, preacher, I know they're not right. I know it's not right. God's dealing with my heart. I need to make that right. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. That God would give me the grace. And make that right. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hands between you and God. I know it's personal. God bless you. There's hands there raised. I'm telling you, we need God to help us Maybe you're out of sorts with a brother or sister in Christ. That is so tragic. That is so wrong. Maybe that's why you're so unhappy. There's someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die, I go to heaven. He said, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God accepts me and forgives my sin and that when I die, I live in heaven, not in hell. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God would help me have that settled in my heart and life. And I can know I'm going to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. That God would help me have that settled. Any at all you say, preacher, I don't want to go to hell I want to know I'm going to heaven. God bless you. How about others? God bless you. I want that settled. Now, Father in heaven, I saw hands raised for various reasons. You know our hearts This is your word. This is your church. Lord, you know our hearts. So I pray you'd help each of us to respond in faith. And to do what we know we need to do and step out and make the decision we know needs to be made. And help us, I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation.