What did I say? Second Thessalonians chapter two. It's a problem with a congregation that pays attention. Yes, I was testing you. Second Corinthians chapter 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. I was just going through some of my verses that I'm referencing here while he was singing, and one of them is 2 Corinthians, and I got that stuck in my head. And so 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. And I'm just going to read verse 3. We've already worked over verse 1 and 2 here. Um and so we're going to look at verse three. He says, Let no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come Except there come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition. I've just taken that little phrase out of there. It's going to be a part of the message, and the term falling away And we're going to look at what he's talking about here, and maybe the Lord will use it to help us understand the Lord and his plan for our lives a little better. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, thank you for the Word of God I thank you for this book here in the New Testament and the church that it was written to so many years ago. And God, it's helped me. You've preserved this, you've inspired and preserved this uh portion of Scripture for us, and I pray that um we could glean from this tonight that our church would grow, we'd be rapture ready, we'd be under we'd understand what you'd have us to know. Lord, we'd uh be able to live accordingly. I pray with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. Be the preacher tonight, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Of course the church at Thessalonica was a good church. Somehow they had gotten confused on the rapture, and that prompted Paul to write his first letter to the Thessalonian church, uh and he clarified in chapter four uh in great detail what the rapture is all about. And he kind of laid out what happens to us as believers Uh one of the questions apparently they had in their mind was, what about people who were saved and they died before the rapture? Are they going to be left behind? What happens to them? And he explained that they're going to rise first, then we which are alive going to be caught up together be with the Lord in the air. So he goes into chapter one into uh in in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 into good detail on the rapture. I I think it's one of the best portions of scripture on studying the rapture in all the Bible is is chapter four Then uh six months after they got that letter, word gets to Paul that they're really messed up now concerning the second advent, the second coming of Christ And there's a lot of confusion there about uh somehow apparently they got in their heads that the rapture in the Lord had alre that rapture had already taken place and the Lord had already come back and here they were And they were confused about that. It was upsetting them. They were taking a lot of heat persecution wise. And so Paul, shortly after the first book first letter he writes. He spires off the second one. Now we're getting into the meat or the purpose of why he actually sent this thing and wrote this letter. And it's dealing with the second coming of Christ and all that. I want to get right into the outline tonight. That's the context of what's going on. Verse 1 and 2, of course, we looked at that. That you know he says you don't be soon shaken or troubled. Don't let uh don't let this misunderstanding, this wrong teaching mess you up Then he gets to verse 3, and I know we already touched this last week, but I want to hit it again. He says, let no man deceive you by any means My first thought tonight is this. He gives them a very earnest warning. Now we already, as I said, touched on this last week a little bit, but It just kept coming back to me as I was studying this. Let no man deceive you. And he could have stopped there and that would be an important statement. Let no man deceive you. But he tacks on a few words, and to me, that adds an urgency. That reveals to me an urgency on the part of Paul. That they not allow anyone to deceive them. Look what he says there. He says, Let no man deceive you. What's the next few words? By any means And he's being very emphatic here. That phrase there, by any means, has the idea, by any methods, don't let any situation, circumstance, don't let anybody deceive you on this matter. Uh would you agree with me there's a lot of deception goes on in our day and age? Absolutely. No doubt about it. Last week we went a little uh survey of of church history and we looked at different fellows over the years that had false teaching concerning the coming of Christ and predicting when he would come back and all those things. Deception in the world of Christianity is nothing new It's been going on. In fact, before Christ ever came, we get to the Old Testament, and uh you find a lot of warnings there. We're going to look at a couple here in a minute. So, deception in the spiritual realm is nothing new. Now what how why did these guys were they deceived? Now I got thinking about that. We don't know if they misunderstood what Paul had was saying in the first uh letter which I find that hard to swallow. Uh it's possible. Uh did somebody get messed up and write them a letter and kind of get them off track in their thinking? Or did somebody deliberately deceive them? Either it's one of two things, I think. Either it was ignorance, somebody meant well but just didn't know what they were talking about And by the way, the Bible cautions against taking a novice and putting him up in a teaching position if he doesn't know what he's talking about. That can be a very dangerous thing. Not that any of us ever get to the point that we know at all. But we want someone that knows their doctrine and knows what they believe and can defend it to some degree. That's why I Bible Institute in my mind is such a vital thing is folks and get grounded. But anyway, uh it may have been somebody just ignorant, meant well, and uh got teaching something and got off And uh messed them up, got off on his teaching, or could it have been somebody that deliberately was trying to mess them up? That's a very real possibility. Some of the commentators suggest that there was a false prophet that forged Paul's writings, uh wrote a letter, forged his signature, and deliberately was trying to mess them up Thinking that Paul had wrote that. So, whatever the case, whether it was deliberate or whether it was through ignorance, it had a profound effect. um on their uh on their um thinking and their living and their function as a church and as Christians Now, warning people to not be deceived is nothing new to the New Testament. I want to take a moment, and I got you got your Bibles with you, I want to go through and I want you to see some passages of scripture And we're going to we could go back to Deuteronomy, but I don't want to go to the whole Bible. Go to Jeremiah. There's an excellent passage there in Jeremiah chapter 29. And then we're going to look at a couple of the Gospels and then a very key verse in 2 Corinthians, a little bit later. That's one that got stuck in my head. But look at Jeremiah chapter 29 and verse number 8. This is before the church, this is the nation of Israel. They're in the process of being taken captive. Notice what Jeremiah writes in the inspiration of God in verse 8. He says, For thus saith the Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel. Wow, this has authority. He says, let not your prophets and your diviners that be in the midst of you deceive you. Neither hearken to your dreams which ye cause to be dreamed. For they prophesy falsely unto you in my name. I have not sent them, saith the Lord. Did you get the sternness of this warning here? And who is he warning them against? Folks outside the nation or within the nation? It's within the nation. Their own prophets and their own diviners. Diviners would be uh folks that um uh would operate in the name of the Lord. We generally think of them uh uh for uh telling the future and that type of thing. We have diviners today which are crackpots and they had them back then. But uh these uh were guys that had legitimate positions that would study the scriptures and would uh say of what was coming. Well these guys, apparently my opinion is these false prophets that he mentions here Your prophets and your diviners, I got in my mind that they knew what God's word said. They knew what God said was coming, but they didn't like it. They didn't want it to be true, so they deliberately changed the message And uh, you know, there's preachers today. They know the Bible teaches there's a real hell. They know the Bible teaches there's judgment. They know the Bible teaches that sins are condemned And they deliberately refuse to teach or preach on them and become very deceptive given the idea because they never reference hell, because they never mention any specific sins The assumption is on the part of the hearers is what? Because they never mention it, they never reference it. They assume it's not there. And it becomes a form of deception on the part of the preacher. And he's warning them there. He says, listen, and then he throws this in: neither hearken to your dreams which ye cause to be dreamed. How many folks ever had a dream and you woke up and say, Good night, where'd that come from? Yeah. Listen to me We have to be very, very careful when we start assigning things that God is saying something to me when it directly contradicts Scripture. And that's what he's warning them here. Well, I had this dream that you hear these preachers on TV all the time. They had some dream or they got some word of knowledge and all of that. Listen, he says, don't let these guys mess with you. Don't let them deceive you. He gives a strong warning here two 2,500 years ago or more Warning the nation of Israel of these false prophets. Now come with me if you would to Matthew. You say, well, that's Jeremiah. He's kind of harsh Jesus never did stuff like that. He just said, love everybody. Go to Matthew 24. And look with me at verse number four. This is a passage of scripture, Matthew 24 and 25. Jesus is talking about the second coming. He's talking about the second advent. The revelation of Christ, not the rapture. And uh I'm gonna start at verse number four. We're gonna jump down through this chapter at a number of verses. And uh notice what Jesus says about people deceiving uh the people of God. Verse 4 of chapter 24. And Jesus answered And said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you. Now look at this next statement. For many Come in my name, saying I am Christ and shall deceive how many? Many. That tells me a lot of people are being fooled Come down with me to verse number 11. And many false prophets shall rise and deceive many. I mean, he's just emphasizing this over and over and over. Come down to verse 23. Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is the Christ, or there, believe it not. For there shall arise false Christs and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders, insomuch that if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect Even the people that are saved, even the people that have the Spirit of God within them, that know the Word of God, they may even be deceived. They're going to be so good at it. Listen, there is a lot of miracles and wonders that goes on today in the name of Christianity, and I'm telling you, it is not of God It's very very clear. Um we're going to get into this a little bit later in our study. But you know one of the characteristics, one of the things the f the false prophet in the end times during the tribulation period, one of the tools he uses to get people to worship the Antichrist is miracles and wonders And we're going to notice that here later on in our study here. And so he warns them of this. They're going to say this is of Christ. They're going to have miracles and wonders. They're going to deceive a lot of people. Do not let them deceive you. I was studying on this and I came across something a preacher wrote, a Baptist preacher. I think he's out of Florida. I tried to do a little research on him. I don't know very much about this guy. I think he's Southern Baptist But he was invited by either a family member or a friend, a friend, I guess, to go to a healing meeting by a nationally known evangelist. And I don't know who this guy is, but you'll pick up some things here. And he wrote his experience going to this. Now he wasn't a believer in it, but I don't know what his circumstances were, but he felt apparently felt obligated to go with this guy and So this is his writing his this is what he wrote about it. This caught my attention. I want to read it to you here. Just a moment. This fits in He said, I went to this faith healer's service. A friend invited me to come and see this man that did wonders and healings. It is ironic that he arrived just after I finished the series on the unbiblical word of faith movement. This man was part of this movement and echoed their beliefs to the letter. The first to the letter. The first thing he did was call the audience to a commitment not to judge or say anything negative Right, so that was the beginning. Audience, don't judge anything that happens here or say anything negative. Um I had a person write me one time and wrote uh just within the last twelve months wrote and said if if we would get away from the Bible and just be Christians it'd be a whole lot better. Okay. Quit putting gas in that car it run a whole lot better. Um So anyway, the first thing he did was call the audience to a commitment not to judge or say anything negative. This is common practice with false teachers. It's a church in our town here had a a revival meeting just uh probably ten, twelve years ago. The evangelist on the first night of the meeting told the congregation, Don't bother bringing your Bibles every night. God has given me his word. You don't need your Bible. How about that? So anyway, this is common practice with false teachers. We're commanded in Scripture not to judge based on appearance, but we are also commanded to judge and contend earnestly for the faith. Those who stress judge not are almost always people who do not want their teachings or their lifestyle exposed by the scriptures. I walked in in a very skeptical, but I walked in very skeptical, but was soon taken back by what I saw This man performed many healings that left me surprised. And I began to question what I had been teaching for a long time. Wow. A woman who was supposedly blind regained her sight. Those who were deaf were claiming to be hearing. Crutches were being tossed aside, and the man who invited me was called up to be healed of an aneurysm. The man often uh this man often came to a ministry where I preached, and I knew he truly loved the Lord He had asked for prayer for his aneurysm for several weeks, so when this preacher called him by name and identified his ailment, I was caught off guard. Could someone do these things if he was not of God? Could so many people be willing to lie before God and fabricate these healings? You find out what's happening here? This apparently solid Bible preacher is starting to what? Second guess himself. He's starting to even the elect can possibly be deceived. The faith dealer was in town for several weeks, so I attended many more meetings after this. On my third visit, red flags began to go off in my head At first, this teacher sounded very orthodox, but soon he began to teach many unbiblical doctrines. One lady was called up and identified as a three-time divorcee. That happens. Listen what he says. He told her that God brought men into her life for a purpose, and once they fulfilled their purpose, he took them away and she divorced them This was my first red flag. Malachi 2. 16 tells us God hates divorce. He doesn't dislike it or disprivet, he hates it. This is taught in the Old and New Testament. A woman who is divorced and remarried several times is living outside of the will of God's. Sexual unfaithfulness is the only allowance in the Bible that makes for divorce. And he goes off on that. Anyway, he says, I began to watch with greater skepticism at that point. His doctrine grew worse. His healings were often sloppy. For example, over several weeks one woman was healed on three different nights. One woman healed three different nights. One man was healed twice. I attended only five services, so there may have been more duplicates I also found that this healer had been convicted of fraud and spent time in jail and had been exposed nationally for fabricating healings. I also noticed that the most dramatic healings were out-of-town visitors, all from the same area. All locals called up for healing were publicly requesting healing in their churches. Since 90% of the locals called up were from the same four local churches, I can imagine that a visitor could easily get this information by attending a local church and pass the information along As I watched, I noticed that the ushers who came with him often pointed to people in the crowd. All the healings were internal healings, none were visibly apparent. with the exception of the man with boots whose legs grew out. He also was healed twice. So I don't know what he means by that. People paralyzed were never caught up. People missing limbs or having deformities were rarely caught up, supposedly for their lack of faith. There was one man called up that was missing half an arm. He had also recently had a knee replacement surgery and was need of the other knee and one hip to have replacement surgery. The man feebly walked up to be healed, was declared to be healed, and hobbled feebly back to his seat. The arm was still missing, even though he declared publicly that he was healed His knees and hips did not allow him to walk upright. There were other irregularities as well. So the reason I said that was what caught my attention was this fella initially began questioning himself and began doubting his own position and actually it was by him going on a regular basis that exposed it to him enabled him to see it for what it was. Now if you take somebody that isn't skeptical, you take someone that doesn't know scriptures and you put them in that environment, you can see where people would be sucked into that And very easily deceived. And so he's telling us here, and all through Scripture, God says, do not let people deceive you. I wanted to give you a, I'll just take one more verse. Go to 2 Corinthians 11. This is what I believe the root of the whole issue. Did I say 2 Corinthians or 2 Thessalonians? Good. And uh verse number thirteen 2 Corinthians 13. Now he's kind of in the middle of a statement here, but he says this: For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves in the apostles of Christ. So what are they doing? They're deliberately putting themselves on to be something they're not. Now look at verse 14. This tells us what's behind all of it. And no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into a what Angel of light. You know, you always see these comical pictures of Satan. He has a forked tongue and uh horns and a pointy tail and a pitchfork and all of that. I'm telling you, that is the last thing Satan looks like Says he pre transforms himself into an angel of light. He looks like he's the greatest thing to ever hit Christianity. And just wins people over to himself. Look what it says there. Therefore, now the Satan fools people. Now look what it says, verse 15. Therefore, it is no great thing if his ministers Also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness. So these false prophets, these people that come in and deceive believers and get them away from scriptures and get their eyes off of Christ. Who are they really ministers of? They claim to be ministers of Christ, but they're really ministers of who? Satan himself. And they're transforming themselves. Now, I believe there are some preachers out there in local churches that are good men and have been deceived. They are ignorant They're not deliberately trying to deceive people. I'm convinced their preachers are sincere, they mean well, but they've been influenced by this and they're teaching things that are wrong in their ignorance. That does not justify it, but I believe that's the case. But there are many that know they're wrong and know that what they're teaching is unscriptural. I am convinced. This is my personal opinion. I am convinced that Benny Hinn knows that what he's teaching is baloney. I am convinced of that. I've read books on him, I've seen him I am convinced that he is lying. There's another guy that's on TV a lot, Jesse DePlantes. Anyone ever see that guy? I am convinced that guy is lying and knows he's lying. He said he went to heaven every night for so many months and told all these ridiculous stories about heaven. And I I was saw him, were you there? Was it Sam? One of us was watching and he was going through this and I said, that guy's lying He's not fooled. He's lying. I know he is. And so he gives a strong, strong warning here. We could go if we had time. We go to a score of other ver uh passages. Warn us. Don't be deceived. Don't be deceived. Don't be deceived. Now let's look, come back here to this 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 3. Let no man deceive you by any means. For that day, alright, this is what he's talking about, the second coming of Christ. They were confused about this. For that day shall not come except They're coming a falling away first. Now, when he uses the term that day, he's referring to a very specific event. And that's my second point. First was an earnest warning. Second point is an exact day. that he refers to. He is referring to the day of the Lord's return. Now, we all understand I touched on this Sunday morning. I think we touched on it last Wednesday night. We understand that the Lord's coming back is in two stages, right? We understand that. First stage is the rapture. That's when the world doesn't see him. The trump of God sounds, the archangel shouts, and we're in a moment, all believers caught up, and we meet the Lord in the air. That happens instantaneously, the world doesn't see Christ Seven-year period goes by, Christ returns in the second stage, which we refer to as the revelation or the second advent of Christ. That's where every eye sees him. That's where chapter 1, verse 8, 9, and 10 there were talking about, and flaming fire, and a dramatic appearance of Christ. That is the day that Paul is referring to in verse 3 here. That day, that second advent, when every eye shall see him. They had gotten some bad uh teaching on the second coming as I said and it had a profound effect on their personal lives and on the church as a whole. Now that taught me something When they had false teaching about the second of them of Christ and it affected them, it troubled them, it messed them up. It bothered them. You know what that tells me? That tells me that the truth of the second coming was very significant in their hearts and minds. It affected the way they lived. Now, how many of us can honestly say that the fact of Jesus' return affects the way we live our lives? How many of us can honestly say that it has a profound impact on us? That was that that's the ideal That's what we would hope for. That we live in light of the reality that Jesus is coming back again. This church here, it was so real to them. They understood it such a degree that when they got some false teaching, it messed them up. To the degree it became public, and Paul had to address it. Now, that's pretty significant. I wonder how many of us, and I'm not asking for a response, I trust there's more perhaps than my skeptical mind tends to think. But uh I wonder how many of us get up in the morning thinking, boy, you know, I better keep my nose clean. Jesus may come back today. I better be careful how I work today. This could be the day the Lord comes back You know how many of us it affects us that degree? How many of us would get up and we'd were convinced that Jesus already came back? And boy, how it would affect our the way we live our life that day. I'm afraid, I'm afraid your average Christian would say, well, we were wrong, I guess, and just go right on. And that's tragic. This had a profound impact on how they lived their lives, this one truth. And that ought to be the case for us. And then so, uh, first of all, an earnest warning. Second of all, they had this uh exact day as being referred to that had a profound effect on them. And here, last of all, number three, I noticed there's two elements that must be in place. An earnest warning, let no man deceive you by any means. Exact day, let that day come upon you, and then two uh elements that must be in place. In other words, there's two indicators That must be in place before you have the second advent of Christ. And he mentions these two here Then the following verses he goes on and elaborates. But I just want to touch on the two here. He says, first of all, look at verse three and tell me if you can pick out what the first indicator is That indicates whether the re ra the the revelation of Christ has happened or not. But no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come. What's it say? Except what's the first indicator? A falling away. He said if there's no falling away, if that falling away hasn't happened, then you know the second advent hasn't happened yet. Notice what it says. That day Shall not come except that word except there means until, unless, uh there come a falling away first. So if there's no falling away first, that means you haven't had the second advent of Christ yet. So the question comes up: what is this falling away that has to happen before Christ comes back literally to the earth? Well, there is what there is what we would call a general apostasy. In other words, you have all through the church age, actually during Israel's history, you have uh a falling away in a general sense. The word falling away means to walk away from the truth. We would use the term apostasy It means to know what is true, know what is right, and deliberately walk away from it. So you have this. Would you agree with me that throughout the ages churches have apostatized Sure, they've walked away from the truth. And God always raises up another generation that are true to His word. And so you have this general sense, but that can't be what He's talking about here Because that has been ongoing ever since there's been sin. So he must be referring to a very specific form of apostasy that has to become very obvious. Before the re the revelation of Christ, the second advent of Christ. I believe that That apostasy, that falling away, is given to us, if you would turn to Revelation chapter 13. Revelation chapter 13. He says, now, concerning that day when the Lord comes back to the earth, not the raptures, not talking about that, talking about the second advent, second return of Christ. There has to be a falling away from. There's going to be a very specific apostasy that takes place before that happens. Revelation chapter 13, I believe, is what he's referring to. Look at verse number 11. And I beheld another beast. Now you have this unholy trinity being referenced here. You have Satan, you have the false prophet, and you have the Antichrist. Now notice what it says here. I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb, and spake as a dragon. Uh he looks like a a lamb. Looks like he's innocent, harmless, looks like he's very helpless. But brother, he's a dragon Get that? And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him, and cause it look at this, and causeth the earth and them that dwell therein to do what? Worship what? Worship the first beast whose deadly wound was healed. Who's the first beast? It's the Antichrist. He's been put in position. He apparently was killed, and his deadly wound is healed. And this second piece that looks like a lamb but talks like a dragon is the false prophet, and he's convincing everybody to worship the Antichrist. Daniel tells us that halfway through the tribulation, he sets himself up in the temple to be worshipped as God. How does he get everyone to worship him as God? He's got his prophet. And his prophet deceives the world. Look look what he says here. Which caused uh the first beast, which him caused the earth and them that dwell therein to worship the first beast, the Antichrist, whose deadly wound was healed. Verse 13 And he, the false prophet, doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down from heaven, and the earth in the sight of men. and deceiveth him that dwell on the earth by the means of these what? Miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast saying to them that dwell on the earth that they should make an image to the beast which had the wound by a by a sword and did live. I believe the falling away that Paul was referring to in Second Thessalonians here is the worship of the false beast. When the Antichrist is avealed, and the whole world, for the most part, worships him as God in the place of Jesus Christ. And he says, until you see that, until that happens, the second advent of Christ is not going to take place Now there's apostasy all around, but not this particular apostasy. 1 John 2, verse 18 through 22 references the Antichrist And the denial of Christ and the worship of Antichrist is inferred there. So one thing, one indicator that has to be in place before the second advent is this falling away, this apostasy There's a second indicator given to us here in Thessalonians. Um real quick, and I've got to wind this down. I'm telling you, you could spend hours on this. Second I lost my place here. Hold on. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, look at verse 3. For no man, let no man deceive you by any means that they shall not come except there come a falling away first. And look at this. And that man of sin be revealed the son of perdition. This man of sin, this is a very specific person. Would you agree that there's men of sin out there? Sure, there's very wicked people out there. There's very wicked people in the world. I mean we're all sinners. Uh but this man of sin, and then at the end of the verse he refers to him as the son of perdition. This is a specific individual. That uh is revealed. He uses that term reveal. The phrase man of sin has this idea: a man of great depravity, a man of tremendous wickedness There have always been men of great depravity. There have always been men of great wickedness, but none like this guy. This guy has incredible depravity, has uh unimaginable wickedness, but couples with that is a satanic ability to deceive people. And Satan uses that to his full advantage. Now, how can somebody, how can a man of sin Let me ask this. Have you ever watched the news or saw some of our politicians, most of them maybe, and you say, how can anyone like that get into that position? You know? Can I be real? How how does someone like Barney Frank get into those positions? You know, and others. You just wonder how in the world. I'm telling you, Satan is tremendous at diseving people. And the Antichrist is going to be such a vile, wicked man, yet he's going to be so smooth and so slick, and he's going to get into a position of world dominance. Now, I think one of the ways he's able to get to that position is the church and the Holy Spirit are removed off the earth So that whole element of resistance to his growing influence is completely removed. And so the world, of course, without the The prohibiting influence of the Holy Spirit without the protest of genuine believers. And by the way, genuine believers ought to protest. And uh without that being there, the world just brothels uh to him and no doubt the media's involved and the w the world religious organizations are involved and he gets to this phenomenal position Now notice that the last part of verse 3 it makes reference. I had a fellow years ago asked me about this. It says, the son of perdition. This is referencing the Antichrist And I had a fellow ask me, and a good guy, Bible student, he said, do you think that is Judas reincarnating? In John, it says that Judas is the son of perdition. He's referred to as the son of perdition. And he asked me, Do you believe that Judas is reincarnated? And I answered him the exact same thing that Brian just answered me. No. There's several reasons. When he refers to Judas as the son of perdition, he refers to the Antichrist as the son of perdition. All he's simply saying is they both end up in the same place. That's what perdition is. And another reason I'm convinced it's not Judah's coming back, nobody has ever left hell before the Great White Throne judgment. And Jesus told us in Luke chapter 16 that there's a great chasm, that they cannot go from there up to here or anywhere else. And so when you see a book advertised or you hear some yardbird say that God let him go to hell to see what hell is and brought him back, that guy is immediately, you know he's lying. And so this is not a reference to Judas. Judas is dead. Judas has been in hell for a long time. This is another unique individual. He's a man born of a woman. He's not an angel or a devil. He's devil-possessed, no doubt. But he's a man born of a woman, an extremely wicked man, an extremely deceitful man. And he convinces the world to worship him as God. Now this is what I want us to take away from this. And I put I preached on this Sunday morning, and I didn't do this deliberately. I really believe it's the Lord's. Prompting me to preach on these things. I'm not deliberately trying to organize this, but um Jesus is coming again. Now, all that we looked at is referencing the second advent. As far as the rapture is concerned, it's wide open The the the chronological landscape between us and the rapture, there's nothing between here and there. You follow what I'm saying? There's no Antichrist. There's no fault apostasy that we're talking about here. Oh, that's just why it can happen anytime. Once the rapture happens, then all these things start coming into place. And that's where the church at Thessalonica got messed up. I don't know exactly what their thinking was, but it wasn't right. And Paul's correcting that We get up in the morning. Do we really think about how I live today and what I do and don't do is observed by God. And that I'm actually going to give an account to the Lord for that as a Christian? Apparently the church at Thessalonica did had a profound impact on them. Father in heaven, bless us, Lord, help us to take these truths in Scripture and to understand them to be more than just some doctrinal statement. God help us to see them as realities in our life. Help these truths to affect how we live and how we think and our approach to this old world. Lord, you challenge me through this study, I trust you. Helping others within our church that our faith would be strong And uh we would live our lives in light of that. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, you know, I really need to I really need to keep the coming of Christ a little bit more in the forefront of my thinking I need to keep it there a little bit higher priority in my understanding of the my life. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that uh I really need to give that more thought and have more profound effect on my life. Any like that by the uplifted hand. All of us need that, don't we? Let's ask the Lord to help us. And as God brings specific things to our heart and mind Let's let's let the Lord have his way. Whatever it may be, just let the Lord have his way. Father, we want to be a rapture-ready church. We want our homes, our lives, our minds, our time, all that we use to be rapture-ready. And uh we need your help uh as we implement these truths in Jesus' name. Let's stand against