And turn to the last book of the Old Testament. Now, I hope you uh maybe kept your place there in Luke. We're going to get back to Luke 1 here in a bit. But I want to start off in Malachi, the last book of the Old Testament Malachi, and we're going to go to the last chapter of the last book of the Old Testament, chapter 4. And we're going to go to the last two verses of the last chapter of the last book. of the Old Testament, Malachi chapter 4, verses 5 and 6. Then uh we're going to get over there to Luke chapter 1. In just a bit, but I want to start out by reading this here. It is how many dads are considered an honor to be a father? In an honor, boy, I just thank God for that. My sons and I were we message all the time. And um my one oldest son put a little picture of a campfire uh on his back deck. He's got a little thing with fire going there. My other son said, you're turning into dad. Of course I don't have campfires, I have bonfires on my back deck, but um so uh but he has uh I tell you, the not only being a father is a honor and blessing, but being a grandfather is something else Wow. And so our little granddaughter's been calling us all week and she's five years old and she's got these words. She learns a new word, so then it's like every other word is that word. The word of the week l last week was apparently. Apparently this and apparently that. And uh and then um and then uh she had a couple others and then she this week she said uh uh what what does procrastinate mean, Pap? I said I'll tell you later. Malachi chapter number 4. I want to read verse 5. And then when we get to verse 6, I'd like for us to read it all together. Now, a week from tomorrow, I've got cataract surgery. They're going to pull the cataract out and put a new lens in. And then I'll be able to read. I'm having a hard time reading here right now. So I'm going to get to verse 6. I'm going to ask that we all read that together. Let me read verse 5, then we'll read verse 6 together. Verse 5, Malachi 4, behold, I will send you Elijah, the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. Now let me just answer this. Who is that Elijah he's referring to there? Who wants to take a shot? John the Baptist. It's not right there's no reincarnation. This isn't Elijah being reincarnated He's going to have the spirit of Elijah's going to be upon him. And now look at verse 6. Let's read this together, would you? All together. And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse Here in Malachi 4, 6, and then in Luke chapter 1 and verse 17, the Bible says that John the Baptist, part of John the Baptist's mission Part of his ministry, his message, is going to turn the heart of the fathers toward the children. Says it twice there. That's going to be part of his mission. So I'm entitled the message. I want to look at this thought. I'm entitled the message this morning, The Heart of a Father. The heart of a father. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, it is so good to be in the house of God. It's so good to see your people and to be able to gather, be together as a body. And I pray now your presence would be here. That's the most important thing, Lord. And pray you would manifest your presence as the Word of God is declared. And I pray that you would speak to us and challenge us, not just fathers, but mothers and just single and every age. That you would challenge us to grow in our faith, to be stronger in our witness, to have a greater love for you and commitment to you. I yield my will to you, Lord, as best I can and know how. I present my body anew. With all my heart, again, this hour, I pray, Lord, please fill me with your Spirit. Speak through me. Change lives Help us, Lord, to make good decisions in response to the Word of God. And we ask these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. You read through the New Testament, and I encourage you. I think you ought to, if you can, if you've been saved any length of time, I really challenge folks, I say this all the time, read through the Bible, the whole thing. Genesis to Revelation. Just read through the whole thing. We're told in Timothy that all scripture is given by inspiration of God. So a Christian ought to be familiar with the whole Bible. But if you read through the New Testament in particular, you'll notice, you'll see there, that God is referred to as the believer's father. Now that's a that's a that's a neat thought in my mind. That's such a precious thought in my mind. That God is the Father. Of a believer, of Christians. Jesus used terms like this, our Father, which art in heaven. He says this several times. He makes this statement. Your heavenly Father knoweth what ye have need of. In Galatians, Paul references crying out to God, Abba Father. God is the father of the believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I believe it's very, very important for you and I to maintain that concept and view God as a view God from a child's perspective looking to the Father And that that could possibly change our relationship, our walk with God. We start seeing Him as our Father, our Heavenly Father. As a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, our concept of God must not just be that of a creator. Now, God is our creator. Amen. God is the creator of heaven and earth. In the beginning, God created the heaven and earth. We did not evolve from lower life forms Biggest lie that's ever been uh brought hoaxed onto mankind that we evolved somehow. It's the biggest lie that ever has been. And uh we are direct uh we are we are created directly by God. I don't know how you can look around and not see that But we cannot see God. As a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, our concept of God has to be more than He's just our God, just our Creator. He needs to be more than just our judge. Now, God is the judge of all the earth. And don't ever forget, don't misunderstand, every single human being at some point in time is going to stand before God. As judge, you say, well, I'm saved. I'm a believer. I'll never stand before God and be judged. Oh, there is such a thing as the judgment seat of Christ. Where we as believers will stand before God and be judged according to our works and that. Not for salvation, but according to rewards and how we live for the Lord. And then, God forbid that there be somebody here in the service this morning that has never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. And if you would die in that condition, die in your sins, the Bible is very, very clear that every unsaved person will eventually stand before the great white throne judgment of God That is a horrific sentencing of eternity in the lake of fire separated from God. And so God is a judge, there's no doubt about it. The Bible makes that clear all through the Old New Testament. That God is the judge and he will do right. But as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, I can come to God, the creator of heaven and earth, not as a hard, cold judge. But I can come to God as my father. My father. I think that's one of the most tender concepts given. In the Bible, for a believer's relationship to God as Father. I don't know about you, but that's pretty reassuring to me that God sees me not as some created subject of his. But he sees me as his child, as his son. I studied the Bible, and many of you have. You know what I found? I found that our Heavenly Father loves his children. God loves his children. God cares for his children. He said, oh, preacher, I'm saved, but I'm not much. I'm just somebody. No, no, no. You are the child of God. He loves you and he loves me and he cares for you and he cares for me. Casting all your care upon him, for he what? Careth for you. He careth for you. What a heavenly father we have. He loves his children. He cares for his children. Like a good father, he provides for his children. How many people believe a father ought to provide for his family? Sure. Timothy, Timothy, we're told you're worse than an infidel. You don't provide for your family. So, God provides for us. He says, seek ye first the kingdom of God, his righteousness. All these things will be added unto you. He provides for us. The Bible says because He loves us, He chastens us, or corrects us, or disciplines us. He doesn't leave us just to our own. Just like a good father loves his son or his daughter and and they get a little wayward and they get out of sorts, he very lovingly yet firmly disciplines and corrects and Helps them get back in line and live the way they should. And God does the same thing for us. Oh, you Baptists, once saved, always saved, license to sin. No, no, no. A good father never gives his children A license to sin. He corrects them, he disciplines them, chastens them. Read Hebrews chapter 12. I always refer to that. Our Heavenly Father loves us He cares for us. He provides for us. When we get out of sorts, he steps in and he chastens and corrects us. How many people know what I'm talking about in that chastening and correcting hand of our Heavenly Father Shore? Uh uh I like I think I mentioned this just recently, but uh it's uh it's uh we used to call it going out to the woodshed. Now we never did have a woodshed growing up, but I ended up there a bunch God leads his children. He directs them. Some of you dads will you dads will be able to relate to what I'm saying. I tell you, it's very fulfilling when you have a child who comes to you and says, Dad, what should I do? Anyone know what I'm talking about? What should I do here? How do you advise me? What do you think I should do? You know what? You and I, we get in situations. We don't know right from wrong sometimes. We don't know inside out. But as a child of God, I can come to my Heavenly Father. And say, God, show me. Teach me the way wherein I should go. God teaches us And he helps us. He's given us 66 books here that he uses to lead and direct us and help us. What a heavenly father. I just, this week I got thinking about a heavenly father. I got missing my daddy, as many of you do too, but uh I got thinking about my heavenly father He protects us. He protects us. Oh, preacher, I'm scared. Everything going on. This is crazy. Oh, we've got a heavenly father. He'll take care of us He'll protect us. The door's locked. Daddy's got the door locked. It's okay. Nobody's getting in. You follow what I'm trying to say? He's got it secure. There's not a devil in hell can outwit our Heavenly Father. This old world can't fool him. He protects us. He takes care of us. And so God is a father. On Father's Day, we think of God, the creator of heaven and earth, spoke this place into existence. And he's our Father. As a believer, he's our Father. Now, I gotta throw this out, I gotta say this If you've not trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you cannot claim God is your Father. You're outside the family of God. Jesus in in John chapter 8 he said this to the unbelievers. He said, You are of your father the devil. That's a fearful thought. I'll tell you this: God's a better father than the devil is. I lived under, some of y'all too, I lived under the devil's fatherhood for years. No thank you. No thank you. And so God is a father. He's our Father. And God believes in God designed fatherhood. Think about this: the very first human being God created was a father, became a father. God believes in fatherhood. God values fatherhood tremendously. He designed fatherhood. He designed mankind. Around the concept or around the role of the father. He instructs fathers I was talking w we were out in Missouri a couple weeks ago or a month or so ago with my sons. We spent a a day together, the three of us, and just had a wonderful time. And we got talking about things and about being fathers. And I said that all the instructions for fatherhood is in the Word of God. God teaches us. God shows us. What should I do? I'm a father. Oh, I don't. Go to the Word of God. Now, if you've got a good, godly Christian daddy that patterned fatherhood for you, well, you've got to step ahead. You've got a great advantage there. If our young people are all out, but I'd say to our young people, if you've got a good Christian, godly daddy, you ought to thank God every day for that. And so you have that pattern to follow. But God designed fatherhood. God instructs, gives us instructions in the Word of God about fatherhood, how to be a father, and God exemplifies fatherhood. Say, preacher, I grew up without a daddy. I grew up, I didn't have a Christian home. How do I know? How do I pattern? What pattern do I follow? Oh, just look to your Heavenly Father He's a good example of fatherhood. He's a good example of fatherhood. Now I do want to pause here. I feel I felt uh I ought to stop and say a word here to single mothers. I know it's Father's Day, but I want to dress single mothers for a minute. My heart goes out to a single mother. My hats are off To single mothers. Whatever the cause, whatever, through death, divorce, abandonment, whatever the circumstance may be, that is not, you know, that's not the issue. The issue is a mother, a single mother, has to fill the role and responsibilities of not just mother, but also father. Now, I'll say this. I hope you understand what I'm trying to say. A single mother cannot be a father to her children. You can't be. God didn't design you to be a father. You are not that child's father. You are the mother of that child or children. However, because of the circumstances, a single mother has to carry out the father's responsibilities, and that can be overwhelming. That can have uh uh uh be an incredible challenge, and especially in the circumstances we find ourselves now. You're working a job, you're trying to raise the kids Now you've got to teach them at home also, the schooling there. And I'm telling you, it can be overwhelming, but if I understand my Bible correctly, and I believe I do, at least on this aspect, God gives special grace to single mothers. I read through the Bible numerous times. God makes a statement along these lines that the fatherless and widows Have the special grace and attention and protection of God. The fatherless, that's the mother, that's the child without a father being raised by a single mother. Now, this is we understand studying the scriptures, we have reason to believe that Jesus' stepfather Who was Jesus' stepfather? Talk to me now. Joseph, the husband of Mary. We have reason to believe that Jesus human father, stepfather here on earth, we have reason to believe that he passed away before Jesus reached adulthood He is mentioned at twelve years old they went to Jerusalem and his father was still living at that point. But from that point on there's no mention of Joseph. And when Jesus was crucified, he referenced his mother in John John taking care of his mother. And we have reason to believe that Joseph at some point after twelve years old, though we don't know where Joseph passed away. And so it's a very real possibility that Jesus teen years he was raised by a single mother. He had brothers and sisters also. And so I believe that on this Father's Day, I want to point out, I believe very strongly. That a single mother has a special place in the heart and mind of God. And receives special grace from God for that. So a mother cannot be a father and is not a father, but nevertheless has to carry out Those responsibilities, and God gives grace for that. By the way, some of the great creatures, some of the men that have influenced me tremendously over the years, were raised by single mothers. Great, great men of God And so, God bless you. Now, let's look at this here. Are you still in Malachi chapter 4? Now, also keep that and go back to Luke chapter 1, if you would. Malachi chapter 4, and come back to Luke. Chapter number one. Now let's look in Malachi. Look what it says here. And he, this is Malachi, Speaking under the inspiration of God, referencing John the Baptist, and he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children. I circled that word heart Now, keep your place there. Come back to Luke, chapter number one. Now, this is Zachariah being addressed, and speaking of this son that he's about to miraculously conceive. And he shall go before him, that's the coming Messiah, shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias. John the Baptist is not a resurrected Elijah. And the Bible doesn't contradict. He's in the spirit and the power of Elijah uh Elias. Now look at this. To turn the what? Come on, talk to me now. Are y'all is everybody awake out there? Everybody? Three. Alright, say it with me, ready? Shall turn and turn the what? Hearts of the fathers to the children. I circled that. Now think with me a moment. Malachi chapter 4, the last verse of the last book, of the last chapter of the Old Testament. That is the last statement that the mankind hears from God for over four hundred years. The 400-year span between the end of the Old Testament until Luke chapter 1, when God speaks to uh to uh Zacharias. 400 years span. So think about this. The last words spoken by God to mankind are this: He shall turn the hearts of the fathers to children. And now you fast forward 400 years. Zacharias is in the temple. God sends a message. And part of that message is, he shall turn the hearts of the fathers to the children. So the first words From God to mankind for over four hundred years is turned the hearts of the fathers to the children. The last words mankind heard from God for four hundred years was Turn the hearts of the fathers to children. I don't know about you, but that tells me that fatherhood is important to God. Both passages address this matter of hearts, the fathers' hearts being turned to their children. That indicates that a father's heart for children is a vital role in the plan of God. The coming of Jesus Christ, and the announcement of John the Baptist that the Messiah has come, part of that ministry of John the Baptist Is declare that the fathers' hearts will be turned to their children. A father's heart being turned to the children is vital to the spiritual well-being of mankind. I got thinking about that. John the Baptist's ministry is to be a voice of one crying in the wilderness, the Messiah has come, the Lamb of God has come to take away the sins of the world. But part of that message, a very key part of that same message is the fathers' hearts to be turned to their children. And I just got thinking, I'm just wondering I'm wondering if a this if I'm wondering if children would be more open to the gospel If their father's hearts were turned to them as it ought to be, then a child who's raised up, whose father's heart is not towards his children. Anybody follow what I'm saying? I get the idea here that children are much more receptive to the gospel, that children are much more receptive to the will of God, children are much more receptive to the Lord Jesus Christ If they have a father who has a heart for that child, then ones that don't. Because twice it said here in relation to John the Baptist's message, the Lamb of God has come, the Messiah has arrived. And involved in that is this idea of a father's heart being turned to his children. Now, I want to consider Malachi here a little bit. Malachi was a prophet of Israel. We don't know a whole lot about him. He was preaching his message was for Israel about a hundred years after they had returned from captivity Israel had gotten into idolatry and wickedness. God chastened them, sent them into seventy years' captivity in Babylon. God stirred the heart of Cyrus. He let them come back And they rebuilt the temple, but they never rebuilt their relationship with the Lord. And so Malachi is addressing the nation of Israel That is in a pitiful, pitiful spiritual state. In fact, I did a little digging on that, what the conditions were in Israel at the time of Malachi. And I found out that their relationship as a nation, their relationship with God was in shambles. Oh, they had the temple and they had the rituals and the religion part of the temple down. But that's all it was, was religion, religion. That's all it was, was a ritual. Their relationship with God, their walk with God was meaningless. The God of heaven, the God of Israel, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob was nothing more than just an insignificant, irrevolent Fought on the push to the side. It had no effect upon their daily life. And so the religious life, uh and the religious leaders in the time of Malachi were as corrupt as could be. And we get 400 years later when Jesus shows up, and you read through the Gospels, they got the exact same thing: corrupt, self-righteous, condemning, judgmental. Religious leaders, and that's all they were, was religious leaders, because they offered no spiritual sustenance to the people of Israel. And so that's who Malachi is addressing. A nation who had religion, and that's all it was A nation, their homes were in shambles if you read through Malachi. And I don't mean to open a sore womb or anything, but uh wounds. But uh uh he addresses in there that uh their their their homes had fallen apart, their marriages were in shambles. And he says there earlier in the chapter chapter, he says, I hate putting away. God is saying I hate divorce. I hate the breakdown of the home. I hate the the separation that takes place between mothers and fathers and husbands and wives. God says, I hate that And their homes were in shambles and crumbling. And you know, we live in a fallen world, and that happens, and I know firsthand, and many of you do. And so Malakai has a profound message to a people who are Who are in shambles. Their religious leaders were corrupt. Their government leaders were corrupt. Their religion was an empty, meaningless, self-righteous facade. Society was splintered by hatred. The northern kingdom hated the southern kingdom. The Jews hated the Gentiles. The Samaritans hated the Jews. You talk about splintered society. I tell you what, what we're in America today is nothing new and characteristic of mankind. And I hate to say it, even the people of God for years. That's the culture that Malachi is addressing. Selfishness characterized society, and it continued that way up until when John the Baptist showed up and Jesus began his ministry. Part of the mission, part of God's mission for John the Baptist was to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children. And let me make a few statements I believe are important. One never underestimate the importance of a father in the life of a child. Don't ever underestimate that. This world mocks the idea of fatherhood. They ridicule it. Hollywood treats fatherhood as if it's some kind of bizarre retarded joke. In the home. But homes are better off without fathers. I'm telling you, that is a lie of the devil. Never underestimate the importance of a father in the life of a child. I put this statement down. I think I made it earlier. A good father is more important in the life of a child than having a good mayor, a good governor, or a good president. Your child needs a good daddy more than he needs a good politician No politician, no politician has ever done for me what the man that sat in that third pew right there for the last year and a half has done for me Man, I I I get thinking sometimes, if we get as worked up about the importance of fatherhood as we do about the garbage that goes on in Washington and in the state houses, maybe this thing would turn around in our country. People say, Oh, we need to get God, we need to get the Bible back in the stores, we need to get God back in the state house. I'll tell you where we need to get God, back in our Christian homes That the Bible back in our homes where mom and dad and the kids read and believe the Bible together That's what's going to turn this country around. Listen, the breakdown in our society, the breakdown that's going on in our society right now is a direct result of the breakdown of the homes And God pushed out of our homes, and whether it's a single father, a single mother, or a a a full whole family unit God needs to get back in our homes. The Bible needs to become the the sole authority in our homes. Amen or not. And listen, that's up to you and I. We can gripe about we can gripe about politicians all day long. But if I'm not fulfilling my role in the home that God has given to me, whether it's a husband or a wife or a mother or a father or a child, if I'm not fulfilling my role in the home I am failing and hurting my children more than any politician ever will. I'm calling for revival in our homes. I'm calling for God's people, God's fathers, God's mothers, God's children to humble ourselves before God and put away our stinking pride. For the sake of our children and for the sake of our community, get right with God. Amen or not? I'm as sick of what's going on out in the world as you are. I keep reminding myself, this world's not my home. This world's not my home. But I'm telling you, we're going to the wrong places for the answers. God established the home. In the Garden of Eden. And everything from that point on is built upon the nuclear home. That God established. And when that breaks down, and when God is pushed out of that, and self takes over that home, and sin and world and pleasure and money. The foundation is broke, and this is what we get. I hope you're with me this morning. You say, preacher, it's Father's Day. You're supposed to be nice to the Father sometimes. I think I'm being nice. Because if everything was honky-dory, if everything was the way it would be, we wouldn't be seeing this out there, what we're seeing. Something's wrong somewhere. And I'm telling you, it's not Washington. It's in the Christian homes where we need it, we just need to humble ourselves get right. And I'm preaching it myself as much as anybody Good father is more important in the life of a child than a good mayor, governor, or president. Now that's my m that's my introduction. And my closing is my outline. Here's my closing thoughts. When a father's heart is turned to his children, and believe me, I did a lot of heart searching in this message, because I are one. And when a father's heart is turned to his children, now there may be a whole lot more, but I put down three things that will be true about that. Number one. The Father will love God with all his heart, with all his soul, with all his mind. You say, what does loving God have to do with being a good father? It has everything to do with it. In fact, that's where good fatherhood begins. The father is the human representative in the home of God Almighty. And the most important relationship a father or any person has, the most important relationship is life, is not with my spouse. is not with my children, is not with my parent. The most important relationship in my life is my relationship with my God. When I love God with all my heart, with all my soul, with all my mind, with all my strength, I love God. Oh, then I can be the father my children need. Amen or not. That's true. That's true. First and greatest commandment, thou shalt love. When that fellow came to Jesus, he said, What's the first greatest commandment? Jesus didn't say, Oh, be a good father. He didn't say that all. He said, what? Thou shalt love the Lord God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy strength, with all thy mind. Love thy neighbor as thyself. By the way, it's hard to love God and not love your neighbor. Right, Chester? We need to sing that song again. How's it go? Um Don't love God. So number one, when a father's heart is turned to his children, the very first characteristic of that father he's going to love God with all his heart, with all his soul. We need God back in our homes. We need the Bible back in our homes Every child needs a daddy that loves God and loves their mother and loves the children. Most important relationship we have So number one, I put this down. Father's heart is turned to the children, that father loves God. Number two, I put this down. When a father's heart is turned to his children, that father loves their mother A father's heart is turned to his children. Somebody said this to me years ago, and I know we got all different things we're trying to deal with, but this is a true statement, I believe. Somebody said to me years ago, the best thing a father can give his children is to love their mother. Best thing a father can give his children is to love their mother. And so when a father's heart is turned to his children, he's going to love their mother. Say, preacher, you don't know myself. Listen, the past is past. Wherever you're at now, just pick up and go from there. Amen. Father's heart is turned to his children. Number one, he loves God. Number two, he loves the mother of his children. And let me give you the last one. That father loves the children. Father loves the children. Should I say this or not? Let me put it this way. Some fathers are kind of like politicians. They think if you throw enough money at it, and you give enough things to it, programs to it, well then that'll solve the problem. And I'm afraid we got some Christian daddies who have that same mentality. Well, I'll give my kids this and I'll give them that and I'll put money here and I'll send them off to that. You know what the kids? The kids don't need your money, they need your love. They need your commitment, your integrity, your honesty. My daddy helped me over the years, different things. He helped me in college a little bit. I'll tell you, I mean money-wise, he sent a little bit of money here and there. But I'll tell you where he helped me. He was a man of integrity He's a man of humility. Anybody knows him knows that's true. He's a man of faith. Now, I'm not saying this never happened, and please excuse me for getting personal here at the end. But I'll tell you this: I never one time heard a bad word come off the lips of my daddy. God pity you dads that use filthy language around anywhere, but especially around your kids. Now somebody help me here this morning. I never saw my daddy put a bottle of liquor or any type of alcoholic beverage to his lips, not one time in fifty in sixty years that I ever see my daddy do that. I never saw him flirt with another woman. Well, except here in the n in the hospital when he was getting checked. He was flirting with that nurse, I'm telling you right now I was I was only up to be that girl's daddy. And um But I never saw him horse around with another woman. Never. Ever. Remotely. Never saw him put a cigarette to his mouth. When it was church time, guess where daddy was? He was in church. Unless he was out in the road driving, he was in church. And what I'm trying to say is this He in being the integrity of my father's faith did more for me than any amount of money he could have ever given me. Any amount of gifts he could ever give it me. What I'm saying is this: we need to pray. And those of us that are fathers, especially we have kids in the home, we need to ask God to turn our hearts to our children. And love God. Just decide. I'm going to love God. I'm going to love the mother of my children. And I'm going to love my children. And get that Bible in there. Start reading that Bible together as a family. Say, oh, we don't get along. Well get around the Bible, and maybe that'll solve that. You say, preacher, only need counsel. I'll tell you the best counsel I know to give. a family or home, is get that Bible out every night or in the morning sometime. Get all the family around. Read through the book of Psalms. Everybody pray. Ask God to have mercy on us. Help us. Change our hearts. heal this thing. And I'll tell you that'll do more for you than any advice I could ever give. My opinion. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray uh I pray this was helpful, Lord. I just shared my heart really this morning I pray you turn the hearts of fathers in our nation and our world to their children. I believe it begins by turning to the Lord Jesus Christ, is what starts that. Convict us, Lord, where we need conviction. Help us to humble ourselves. Help us, Lord, just to trust you. And let you lead us and direct us as fathers, as mothers, as single people, whatever our situation is, help us just to humbly trust you. And let you lead us and direct us. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. Let me invite give an invitation to the fathers, first of all. How many dads here say, Preacher, I really need revival in my heart and soul? I really do. I want God to stir me and change me and make me a spiritual man, a godly man. Man that God wants me to have. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I need that. I need that. God bless you. Hands all around. Dads, granddads. Future dads. How many would say here, preacher, I'm not a dad, but I'm a Christian. I need revival in my life. I need to get back and love the Lord like I should. And let God lead me and direct me. Is there anything like that, preacher? I need revival in my heart. As a Christian, any like that, all around. God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe the best thing on this Father's Day we could do, just kneel at an old altar and humble ourselves before God and say, God, make whatever changes in my life you need to make. Convict me and lead me and direct me and help me. God will do it. God will do it. There's someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure my sins are given on my way to heaven. You'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I want to get that settled. I don't I I want to know that I'm saved and sins forgiven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. I can't put that off anymore Any at all? Online? You're listening in and you're not saved, please contact us. We'll tell you how to be saved. We sure will. Father, bless our invitation. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James