He says, By Sylvanus, a faithful brother unto you, as I suppose, I have written briefly exhorting and testifying that this is the true grace of God wherein ye stand. He says, By Sylvanus, a faithful brother unto you, as I suppose, I've written bravely He says, I've written to you by Sylvanus. And we'll explain what he means by that. But he makes this statement about this fellow Sylvanus. He makes this statement. He says he is a faithful brother. A faithful brother, and that's what I want us to consider tonight. This faithful brother. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, we come to you today. It's evening, Lord's Day evening. Lord, my heart's full. I praise the Lord for the blessings of being with your people, being a part of the body of Christ. What a blessing. We've laughed together. We joked and sang and praised you a little bit. And now, Lord, we have our Bibles open. We have your word open before us, and we're wanting you to speak to us. I believe I speak for everyone here tonight. We really want you, Lord, to help prepare our hearts and minds for this coming week. That we can be a good witness, good testimony, walk with you, and have victory. So I ask, Lord, do you please fill me with your Holy Spirit? Lord, my voice is weak tonight, and um I ask that you would strengthen it May I be able to communicate clearly, without distraction, the truth that you have for us. And please speak through me. I yield my body to you, my will. Pray you would have your way in this service now in the next few moments. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There are a lot of churches across our country around the world. Hundreds of thousands, no doubt. Some churches are very strong and healthy, vibrant, what God wants them to be, serving the Lord in sincerity and faithful, having a witness, having an impact. And some churches not so much. And I hate to say that, and I can't, we're not in competition with anybody, and we're, I can't answer for other pastors, other churches But I think you'd agree with me, not all churches are what they ought to be. Some are, some are not. But I know this In every healthy, in every strong, healthy church, there are people who are seldom in the limelight. They usually or often get little or no recognition. They uh sometimes people hardly even know them in the church. Yet they are vital to the well-being of that church. They are vital to the strength of that church. They may never stand behind a pulpit They may never stand in the choir or sing a special. You might not see them prominent in the services. But nevertheless, they have a role, a vital role to play in the well-being and the strength of that church. One thing I am confident of, I've been doing this long enough now, I'm confident of this At every healthy, strong church, there are people in that church that get little or no recognition but are vital to the health and well-being of that church. Um when I was leaving Indianapolis, we were I was youth pastor there at the church and we were leaving, we were going out to Colorado to work with Neighborhood Bible Time. And um I preached a message for Astor said I'd like to preach a message before you go. And I preached. I preached on the fullness of the Holy Spirit. I still remember it. I preached on being filled with the Holy Spirit And I tried to challenge the church to seek the filling of the Holy Spirit. And in the message, I made the statement that I desire for God's Holy Spirit to fill me and empower me After the service, there was a dear lady in the church. She was an older lady at the time. I'd lost touch with her many years ago. I don't know that she's still living. She was an older lady back in the early 90s. And she caught me at the back before she left. As far as I know, she taught no Sunday school class. She didn't sing in the choir. She was just a dear, faithful lady in the church, got little or no recognition, but she pulled me aside And with an earnestness in her voice and sincerity, she said to me, they called me Pastor Dennis. She said, Pastor Dennis. She goes, I'm going to pray every day that God will fill you with His Holy Spirit and give you power in your ministry. Now I don't know what that would mean to anybody else, but to me that meant the world. And I've often thought all these many years since then, Going on uh what is that, 90 four uh thirty, forty years ago, thirty years ago. I've often thought that souls that have been saved And areas that God may have used me to help and impact people for the Lord, I often thought somewhere behind all that God has done. There's a dear lady unknown to most people, but had a role and had a part in that. You follow what I'm trying to say? Just somebody unknown for the most part, no position, no title. Just a dear lady in the church that said, I will do what I can do for the cause of Christ and for the salvation of the lost. All these years I've thought of Mrs. Fisher, what she's meant to me. I really didn't know her that well before as a large church. I mean we knew her, but not that well. But when she said and did that all, that had an impact on me. In every healthy church, I'm convinced there are people that are out of sight many times. Out of mind, maybe, in most people, but they're doing something that makes a difference. And they have a part in the health of that church. Peter's coming to the end of his letter that he's writing to these persecuted believers. And it's a powerful letter, of course, it's written under the inspiration of God. Being the Word of God, of course, it is quick and powerful. But Peter touches on some things that hit home. Unjust suffering. We deal with that. Assurance of our salvation. Submission. All areas of our life. He's dealt with some powerful things, important areas in the Christian life But as he finishes this letter up and he's kind of winding down, he's, you know, at the end you kind of make a few statements, you finish a letter. And he mentions here at the end this fellow Sylvanus. And I got looking at Sylvanus and I got wondering about him, and I did a little research on this fella. And I tell you, this fella is one of those people that is little known, yet he had a He had a vital role in the early church, in the success of the early church. He's only mentioned a few times in Scripture, Sylvanus. We probably know him better by his Jewish name. Sovenus is his Roman name And by the way, it wasn't uncommon for people in this time and people in the Bible to have two names. They might have a Jewish name and a Greek name Or they might have a Jewish name and a Roman name. It was a mixed culture, mixed nationalities. Sometimes they'd go by two names. For instance, the Apostle Paul, also known as Saul. Simon, the disciple Simon, or also known as Peter. Sylvanus was his Roman name But his Jewish name, we know him as Silas. Silas. Anybody recognize the name Silas? If you read through the book of Acts, you've read about Silas. He's mentioned 13 times in the book of Acts. He was instrumental, and we won't take time. I was originally going to go and look at all these. We won't take time because that's not the point I want to get to tonight. But he was instrumental in the early church, there that First Baptist Church of Jerusalem. I call it First Baptist Church. He was instrumental in the success of the church. Now here's the thing. He was not the pastor. James was the pastor. He uh he uh was just a guy in the church that gave everything he had to make that church a success. There was a little fuss among the believers, between the uh the believers who were Pharisees and the non-Jewish believers. There was a little fuss there about uh about circumcision and certain aspects of the law and they had a big council about it and Sylvanus or Silas was involved in that and invested and gave his part and tried to help resolve that issue and And uh went on. Later on, he became an associate of the Apostle Paul. After Paul and Barnabas have separated, went their separate ways, Paul had Silas come with him, I believe, under the direction of the Lord, and be his partner And for many years, on various mission trips, Silas was right by Paul's side, supporting him Encouraging him, participating in Paul's ministry. In fact, if you study Acts 16, when they're in prison, Silas gets beat just as much as Paul does. Silas is imprisoned right there beside Paul. Silas Sylvanus, as he's mentioned here, is right there in the bonds and stocks with Paul, bloodied and beaten. And if you remember at midnight in that prison, the Bible says they sang praises and prayed. The apostles heard him. Silas was right there. He wasn't the spokesman. We do not have one sermon of Silas recorded in Scripture, not one sermon. In fact, we don't have one word spoken by Silas recorded in Scripture. But yet he was vital in the ministry of that early church. Somehow he ended up with Peter. And he now is an associate of Peter. In my understanding, as I study it, it looks to me he's working as a second man. How many people know what I mean by second man? He's working right there by Peter. He's encouraging and helping and supporting Peter as God leads him and uses Peter as an apostle. Silas is a Sylvanus, or Silas is a very key man, though he has no books of the Bible written by him. No sermons recorded, not even a word of his recorded. Yet he was vital. He was vital. Apparently, I'm told by people, scholars say, that he was apparently a very fluent in Greek. in the Greek language. And because of that, they suggest that because Peter was a fisherman and he probably wasn't that highly educated as far as linguistics and all was concerned. And Peter may have been more crude in his Greek uh understanding of the Greek language that he brought Silas in, who apparently was very fluent and thought that maybe he could communicate better than Peter could. Do you remember when Peter was put on the spot and he denied the Lord? Remember the language he used? He cursed and swore. He was a fisherman. You know how fishermen are, Brother Nate. They're pretty rough. Silas, Sylvanus. Here's the thing. If we're correct in understanding he was fluent in Greek, he took something he was good at. He took an area that God had gifted him, and he used it for the advancement of the gospel. He used it for the good of the church and the well-being of God's people and the promotion of the kingdom of God. He used what God enabled him to do for God's glory and for the salvation of the lost. And what a challenge to you and I. A church is more than just the guy that stands behind the pulpit and hollers and spits a couple three times a week. It's a body of believers, each gifted and talented in various areas, using those abilities for the glory of God. for the advancement of the gospel, for the spiritual well-being of the church. And God blesses that. Sylvanus. I can't find one word recorded, he said in Scripture. No sermons, no books written by him, but he's helping Peter. Do what God has called Peter to do, and he's using his abilities to advance the church Now, I notice here, Peter ending his letter, he references, as I said, Sylvanus. We notice here. And he makes, and he gives Sylvanus or Silas, whichever name you want to use, he gives. Salvanus, one of the highest praises, I think, that can be given to a man. Look what he says there in verse number 12. By Sylvanus, he's finishing the letter up. He's about to basically putting his signature here. He says, by Sylvanus, look what he says. A what? A faithful brother. A faithful brother. Peter, what can you tell me about Sylvanus? I'll tell you this: he's a faithful brother He's faithful. I think that's one of the highest praises you can say about a Christian. They're faithful. They're faithful. Three things real quick I want to leave with you in a little bit of time we have. Number one, and I've kind of elaborated on this already, but number one, he was an unsung partner. He was an unsung partner. As I said, we don't have one word by Sylvanus ever said in Scripture, nothing recorded that he ever said. No books penned by him, no sermons. But he excelled as a partner. The others who were, did write books of the Bible, pen books of the Bible. He excelled in supporting Paul in his missionary journey. assisting and and partnering with him. He excelled as a second man. He worked behind the scenes. And made this thing called the church work. And God used him in a great way. An unsung partner. I think we must never ever forget the people in the church that are serving God just as faithful as anybody else up in front. And giving of themselves, and God is using them, though maybe they don't get all the acclaim and attention that others in the church get. Listen, here's what I'm trying to say, and it kind of goes in with what I said this morning. We ought not to seek attention and acclaim and praise of people. We ought to take who we are, what we are, what God has entrusted us with, and use it for His glory and His glory alone. That's what Sylvanus did. He's just taking and using what he has. He was an unsung partner. Number two, I put this down. He was steadfast and persistent. Notice what he says here. He says, a faithful brother. What does it mean? Talk to me. We're just not a big crowd tonight. Talk to me a little bit. What does it mean if someone is faithful? What do we mean by that? They're always there. What else? They're steadfast. Who else? What does it mean to be faithful? Consistent. You can count on them. Would you agree with this? Reliable. I put this down. If someone's faithful, they're where they should be, when they should be, they're They're where they should be, when they should be, they're doing what they should be doing. Faithful. Sylvanus, maybe a lot of things he wasn't. There's one thing Peter said he is, and that's faithful. He's faithful. Listen, there may be a lot of things you and I cannot do, but we can be faithful. You don't have to be highly educated to be faithful. You don't have to have a certain amount of money to be faithful. You don't have to be gifted in a lot of ways to be faithful. I can just be in my place, doing what I need to do when I need to do it. He's faithful. He was faithful. It means to be trustworthy, reliable. One of the definitions of the term faithful means this: true to their word. God give us some Christians who are true to their word. Amen. We live in a day and age where people's word doesn't mean much. As a child of God, as disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, hear me out. As a disciple of Jesus Christ, our word ought to mean something. We make a vow. We make a promise. If we make a statement, we ought to stick to it and be Faithful to what I've said, even if it hurts me and costs me something, I'll stay true to my word. Psalms talks about that. I think it's chapter 15. Even to his own hurt, he keeps his word. Keeps his word. You say, preacher, I regret making that bow. Well, you ought to keep your word. Or to keep your word. Say it's going to cost me. I tell you, it'll cost you more to go back on your word. Go back on your word. Sylvanus was faithful. It means trustworthy, reliable, keeps his word, true to his word. I got studying in the Bible this idea of being faithful. And it's all over Scripture. Do you know the Bible says that God is faithful? In fact, I found it over and over and over and over The Bible declares that God is faithful. How many folks are glad God's faithful? Boy, we'd be in a mess if God wasn't faithful. God's faithful. Do you know what that tells me? If God is faithful, the God of creation, the eternal, all-powerful, omnipresent, infinite God. If he's faithful, and if you and I are faithful, that means we are godly. Right? If God's faithful, then faithfulness is part of being godly, being like God One of the most Christ-like things you and I can do is be faithful to our word, to our church, to our family, to my job, whatever it may be, be faithful. He said, Peter s uh Peter says, Sylvanus penned this down for me. Apparently he dictated it to Sylvanus. And he was a good penman. He was good at words. He wrote down what Peter was under the inspiration, directing him to write. And uh Paul used others to do the same thing. And at the end he says, by the way, Sylvanus is, I'm putting this in my own words, of course, by the way, Sylvanus, the one that wrote this down for me. I want you to know he's a faithful brother. It's faithful. Peter saw that and he wanted to recognize it. Take your Bible, if you would, just real quickly. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 4. Sylvanus took the abilities God gave him and he used them for the advancement of the kingdom, for the glory of God. And then he was faithful in doing so. 1 Corinthians 4 and verse number 2, if you would notice a key verse here, important verse, 1 Corinthians 4. 2. Says verse 1, he says, Let a man show account of us as the ministers of Christ and stewards of the mystery of God. Paul says, We're not much, we're nothing. We're just ministers, just servants. Serving God. And then he says in verse 2 Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. God expects his people to be faithful. Faithful to their word, faithful to their church, faithful to their family. I think the foundation for success in the Christian life is first and foremost faithfulness to God. It's an act of faith to be faithful. I think a foundation in the victorious Christian life is being faithful. You know what I've found? I found that folks that are struggling and defeated And are always under the dominion of some sin, and are always struggling and never having victory. You know what I found A lot of times they're not faithful in some area of their Christian life. I believe every Christian, I believe every Christian ought to be faithful in having a daily time with the Lord. If you don't learn, listen, if you don't learn to be faithful in having daily devotions, you're going to struggle in your Christian life. Am I can I get a witness? Anybody know? I've been there. People come in struggling with stuff, and one of the first things I'll ask them often, one of the first things I'll ask them is this: how's your daily Bible time? How's your daily time with the Lord? And almost without exception. In fact, I want to say, without exception, when they're struggling, this is what happens. Their head goes down. Oh, I know it's not what it ought to be. No, it's not what it ought to be. Years ago I had a fellow that's giving me fits about stuff, just everything I did criticized, everything I did was wrong. I mean I could not do anything right If I if I uh if I jumped, uh they'd criticize me for jumping. If I didn't jump, they'd criticized me for not jumping. I mean I couldn't do anything right. He came down, he wanted to Deal with something we sat down, talked a little bit. I said, I said, let me just ask you a personal question. He said, okay. So how's your daily time with the Lord? Got quiet. He says, Well, it's not what it ought to be. It's not what it ought to be. So when's the last time you spent some time with the Lord? Jeshua and the Lord, Bible reading, prayer. When's the last time? Well, preacher, it's been a long time. How long? Too long. Listen, a Christian can't go two, three, four days, a week, two weeks without getting alone with God. Without being with the Lord, let him speak your heart through his word. Pour your heart out to God. Ask him for wisdom and direction. David said, morning, noon, and night will I pray and cry aloud. We have to be careful about that. Faithful. In our daily time with God, in our church, and our faithfulness to church. Faithful. It's a foundation of the Christian life. It's a foundation of victory in the Christian life. And then last of all, if you would come back, one last observation. He says, by Sylvanus, he penned it down for me. This letter is coming to you by Sylvanus. He was the scribe. A faithful brother unto you, as I suppose, I have written briefly, by him. I put this down. Number one, he was an unsung partner, Paul, and then eventually Peter. He was steadfast and persistent, faithful, and then he was spiritually profitable. I don't know anything about his talents or abilities other than apparently he was good at writing. He knew Greek. I don't know anything about his intelligence. Apparently had some intelligence. He's able to do what he's doing. I don't know anything about his physique. He may have been tall, dark, and handsome. He might have been short, uh not skinny and ugly. I don't know what he looked like. But I do know this. He took what he was able to do, and he gave it to God and used it for God. And he was key. He was spiritually profitable for the cause of Christ We do know, I don't know what he looked like or how tall he was. I don't know how educated he was or what abilities he had. He might not have been able to swing a hammer. He might not have been able to change a tire But what he could do, he did do. And he helped the church, and God used them. He used what he had to serve the Lord. I thought about that, dear lady, remember She had a alabaster box of ointment. She came into Jesus. She broke that, apparently very valuable, poured it on the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair. The other disciples criticized her and said, What a waste. And Jesus made one of the greatest statements he could make about a person. He said, She hath done what she could. A lot of things she couldn't do, a lot of areas that she had no ability in. But one thing she could do, she did it. She did it. I'm convinced if every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, if what we can do, we would do, and we do it faithfully for the glory of God, God will bless our church and use us to have an impact in this old simple world. Amen or not. Byrne, we're we're talking Byrne's uh venturing out in a new adventure, hauling uh what do you haul? What a stuff. But kind of what Jed does, just got a truck and a trailer and hauling stuff for people. Do you ever know I since these guys doing it, I've been watching and driving down the road. These things are everywhere Big pickup truck pulled a flatbed everywhere. So Byrne's doing that. He had his first load here recently and the the the trailer messed up, broke down. And what'd you say what went bad? The drum? Tire blew out and then there was something else. Everything. But he made a statement, I thought about it for our message tonight. He said that I think he said the drum went out, and the reason the drum went out It's because a bearing was bad. Am I anywhere close, friend? Just say yes. Okay, thank you. That little bearing You can't even see it. It's just a little thing, unseen behind the scenes, just has one little job to do. That bearing gave out and had catastrophic results. Listen You may just be a bearing in the church. Say, preacher, I ain't much. A bearing ain't much, just a little round ball sitting inside there. But brother, it's vital to the success of that trailer, that axle. And you and I, whatever areas we have, whatever God has enabled us to do, we need to be like Sylvanus and be faithful And take what we can do and use it for the glory of God. And one day we'll stand before the Lord Jesus. Listen. And hear him say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Faithful. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord, you'd help us be faithful. If we're big and strong, if we're short and weak, if we're highly educated, or if we're just an old dumb bunny, like my dad used to say. I pray you take us and use us any and every way you can. Lord, we're not in it for the glory, we're not in it for the praise. We just want you to be glorified, Lord. We want souls to be saved So please take us and use us. Maybe this Sunday night we're about to go into a new work week. Maybe an old-fashioned order would be a good place to kneel and say, Lord, here I am. Such as I am, I give to you. I want you to use me wherever you see fit. I just want to be like Sylvanus. Be a faithful for the glory of God. Father, bless our invitation. Have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen.