Anybody else who want to make these available? Well, Brother Schindler has been speaking and teaching on the family for many, many years. He's pastored for years. He's uh president of a Bible college for a good number of years. Uh now he's out representing uh First Bible International, holding Bible conferences, revivals, missions conferences. God's using him across the board. He's traveling overseas a good bit. And uh when I think of family conference, I think of Dr. Schindler, and uh he has some things that can and will help us So let's get our Bibles out. It's good to have his wife with us today also. And uh let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts and help us. Thank you, very much. God bless you. If you have your Bibles, turn over to Matthew the seventh chapter, would you please Matthew the seventh chapter. Tell her about how the about husband wives holding hands. You know I somebody asked me how come I always hold and I'm always holding my wife's hand. I said, 'cause if I let go she'll go shopping. So Matthew the seventh chapter. I don't know what did I do with my glasses? I didn't see that. Well. Well, got them on my face. They're bifocal, so I wasn't looking through the bifocal part and I thought, man, that's I thought I was looking without 'em. Matthew the seventh chapter. When you get old things happen like that, you know that My wife when we got married she says we make a good team. I know where we're going and you know how we get home. Now we both know how to get there and how to get home. So we bought a GPS but nobody can understand the woman that's talking on it. So So we just aim the car and hope we get there. And the worst thing is get it coming out shopping and forgetting where you put your car. Next car we buy is gonna be sky pink, I mean blue and pink and yellow with purple stripes or something. So Matthew the seventh chapter verse number twenty-four. Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man Which built his house upon a rock. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon the house, and it fell not, for it was pounded upon a rock And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house upon the sand. The rains descended, floods came, and the winds blew And beat upon the house, and it fell. And great was the fall of it. And it came to pass when Jesus had ended these sayings, the people were astonished at this doctrine, for he taught them as one say having authority. And not as a scribe. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help me this morning to be a blessing as we talk about the home. I pray that you'd speak to our hearts And help us to see biblical truth that'll help us in Jesus' name. Amen. Nobody needs to be told today that we are living in a perilous time. Second Timothy the third chapter says that we live in perilous times. The last days are perilous times. And if you look at it, a lot of it has to do with his society and their their uh sin and their ungodliness and so on. And uh And we we have a I I I've often said I'm glad I've already gone past that stage to raise all my kids and so on because I be honest, I have a great heart compassion for young couples trying to raise kids today And um and uh I know that my children we have uh I myself have th three children and ten grandchildren and s six six seven great grandchildren and two more on the way I think it is There's a six great grandchildren. I don't know. We have so many, we're just like litters, we know. And uh but uh but I I really I really have empathy for my grandchildren now who are trying to raise their children in this world today. But I want to remind you, all right, the Bible says that the before the coming of the Lord, it's going to be like it was in the days of Noah And Noah got his family saved. Nobody else could save, but he got his family saved. And you can also, you can also raise your kids in this hour, in this time. But you need God's wisdom You're not going to do it without God. Can I say that again? You're not going to get your children raised for God without God. Okay, you may raise them, it depends what your finished product is. What is your finished product? What do you want your children to be? I preached a sermon here a long time ago. You may remember. I don't know. I don't remember what I preached from week to week. I don't know if you'll remember now, but I preached about raising children. Uh and uh it's like When you go bow and arrow hunting, you get your bow and you s uh and and you sight your bow and so because your goal is to be able to put that arrow in the bull's eye, whether at twenty twenty yards, thirty yards, forty yards, or fifty yards And uh the gu uh the uh object is to hit the bullseye. You're not gonna be happy if it hits the outer rings. Well, it depends on what you want for your children Do you want do you want to be just satisfied that they hit the outer ring and they just raised up good children, decent children? They don't rob banks, take drugs Or do you want them to be children who love God and go to church or at least saved and go to church? Or do you want them to go to church and as well as being saved and teach and serve and go soul winning and be active? Do you want them do you want them to uh surrender their life to full-time Christian service and do you want them to do the will of God? What is it you want? Um we need to ask God to help us raise our children so they'll grow up to love God supremely and do the will of God for their life. Failure is being a uh is being successful to anything other than God's perfect will. If we're not careful as parents, we're going to be all excited because our children are successful in this world. But it could be a failure at God because they miss God's will So if we're going to have a finished product and a target that we're going after, we want our children to grow up and live for God and love the Lord and serve the Lord and we want our marriage to be filled with God, then we're going to have to recognize We better really pay attention to that, and we better do what we're supposed to do to be able to do that. And that is, of course, to follow biblical principles and do what God says. Now here it says a wise man Now and and then talks about him building his house upon the rock. That's the Lord Jesus. Then the foolish man build his house upon the sand. That's human reasoning. And uh and this this person that says that when that house fell, great was the fall of it. And I don't know, honestly, in all the years that I've been saved. I pastored for forty years and uh and I've been saved almost forty nine years And I think in all the experiences I had helping people and so on, pastoring and so on, I think the greatest, the most difficult situation that a person can find themselves is the middle of a divorce I don't know of anything more devastating. You know, uh a man told me in my church, he said that, and he went through a divorce, and he said a ping pong paddle, he said, is made out of plywood He said, but the pie wood is glued together uh not just this way. It's glued this way and this way and this way in several layers. And he says, and you c if you wanted to pull that paddle apart, you couldn't pull it apart like this If you did, he said, a lot of what's on this side will be on this side, a lot of what's on this side will be on this side. And he says, and when you get divorced, it's not it's not a breaking, it's a tearing And you leave a lot of each other in each other when you do that. And that's the most difficult. And so great is the fall. Great is that. And so we as Christians, we need to ask God to help us to really do everything we can to be what we ought to be, to have the best home and marriage we can. If you've already been through that uh that uh divorce situation Then you know what I'm saying is true. And of course now and if you're remarried again and you need to really understand that the Bible has answers for you And the Bible has principles for you that you can have a happy home. I believe God wants us to be happy with our wives and uh and the wives be happy with their husband. I believe that's God's plan. I I think he instituted that. He said uh in fact he says it's good that a man not live alone. When my first wife died and I lived alone for a while. I like to win bonkers. I tell you what. And uh I got tired of eating peanut butter sandwiches and eating up tomato soup too, you know And uh and I and I told I told God and I told people they're always trying to get me get married, you know, every time I turn around they're trying to introduce preachers, trying to introduce me to widows and so on And uh and I said, I tell you what, God'll let me get married someday and I really thought it was gonna be down the road. Um, and so on I said, I'm gonna spoil the woman I marry. I'm gonna spoil her rotten Because I like having a I like to be married to a happy camper. Because when she's a happy camper, she makes me happy. Amen? And I don't like to be unhappy. And uh so biblical principles work. Now I want to I want to I want to preach this message to you this morning called How to Build Your Home. Seven Principles of How to Build Your Home on the Rock Okay? So write down the outline. I give it to you. Number one, keep it under lock. They're all gonna r rhyme together. All right, keep under lock. Look in and we're gonna come back to this. Look in uh chapter twelve And verse number twenty nine, would you, Matthew twelve, and verse number twenty-nine? It says, or else how can one enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods except he First bind the strong house the strong man, and then he will spoil his house. So God says you can have an enemy. Now 1963 And Saturday morning at 10 minutes to 6, I was, my wife and I were sound asleep in the bed. Kids were in bed. They were sleeping. And at 10 minutes to 6, a man got in our house. Now I was three fathoms down. I mean I was somewhere way way down because I'd worked that night, uh midnight, I mean afternoons and so I was Really sleep. But my wife, because she's a mother, she heard obvious she heard the whisper of his pant legs. He had tennis shoes over his I mean sa uh sweat socks over his tennis shoes And he came down the hall and she heard that and she woke up and got up on one elbow like that. You know, we got we got three precious but that time with two precious kids back in the bedroom. And uh and she said she kinda got up, she looked and she was looking into the mirror the dresser at the head of our at the foot of our bed. And this guy's coming by like this. He's sneaking by and he's gonna go over to the other side of the bed where my pants were where my wallet was Well is he gonna get a surprise? So he's coming like that, he's like this. And she saw him and she let out a scream Fred Somebody's in the house Man, I want to tell you something. Did you ever try to come up out of a deep sleep? Huh? And by the time I realized what was going on, he's already out of the house. But it scared me to death and it scared her. And I didn't know I started chasing after. I don't know what in the world I was gonna do. I only weighed 120 pounds, soaking a wet full of bananas. I was so skinny I'd tease the hair of my legs, keep my socks up But it really did something. It shook me up. And I realized, and there's something vulnerable. You feel vulnerable when somebody breaks into your house. How many ever had anybody breaking your house? You know what I'm talking about? Anybody Boy, bless your heart. Oh, there's one or two. Okay. Well, somebody's trying to break into your house. Somebody's trying to break into your home. Somebody wants to destroy you. Somebody wants to do your family in. Somebody wants to ruin your family, ruin your marriage, ruin your children. He's going to steal. You know what that guy's coming in? He's going to steal my valuables That's really silly because I don't have my valuables, but he didn't know that. He's coming after my valuable. Well the devil's coming after me. He's gonna steal your valuables. I think one of the most valuable things that he has, the devil wants to do to you in your home, is steal your personal walk with Jesus Christ If he can get you too busy, he gets you all you're talking about is and w think about is work, all you think about your career, and all you think about is what you're doing, and all you think about is money and possessions, and all you think about that and you're now walking with God and reading your Bible. And having a real good relationship with the Lord, he's going to be real happy with you because he knows he's got a foothold in your house. And guess what? He's going to he's got a goal. He knows what he's trying to do. He's going to try and destroy your family And he's going to do it by destroying you and your personal walk with God. By the way, it's you as a mother as well as a father. See? And so he's going to come, he's going to do everything he can. I think also he's going to try and steal your children He's going to try and get your children. He don't want your children to serve for God. He don't want them to live for God. One of the great turmoils that I find in pastoring and talking to pastors over the last several decades is that they see their children and their families. The child the family uh in the church, their children growing up under them, and a real blessing. Until they get to the tape time when they graduate from high school, then they're gone. They lose them And those kids don't come back to God, don't come back to church. They go out and they get married and they don't go to church. They got parents sitting in church brokenhearted because of children they raised and even many of them put them in a Christian school, did everything they could As far as providing on those those things, and guess what? They lost their children. Their hearts are broken. See, because the devil stepped in, the devil wants the children. He's going to go after the children. He's going to steal you. And that's the most valuable things we have, really. Other than God and and uh and serving the Lord and our own lives together as husband and wife, the most precious thing we have is our children. But he's gonna come after our children. I think he's gonna come after our love too. Well I'm gonna tell you something, boy so much bitterness and anger and strife in homes today. Strife between parents, mom and dad fighting and fussing and and uh so on. And um and you get so you know, it's kinda like that fella made his he was a cannibal and he made his wife mad. And uh and she fixed him a cold supper a cold shoulder for supper. She gave him a cold shoulder. No well. But the devil's gonna step in, he's gonna do everything he can to destroy your love. You know, do it let me ask you something. When people see you, no matter how long you've been married, do they see a people that are devoted to each other? So they look at people and say, Man, I hope when I'm that old and I can still love my wife and she loves me like that. See? But the devil's gonna go in, he's gonna do everything he can to take that love away Uh I think also I think one of the most valuable things you and I have as parents is authority. Our authority with our children. Boys the devil worked on that. Kids are cheeky and smart mouth So on. We live in a society, it's not rebellious. We live in a society that are anarchists. Let me say that again. We don't live in a rebellious society. We live in an anarchist society. See, rebellion is If this is my boss and he says, I want you to do this and that and I said, I ain't gonna do that. I'm re I'm really I I'm telling him I don't I don't I don't I I I will rebel against him. He's my authority because I recognize an authority so I'm gonna rebel against it. But if I'm an anarchist said, Who are you to tell me to move that? Who's that cop giving me a ticket? Who's he think he is? Who's down what why do I have to do that? Nobody tells me what to do, because we're anarchists. And so guess where that came from? Came out of the world. Guess who guess what? Who's going to influence your kids? The world. And if the world can get to your kids, the devil use the world, the devil's going to get your kids not to listen to you. And you're not going to be able to tell them what to do. As a small child, you need to teach your child from the earliest days to obey you. Because behavior is both learned and allowed. Let me say it again. Behavior is both learned and allowed. That child didn't come out of the womb rebelling. Well it came out with an old nature But if that child is allowed to rebel, she's a and that child is really taught by you lying to them, say, pick up those toys. If you don't pick up the toys, you're gonna get spanking. Four times you tell that child that. You've lied to them four times. You're teaching your children to lie See, and so what's the devil? The devil's gonna get into your home and he's gonna do everything he can to destroy the authority. What's the devil done with the marriage? Marriage, the husband supposed to be the head of the house. Bible says that when He rebelled. God said that your husband, your desire should be to your husband, and he shall have rule over you. Woo-hoo. Talk to the average I teach a Bible class in our Christian school and they're tenth graders through through um uh twelfth grade And some of those kids come from some pretty pretty now they can't they we inherit them really inherited it in the school. When we bought the school property, these kids kinda came along with them and uh on a trial basis. And so I was teaching about in the book of Genesis, I'm teaching the book of Genesis, so I got talking about Eve and I talked about how the and about the what happened before and how she was supposed to be her desired husband. And this girl raised her hand, took exception with that. I almost said, We just read the Bible. Now she's telling me that's silly. You oh you you mean I have to I have to obey my husband even if he doesn't respect me Where'd she get that at? Where'd she get that idea? Where did she get the idea of questioning? Because she gets it from the world. Because the devil's going to do everything he can to break in to your marriage and steal your authority. and take it from you. I think also he wants to come in and steal your happiness. It's you know, uh because we had that Bible college, uh we all the time saw young couples fall in love. Young young people fall in love And so on. And it's fun sometimes. Sometimes it's not, sometimes it is. But most of the time there's something about it. I had a y a young lady in our cl in our church one time and she was engaged to a guy and I said, Something not right I didn't say to her, didn't, but I knew something went right. Because there's something about the glitter in the eye. There's something about the way that the girl looks at the guy and the guy looks at the girl when they really, really, really fell in love And it wasn't there. There wasn't a spark. The the spark wasn't there that there's something just didn't look right. Well it turned out she came to me and she said, I'm having doubts So we talked about the doubts. Why? Well, really found out, really honestly in her heart, she came to the conclusion she really didn't feel that she loved him to the point where she wanted to marry him. She broke off with him See, what the devil's gonna do everything he can, everything he can, destroy you and I, he's gonna steal our children, he's gonna steal our authority, he's gonna steal our love, he's gonna steal our happiness, he's gonna Do everything a key cause he's a thief See, and you go steal the family unity. Put this down, number two. Not only are we to keep under the flock, or keep uh keep it under lock, but we're also to stay in the flock That's church. I can tell you right now, I've not seen any couple at any time in all the 40 years I pastored. And all the years after that, until it's two thousand five, I stopped pastoring. So another five years I've been out and preaching and all over the I've not yet met a couple or had a pastor say, see that couple back there? That couple only comes on Sunday morning once in a while. Their kids love God. They're soul winners. They're in the bus minutes. They love the Lord. And boy, they're just servants of God and that family is just unbelievable. Never Never. I've never seen in my life anywhere at any time a couple would not be faithful to the house of God raising their children the house of God that had their children grow up And serve the Lord. Just nothing happened. Because you need the church. You need the preaching. See? And uh and if and if you don't I let me I won't I'm gonna give you a thing. Here's how I think. I'm going to give you some ideas. How to keep your children in church after they're raised. I'm going to tell you how you I think you can do it. How can you do it? Number one, put this. Love the church. You love the church. Do you love your church? I thank God we got a pastor now, my wife and I love dearly. We can't wait to get there I'm telling you, man, he feeds us. I I've been around a long time, and I tell you what, we sit there and we write notes, and he's so practical and powerful, and he's so good, man. I tell you what, and he loves, and I and I tell you this He is forty-nine years old. I'm seventy-one. I've been under his ministry now. Going to be five years in July. I'll be I I I I've been going from that church. I'm there all the time, by the way. But I have not made one major decision in my life, preacher, not one, that I didn't go talk to my pastor about. And he's 49 years old. He's my pastor. I trust him he has the wisdom of God upon his young life. And I know that he'll help me, and he'll make sure, even me, that he gives me counsel and gives me things to make sure And I have things I can bounce off of him. You can't raise your children without a pastor and a preacher of the word of God. You cannot do it. Don't tell me you can't. I argue with you, do you, and you and I stand before the Lord, and he's going to tell you I was right You need to be in the house of God. And you need to love your church and your kids need to know you love your church. Well you know what that means? That means you're not going to be griping and criticizing them all the time. You're not going to have Rose Preacher every Sunday afternoon. I can't believe the preacher said that. I can't believe that. Where's our church going? You know our church used to be Go ahead. Put a knife in the heart of your kids' spiritual life. Just go ahead. Then when your kids are fourteen or fifteen and they're starting to give you a lot of problems And they say, I will take I'm gonna take you to Pastor. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! Go ahead. They don't have any faith in the pastor. You've been crucified him every week Good go out in here. I'm telling you, you need the church. You need your pastor. And you need to love the church. Number two, you need to live to go to church. I can't wait to get there. I have to drive. When I married Linda, she lived in Darlington, Maryland. At that time, from the old church property, it was uh an hour drive from my daughter to her daughter. I mean our daughter I moved in the house there. I'd sold my house after Bonnie died. So when she got raised, she had house and moved in with her. But it was an hour drive. They moved and To a new piece of property eight miles closer. So now it's forty-two miles there, forty-two miles home. It takes me fifty to fifty-five minutes to drive to church, fifty to fifty-five minutes. And I make that trip six or eight times a week But we love our church, man. I can't wait to get there. Does it sometimes get tiresome a long time? Well, sure it does. But I'm going to tell you something, man. I love my church. I love and I live to go to my church. How about this? How about lift the church up? Lift the church. Your children sit back and say, Boy, I will tell you something. I was really good preaching this morning. Will you kids listen to that? Did you hear what that preacher said? Man, boy, thank God for our young people. Thank God for this and thank God for that. Boy, that choir really sounded good this morning. Lift your church up. How about this? Labor in your church I had a lot of people in my church that lost their kids. You couldn't even get them to go out and pass out a track. You couldn't ever get them in the bus ministry. They wouldn't go to the rest home. They wouldn't even be an usher. They wouldn't do anything. They just sit. And guess what? Then the kids grew up. They didn't want to do anything. They wanted my kids don't want to serve God. Like this. Labor in a church, how about be loyal to your pastor and staff? Just be loyal, your pastor. How about this one? Learn at church. Come sit down. Get you I like right, I think you've got right nose. I do the same thing I'd go through this Bible right here. No, not this one. This is my newest one. The one I got just I just got this, what, not a year ago? I I can show you probably six or eight sermons you preach I got them in my Bible. I wrote notes while you were you're you're uh uh preaching. I got sermon titles, I got sermon in there And I got things I study, I got things others preached and thought. I got things I got out of my devotions. I write down, men I take notes, I go to church, and then I get out and I show you papers I probably got right in here. Here's one my preacher was preaching Uh on law and grace, and I sat down and scribbled down notes on a piece of paper. I'd write notes. I want to learn. I want to go to church. I want to and if I had children, I'd want my children to see me writing notes and learning about the Word of God and learning about how to live for God I think also I need to bring the lost to church. Bring the lost to church. I think our children need to see us actively engaged in trying to get people saved. Let me give you a third thing to do, another principle Not only are we to keep it under lock and stay in the flock, but also how about set up some roadblocks? Set up some roadblocks. See the devil's trying to get in and he wants to destroy you. And so we need to put up some blocks and keep him from getting to our families. See? Now, let me give you some ideas Because we have to look at how is he trying to get in. How's the devil trying to get to you, your family and your children? Number one, he tries to do it through friends. Friends. I'll be honest, when I was raising my kids, there were people in my church, preacher, that had children the same age as my children. I couldn't let my children go over to their house and pray Because they are worldly, worldly kids. Now I wouldn't go let my kids run with a worldly crowd I think I have I I learned real young, thank God, I learned real young one of the most important words in the English language when you're raising kids is no. No way, Jose. No. Now I may you may say that kindly. You may have to say it firmly, but it's still, no. No. We're not going there. Sorry. How about here's another way he tries to get in through TV. Now I'm not preaching against TV. I have a TV. But I found out something about my TV. We have to really watch it Number one, it's nothing but soft porn, most of it. We saw we there's a television come on, uh an ad come on, I said, boy, I'm glad I don't have a twelve-year-old boy or girl sitting listening to this. How do you explain this to them? It's soft porn. And if you're not careful, you know when I was a kid, we used to go out play, we played baseball as a kid all the time. And we played in the pasture right outside the house. And a lot of times it gets so dark, my mother would stand outside and she says, You gotta come in, it's dark. And we said, Dark? It got dark so pretty all of a sudden we realized, man, we can't see that ball. But we had played and that got dark, gradually and our eyes got accustomed to it and everything. And guess what? We were almost in total darkness before we recognize it. And that's what's happening in our homes today. Our homes are turning dark because of the influence of ungodly television and all that smut and all those advertisements, especially the advertisement because You're too good of a Christian to watch a bad, vulgar program, aren't you? But guess what? They're still watching that, and that's the way the devil gets to them. Through their t through your TV. And uh how about this? Through movies Man, I can't believe what I hear. I uh you know my name Schindler. Everybody asked me, are you related to the Schindler or Schindler's list? I said, I don't know And they said, I said, I have some Oscars. Oscars in our family history. I don't know. That's a very common name in in Germany. So I really watched that movie, man. It was really good. Did you ever watch that movie? I said, no. I said it was R-rated. I said, and from the advertisement it's full of nudity and cussing, immorality, and butchery Why would I watch that? I'm a Christian. But you know what? You'd be a bit surprised how many Christians watch movies filled with filth and sex and profanity. Bring it into their home. Just as though that didn't mean anything. How about this? Computers. Let me tell you something. Listen to this. There's a guy named Dr. Benny. You know Dr. Benny? You ever hear? He's a Christian counselor. He works with he works mostly with uh full-time Christian workers too, I understand. But he's very sexual. I had a family in my church And I tried to help him and help him and I felt, man, I gotta get you some in depth counseling. I get you so I called and worked out something, got him to go there and I I give him some personal finances 'cause it cost some money to go there and stay there for a week. Boy best thing that ever happened to him Man changed their whole life, the whole marriage and everything. But he said that seven hundred of a thousand women The biggest problem out of 700,000 women was bitterness. Bitter to mates. Listen to this. 700 of a thousand men's problem was pornography. Pornography. See? And what do you got when you got a computer? I think my my wife, my first wife, Bonnie's sister. Uh her niece. I know that's kinda hard to follow, but kinda in the family uh on my wife's side. And she graduated Penn State and became uh a what do you call him? Uh The worship worked for the uh human services, and she was the one who had the power to go in and she could take children right out of the home. Now she's born-again Christian. She had the problem. She could go right into home and investigate. If she felt that child was there, she could like that. Get that child. Take that child, put in the foster home She went into a home, she told us about it. This 12-year-old girl been missing school, missing school, missing school, missing school, in trouble all the time. So She got involved. She went out visited with the pa with the wife and she was there alone 'cause I mean with a m with her mother. She was there and so she talked to her and uh it was a broken home and so on but She said, I want to see the girls' room. She says, oh you can't What do you mean I can't? Yes, I can. She said, no, she says I Uh it it's locked. It's her room. And I believe a child ought to have privacy. She said I do too, but not secrecy So she had the police officer come break the door down. And when she went in that bedroom, now this mother didn't even know this. That girl had herself painted that bedroom black And had all kinds of satanic worship items in it. She was into Satan worship. And then mother didn't even know it. Because she believed the child had a secrecy And secrecy is the same as privacy. Well I think they ought privacy, but they ought not to have secrecy. You ought to be able to do anything at any time. My daughter, when she fell in love with Aaron, who now she's married to Uh she they he lived in Ohio and she lived out in Pennsylvania and they started writing. So I said one day, now she's 18 years old, I said, uh, let me have those letters. She said there. She handed them to me Now I wouldn't honestly I wasn't going to read them. But I was kind of interested to see if she gave them to me to read. They're love letters from Rain. She's here here. She's I got them all. You want to read them all? See, I believe that they have privacy but not secrecy. But you know what? The devil's gonna come in, and so here's a parent that kids got a television in a room and they've got the remote And they've got cable television and they've got HBO and all that, you know, Hell's Box Office and Center the Max and all that. They got it in the home. And that kid's got a computer in there with no kind of safeguards in it. Are we insane? Are we insane? I trust my child. You're insane! Why would you trust them? I don't care how good they are. Man, have you ever heard about pastors and missionaries and full-time Christian workers getting messed up in sin? If you don't, open your eyes. Well these kids are these kids are going to get in trouble if we but see the devil wants to destroy our homes. They're going to get in and get us radio. What do they listen to when they're riding in the car by themselves? Huh? How about books? What kind of books you read? What kind of magazines? Hey, how about this? Cell phones. Every little kid, nine years old, walking around a cell phone. Do you know what they're doing with cell phones now? In case you haven't heard and listen to me, they take pictures of themselves naked. That's the big thing amongst teenagers now. Take pictures of their private parts and so on and send it to their friends, send it to their boyfriends. And and I found out, because I was see I'm I'm not a pastor, so I sometimes when I go to church, I get to sit like you and watch and listen and be a member of the church. And I'm over there and I see these kids in there and they're going. Do you know that they can they can look at a text message, put it in their pocket, and they can they can send a text message, man, without even looking at it You know how many young people I can just double dog dare you start watching people are sending text messages while they're sitting in church smiling at shit like that Huh? What do they got? What kind of phone? What are they doing with that phone? See, we we're just crazy preacher. We're just let the devil get in and everywhere. Let me go on quickly. Let me give you another one. Put your child in dry dock. What do I mean by that? Well that means don't let it sail the seas of the world. Learn how to say no. Learn how to learn how to see Don't let them run the streets at all hours. See, I don't know what they do here, but in our area the mall. Then you go to the go to the mall anytime. I mean there are a thousand teenagers there just hanging out. What are you doing? Hanging out Just hanging out. Oh the they we just like to shop mama. Yeah. Follow 'em around and watch 'em. We have watched them, we've watched them where they and we have seen 'em, and Linda's been when we see where the girls will start pushing their shirts down. See? And then they unbutton their top. They're not there just to go around and fellowship with Sister Susie, but no Christian parents just turn them loose. Turn them loose, let them go. Don't know what they're doing, who they're running with. Let them hang out. Let me ask you, let me give you some things to guard about your children. Number one, what are they seeing? What are they seeing? Number two, what are they hearing? Number three, what are they doing? Number four, who are they doing it with? Five, where are they going? Who or says, who's going with them? Ask the average parent, pastor. I mean ask the average parent. Where's your kid at? Oh, I don't know. Who they run with? I don't know They just let them run. And they and the kids are rebellious, and the kids start showing things, and they become passive. They don't know what to do, and they afraid that they'll get after them, they'll get mad, and they'll have more problems than everything, so they just condone it Just let them go and they become passive. They don't interfere with the kids. Well they're just grown up, you know, they're just kids. That's the way all teenagers are. Sorry. Gone. All teenagers aren't like that They're not like that. Thank God there's teenagers that want to live for God. Thank God there are teenagers that are they're sweet and And submissive to their parents and they're trying to get the best education. They've got a future they know they want to do what's right. Thank God then there's a lot of them. But I'll tell you something We parents would have been careful that we just don't let them go. We can't do anything. We just don't feel like we ought to tell them no. The Bible says in Proverbs 17, 3, says, a wise servant putteth his children, disobedient children, under rule. The best thing you do when a child's not doing right, put him under rule. Put him under the FBI, Family Bureau of Investigation. Where are you going? Who you going with? What time are you back? What are you gonna do? Who you going with? What are you gonna be doing? And know. See How about this one? Don't go into shock. Man, I'll tell you, scare you. I'm honest. I'd I'd believe if I was a parent, I'd live in fear. But you know what? We just gotta believe just like Noah. We can raise our children, right? And we can we have to be careful about letting fear cause us to compromise and be inconsistent and be weak in our authority. Because we're afraid. I f I teach on family, different kinds of family, and uh different kinds of house, especially fathers. See, there are four kinds of basics, now that you can break these down, but four basic kinds of fathers and mothers. There's the authoritarian. The authoritative, the neglectful, and the submissive. Now here's how you tell the difference. An authoritarian, he's the guy who puts his thumb on everybody. Man, don't you move out there, you bless God I'll beat you to death if you do what I tell you. He's high on discipline and low on love. Bad news. He's gonna make some children bitter. You're gonna get some angry kids And then there's the authoritato. He's high on discipline and high on love. He's the one that's earned by his love of his children and his fair treatment of them. to discipline and the children. For instance, one great preacher said, I told my daughter, she's out on a gang date, Saturday she had to be home at noon because we were going somewhere. And they were going somewhere, the kids and everything I think I think it was the afternoon. She came home before or something anyway, but she was supposed to be home at a certain time. Well, five minutes late they pulled in the driveway. And he was standing at the door and he just said, Hi, how you doing? Hi sugar, do you have a good time? God's good, good. He didn't say anything to her. But she knew I'm five minutes late. And uh so he wouldn't go to embarrass her in front of the kids. He didn't do that, you know, and so they all left. And he didn't say anything to her He waited the next day and she's at he's outside with pitching the ball back and forth with her. He said, hey, what happened Saturday? She says, Oh Dad. She gave the reason. I said, Well, I told you one. She said, I know Dad. So, well, what do you think a father like me ought to do with a daughter like you? She said, ground me for a week? So that sounds pretty good Did he whip the fire to get her screamed get in her face and cuss her out her out? She said her own. Why? Because he built the right kind of relationship of high in love and high in discipline. Then there's a submissive. That's one's high on love, low on discipline. That's the mother won't discipline That's the father won't discipline. That's the one the parent, the other parent says, honey, we're letting them get away on murder. Oh, we're good, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Then there's a neglectful That's low on discipline and low on love. See, you've got to be careful, you've got to understand That if you're going to raise your children, then you're going to have to not have fear. And I found out that fear, which is you're more afraid of you're going to be a failure, so you put your thumb on it, bless God, don't you move until I tell you, and they don't They do what you tell you until they're 18 and they thumb the nose at you and walk out. They go in the military of all places So I'm tired of my dad telling me every movement join the army. But they do it. Why? Because they're going to get away from that. Parents said, bless God, I'm telling you, you'll do it. I tell you I'll break your neck. You better do what's right. No son of mine, no daughter of mine's gonna act like that. Man. So we've got to realize that our children Need to have parents who are fair. Fair. I was looking up the word villagement. We're talking about pastors' children and how that they're supposed to how does that say that Oh, just turn to look at that. Um it says um uh one they talk about the uh pastor raises children one that rules well his own house, having his children subjected with all gravity Hmm. And that's the word I was looking at. Gravity. And I looked it up and means having, listen to this, having the qualities that entitle you to reverence, respect, and dignity. Wow. It says that I'm to raise my children, you're to raise your children, Dad, with all gravity And that is with such an attitude that that earns you, you have a quality about you that earns the right that you can now discipline your children and they understand your discipline, they take your discipline, and they still love you and respect you for it. See but the devil doesn't want that. Here's another one. Oh no, I think I got three, don't I? Number number uh Is that number six I'm on? Keep your eye on the clock. Keep your eye on the clock. Why? Because they grow up fast. Mine are gone, grown up gone. Man, they grow up overnight. You can't waste time. You can't keep putting it off. Okay? And also remember this, that you uh you you have to realize that the Lord's coming soon. We're gonna have to answer to him for what we're doing. Let me give you this one This is the last one again. Stay on the rock. So you have keep it under lock, your home under lock, stay on the flock. Set up roadblocks, put your child on dry dock. Don't go into shock. Keep your eye on the clock and stay on the rock. Walk with God Live for God. Have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Live for the Lord. Walk with the Lord. Pray for wisdom. Pray for guidance. Pray for help. Do everything you can. Zero in on your marriage, zero in your home. Ask God to help you to have that little heaven and earth that everybody's going to talk about. By the way, you can have it I'll be honest, I I'd I'd give I I'd if there was part of my life going back preaching I'd go back to one of my kids all my kids were teenagers and I was raising two of my boy my s my brother's kids so I had five teenagers in my house one time. It was a riot I mean it was a riot. We never laughed. We never had more fun. I tell you what, it was wonderful. So you can have the right kind of marriage. Well, let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray I know I've been blunt, I just said it like it is, Lord, and I hope that nobody got offended by the fact I just spoke truthfully. But help us, Lord, please, look in our hearts and help us to see And may may there have be some mom and dad that got a just a little glitter of hope and maybe just some instruction, some to help. Maybe father there's a marriage here that just something helped them. Lord, I preach to help me. Every head bow and every eye closed. I'm gonna turn it over to preacher, but I want to say this. One of the best things ever happened to me is I got saved It's a wonderful thing to have Christian parents. One of the sad things, a lot of Christian teenagers raised in Christian home don't recognize what a blessing and joy they have. But if you're here this morning, you're not saved, I invite you to come. Let somebody take a Bible and show you how to be saved. Preacher. I don't know how you can go through a message like that and not have come out of it without something to pray about. Something I need in my life. I need the Lord to help me. How many would say, preacher, God spoke through Brother Schindler to my heart in a very specific area, regardless of where we're at in our family and raising the kids and all that, we're all at different stages But you say, preacher, God spoke to my heart through this message in at least one very specific area. Is there anyone like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around. I don't know how you can go through that and not have something. I need to seek God about and ask God to help me with. And that's what the altar is about. That's why we go on altar. We come and we ask God help me now. God, you showed me this area. Lord, you pointed this out in my life. I need you to help me And I yield myself to you. I want you to have your way. That's what the invitation is all about. So we're going to stand in a moment. God spoke to your heart Now perhaps there's someone here this morning to say, Preacher, I got a good family or my family's in trouble, whatever. But you say, I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven, that when I die I'm going to heaven So preacher, that's a concern of mine. I don't want to go to hell. And I'd like to know that when I die, my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get this matter of my salvation where I spend eternity settled. Any at all? Now Father, a lot of hands were raised, Lord, you dealt with our hearts in various areas. So Lord, now we come to invitation. I ask you would help us to be willing to let you help us in Jesus' name.