Show tonight because it's just me. But the problem with that is is that it's always the God show. And the pastor's kinda like the ringleader. It's like if it's a circus. Say it's a circus. If it's a circus The pastor is kind of the ringleader because there's nothing special about a pastor. All he does is point at stuff and say, hey, look how cool that is Hey, look at that, how cool that is. And where the pastor is always, hey, look how wondrous God is. Hey, let me show you something about God over here. And that's all it is. It's standing here and pointing at stuff behind them. God does all the cool stuff. So hopefully uh you uh won't sing or hear me. You'll just uh hear some of God tonight. We're gonna go to uh we're going to Exodus and uh chapter uh So Exodus chapter number seven. Um Exodus chapter number seven Exodus chapter number seven. I told you guys the uh the title of my sermon for this evening. It's called the Fierce Love. A fierce love. Now uh we'll get to this uh we'll we'll mention this probably later. Uh in fact I know we'll mention it later because Um, I I'm the one up here and I'll mention it later. Uh but uh how much does God love you? How much does God love you? And you say, well, God loves you a lot. And God actually is love according to the Bible. And yeah, but but how much does God love you? And how does God love you? That's actually a pretty interesting question. How does God love you You see, we just got done with Valentine's Day, where again it's a very soft love usually displayed on Valentine's Day. It's a very deep love, a compassionate love, a kind love displayed on Valentine's Day. Uh we talk about a uh familiar love, a family love between two people, a uh a relational love between a husband and wife, a uh a friend uh friend love between two friends, a sibling love between two siblings. But uh but but how does God love you? And how much does God love you? Well in accro according to Romans uh five eight, it says, But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we are yet sinners Christ died for us. You see, Christ loved you enough to die for you. Christ loved you in a self sacrificial way. But but then again in uh in uh Romans 8 37 and 39 says, Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. For I am persuaded that neither life nor death, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers Nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor death, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. You see, Christ not only loves us enough to die for us, not only does he love us in a sa a self-sacrificial way, but he loves us enough to hold on to us. Then nothing will be able to separate us. He loves us in an everlasting way, in a deep way, in a strong way. But then we go on to a different part. We go to Ephesians 2, 4 through 5. And uh we like to uh uh quote uh later on in this passage, but Ephesians 2, 4 through 5 says, But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love, wherewith he loved us, even when we are dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace are ye saved. You see, another type of love he has is a forgiving love, a merciful love. A love that will forgive our sins if we only ask. And again, back to the first one, a self-sacrificial love. And then onto a strong, a powerful love that holds onto us, a love that then forgives us. And according to Zephaniah 317, the Lord thy God in the midst of thee is mighty. He will save. He will rejoice over thee with joy. He will rest in his love. He will love. He will joy over thee with singing. The Lord thy God is in the midst of thee, is mighty. He will save. He will rejoice in thee with joy. He will rest in his love. He loves us enough to save us. Now of course that definitely means He loves enough to save us from our sins. He loves us enough to save us from hell. He loves us enough to save us unto heaven. But that is not all that means. You see, Christor loves us self-sacrificially, and of course he loves us mercifully, and of course he loves us powerfully and enough to hold on to us and enough to save us, but he loves us in a different way as well He loves us with what I call a fierce love. A fierce love. You see, love has many sides to it. One side, as I mentioned, is the relationship side, the side where you just want to do good for someone. But love isn't only that. Love is where love is again where where you want to forgive someone. But it's not only that. Love is where you want to give yourself for someone, but it's not only that. You see, love has a side that's kind of rarely talked about, but exists nonetheless, and that is the fierce side. Love is often very fierce. I I came up with this question and if it's not true, sue me. Um but what's the scariest type of bear to run into the woods? Wait, any bear? Alright, I like that answer. Well okay, I'll take an answer though. What's the scariest type? Grizzly bear. Nice. Alright, you want to hear my answer? A bear cub And here's my answer why. Because you run into a bear and again, Rislies are mean, polar bears are super mean by the way. Polar bears are just killy because Because they want to coca cola most likely. But um polar bears are really mean, but but you run into a bear cub. It's not very scary. You could probably punt a bear cub. Um I mean I don't recommend it. But if there's a bear cover on, there shouldn't might be a mom bear around. And a bear that usually wouldn't attack you is like, is that is that are you are you messing with my kid? And you're like, no, I'm not. And then it eats you. Because it does because you don't argue with and that's why we have the expression of mama bear. And by the way, you if you have children And honestly, I don't think un really until you have children do you really understand the expression. Because man, your ch and by the way Your child could be awful and you still love them to death and and still have that initial urge to always take their side on everything. Now, eventually, if your child's bad enough, you lose that urge. But um And and like my parents totally lost that urge. My dad taught my Sunday school class this morning and he talked about how he always took the teacher's side over mine. He always took the teachers aside, which he did, which is wrong because the teachers were sometimes actually wrong. Now not all the time, I may have been a liar. But um But sometimes they were. Uh but the fact is, we we we like to take our kids' side. Now we have an imperfect love, God calls it. An imperfect love. We love our kids, we love our spouses, and we want to protect them, but God has a perfect love, which means that his feelings towards us are so much stronger. So much more knowledgeable. You see, God is not just a loving God who died for us. God is also, if you read the Bible, A God that will avenge his people. And people usually don't uh mark this up. And and uh we'll maybe maybe I'll get to this later on in the message, but the fact is people always say, oh, God in the Old Testament was mean. No, God in the Old Testament was just And a lot of people that he met that he killed were harming his people. Um what what tonight's uh sermon's going to really uh what's we're really gonna focus on For a main section of the message is uh the Egyptians when they held Israel captive for four hundred years. When they when Israel was s enslaved for for hundreds of years. And we're gonna find out what God did and how God avenged his people. Um but if uh keep your place in uh Exodus 7, we're going to go there. uh eventually uh but uh go ahead and go to a psalm thirty five psalm chapter number or psalm number thirty five God is an avenger. They say, wait, God's a comic book character? No, not like that. God is an avenger as in God You mess with one of God's kids. And it's God's responsibility, according to him, to avenge that wrong. Now let's go to Psalm 35. I hope you found it. Plead my cause, O Lord, with them that strive for me. Fight against them that fight against me. Take hold of my shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help. Draw out also the spear and stop the way of them that persecute me. Say unto my soul, I am thy salvation. Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek my soul. Let them turn back and brought and brought to confusion that devise my hurt Let them be as chaff before the wind. Let the angel of the Lord chase them. Let their way be dark and slippery. Let the angel of the Lord persecute them. For without cause they have hid for me in their net and pit, which thou hast caused uh which without cause they have digged for my soul. Let destruction come upon him that is unawares, and let his net that he has rid him that he sorry that he has hid catch himself. Into that very destruction, let him fall We'll stop there in this passage. Fact is, is this David speaking. He wants God to avenge him Those who are chasing him, those that are attacking him, those that are doing him wrong when he is innocent, God want he wants God to avenge him. And the fact is, God promises to avenge him. Um You see, God, uh we we look at other parts of the Bible, like I said, we're going to uh Moses and uh then the children of Israel and the Egyptians, you see many people look at the Ten Commandments and other great miracles of God where he destroyed somewhere. Where he where he where he completely uh completely killed or destroyed a people, or or he or he made it so the armies of Israel can completely wipe out a people and usually it wasn't just because God's mean, because God isn't mean, God is love. But it's because God is an avenger. God avenges his people. We look at the ten plagues. I said ten commandments. We look at the ten plagues. And and and we look at their hor and we look at some of that, some of it, and it's kind of breathtaking to think what God did. And we think, wow, he destroyed the people of Egypt. No, he defended the people of Israel. Let me put that, let me say that again. He did not destroy the Egyptians. He defended the people of Israel, and that caused the destruction of the Egyptians. Let's go through each of the Ten Commandments. And uh in Exodus chapter 7 and uh verse number 14 And the Lord said unto Moses, Pharaoh's heart is hardened, he refuses to let the people go. Get thee unto Pharaoh in the morning. Lo, he goeth out under the water, and thou shalt stand by the river's brink against the he come, and thy rod which turned which was turned to a serpent, shall thou take in thine hand. And thou shalt say unto him, The Lord God of the Hebrews hath sent me unto thee, saying, Let my people go. That they will serve me in the wilderness, and behold, hitherto thou wouldest not hear. Thus saith the Lord, In this thou shalt know I am the Lord. Behold, I will smite with thy hand with the rod which is in thy hand upon the waters which are in the river, and they shall be turned to blood. You see, the first thing God might be willing to do is someone that hurts his people. And by the way, you are, if you are saved, you are his people. And actually, just to clarify, you're not you are not an Israelite. And listen, I believe that Israel is God's people, but the fact is, as a Christian, you're closer to God than Israel is. Period. They might be his people, you're his child. If you're saved, you're his child. You're more important. So if you think that he loves these Israelites enough to save them in this manner, you should see what he's willing to do for you. But we'll keep going. He turns the water into blood. Now, what's that do? Well, and actually it's not just the water of the river, it's all the water in Egypt, and all the fish die. First of all, fishing is an industry. He took away some of their profit. He also took away their water, which is one of their life sources, by the way. Now personally I don't know how they survived all this without water, but but water really wasn't drinkable as or as drinkable back then in many places, so they were probably drinking other things anyways. But he took away one of their industries. And uh beyond that If you think about turning water into blood, what that really does is that frightens people You want to scare someone? Turn all their water for hundreds of miles around into blood You see, God is not above frightening people. God is not above taking warning shots Now listen listen closely because I'm not saying this against you. You're his child. But if someone who has been awful to you And and God scares them a little with something, they get, I mean, again, they get a cancer scare. And you might pray for them and you should pray for them. We'll get to that later on in the message. But God's not about frightening people to knock them back into his will. And if you hurt and if someone hurts one of his children He is not above making some of their fears come true. But next they have frogs in ver in Exodus seven twenty-five through uh chapter eight. Frogs. Now what do frogs do? This has always been a really weird. Um I don't know about you guys. This has always been a really weird plague to me. Does anyone know what frogs do? Alright, I'm gonna tell you. Because I preached this message in children's church once. Frogs pee on things. All the time. That's all they do. I don't know what else they do. But frogs are disgusting. That's all they they're just gross. Has anyone ever ran over frogs? Has anyone ever seen a sea of frogs? And you don't know where to go because you're in your car. And so you start driving and it's just like pop pop pop pop pop pop pop pop pop pop pop. It's disgusting. No, my wife laughed. When I lived in Colorado, we would get swarms of frogs. They were like, What's a swarm of frogs? It's where frogs cover every square inch of the ground. We had the plague. I don't know who did what. But but every year we'd get these like thousands of little tiny frogs. And it can't move. It can't move. They can't go out and drive because you'll run over them and you're like, you're so cute, but I'm gonna run over them and squish them. Um I'm not gonna tell you that story because I told it to the teens. But frogs, I mean, there were so plenteous that they that some of my friends, and not me, did terrible things to them. The fact is they're just kind of gross. Frogs are gross. And listen, this is a weird thing to say, but God not only uh frightened them with the blood, but he also grossed them out. He also made them a little bit disgusted. And listen, you can say what you want about God, but God knows how to get to every person from every angle. You see, the beginning God just scared them, and then he kind of started to annoy them. He started trying to discuss them. He was saying, I'm putting frogs everywhere. So you can't step anywhere. You're you're literally the Egyptians were literally walking over frogs everywhere. And it was just kind of weird and again God just wouldn't have to do that way. But but after that they still didn't let the people go. We'll move on to the next one. Lice. In Exodus 8 and verse 1, it says, And the Lord spake unto Moses, go unto Pharaoh and say to him, Thus oh sorry I forgot to write that on I'm assuming it's eight sixteen. Um eight sixteen and it says uh and the Lord said to Moses, stand to Aaron, stretch out thy rod and smite the dust of the land, that it might become lice Throughout all of the land of Egypt. Alright, so first they were frightened, and then God's not above discomforting them or disgusting them. But now he discomforts them. I don't know if you've ever had life Uh, but it's gross and awful and itchy, gross, and uncomfortable. It's generally uncomfortable That's kind of the whole point of it. And it itches and and it hurts and it's annoying. And God then sent lights upon all the land. Listen, God You what you need to realize before you think about the Egyptians is that you are a much more fragile person than you think. Things get under your skin easier than you probably think. See, we look at the Egyptians and they're like, so they had frogs. But if frogs were everywhere, you'd be annoyed if it's not. You'd be like, what in the world? Rugs are everywhere. And then if you had water or blood, you'd be grossed out and frightened. And if you had life and if everyone had lice, you would be so uncomfortable, you'd be itching everywhere, it'd be annoying And by you know, this is starting to get under your skin. Now God's not killed a single person yet. But with the first three plagues, He's annoyed them, He's disgusted them, He's made them uncomfortable, and He's frightened them. And then he keep going Flies. Now this is annoying. I hate flies. Does anyone hate flies? Because if you don't, you're weird. Um but flies are weird like gross. Like have you ever been in a room with like 17 flies or more? You know that you're like, ew. Now again, they've I don't know what makes that more gross than flies that are there in the nighttime when you don't know about it. But or oh oh man, and can you has anyone ever had a giant fly somewhere in your room in the middle of the night? Oh, that's the worst. Because you're sitting there. And it's dark. Now they don't have l lights and such where they can just turn it on. So like where's the thing? Now imagine this is a plague of lice, and when God does things, he tends to overdo it because he's God. And when he sends a plague of uh flies, he sends a plague of flies. These flies are on them at all times. Now listen, no one died from it, but they're swatting flies like crazy. They're crawling over their bodies. They can't get rid of them. Now again, maybe people are like, well, God did this out of anger. No, God did this out of love. God's not above uh annoying your enemies. And before I go on, remember this, if something just constantly is annoying you and one of your annoyances just keeps on happening to you Listen, that's the one of God's fa it's a tiny punishment, it's a tiny chast hasn't from God. But Listen, sometimes things just never going right your way might mean there is a sin in your life. It doesn't always mean that, and I and there's it obviously not. But That's why it's important to examine yourself because if you know you're right with God, then things are just going. But if you examine yourself and you're like, oh, you know what? This is the third time this happened and you're like They do anything wrong and you start thinking like, oh yeah. Ugh, I should probably ask for forgiveness for that. We'll keep going. Livestock disease. Now, livestock was an industry God attacked the Egyptians' bank accounts. This was just their industry, but it was also their wealth If you had a lot of cattle, if you had a lot of sheep, if you had a lot of pigs, this is Egypt, not Israel, remember, if you had a lot of pigs, then guess what? You were wealthy. And God took away their wealth. Now, this is the first major hit because yeah, before they were frightened They were they were they were discomp they were annoyed or grossed out, then they were discomforted, and then they were like just super vexed by all the flies. But now God's taking things from them. He's taking their money He's taking their their their things and giving them diseases and killing them. You see most of us have our money in banks or such. Now and we don't know what it's like to live in a uh in a world right and I guess I don't think I think most of us don't really know how it's like to live in a world without um banks being FDIC insured. But back in the day, if your bank didn't have your money in it and got robbed or burnt down or something, you were in trouble. And we don't know what that's like. But imagine someone just came and took all of your stuff. At your house. Imagine that your your greatest possessions, either these sheep or these cattle, were just killed over over a three or four day period. And you went from the richest man in town to nothing. God loved his people enough to when he saw their enemies, he made their wealth disappear. The next one in Exodus 8. Sorry. In Exodus uh nine nine eight. Nine eight through twelve talks about uh boils. Gave the people boils. Now he's going after their health. Now he's not killing people, but man, worlds are annoying and painful, and they're terrible. And we'll just keep moving uh so we can get out of here on time. Then he started raining Hail Hail on fire. Have you ever been to a hail storm, raise your hand. Alright, now I'm talking serious hell. I'm talking talking uh tennis ball-sized hail. Has anyone ever been through that? Awful. Destroys everything. Now imagine it's on fire. Imagine it's on fire. He destroyed their buildings. He destroyed their structures. He destroyed their homes. See, first he went after the first he went after all these mate minor things, then he went after their money, then he went after their health, and now he's going after their homes. And then in Exodus 10 verse 1, and I don't I'm not going to read it for time's sake, but he says locusts. Now locusts are not cintadas, which I always thought they were. Locusts are just grasshoppers. You know, that's not a big deal. Until they kill all of your crops. You see, so the the Egyptians were kind of fine. I mean, yes, they were sick, yes, their homes were all burnt down, destroyed, yes, they lost all their money, but at least they could eat until The locusts came and destroyed and they ate everything. Next, in Exodus chapter 10, verse uh verse 21 through 29, it talks about uh God taking the Son from their um from them. Now listen, now you can't eat, you're full of boils, your home is destroyed, you have no money, and flies are everywhere. Actually I think God takes away some God does take away some of them, so all this doesn't happen at once But but you've you've you suffered through all these things. At least you have the sunlight, right? Wrong. You've got to blocks out the sun. He blocks out the sun. It's not nearly as big of a deal in today's age and age because we have electric everything. But you kind of depend on the sun. I mean you do now a little bit, or but to a much less lesser extent, you depend on the sun for time. You depend on the sun for uh For light, obviously, you depend on that sun. Nothing can get done. You can go nowhere If you didn't have lamps or uh or uh or torches burning at the time, you're kind of in trouble because you're just in kind of utter darkness. Now, by the way, this is probably one of the most overlooked miracles in the Bible. God stopped the world from turning. If I read it right. Now either A he blocked out all the light from the sun in this area of the uh world, which by the way he can totally do just by putting his hand far enough back in the right place. To me, but I kinda like the thing that God just kinda like held on to the sun or held on to the earth and just stopped it from turning. Which kind of would do the same thing. Because the sun would still hit his hand. But that's incredible. And then there's one more. There's one more plague. Now at this point no one has died, is that correct? Correct, no one's died that we've known of. I mean someone might have gotten in a chariot crash during the darkness. But as far as you know, but if you're riding in a chariot with no headlamps at night You you're you're gonna you're asking for it. But um Exodus eleven, verse number one And the Lord said unto Moses, Yet I will bring one more plague more upon Pharaoh. And upon Egypt. Afterwards he'll let you go thence. When he shall let you go, he shall surely thrust you out hence altogether. And we'll move down a little bit. And it says in uh verse number four, And Moses said, Thus saith the Lord, about midnight, I will go in the midst of Egypt, and the firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die. From the firstborn of Pharaoh that sitteth upon the throne, even to the firstborn of the maidservant. That is behind the mill and the firstborn of all the beasts. Alright, so God says, I'm going to kill all the firstborn. Now, I think I mentioned this before here, but that is about 15 to 30 percent of the entire nation. In America that would mean anywhere from uh anywhere from 45 to about a hundred million people getting killed in one night for no reason at all. Listen, God doesn't just love you enough to take other people's stuff, and God doesn't just love you enough to burn other people's house homes down when they harm you. And God doesn't just love you enough to annoy people. And God doesn't just love you enough. Hear this. God doesn't just love you enough to make people who hurt you sick. He loves you enough to kill them. God loves you with a very, very specific, fierce love. And yes, it's kind and yes it's merciful, but when it comes to it, when someone tries to harm a Christian, one of his children, God can be fierce uh to every extent, from all the way from frightening to disgusting to discomforting to annoying to destroying their wealth to uh To destroying your enemies' health, to destroying your enemies' homes, to starving your enemies, to taking them from the presence, uh from taking them from light, to killing them. God will do for you. Because He loves you. You see, God is not a mean God. He doesn't just do things as all these atheists who are morons do Uh, not because they're atheists, although that kinda lead leads to that. But um but because they don't read the Bible. Here's the thing. I don't comment on Islam. I don't. And here's why. Now I will say that it's a false religion and our God's right religion. But I don't comment on every aspect of it because I don't know it. And yet atheists think they can come around because they've been to a church service once in a life and it was probably a Catholic church service in which the priest doesn't know the Bible anyways. And they think they can comment on every part of our uh of our religion. But for them to say that God is a mean God means they're stupid. Actually that's not true. Means they're ignorant. If they're not ignorant, they're liars. So one of the two. Because here's the deal: God doesn't just go and just kill people willy-nilly for fun. That's not our God. God either protects his people and kills people, or he punishes people. Because that's his job as God, by the way. Now God loves you, as I said, with a very specific, very powerful, very fierce, very, very, very intense love. And He is willing to defend you to the death. So where do we leave from here? Because every sermon is supposed to have a point where we bring it together and we say, This is what you should do now. So, how do we accept this? Now that we know that God has a fierce love, now that we know that God is willing to kill for you, not just die for you, but actually kill for you, where do we go from here? I have four quick suggestions and then we're gonna be done. First of all, Here's what we take away from this. You say, wait a second, wait a second. God loves enough loves enough to kill for us? Yes. In the first and the uh The first person who was sentenced to die for his love for you was Jesus Christ, by the way. God loved his own son so much, but he loved you enough to kill him. Oh, if you read Isaiah fifty three, we don't we you don't and again I'm not gonna necessarily turn it there, but Isaiah fifty three talks about Christ from a um From the uh Old Testament point of view. It talks about Christ and how it pleased God to wound Christ. Not because he liked wounding Christ, but because he loved you that much. He loved his people so much. He loved his future children so much that he was willing to kill his only son. God loves you enough to kill for you. So here's four other things we can learn. So that was a death one. That's a bonus. First of all, God's job is vengeance, not yours. Yours is love. Let me say it again. God's job is vengeance, yours is love. What's that mean? That means that revenge is a bad thing for us. That means as Christians, revenge is sin. Because we're taking over his job. By the way, before you try to take over his job, whether it be in vengeance or in judging people for their sin, remember that the The first sin was uh by uh Satan was just trying to be like God. Not trying to be better than God, just trying to take God's position. So don't take God's position. Vengeance is his. Ayana Romans twelve and verse nineteen says, Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves But rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. By the way, who is going to do a better job at re at avenging yourself? You are God. And before you answer that, remember, can you block out the sun? No? Can you kill an entire nation? All in one night. Sorry, fifteen to thirty percent of the nation, all in one night. No? Can you control frogs? No. No, who has a better job who's better at avenging people? God is. Let him do it. Matthew 44 says, But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them which hate you, and pray for them that despite or which despitefully use you and persecute you. Listen, God's job is vengeance, but yours is love. When someone wrongs you, you are supposed to do good to them. When someone is cruel to you, when someone is awful to you, your job is not to get back at them. That's God's. Your job is to pray for them and love them unconditionally. And that's not an easy thing to say or to preach. Oh, it's easy to say. It's easy to say. Love these people unconditionally. But listen, we do want vengeance. Our inner man, our our flesh, strives for vengeance. We hate people when they do us wrong and God says, No, you love them. If I'm going to get I will avenge them if I need to. By the way, if that person gets saved. If they're unsaved and then they get saved? You don't want vengeance anymore anyways. You don't. If you're a true Christian and someone wrongs you when they were unsaved and then gets saved, if you're a true Christian, you don't want vengeance. So God's job is vengeance, yours is love. Secondly, and I'm almost done, don't hurt God's people. I realize that uh if you're saved here, you are God's children. If you're not, by the way, if you're not saved, if you don't know what being saved means, come talk to me after service. And I'll tell you about it because that's the only way you become God's child. Not everyone is God's child until they get saved. By the way, that's just a freebie. But even if you are saved, don't hurt God's people. Don't hurt God's people. Did you read did you hear what I just talked about? About all those people, all those Egyptians getting killed, or all their things being broken? The problem with that is, is I'm a strong believer that God spanks his own kids first. Here's what that means. It means that I I almost have two sons. I have one and one baking. Um the other one comes out. Now say now Brandon and Cohen I think are buddies. In fact I he was at his birthday party and Cohen saw me's like what's up all? Because that's what they say. Whenever they do this it means what's up, bro. Um it also means bye-bye and a And five sometimes? They're just like five, five, five. I don't know, like bidding on something, I don't know. But um But it means a bunch of things. I mean babies are very talented with this language right here. But the fact is Brandon and Conan are buddies. Now when they get a little older when Brandon just smacks Conan across the face, I will take Brandon to his mom and be like he smacked him in the face. He probably deserved it, but he smacked him in the face. But when Cohen smacks uh new baby, whatever his name is, um baby two. When Cohen smacks baby two, oh that's my kid, so I'll just off and spank him. Now if you don't believe in smaking, then I'll haw off and time out him to clean up whatever. But uh um but fact is, listen I'm not gonna hold and punish someone else's kid, um but I see my kid doing something, it's instant. So think of this, before you go and and harm or gossip about or lie about or do bad to someone who is a Christian God probably gonna punish you before he punishes anyone else for that. Because you're his kid. And he loves you. That's more of a chastisement. But Listen, and if you do it enough and you're like, well, God won't kill his child, oh, he'll totally kill one of his children. Because he thinks of it as bringing you home. And if you're pretty useless on this earth, and by the way, you're like, well how do we how do I think about that? Well have you ever been with y one of your kids? And this hasn't happened to me yet because my kid's like a little tiny midget and doesn't do anything, sever this. But um But but think about it. Have you ever like been so fed up with your kid you just take 'em home? Like I said, we're leaving. And you just take 'em home? Alright. That's what God killing you is like. The more you pick on others of God's kids, the closer you are to God saying, that's it Now before he gets that that's it, he'll probably chastise you, he'll probably punish you, and you'll and you'll probably and you'll probably suffer a little bit and And you'll still get to go to heaven. I'm not saying you won't, but the fact is you're not going to like it. So be careful when you pick on other people's Be careful when you when you're when you're cruel or mean or gossip about or lie about or or intentionally hurt or unintentionally hurt other Christians. Because that can get you in a lot of trouble. Next. God's job is vengeance, yours is love. Don't hurt God's people. Next God having judgment does not make him a mean God. Let me just uh I I've already emphasized this point, we won't go much farther with it, but 2 Thessalonians 1. 6 says, seeing it as a righteous thing, with God that recompense tribulation to them that trouble you. Seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you. This basically is saying, God sees that righteousness when he pays back trouble on people who hurt you. So by the way, now listen, not all not all temptation, not all tr or not all trials are because of someone's sin. I'm not saying that. In fact, a lot of great people go through terrible times because God is trying to mold them into a better person. Well the fact is Sometimes sometimes people do get punished for things, sometimes people do get chastised for things. Here's the thing. Your job is never to look at someone going through trial and get mad at God because they're such a good person. God knows them a little bit better than you do. And God knows them a little bit better than they do. God is not a mean God. God just performs righteousness. And if someone hurts a Christian or does a wrong new Christian and he punishes them for it, it's not our job to stand up for them. It's our job to pray for them. It's our job to love them. It's our job to be good to them. But it's not our job ever to get mad at God for doing someone to some doing something to someone else. Lastly, God's love is shown through everything He does because God is love. See, I titled the sermon A Fierce Love, and the reason I titled it A Fierce Love is because this sermon is completely and totally about love. God loves you enough to do, and this is a biblical term use of the word, but to do evil unto others. And evil just means to do bad things. God loves you enough just to make other people suffer. Minor or major. And you're like, and and and it's not it's not it's not and it's not evil, it's not wickedness, it's not wrong, it's love. Because here's Vim If i I have I have a I have a best friend, his name is Tripod. And uh it's not his real name, but everyone knows him is Tripod. And by everyone, I mean mostly me and all the teens here, because we talk about him sometimes. My best friend's name is Tripod. And um listen, I tripod is one of my best friends, but if for some reason he went crazy and just slapped my kid for no reason We would have kind of words. And I would just beat the snot at them. No, that's not right. But if he's trying to hurt my kid, it's absolutely my job to stop him in any way necessary. Is that right? Right? Anyway that like and I'm not saying again it's not my job to deal out punishment. If he was gonna hurt my kid or if he was hurting him and that he was just sitting there like pinching him because crybod might do this, he's a mean kid. But um he was like pinching my kid, listen, I'm gonna knock I'm gonna make him knock it off. Right? Tripod won't do that. God looks at you the same way. And by the way, now if I was just gonna go and I just start knocking all around, knocking tripod around, just punching them and stuff, whoa, that's wrong. But looking at it in light as in someone trying to hurt your son or daughter, that's different. It can be a show of love And so everything God does is a show of love. And you know why? Because the Bible says in 1 John chapter number 4 and verse number 8. He that loveth or he that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. It's the only thing in the Bible that says God is. Now I'm not saying as in it it says God is merciful and God is just, but those are adjectives. Love is a noun. God is love. Every fiber of God's being is love. If you touch God, you touch what love is. In fact, this were another reality, we could actually just name the we could replace the word love with God because it's the same thing. God is love. So everything he do is out does is out of love. It says in that which was manifested the love of God towards us, because he sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him Here in his love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Everything God does is love. I do not like it listen. I know several atheists, and I probably don't and I don't get actually I don't get along with a bunch of them Doesn't mean I don't love them, but I don't get along with a bunch of them. Some of them are actually pretty nice and and I just don't talk to them, really. But fact is, this is what annoys me about people who at one time went to a church and are now not Christian. They say God's mean. They say God was mean for killing his son, if that's what it really happened. And they don't get it. Because it was the greatest act of love he'd ever begun. Sacrifice is the greatest love. He killed his own son. You and It's the most beautiful thing in the world. And it's a terrible thing. The fact that Christ had to die for your sins is a terrible, tragic thing. But the fact that he did is a beautiful, wonderful thing. God loves us with a fierce love. So four points. God's job is vengeance, not yours. Yours is a love. Don't hurt God's people, because there might be some punishment. God having judgment does not make God a mean God. And God's love is shown through everything because God is love. If you had uh stand at your feet and close your eyes, let's pray. Dear Lord, just uh thank you so much, God. You've been so kind to us, God, you've been so loving to us, God. You've protected us from so much. You've been so gracious to us, God. We just want to uh Lord I ask that we would just uh Lord, I ask that we would just thank you for your love tonight, God. Lord that we would that we would uh we would recognize your love and recognize that we don't need to do anything. Or to those that harm us. And just God, we I want to praise you and thank you so much for love in your name. Amen. The gem plays.