First second Samuel chapter number twenty-four. Last chapter. And uh I'm going to begin reading in verse one. Actually find uh we're gonna read there, then we're gonna go to First Chronicles chapter twenty-one. There are two um Two cross-references here. These two passages give two different accounts of the same event. And there's actually been a number of these. Throughout our study of the book of the life of David is in Chronicles, sometimes in Kings, they would have a record of the same event we were looking at in Samuel. And the overwhelming majority of the time, I didn't go to both because they were almost identical. However, in this case, there is a slight change in wording here that we're not going to get to tonight, but I do want to point out and we will address it. Alright, 2 Samuel 24, look at verse number 1. I'm going to read down through verse number 9 It says, and again the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. And he moved David against them to say, Go, number Israel and Judah. Would you agree with me? It's pretty serious business when God's angry with you. That's pretty serious. I don't want God angry at me. And uh but here it says that God was angry with Israel, and by implication, David He said David against them and say, Go number Israel and Judah. For the king said to Joab, the captain of the host, which was with him, Go now. Through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan even to Beersheba, and number ye the people, that I may know the number of the people. What's his motive for numbering the people? Just says there at the end of that verse. So he would know. He wants to know. And Joab said unto the king, this is interesting. And Joab said unto the king, Now the Lord thy God, add unto the people how many soever they be, a hundredfold. And that the eyes of my lord the king may see it. But why doth my lord the king delight in this thing? What's Joab doing? He's questioning them. He's checking David's actions here. Does that remind you, I'm getting way ahead of myself here, but does that remind you of some other time David was doing something he ought not to have done and somebody checked his move? Remember Bathsheba, they said, is not this the wife of Uriah? Now here you have somebody else stepping up and say, hey, why are you doing this? I'm convinced, now this in the message, we'll get this later, but I'm convinced whenever we are facing a temptation to do wrong, God sends something or someone by to help us have a way of escape. First Corinthians 1013 tells us that. And so verse 4: notwithstanding the king's word prevailed against Joab. And against the captains of the hosts. There's a number of people riping to David about this. Against the captain of the host. And Joab and the captains of the hosts went out from the presence of the king to number the people of Israel. So they do what he says. And they passed over Jordan and pitched in Aurora on the right side of the city that lieth in the midst of the river of Gad and toward Jazer. And he came to Gilead and to the land of Tim Tahimhad, she. And they came to Danjan and about Zidon. And came to the stronghold of Tyre and to and to all the cities of the Hivites and the Canaanites. And they went out to the south to Judah, even to Beersheba. So they're covering the whole area here. This is a major, major census. And when they had gone through all the land, they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days. And Joab gave up the sum of the number of the people unto the king. And there were in Israel 800,000 valiant men that drew the sword The men of Judah were 500,000 men. Now, if you would, keep your place there and come over to 1 Chronicles, chapter 21. It's a parallel passage to this, but there's a little change in the wording that, like I said, we'll have to address another week. We won't get to it tonight, but I want to point it out 1 Chronicles 21. 1 Chronicles chapter 21, verse number 1. I'm going to read through verse 8. Very similar, but notice. Notice verse 1. And who? Satan. He wasn't mentioned in the 2nd Samuel reading, but he is here. And Satan stood up against Israel and provoked David to number Israel. And David said to Joab and to the rulers of the people, Go, number Israel, from Beersheba even to Dan, and bring the number of them to me that I may know it. And Joab answered, The Lord make his people a hundred times so many more as they be, but my Lord the King, are they not all my Lord's servants? Why then doth the Lord require this thing? Why Will he cause a uh well he wh why will he be a cause of trespass against Israel? I wrote in the March of my Bible aside that, 1 Corinthians 10, 13. There is no temptation taking you, but such is common to man. God is faithful, will not suffer you to be tempted above your able, but will with the temptation provide a way of escape. Get away out of it. So that's what's happening. David could have backed off right here. Nevertheless, the king's word prevailed against Joab. Wherefore Joab departed and went throughout all Israel and came to Jerusalem, and Joab gave the sum and the number of the people unto David all they of Israel, or a thousand thousand, a hundred thousand men that drew the sword, and Judah was four hundred three score and ten thousand that drew the sword. But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among them, for the king's word was abominable unto Joab And God was displeased with this thing, wherefore he smote Israel. David said unto God, I have sinned greatly because I have done this thing. But now I beseech thee, do away the iniquity of thy servant For I have done very foolishly. I've entitled the message, A Final Foolish Mistake. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, we ask now that you would bless I pray, dear Lord, that you would speak to our hearts and challenge us. Help us to learn from David's foolishness. I pray that you would help us be on guard and be alert and take heed to what took place here and avoid something similar in our own lives. So I yield my will to you, Lord. I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart that you would take me and fill me with your spirit, that you would speak through me. Lord, that you would help us grow in our faith. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I was reading about the very first census in the United States of America. In 1790, America took the very first census as a nation. According to the history books, they hired 217 people to take the census. It took approximately the same amount of time as it took David to take a census of Israel that we read here. nine months, just a little over nine months, to take the census of all the population in the United States. I think it was uh I didn't write this down, I'm trying to remember. I it was the thirteen colonies and then I think some of the territories, areas. that were uh about to become state uh well thirteen states that were about to become states. And so the c the the population The very first census, 1790, United States of America, was 3,929,214. That's pretty exact. I wonder if there wasn't one somebody hiding in the basement and maybe there was 250. But uh whatever the case was, um they took the very first census. Now here's the interesting thing about it George Washington, who was president at the time, just newly president, and Thomas Jefferson, both were very skeptical and expressed their doubt that that was very accurate. They believed there was a lot more than that. uh in the United States at that time. And personally I think they were probably correct. I'm not sure how accurate they could have been on their senses. Generally, taking a census is good for a nation. It's profitable. It helps the nation in various ways. If you can know what your population is, if you know where they live, if you know what somewhat what level of income they have, what their needs may be, what they have to offer to the nation, it can be very, very helpful For instance, it's good to know your census of your nation for future planning. If you find one area of the country is being developed very rapidly, you may need to give some attention to infrastructure there, bridges and Highways. How many people anybody here been to Baltimore or DC in the last year or two? Anybody rec notice how full the roads are? And so if you know what the population is, you see something trending, you can address that. Doesn't always happen, but you can, gives you opportunity. to address that and deal with uh uh the infrastructure there. Sometimes you see the financial needs of a country. It helps out with that. Be able to assess resources. You take a census, and maybe there's an area that is growing in population, but there's not a lot of water there to sustain the population. You may need to invest. in something like that. So and then also for representation in our form of government, knowing who the people are, knowing how many people are, where they're at. It affects our representation in D. C. So would you agree with me? For the most part, generally speaking, a census is a pretty good thing for a country. Not a bad thing. It can be exploited, of course, and and taken advantage of. It's always the case. However Late in David's life, he takes this census. Now we don't know exactly what what What point in David's life is this, other than to know it's very late in his life. He only has a short time to live after this. It was no doubt after the escapades with uh Absalom and and uh and uh all that and um uh and the nation is back together, they're they're cohesive again, they're operating as a nation. So it's late in David's life. He is probably the best I could tell looking at what people said, timelines and different things, the best I can tell is David is probably in his late sixties Or maybe he is m early to mid-70s. He's in that range there somewhere. So he doesn't have a long time to live. And he takes this census, and it has tragic results. It has fatal consequences. It is probably, and I'm saying probably, in my mind, it is the worst sin of David's life. Now when somebody says, what's David's great sin, what's the first thing comes to mind? David and Bathsheba. That's the great sin. That's the great sin. Actually, there's a lot of the Bible, a big portion of Scripture is dedicated to the account of David's sin with Bathsheba, his murder of Uriah, the fallout from all of that But there's actually more people die as a result of David's sin in numbering the people than there died with uh David and Bathsheba. And as tragic as that was If you want to talk about the great sin of David, this is the great sin of him numbering the people. And I'm way ahead because I just want to kind of give introduction tonight But anybody want to take a guess at what we believe to be the root of this sin? What was the root behind this sin? David's what? Pride. Bride. He'd been king a long time. He had defeated a lot of Philistines A lot of the enemies of God's people were buried in the ground because of David personally and because of his leadership. And he's late in life, and this is my take on it. He's late in life, and he's looking back over perhaps all that God had done, all that God had accomplished And you know, sometimes when we do something for God, sometimes when we serve the Lord and God uses us to do something In the lives of others or for the cause of Christ, to advance in Christ. Sometimes if we're not careful, our old sinful nature will want to take credit for what God has done And I'm just wondering in the back of my mind if maybe David isn't starting to think, man, maybe I really am somebody. Maybe I really am this great man, and look what I've accomplished. And I don't know But he gets in his head that, hey, you know, I'd really like to know how many people do I really have? Now question, is there anything wrong with numbering the people just in and of itself? No, he had actually done that previously. In fact, on more than one occasion he did that for the purpose of assembling the troops and knowing what have we got and so we can organize them It was for the purpose of advancing the cause of Israel and defending the people of Israel. So numbering things and numbering people in and of itself is not necessarily wrong We take attendance in our church. We like to see, you know, if we're up or down, how things are going. It helps us with a number of things. There for a while there was this thing going around in churches that you shouldn't take attendance. Shouldn't take your attendance because David numbered the people and oh it's terrible, you shouldn't take attendance And I noticed those same guys that were criticizing churches that took attendance, not every single one of them counted their offerings. Isn't that interesting? Why is it okay to count the money but not the people? In my mind, the people are just as uh are more important than the money. And so what I'm trying to say is this, numbering the people in and of itself was not necessarily wrong. It was a motive behind it. It's the purpose for doing it. And so it had tragic results. No doubt, in many ways, the worst failure of David's life was when he numbered the people, and like I said, it's often too referred to as David's great sin. So David is late in life. 60s, late 60s, early 70s, maybe, maybe mid-70s, somewhere in that range. His hair is gray. His body's weak. Remember, we noticed a couple weeks ago that his men would not let him go down to war anymore because he was faint and he was faltering. Remember that? So he's an elderly man at this point. He can't go out to the battlefield. His no doubt his he's got crows eyes Uh no, uh what's it called? Not Crow's eyes. Crow's feet and his eyes. He got little wrinkles there, and no doubt there's age spots on his hand. These aren't age spots, these are battle scars here on mine But um uh he's getting up there. And you know what I come? This is this is my message now. I'm kinda giving an introduction. Because it was, I told my wife, it's either somewhat short message tonight with just an introduction, or it's really long, if I go into the next one. And she voted for short. So we'll see what happens But I want to lay some groundwork here. And this is what I got as I was just looking at this from a from the introductory standpoint. This is what I learned. Age is no guarantee of spiritual maturity. In other words, a person can be very Elder can be up in age, up in years, but yet be very immature And by the way, I've seen in my years in the ministry, no doubt you could testify the same thing. I've seen some folks that were fairly young and fairly new in the faith That were much more mature than some folks who had been saved a long time and were much older. They grew in the Lord. They grew in their understanding of What it means to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. They grew in their walk with God and their submission to the Holy Spirit. And God developed them and they grew and matured and were strong in their faith and strong in their walk with God. Where you have someone might have been saved a long time and they neglected their walk with God and they uh resisted the Spirit and quenched the Spirit in their life, and they were they were m uh um uh what do you call when someone dunked stunted in their growth And they're very immature, though they've been saved a long time. I'm here to tell you, God wants us to grow up. He wants us to mature in our faith. He wants us to develop and grow. And here we have David very much, very late in life. A great man, a man after God's own heart, but yet in his elderly years, in the sunset years of his life, he makes one of the most foolish decisions he made in his whole life Is great sin, as it's referred to. Age is no guarantee against sinful foolishness. If you would, take your Bibles. I want to give a couple references here. If you would, go to the book of Job with me. Towards the end of Job, chapter 32. We're going to go to about two or three passages here, so if you would. I'd like for you to turn with me. I'd like for you to see these. Job is, of course, he's in the midst of his tribulation that he's dealing with. And he has these three friends that come by. Anybody remember reading about Job's three pals? Boy, miserable comforters they were. They're jumping all over Job and they're making all these ridiculous accusations and they're grabbing scripture and throwing it at Job, misapplying all of it. And finally, these guys run out of gas, and this fella, uh this young fella shows up, and um Elihew. And notice he makes a statement in verse number, in chapter, did I give you the chapter? Chapter 32. And notice verse number 9, the statement he makes. Now, a lot of what he's saying is true, but it doesn't apply to Job. But he makes an interesting statement here that applies to our message and our subject tonight in verse 9. Notice what he says. He says, great men are not always wise Neither do the aged understand judgment. Now he's a young man, and my first reaction to him saying that is listen, young man, you better be careful what you're saying about older folks That's my reaction. Is funny when uh I think I mentioned this some time ago. But when I was very young in the ministry, when I was a young uh whipper snapper just starting out the ministry. I was told by folks then they said, you be quiet and you listen to the older preachers. You just be quiet, you listen and learn from the older preachers. And um I thought that's good advice. Generally speaking, would you agree with me? That's that's not bad. These guys have been fighting a long time. They've been doing a long time. Now that I'm one of those older preachers, I'm being told, you be quiet and listen to these younger preachers. They know more about this generation than you do. So I just sit in the corner and suck my thumb. But this young man, he makes a actually there's truth to this statement he's making. Great men are not always great. Great men are not always wise. The aged don't always understand the judgments of God and how God works and what God does. Now I think an aged person probably will most likely have more better understanding than maybe a young person But just because they're aged does not mean they're wise. Just because they got gray hair doesn't mean that they know God very well. If you would, come over to Jeremiah. Jeremiah touches on this subject. Way back there. Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Ezekiel, I mean Isaiah, you run into Jeremiah. If you had Ezekiel, you went too far, like I just did. Jeremiah chapter five, and notice verse number five Now he starts out and it sounds like a good thing, and I've heard preachers preach on the first part of this verse, but they're taking it out of context. It says, I will get me unto the great men, and will speak unto them, for they have known the way of the Lord and the judgment of their God. Good statement, right? And I've said this before. My counselors, my mentors have been men older than me, 20 years older plus, all through my ministry. I went to the older men That have been preaching and pastoring and in the ministry. That's who I wanted to learn from. My thinking was the guys, this, my peers, they don't know anything more about it than what I do But notice the end of this verse, what he says. He says, They have known the way of the Lord and the judgment of their God. There's a next important word there. What is it? But I underlined that. But these have altogether broken the yoke and burst the bonds. In other words, they messed up too. They had issues also. They had their own struggles. I'm going somewhere with this. But Age, what I'm trying to say is age is no guarantee of spiritual maturity. Age is no guarantee that I'm not going to make sinful, foolish mistakes. One more, if you would, come back to Proverbs. And chapter number 16. Seems like we always end up in Proverbs. Proverbs chapter 16. And notice with me, if you would, verse 31. Proverbs 1631. Proverbs 1631. Notice he says the hoary head. What does he mean by a hoary head? Gray hair. It's all that word hoary means kind of whitish, white. So gray hair. He's talking about, if he's talking about the hoary head, the gray hair head, he's talking about what? Older folks. He's talking about older folks. By the way, I I thought of this. I read this the other day, and I said, Amen. That's right exactly where I'm at. I would rather have a bald head than a man bun. I'm telling you right now. That's nothing to do with the message, but I've been wanting to say that for a month now. The hoary head is a crown of glory. I say amen to that. Would you agree with me? We ought to respect our elders. We ought to honor them, we ought to respect them, we ought to listen to them. But look at this verse. The hoary head is a crown of glory. What's that next word? If, oh, a qualification here. Wait a minute. A hoary head is the crown of glory if it be found in the way of righteousness. In other words Being aged, having that hoary head, that gray hair, is no guarantee that I'm walking in the way of righteousness. You know, it's possible you'd be very elderly and be very wicked It's possible to be very elderly and be very foolish. And David is coming to the end of his life. He's an older man. His w his body is weak. His head is gray, no doubt. His hands are wrinkled. There's age spots. He is reaching early life. And he makes the most foolish decision of his whole life. How many people agree with me? It looks like by this point you'd have all that stuff behind you. But we don't. But we don't. We don't. Now this uh what I'm saying here is in these going to these passages, what we're saying about David here, that's not to justify disrespecting the agent. Not in him in any way, shape, or form. But what um what I am trying to say and what I think the lesson from David here is We should be cautious to follow God and not man. Even great men, we ought to follow God and not man. You say, oh, this is David. He's a man after God's own heart. He's an older man now. He's been through all the battles. He knows what it's like to fail and get back up. He knows what it's like to beat the enemy. Man, this guy, we're we're just gonna follow him wholehearted. And Joab says, wait a minute, why are you doing this? And to Joab's credit, he stands up and says, This isn't smart. David. It's a caution for us to follow God and not follow man, even great men. I said this. I've said this from day one here and then in ministries before this. Listen, I'm preaching that book. If something I say is contrary to that book. You go with that book. You know what happens? Sometimes you'll have a Christian leader or a uh pastor or some Christian has a lot of influence, an older man, and uh uh somebody that's in ministry and used of God and they mess up And what happens a lot of time is the people that were under them, the people that were that they minister to, they'll walk out on God. They'll walk away from God. And you know what that tells me when the spiritual leader messes up and the people under him walk away from God, that tells me they were following that man and not the Lord. Because the Lord never messes up. And the Lord's never going to fail us, and the Lord's never going to make foolish decisions. And the point I'm trying to make is this David, as great of man as he was, at this point in his life, he made one of the most foolish decisions his whole life, and we need to be careful we follow God and not man The sins of youth, you have a young person and they sin. They make a foolish mistake That affects their future. They've got a lot of times they've got to live with the consequences, the fallout. They've got to deal with the fallout of their sins of their youth. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? I'm no doubt But I'm talking to some folks, you made decisions years ago, you're still dealing with consequences. Amen or not? I am So when a young person messes up, in their youth they sin, a lot of times they're going to have to deal with that the rest of their life. Now, God gives grace, God enables us, He can turn that around, bring some good at it, but nevertheless, it's still there. However, at the end of life, at David's point in life, and you mess up like this, he's going to heaven here soon. You know who's affected by it? The people coming behind them. And we're going to see here in another couple weeks as we study our way through this: 70,000 people died. Because of David's pride, sinful pride. And so we've got to follow God and not man. No one is exempt from sin and temptation. Sometimes every now and then some backwoods church or somewhere they'll come out and they say, Oh, we've attained, somebody will say something like this: we've attained sinless perfection. Anybody ever hear that? Oh, you don't hear it too much anymore, but they're for a while it was going around. Oh, we've uh we've got the second blessing and we've attained sinless perfection. My answer to that is always the same. Check with their spouse. About that. I doubt seriously the spouse would have. Listen, if anybody in the Bible was going to attain to sinless perfection, it would have been David. He never reached that point. I mean, this is the man that Jesus' throne is named after. And he's still messing up. We will never, ever, ever, no one is ever exempt from sin and temptation. I came across this quote. I like it. It says this: those who fall the hardest are often those who walked with God the longest. And that's true in David's case here. What do they say? The bigger the uh what's the uh the harder they fall? The bigger they are, the harder they fall. David was a big man spiritually, he fell hard. There's a lot to learn from this. All right, let me give you four thoughts by way of introduction real quick. I told you it was going to be short tonight. These are very quick. Number one, we should test all of men's words and actions by Scripture. Even great men. We ought to line it up with scripture. You say, man, this guy's a great Christian. He's a powerful preacher. God's used him in tremendous ways. I tell you, you better match everything he says, whether it lines up with Scripture or not. And if it doesn't line up with Scripture, you stick with Scripture, not with the man. Amen And even great men, even great men. Number two, only God is sinless and infallible. David is not sinless. David is not infallible. As great a man as he was, as much as God used him, all the scripture God stirred him to record for us by inspiration. Yet nevertheless he is sinless and fallible. Only God is David was sinful and fallible. Only God is sinless and infallible. Let me give you another verse here, real quick. Would you turn with me? Psalms chapter 119. And verse number look at verse eight and nine, Psalms one eighteen, I'm sorry, Psalm one eighteen. Verse 8 and 9. This is a good passage, good verses to underscore in your Bible. Psalm 118, verse 8 and 9. Are you there? Look what it says. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. How many people say amen to that? Anybody here ever trust somebody and they blew it and they they they hurt you? Anybody here somebody trusted you and you messed up? Yeah, that's man. That's David Look at the next verse. It is better to trust the Lord than to put confidence in princes. You know what? We could make that in our day and age. It's better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in the government. I'll tell you what's happening in our country is the government is replacing God in our country. I'll tell you, I'd far rather trust God. Some of y'all get so worked up about the government. I don't like any of the stuff that the direction our country is going any more than anybody else. But I'm telling you what, I'm not looking at Washington, I'm looking to the Lord I'm looking for a revival in our church. We need God to do something before anything's ever going to happen in government. It's better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. David was a tremendous man. David was a tremendous prince. But brother, this was foolish. And so, my second thought is this: only God is sinless and infallible. And by the way, that means we need to give one another some slack. Right? Uh give your wife some slack. She's not sinless and infallible. And all the men said, Boy, I know that. That's actually And ladies, give your husbands some slack. They're not infallible and they are not sinless. And all the ladies said, Amen. Number three, I put this down. We must pattern ourselves after Christ, not after man. And by the way, let me apply it to our church, as pastor to our church. We must pattern our church after the New Testament, not some mega church in the cities. There's nothing wrong with mega church if they're patterned after the New Testament church. But I don't want to copy a copy. I want to copy the original in the book of Acts. And so it's better to pattern ourselves after Christ and not after man. Now, I think we ought to listen to great men. I think we ought to listen to the aged. We ought to allow ourselves to be influenced, but always hold it up against Scripture. Their advice, their influence, is it scriptural? Paul said in 1 Corinthians 11. 1, he said this, follow me. Now I'm putting this in my own words. But he says, be ye followers of me, even as I am a follower of Christ. Paul was saying the exact same thing I'm preaching tonight. Listen, I'll follow Christ. Any way that I'm following Christ, you follow me. But if I'm not following Christ, you follow Christ, not me. We must pattern ourselves after Christ, not after man. Years ago there was a preacher, and God used him in my life, a great preacher. I mean a great man in so many ways. A bunch of rumors came out, a bunch of accusations got thrown around, and nothing ever was confirmed, and nothing, he denied everything vehemently And um I mean but it was just ugly and it was a stain. A bunch of his followers, a bunch of the church, they came out with this s saying 100% so-and-so, the name of the preacher. And they actually had buttons made up. You'd get these buttons. 100% so-and-so. And that bothered me. As much as I admired that man, as much as God had used him in my life, that 100% man bothered me. And I heard another preacher, Curtis Hudson, made this statement, and I said he nailed it. Curtis Hudson said, I'm not 100% myself. I'm not going to be a hundred percent for some other man He said, I'm 100% Christ. Now that wasn't necessarily an indictment on that man, it was simply saying, I'm not following a man, regardless of how great he is, I'm following Christ. In Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we need to be committed to Christ and to the Word of God. Even David messed up. I've had some great men, and I'm good men, and I'm not trying to be disrespectful in any way, shape, or form, and I listen to them. I still call some of these for advice. Some of them have going on to be with the Lord. But they would say I'd call him, talk to him, they'd give me some advice, and after we'd hang up or we'd part ways. I get thinking about it. I thought, you know, that doesn't exactly line up with Scripture. I mean, that's their opinion, and I respect that, but I think I'm going to stick with Scripture I'm going to stip with Scripture. And so we have to be very, very careful about that. Pattern ourselves after Christ, not after man, even a great man. Now, last of all, number four, let me give you this one. And this one's important. This brings us back to David. We are never out of reach of our adversary, the devil. I want to remind myself and all of us, none of us are going to outlive the devil. Right? Oh, glad the devil's done with. I don't have to deal with him no more. Psych. He ain't done with yet. Be ye vigilant, be sober, be vigilant, for your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. If you look at that verse very carefully, there's no age qualifications on that verse. These teenagers, the devil's out to get them. I say amen, he is. But that doesn't mean us older folks, the devil ain't out to get us. Yes, he is. If he can stain our testimony as we're in the sunset years of our life, he'll do it. He'll do it. Not one of us is ever out of the reach of our adversary, the devil. We have got to take this business of living for God seriously. We have got to take our spiritual well-being seriously. We have got to take our walk with God seriously A lot of people lost their lives because David made a foolish decision late in his life. It hurt the cause of Christ. It hurt the people of Israel. It hurt a lot of people. Not one of us is sinless at any point in our life. I think the sooner we figure that out, the better off we'll be. And I tell you, and I'm I'm I'm made of the same stuff everybody else is, but we get all worked up about other people's failures, we get all worked up about other people's sins, we get all worked up about other people's shortcomings. We need to remember that person that looks at us in the mirror is just as much a sinner as anybody else. None of us None of us will outlive our sinful nature. Not here in this body, not here on this earth. That's why for a whole year we emphasize we're looking for Jesus to come back And I'm telling you right now, one of the greatest things in my mind about the return of Christ, seeing Christ and all of that, uh cloudless skies, I'm not even su I don't even remember what a cloudless sky looks like in the But all the things coming, Christ come back, I tell you, one of the things I look forward to the most is no longer having to deal with this old sinful nature. Oh, what a day that will be. And so we never outlive our sinful nature. We never outlive the devil. We're never out of reach of the devil. And the sooner we f all the sooner we figure that out, the better off we will be. I am with this. And don't you don't need to bother turning there. 1 Corinthians 10. 22. Listen to what Paul said. Paul understood this. Listen to what he said. Wherefore, let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he what? Fall. David, come on A time when it looks like he should have been standing. He fell and he fell hard. And the Bible's recorded that for you and me, for our admonition, for our learning, for our warning. And let's take heed to that. We'll look at the get into the details of the whole thing here in coming messages. But let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to learn from this one glaring truth, at least in my mind. That David at this point in his life still dealt with a sinful nature, still was capable of foolish decisions. And I pray you'd help us to be on guard, to be vigilant. To take very seriously our walk with you. We need revival. And we want that, Lord, and we're serious about it. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. How many people would say, Preacher, I need a little be a little bit more serious about my walk with God? I need to take that a little more serious. Sometimes I get a little laxadaisical there with it. I get a little careless I need to be sober. I need to be vigilant. Anybody like that? Say, preacher, I need that. None of us are out of the woods until the Lord comes back. Father, I pray you'd bless our invitation now. Have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen.