Actually, 2 Samuel chapter 24, we're going to look at verse number 1. If you would come over, also find 1 Chronicles chapter 21. All right, we want to get these two passages here. And bear with me, I get things organized here. One thing I failed to mention, I wanted to say this. Our theme this year is is uh Wilt thou not revive us again? Revive us again. That's our theme. And I came across some books here and I got a bunch of them back there. And it's uh it's called Great Preaching on Revival. And it's 14 sermons all about revival, what we're emphasizing this year, revival, praying for revival, and really good stuff, old-time preachers from a hundred years ago And uh they're not that long. And um I thought, I just got a bunch of them. I thought uh this might be something you might be interested in, maybe of an evening, maybe one night a week, just stop and read down through a sermon on revival. Or break it up, you know, maybe uh make it part of your devotions. You don't read this in place of the Bible, but uh just a neat thing, maybe even a family could read that together But just really good sermons in there. Curtis Hudson and Billy Sunday and John O'Rice, a bunch of these old guys. Uh Hyman Appleman, if you've ever heard of him, just old time uh evangelists from years going by. So they're ten dollars and there's a stack of them back there. And um if you would like to get one of them I highly recommend it. And just put the money in the offering plate and take a Bible or a book back there And uh I think it'd be a blessing. And I hope you're praying with me for revival. I really am, asking the Lord to do a work. All right. 2 Samuel chapter 24 I'm going to read the first four verses here, just kind of set the context. We read the whole passage pretty much last week And we're coming back to it again tonight. Verse number one says, and again the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel And he moved, it seems like God's anger got kindled against Israel over and over. You know, they would just, they do good and then they mess up. And they do good, then they mess up. Well, his anger was kindled against Israel And notice the wording here. We're going to look at this. The anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he moved David against them to say, Go, number Israel and Judah. For the king said to Joab, the captain of the host, which was with him, go now through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan even to Beersheba. And number ye the people that I may know the number of the people. And Joab said unto the king Now the Lord thy God add unto the people how many soever they be, a hundredfold. And that the eyes of my lord the king may see it. Then he asks this question, but why doth my lord the king delight in this thing? It's an important statement there. Notwithstanding, the king's word prevailed against Joab and against the captains of the hosts, and Joab and the captains of the hosts went out from the presence of the king to number the people of Israel. So there's key wording in there. We'll come back and look at that. If you would, keep your place there. But come over to 1 Chronicles 21. There's another account of this same event. And 1 Chronicles 21, verse number 1, says, and Satan stood up against Israel and provoked David to number Israel. And David said unto Joab and to the rulers of the people, Go number Israel from Beersheba even to Dan, and bring the number of them to me that I may know it. And Joab answered, The Lord, make his people a hundred times so many more as they be. But my Lord the king, are they not all my Lord's servants? Why then doth my Lord require this thing? Why will he be cause of trespass to Israel? Nevertheless, the king's word prevailed against Joab, wherefore Joab departed and went throughout all Israel and came to Jerusalem. We started this last week. I've entitled it One Final Foolish Mistake. A final foolish mistake on David's part. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, come to you this evening with our Bibles open And Lord, I believe I speak for most, probably all of us, that we really want you to speak to our hearts tonight. We want you to teach us and help us. in our understanding of your word and in our walk with you and in our witness in this world. And so we need your Holy Spirit to teach us. We need your Holy Spirit to be here. And I yield my will to you and I present my body anew for this message. With all my heart, I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord, and that you speak through me and teach us, help us to grow in our faith through this. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you'll remember, last week I kind of took the whole message and emphasized the fact that we have to be very, very careful about following man. How many people remember me emphasizing that last week? And I think that's an important message in this passage here. David's at the end of his life. He's a a man of God. He's a man uh after God's own heart And yet he makes a very, very foolish mistake. I like the way Paul worded it when he told the, I believe it was the Corinthian church, he said, Be ye followers of me as I follow Christ. And Paul was saying to them, he says, I want to be an example for you, I want to be a pattern for you to follow after. I'd like to that you be able to look at my life and see how a Christian should be and how a Christian ought to behave and what we should and should not do. He says, However, follow me as I follow Christ. And what he was saying was this, if I get out of the will of God If I'm behaving in a way that is not appropriate for a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, don't you follow me in that behavior? And that's what I'm saying about David here. We have to be very, very careful. If you remember, I just gave a list of observations. I'll just give them real quick and then we'll pick up. Some new ground tonight, but I put this down. We should test all of men's words and actions by Scripture Even great men. I like to think that some of the preachers we bring through in our conferences and revivals are some great men of God in my mind. But we need to remember they are men. And we have to be very, very careful. And anything they say or do needs to be um uh held up against scripture needs to be tested by scripture. Number two, we said only God is sinless and infallible Sometimes we, and I guess there's a somewhat of a justification for this, but sometimes we're shocked when somebody messes up. Did you ever hear somebody say this? How could they ever do something like that? Anybody ever anybody here ever say that? I'll tell you how they could do something like that. They're sinners. Only God's the one that's infallible. Every one of us are fallible. And we have to be very, very careful. Let me just throw this out. We've got to be very, very careful about this statement right here. Or even thinking this way. Oh, I would never do that. Huh? You who think you stand, take heed lest what? You fall. And so here's David at the end of his life, and uh he makes a t a very, very foolish uh decision. Uh we must pattern ourselves after Christ, not man. And then we said we're never out of the reach of our adversary, the devil. Listen, you and I, none of us are going to outgrow the outlive the devil. None of us are. He's going to be right there right up till we take our last breath. And so we see this in David's life. Now, we're coming here and I want to look at this, and here's my outline of this passage. And this begins the the the message part of what we're doing. It's going to be a couple weeks. But the first thing I want us to consider tonight is the cause of David's actions. Why did he do this? Why in the world, at this point in his life, and Israel in the situation they're in, we'll look at in a little bit, why in the world would you make a decision to number the people like this and bring God's wrath on you? So I want us to consider tonight the cause of David's actions. Then, Lord will, and next Wednesday, I want to consider the consequences of David's actions, and they were horrific. How many people here understand? Actions have consequences. And by remember, Galatians chapter 6 says, be not deceived, God is not mocked. Whatsoever a man showeth, that shall he what? Also reap. Sowing and reaping. There are consequences to actions. Here's the thing: you and I can choose our actions, but we cannot choose the consequences of those actions. The ability to choose what I say and what I do and how I behave, that's my free will. The consequences of the things I say and do and behave, that's God's sovereignty. God chooses that. God establishes what the consequences are. But he gives us a choice. So we're going to look at the consequences of David's decision, and then whenever we get to it, we're going to notice the cure For his decisions. There is a thank God, thank God, thank God, there is a way to correct our behavior and find forgiveness and get back in tune with God And David does that, and David takes the appropriate actions eventually, and he's restored in his fellowship and his relationship with the Lord. So tonight Let's look at um and a little quickly, I want to try and do this quickly, but I want us to look at the cause for David's actions. Now you need to keep your place here in uh 1 2 Samuel and also 1 Chronicles. Let's look at verse 1 again. I know I just read it, but let's look at it again very carefully. 2 Samuel 24. Let's start out there. Verse number 1 And again the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. Now look at this. And he, who does that word he refer back to? The Lord. The anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he, the Lord, God, moved David against them to say, go, number Israel and Judah. question, who does it sound like is prompting David to number the people? Sounds like God is It says, and he, God, moved him against Israel to do this. If you would, come over to 1 Chronicles 21. And notice what it says here. Verse 1: And Satan stood up against Israel and provoked David to number Israel. Would you agree with me? That sounds contradictory. Right? 2 Samuel 24 sounds like God's the one moving him to do this. 1 Chronicles 21, verse 1 sounds like says that Satan is provoking David to do this. Question, are there contradictions in God's word? The answer is no. We know there isn't. And so we have to look at this and we have to give a little thought. 2 Samuel 24:1 implies that God moved David to do this. Now, we can be very confident. Here's the thing. Whenever you're studying Scripture, let me give you a little uh a little um uh principles of Bible study. And I've given this before, but it's so vital. If you'll do these three things, you won't have any problems studying scripture. One might not get the answer to every question you have, but it'll help you in your study. Number one, you ought to look up what words mean That's where you ought to start. What do these words mean? Sometimes, did you realize sometimes words will have a meaning that I presumed it meant something else So it's important to look it up. You know, get you a dictionary or whatever. Look it up a little bit. Do a little research. So that's where you should start. Number two, you ought to always look at the context of the passage. Look at that whole thing. Sometimes the context of a passage will alter the meaning of the literal definition of a word. Sometimes it's used in a context who says, oh, well, this, you know, it means something a little different than the literal meaning of it. So you look up the meaning of the word. Number two, you look at the context of the passage. How was it used in that whole passage? And then number three, and this one's important in this situation, is you want to compare Scripture with Scripture. So here we are in 2 Samuel 24, verse 1, and it appears. That God is moving David to do something wrong. It appears that God is uh is uh is instigating David to do something that God later judges him for. And then we look over at Chronicles and it looks like, man, well, there it says Satan. There's contradiction. So, what we want to do is here, we want to look at all the passages. We want to look at passages that deal with God doing evil or God instigating sin. And to do that, we have to go to James. So keep your places here. We're doing a little study, inductive Bible study tonight. Come back to the book of James. That's the New Testament. Of course, all the way back past Hebrews, James chapter number one. Yes. Um not necessarily. Not all not always time not all the time. So Good question. He was asking if it was talking about God, the word he should be capitalized. We do that, but Scripture doesn't always use the pronouns, capitalized pronouns referring to God. But we tend to do that James chapter number one, and here it's very clear. 2 Samuel 24 raises questions. James chapter 1, no questions. Very, very clear. Look what it says in verse 13. Let no man say when he is tempted. How many people should say this? None. No man. Nobody can say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. Is there any is is that clear or not? You can't get any clearer than that. God is not uh God um uh God cannot be tempted, and he does not tempt any man. Now look at the next verse. But every man, how many men? Every man, would that include David? Yes. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of what? His own lust and enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when is finished bringeth for death. Do not err, my beloved brethren. James is telling the people he's writing to under the inspiration of God, he's telling them, listen, don't miss this point. Don't err. You need to understand, it needs to be very, very clear in your mind. God is not tempted to do evil, and he does not tempt man to do evil. So when we study 2 Samuel chapter 24, verse 1, it says, He, God, moved David to number Israel. We know, based on this passage, God is not tempting or provoking David to do something wrong. God does not do that. And so we uh God did not provoke or tempt David to sin. If God did, God would be violating his own nature God is holy. And the concept of holy, this attribute of holiness that is one of God's primary attributes, his characteristics, he's holy. Holiness means the absence of sin. God is perfectly holy. There is no sin associated with God in any way, shape, or form. And so if David, if God was provoking David to sin, then God would be violating his own nature. And that cannot happen. Because of his holiness. And so we know that God is not tempting David or provoking David to sin. He would violate his own nature. God never contradicts himself. Ever. And if God was tempting David to sin here, to do something that was wrong, God would not only be violating his own nature, he would be violating his own word. We just saw here, God tells us in his word, that he is not tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man So, whatever the answer to the question is, we know that the answer is not God tempting David here. We know that's not true. That cannot be true. So, what is going on here? Here's why my understanding of it. Look here, are you back at 2 Samuel? Come back there real quick. And you might as well stick something in because we're going to be comparing scriptures here a little bit. It says again the anger of the Lord, verse 1 24, chapter 24, 2 Samuel. Again the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he, God, moved David against them to say, Go number Israel and Judah. Here's what I understand God is allowing David to do this. Would you agree with me? God could have stepped in and said, I'm not going to let you do that. Would you agree with me? Sure. How many people here since you got saved you ever sinned? And how how many people? Well, half y'all sinned right now. You didn't Yeah, we all do, don't we? You know, God could step in and keep us from sinning. He could step in and say, I'm not going to let you do that In fact, 1 Corinthians 10 13 says, There is no temptation taking you, but such is common to man. God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able But will with the temptation provide a way of escape. And so that verse is telling us that if I'm being tempted in some way that there's no way I could possibly refuse it, then God won't let me be tempted in that area. You follow you follow what I'm saying? There's no temptation taking you, but such is common man. God is faithful. He will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able. So the implication is if I'm if it is above what I'm able, then he won't let me be tempted. So what I'm saying is what happens here in First Corinthian in Fer uh 2 Samuel 24 is God is sent when it says he moved him, by the way. One of the definitions of that word moved him has the idea of moving out of the way. And this is me. This is my interpretation. I'm not a Bible scholar, but I am a Bible student And this is my interpretation. I think God sees what David's doing. He sees what's going on in his heart and life. He sees what David's about to do. And God says, listen, you want to do that? Okay. I give you that option. You have a free will. I'm not going to step in the way. I'm not going to stop you. That's the same thing with Adam and Eve, right? He told them, You can eat of all the all the fruit of the Garden of Eden, but this one you cannot eat, tree of the knowledge, good and evil, you cannot eat of that. And then God stepped away and let them choose what they were going to do, right or wrong. There's consequences to our choices, but we have a free will. David had a free will. In this case, God says, All right, I'm going to let you do it. That's my understanding. Much like he allowed Adam and Eve to be tempted by Satan. He gave them that option. So it comes back to my first question, my point. What's the cause? What? Why did David do this? I do not believe God provoked him to sin. I do not believe that. It contradicts God's nature, contradicts God's word. I think there's two causes behind David's great mistake, the biggest, most foolish thing that he committed, most costly I should say. Sin that he committed in his life, mistake he made. I think number one, it was David's pride. David's own stinking pride This was a, he takes this census, he numbers the people, and as you study this here a little bit, you come to the conclusion, this is not a general census of the whole population. He's not counting how many babies are in the nursery and you know how many folks are in the nursing homes and he's not he's not doing all that. This is a military census and I think I can show you why uh I come to that conclusion. Notice who he puts in charge. Verse number two. For the king said to Joab, the what's what's his title? The captain of the host. He's a military leader. If he was doing a civilian census, why would he have his military guy take a census of the civilians? He's the military chief, so that suggests to me This is a military census. He's counting his soldiers. He's getting a head count of his army and his The second reason is because of the description of the census. Come over to verse number nine. And notice what happens here. And Joab, this is after Joab and the men go out and they take the census and they come back and look what they said. And Joab gave up the sum of the number of the people unto the king, and there were in Israel eight hundred thousand, look at this, valiant men that drew the sword. And the men of Judah were five hundred thousand men. So he says here, Job's come back and he says, these we have 800,000 in Israel with 500,000 in Judah, men that drew the sword. Would you agree with me? That sounds like military fellows. So I don't think David's taken a full-blown census of the general population. He wants to know how many soldiers he's got. He wants to know how many spear chuckers and arrow shooters he's got. And so he is taking a military census here. And that suggests to me that David's pride is behind this, first of all, because they were in a time of peace. They weren't at more at war. Now, I'll grant it, being at peace, Israel being at peace was very unusual because the Philistines were relentless. I mean they're just constantly coming out uh at them and we mentioned it several times before, but those those Philistines are something else. They'd attack Israel. David would slaughter them. Israel would slaughter them. They'd retreat. And a few months later, a year later, they're back. And huge hordes with giants. And they'd whoop them again and they'd come back. And David's whole administration as king of Israel, he's fighting Philistines. He's fighting Philistines But this period of time they're not fighting Philistines. They're at peace. There's no there's no need to census the military to You know, earlier he did that. He's wanting to, you know, regulate them. He's wanting to divide them up and put these guys over here, and you're going to attack them when you know how many guys there are. But that's not the case now. And so this is a time of peace. In fact, look there at verse 3. It says, Joab said unto the king, Now the Lord thy God, add unto the people however many soever there be, a hundredfold. The eyes of the Lord the King see it. Why doth my Lord the King delight in this thing? Look over there in Chronicles. He says, um and Joab answered, verse three of Chronicles twenty-one, first chronicles, the Lord make this people a hundredfold uh as many as a hundred times so many more as they be. Look at this. But but my lord the king, are they not all my lord's servants? Why then doth the Lord require this thing Why does he cause why will he be a cause of trespassing in Israel? You know what Joab's saying? Joab's saying it's not necessary. Why are you doing this? But you've got them all. We've got them. They're in place. They're ready. There's no need for this. I'll tell you why. It's because David's pride. David's pride. They're in a time of peace. And I'm telling you, listen to me, and some of you will know exactly what I'm talking about. If we're not careful, in a time of peace, we can let our guard down. When things are going well and I'm not in a conflict and I don't have adversity and nobody's attacking me, man, we can let our walk with God uh stagnate. We can start neglecting. How many people agree with me? Man, when you're in a tough time, you need something from God. That Bible, you go to that Bible a whole lot more When everything's going well and everything's at peace and the devil seems like he's not harassing you, yeah, I'll get to the Bible. And I think David, in a time of peace, got spiritually lazy. And it allowed his flesh to rise up and pride to take over his thinking. And he wants to know how many men do I have that I may know it? Pride. Pride. So one reason I think the cause behind David doing this is pride. It's because they were at a time of peace. This was totally unnecessary. He's not doing this for military reasons. But there's a second reason I think that David's pride was behind this, and that is this. Now you've got to think with me through a little bit on this. David's warriors, the army of Israel, is not the ones who won their battles. It was God that gave them the victories. Not their great armed forces, not their weaponry, not their advanced latest technological weapons that they have. It was God the one that gave them the victories. And David knew that. Come with me back if you would to 1 Samuel chapter number 17. Right from the start, David knew that the battle's the Lord's. It's not us. It's not our strength. It's not our weapons. It's not our training. It's not our military strategies. David was tremendous at strategy and training and military, but that's not what gave them the victory, and David knew it. Look with me at chapter 17, 1 Samuel, and look with me at verse number 47. And this is David speaking. It's about to go out against Goliath, young boy. And he says, and all this assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear for the what? The battle is the Lord's. David understood that as a young boy going out against Goliath. It's not my muscles, it's not my slang, it's not my stones, it's not your spears and shields and bow and arrows. The Lord is the one that gives us victory. And all through he says that over and over. You read his Psalms that he wrote under the inspiration of God. Read his Psalms, and he says over and over and over, the horse is prepared for the day of battle, but safety is of the Lord. And he's got his eyes off of the Lord, and he's looking at his own strength and his own power. David knew this right from the beginning. So why would in the world would David want to number these people like this and bring such devastation on his people? His old stinking pride. He got full of himself And he wanted to count his money, he wanted to count his men, he wanted to know how great he was. The third reason is God removed himself, and I already kind of touched on this, but Verse 1 of chapter 24, it says, and he, the Lord, moved David against them. The word moved there, as I said, has an idea of stepping out of the way. David's pride is swelling up, and he's thinking in his head, man, I'm something. I want to know how many men I have. And God sees what's going on. Of course, God knows, and God says, okay. Alright, your full pride, your full self. Would you take your Bibles with me back to the New Testament? Everybody with me? Everybody doing alright? Come back to James again, if you would. And notice with me in chapter number four, James addresses this same thing here again. James chapter 4 and verse number 6. James 4, 6. But he giveth more grace, God does, wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud. God says, all right, you want to be proud? I'm not going to help you. I'm just go ahead. God resisteth the proud, but look at this, giveth grace unto the humble. You know what happens? You and I get proud, you and I get full of ourselves, we think it's all about me, it's all about my what I have, what I'm doing, me, my, me. And God says, all right, I don't have nothing to do with that. But if you humble yourself, I'll give you all the grace you need. And I'll give you victory. It doesn't matter. And let me put it in the context of David. This is the way I see it. Alright, David, you humble yourself, you stay humble, I'll whoop every enemy you have. I'll give you all the grace and the strength and all the victories you need. You humble yourself, but you get proud, you get fool yourself, you get your eyes on you and what you have and what you are. God says, alright. I resist that. I don't have any part of that. I tell you what, you want to turn God against you. You get fool of yourself. We want to lose God's grace. We want to lose God's blessing. We want to lose God's leadership and victory in our lives. Then we start thinking we're really something. Tell you the greatest danger to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church isn't anything going on in Washington, D. C. , or Annapolis, Maryland. The greatest danger to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is you and I getting proud of ourselves. And start thinking we're something. And boy, look at all we are, look at all this, and we got all that, and we're all this No, we're not all that. We're a bunch of sinners that are experienced the wonderful grace and mercy of God. We have to be very careful about that. And David got full of himself, and David got looking at all material, temporal things. And God says, I resist that. I'm not part of that. Come over if you would to 1 Peter, just the next book there in your Bible. And come to chapter 5 and verse number 5. Peter's saying the same thing to these believers that are scattered all over, being persecuted. And notice chapter 5 and verse number 5, 1 Peter. He says, humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God. That he may exalt you in due time. Humble yourselves. You want to have victory, David? Well, then you humble yourself. You humble yourself. I read the wrong verse. Oh, no wonder it didn't match my notes. I thought, what in the world? That's not what it is. Verse 5 Scratch that from the tape there, Jamie. Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves the older. Yea, all ye be subject one to another and be clothed with humility. Here we go. This is what I was looking for For God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the what? Humble. Humble. How many people want revival in your life? I do. How many people want revival in our church? Yeah. You know how we're gonna get it? We gotta repent from our stinking pride and humble ourselves before God. David comes the end of his life and he gets full of himself. So come back here now. So David's pride is behind this. But then we come over to 1 Chronicles again, one more time. Let's just look at this, verse 21, chapter 21. And there's a little more information given to us here. Now we had to do a little study there to figure out what that verse wanted 2 Samuel 24 meant. But it's clear here what verse 1 of 1 Chronicles 21 means. And Satan stood up against Israel and provoked David. to number Israel. So we have David's sinful pride and Satan's provocation. David's pro uh uh Satan is provoking him. Uh I tell you this, we know this. Satan hates Israel I mean, right from when God called Abraham out to the promised land, as soon as when God called Abraham to uh to uh Canaan, Satan stepped in and started fighting Israel. And all through Israel's history, Satan has fought them and fought them and fought them and fought them. Satan hates God's people And I want to suggest to you, as much as Satan hates Israel, he hates the church. Now Israel and Church are two different entities But God's people, Satan hates them. Satan wants to take Israel out, and if he can take David out, he can take Israel out And so Satan hates Israel. He always has and he always will. So what is he using here? Here's what I this is my take on it, alright? David's at peace. Maybe he's neglecting his walk with God. Maybe he's getting lazy spiritually. And the flesh is gaining ground in his heart and mind, that old sinful nature. And he's starting to think according to the carnal man, the carnal mind, starting to take over his thinking. And he's neglecting that spiritual mind, and Satan steps in and says, Aha, I can provoke him to do something devastating to the nation of Israel. You know who Satan's greatest ally is? Satan's greatest ally is not the world. Now the world's our enemy. And the world's an ally of Satan. But you know who Satan's greatest ally is? He has an inside man. You know what it is? It's our sinful nature. My sinful nature is an ally of Satan's. And so David is starting to have that old sinful nature is rising. in its strength and it and its influence in his thinking and his actions, and Satan steps in and says, boo-boom, here, I got an idea And provokes him to do wrong. Our simple nature is Satan's greatest ally. Our pride is Satan's greatest tool. David got proud And Satan stepped in and took advantage of that. I tell you, when we get proud and we get in the flesh, we're exactly where Satan wants us to be. We're exactly where Satan wants us to be. I think one of the most important passages for every Christian to understand is Galatians chapter 5. Would you turn with me and I'm going to end with this? Turn with me to Galatians chapter five. And here we find the source of Our spiritual struggles, our spiritual failures. Galatians chapter five. And notice with me if you would Come down to sixteen. Galatians chapter five, verse sixteen. This I say then. Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. I put in the margin of my Bible there, I put conflict. Between the old simple nature, my flesh, and my spirit. Galatians 5, verse 16. Walk in the spirit, and ye shall not Fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. See the conflict there? My my old simple nature wants this, I want to do it this way, I see it that way, this is the way I think. No, and the Spirit, the Holy Spirit of God that indwells me says, no, that's not right. And there's this Conflict back and forth, there's lust one against the other. And these are contrary one to the other, so that you cannot do the things that you would. Anybody here ever get messed up and you say, man, why in the world did I do that? Anybody, why did I say that? Why in the world did I tell you why we got a simple nature. We allowed that sinful nature to dictate our actions. And there's that constant com- how many people know what I'm talking about? That conflict. Between the old nature and then and the Holy Spirit. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean it's just fighting back and forth, back and forth Then he goes on, look what he says. But if you be led by the Spirit, verse 18, you're not under the law. Now look at this. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance Um variance means fussing and fighting, emulations, that's envy. Look at this, wrath and strife, seditions, that's divisions, heresies, envyings I think that might fit in where David was. He wanted it all for himself. He wanted the glory. He wanted the credit. He wanted to be about him. Revelings in the such light I tell you before, as I told you in time past, they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. That's our old sinful nature. Where all that stuff comes from. Listen, if I'm engaged in any of those things listed in that list there, I know I'm not under the control of the Holy Spirit, I'm in the flesh. If we start feeling that anger coming up, you start feeling that that envy or whatever starts coming up, stop right there and say, wait a minute, this is not of God, this is my flesh. I'm not going to walk in the flesh. Then look what he says, verse 22. But the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against that such there is no law. And they that are in Christ have crucified the flesh with the affliction and affection affections and lust. I think we need to make every effort to walk in the Spirit And deny that old sinful nature. We've got to apply ourselves, if we don't do anything else, I've got to keep that old sinful nature crucified. I need to keep that old sinful nature. I need to mortify the deeds of the flesh. And I need to humble myself before God and let the Holy Spirit of God fill me and bear his fruit in my life. And I think that's where David went south. He's at peace, everything's going well, he's older in life, he's probably not strong physically anymore. And maybe, I'm speculating, but maybe he just got lazy in his walk with God and got proud. God focused on himself. And the consequences are devastating. We'll see it later on. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord, you would help us to learn from this. Help me. I pray that we would keep pride out of our hearts and minds. I pray you'd help us keep that flesh. Mortified. Lord, help us to humble ourselves and allow you to fill us and bear your fruit in our lives. Now you can be glorified and others can be saved. With heads bowed, eyes closed, how many along with me would say pray to your pride? He's my enemy. I I uh pride is an issue with me. I struggle with that. Anybody at all like that? Sure. My hands raised. Good heavens. Pride. That old flesh, the those characteristics of the flesh, catch myself. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I don't now this is between you and God. I wonder if there's some say, Preacher, whatever it costs me, whatever it costs me, I want to be filled with the Spirit. Whatever it costs me, I want God to have his way in my life and that fruit in my life. Any any like that, that's a big statement, whatever it costs me. Sometimes it's costly. David learned the hard way. Father, bless our imitation now, I ask. Have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen.