And to be honest, I kind of revamped my message this afternoon. I think what I'm going to do this evening is just simply give the introduction to the original message I was going to preach uh tonight and um uh continue that maybe pick it up next Sunday night. But Genesis chapter six, notice with me if you would, verse number seventeen Genesis chapter 6. The Bible says, behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth. To destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life from under heaven. And everything that is in the earth shall die What I want us to do tonight, and uh it's really not preaching, it's more just kind of giving information, maybe presenting an argument uh um on why we believe that what God says here is true. It's called uh it would be what would be you would call an apologetic sermon, not that we apologize for anything, but offering a defense for our faith. And so a flood of great waters, I believe tonight, I think it will be helpful to all of us and reassure our confidence in God's Word. Let's pray. Father bless. As we look into your word, Lord, I'm not a geologist, I'm not a scientist, I'm not an archaeologist. God, we're just Bible believers. And so we ask now that you would help us not to doubt, but to just rest fully in your word And allow it to transform our lives and direct us and guide us, protect us. I yield myself to you, Lord. Teach us tonight through me, I pray And I pray when it's all said and done, our confidence in your word will be stronger than it's ever been. In Jesus' name, amen. In verse 17 here, Paul is giving to Noah the first statements concerning how he's going to destroy life on planet Earth He had been saying he was going to do that a number of times up to this point. Now he's telling Noah how he's going to do that. And uh he says he's going to destroy life on earth With a universal flood. Now, uh what do we mean by we use that term universal. If you go online or you go into a uh a Christian bookstore or whatever, you're gonna get books on the flood They're going to talk about the universal flood. What do we mean? The whole universe is flooded? What do we mean by that? Yeah, the whole world, the entire planet is flooded by water. The idea That there ever was a literal universal flood as described here in Genesis, that very idea Has been criticized and mocked by unbelievers for years and years and years. It is nothing new for an unbeliever, someone doesn't believe the Bible, to come and just mock the idea that there ever was a flood that covered the whole earth. Now, why do they kn mock that idea. Why do they mock that concept? I suggest to you, it's not, they don't mock this whole event that's described here. They don't ridicule that because there's a lack of scientific evidence for a universal flood. That's not why they mock it. I want to suggest to you there is tremendous amounts of evidence For the fact that the earth was flooded completely, universally, at a point in the past, just as described here. So it's not for lack of evidence. Rather, I'm going to suggest that the reason they deny this and take that ear, not just deny it, but just ridicule the idea. is because of an unwillingness to acknowledge the inspiration of Scripture. An unwillingness to say, you know, that is the Word of God with notes and stuff falling out. I might as well clean my Bible while I'm up here, huh? Um it is I'm gonna suggest to you it's not for lack of scientific evidence. It's for an unwillingness to acknowledge the Bible's God's Word or an unwillingness to acknowledge the existence of an eternal God. There's no contradiction between science and scripture. There's none whatsoever. You say, wait a minute, preacher, we were in uh when I was in college we had uh science class and uh in science class they said we evolved. The Bible says we were created. How can you say There's no contradiction between science and scripture. There's no contradiction between science and scripture. The contradiction is in the interpretation of science, not in the science itself. For instance, I believe the Bible is God's word. Every ounce of my being, every molecule of my being believes that this is God's word. I believe this flood and all this took place exactly as God says. You have an unsaved scientist who um who threw all this stuff up here? Uh you have an unsaved scientist who says there's no way that that didn't happen. I don't believe that. And by the way, there are there are many, many, many highly educated Um what would you call a scientist that deals with this type of thing? Geological scientists? Would it that be it? What? Archaeologists, uh there's there's lots of s scientists who believe the Bible is true. There's tons of them out there. So it's not this is what I'm trying to say here, I guess. It's not who has the most evidence Well here's the creationist scientist, he believes creation, he believes the flood, all this just like the Bible. He's got his stack of evidence. And over here is the atheist and they believe in evolution. They don't believe in the flood and they took all this stuff his millions of years. And they've got their stack of evidence, and what you have to do is see who has the most evidence, and whoever has the most evidence, they win. That's not the way it works. We both got the same evidence. We both have the same fossils. We both have the same geological record. We both have the same thing. It's not the evidence that science has that scripture uh contradicts with. It's not the science of the evidence, it's the interpretation of that evidence. You have the unbelieving scientist over here begins with a conclusion. He begins with the conclusion there is no God There is nothing supernatural. Everything that exists is here because of natural processes. And the only way natural processes in their reasoning The only way that natural processes could produce the world that we have today in their reasoning is you have to have millions and millions and billions of years If you just add time to it, then those natural processes can accomplish what we see today And so they look at the fossil record, they look at the geographical, geological uh strata And they say, aha, I see evolution in millions and millions of years in all this evidence. The believing scientists, the creationist, as the term is used Looks at that exact same evidence, the fossil record, the geological strata, and all of that, and he says, I see a universal flood, I see a creation, I I I can Give a perfectly uh reasonable uh explanation of how this can all be in light of what Scripture teaches. So my point is this It's not that they're smart and the believers dumb. It's not that they have tons of evidence and we don't have any evidence, that's why it's that. It's a whole different world view. It's a completely different approach to the exact same facts. And so People mock the idea that there is a literal flood. People mock the idea that this scripture is a, we can take it literally for what it says here. But in reality, we can take this very literally. We can look at the evidence that is available there just as they do, and we can come to reasonable conclusions, logical conclusions, that the scripture fits the evidence. So is everybody with me there? So don't be intimidated by National Geographic when they have some show and they're trying to present uh something where dinosaurs in millions of years and all of this or they do or the History Channel or somebody will do something and mocking Christianity and mocking the idea that there's a flood and throwing all these theories out there. Don't be intimidated by that. Always remember what they are presenting is simply their interpretation. of the evidence there. The evidence does not contradict Scripture. Their interpretation of it does. Because you can have people come along with the same evidence and say, hey, I want to present this in another from a different perspective, another worldview, and it fits scripture beautifully. Now my contention is they begin with their conclusion. They begin with the conclusion there is no God. I begin with the assumption the Bible is the Word of God. And so it's two, it's not two stacks of evidence. It's two it's not two differing stacks of evidence You can take an evolutionist that denies uh creation, denies the world the flood. You can take a creationist who holds to a strict literal interpretation of scripture, uh creation, six-state creation, uh universal flood. You can together and they will argue until the moon falls out of the sky. Because the evidence they're both using the same evidence. It's two different worldviews It's two different approaches to the evidence. And so I suggest to you that The evidence, the scientific, historical, geographical facts that we have available to us support The biblical record of creation and the flood a hundred times more accurately than what the evolutionist does. In fact You'll find out that the more we learn about life on planet Earth, and the more we learn about the world we live in, the more difficult it becomes for the evolutionist to defend his position. Um, I don't want to get off on this too much, but um Darwit, how many people are familiar with the name Charles Darwin? Just every everybody knows about him. Charles Darwin wrote the book, The Origin of Species. Here's just an interesting side note. If you would read that book, that is an incredibly racist book. He contends that the uh uh a black man, the black race, Charles Darwin taught this, the black race was an inferior race. They weren't as far along in the evolutionary development That is racist to its core. Um planned parenthood. Oh well forget, I'm getting off the track here. Um don't get me started on that. So what were we talking about? Charles Darwin. Oh. His contention was life evolves from the simplest life forms to more complex life forms. Without knowing anything about it, he suggested and defended the idea that a cell, a single cell, living cell, is very simple His contention was it could pretty easily be developed just in a mud puddle over millions of years. It could easily a a single cell living living cell could very easily, it's very simple form, it's not very complex. A little bit of lightning, a little bit of amino acids, a little bit of protein, throw it all in there, mix it up for 150 million years, and pronto you've got light. Guess what we discovered? We discovered DNA. We discovered that that little single-cell living cell is not as simple as what he suggested. It's incredibly complex. And the more we learn about life, and the more we learn about the world we live in, the more it difficult it becomes for an evolutionist to defend his position. They've got to get. I've found, I made this statement before, but I've found the farther you get from the truth, the more elaborate your explanation is for it. How many people here, now I know your kids never do this, but how many people here, you ever heard of kids that lied to their parents? Anybody ever hear of kids that have done that? I've heard of kids that have lied to their parents What happens when that, what would be the best thing? If a child lies to his parents, the parents confront him, what would be the best thing to do? Best thing to say, you know, I lied. It was just washing my mouth out of soap. Whatever you gotta do, I lied. That would be the best thing to do. I found generally kids don't usually do the best Suppose that child begins to defend his lie. And so you ask, all right, if what you're telling me is the truth, how did this happen? Uh well you see Bobby did this and that and the other. Really? Well that's funny. I saw Bobby over there. So if he did that, how did that happen? Uh well in that case you had this And the farther he gets from the truth, what happens to his argument becomes more and more complex, more and more confusing, more and more contradictory. And I've found as evolutionists get farther and farther away from the simple, obvious evidence Their theories become more and more complex, more and more under and after a while you've got to have 25 doctor's degrees from 95 years of education to even understand what they're talking about. You follow what I'm saying? Mount St. Helens. How many people are familiar with Mount St. Helens? What in the world happened at Mount St. Helens? Volcano erupted out in Washington State, right? Was it Washington State? What year was that? 70, the late 70s, I think, 79? Mount St. Helens erupted. Boy, all the evolutionists, all the Bible mockers and scoffers, they just said, oh, this is going to be You know what we're finding out? We are finding that since 1978 or 9, whenever that eruption took place till now, we are finding the landscape being almost identical to what evolutionists say took millions and millions of years to happen. We're finding the strata there that happened in just a few years. Where you find another part of the world, the evolution says took millions and millions of years to happen. I just read an article this week by Creation Research Institute. And you know what they're finding in the bottom of the ponds there around Mount St. Helens, the lakes, where all the trees were knocked in and it began to have sediment at the bottom? You know what they're finding? They're finding coal You know what they're finding out? Coal doesn't take millions and millions and millions of years to develop. It happened just 20, 30 years. They're finding coal there. If you want to see the article, I've got it documented. In fact, I was thinking about putting it in next week's bulletin. So We're finding that rivers when that mudslide and when the floods came after Mount St. Helens and the and the uh damage that was done to the landscape, we're finding that that matches As I said, in just a few years matches events and landscape, geological formations that they say took millions and millions of years. So again, my opening statements are these. It's not that is here and he's got his stack of evidence. Bible rejector, the one that doesn't believe in the Bible, he's got this stack of evidence, and whoever has the most wins the argument. It's not that at all. There's only one stack of evidence It's our interpretation of it. It's our worldview coming into it that determines our conclusion. Now We have the Bible believers, we have the Bible rejectors, those that deny the existence of God or supernatural. There's another group. There's a third group who try to, sincerely perhaps, take the hand of the unbeliever and his interpretation of facts And take the hand of the Bible believer and his interpretation of the facts and try and join the two together. And so they will acknowledge that God created everything, but God did it through evolution. That's a whole nother can of worms. Uh uh I just my my response to that, since you brought that up, my response to that is you can't have it both ways. If evolution is true, then the Bible isn't. If the Bible is true, then evolution isn't. You can't have a mixture of the two. It doesn't work. It's like water and oil. It's like water and oil. Now, I said all that to come to this matter of the flood. I guarantee it, if we went out here tonight and talked around people, we would run across We run across somebody who would say, oh, come on, good grief. You don't believe that thing was literal, do you? I g I guarantee you, I think, I mean I've got a couple guys in mind right now as I'm talking, uh, quote unquote preachers. religious leaders in our community that I would say if we went and sat down, they would deny that this happened the way the Bible says So um and this is and so you have these in between Unbeliever says, nah, never happened. No flood, that's ridiculous. Just a myth. Just a story. Little kids in the nursery paint on the wall Bible believers says, yeah, I believe it's exactly what it is. Then you have the one in the middle. Said, you know, I hear what the unbelievers are saying, and I hear what the creation is saying. I think there probably was a flood But it was just a local flood. It wasn't universal. It wasn't the whole world. Come on, that's ridiculous. How could that happen? That's mythologically That's a cool word, mythologically. That's so that's what I want to address. We reject, of course we reject, we reject the idea of rejecting the flood completely. Are you with me? Everybody is do I have everybody totally confused at this point? Joe's always confused, so I'm not worried about that. We reject those we reject the position that rejects the flood completely, but I'm suggesting we reject the position that says the flood was just local Like the Mississippi flooded al uh flooded Louisiana and all of that. It was a local flood. We reject that also. Now I don't know, but it's very possible there's someone here sitting here tonight and you're saying, Brother Lemon, I can't believe you're taking a whole message. just to talk about whether the flood was universal or local. Who in the world cares? What does it matter? I suggest to you it's tremendously important. And I want to give that to you very very quickly. And uh reasons why we reject the local flood, number one, is because of the flood. How deep the flood was. Now this gets interesting. Look at Genesis chapter 7 and verse number 19 with me. Genesis chapter 7. We're going to jump around here in Genesis 7, 8, and 9 a bit. Genesis chapter 7, verse 18. Look at this is God describing the flood. And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth. All right, what's the immediate logical thing you would come to? Just that statement right there It sounds like it's universal, right? But let's read on. And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth, and all the high hills. That were under the whole heavens were covered. That's a pretty specific statement. Now, God could have said all the hills on the earth were covered. Right But he doesn't do that. He says all the high hills that were under the whole heaven were covered. Read on. This is where it gets even more interesting. Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail, and the mountains were covered Now, the guy that's in between here, he wants to appease the creationists, he wants to appease the atheists, he goes, all right, it wasn't a universal flood. The Bible says it was only the water was only 15 cubits deep Did you see that in verse eight verse twenty? Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail. And he says the water was just fifteen cubits. Now remember from a previous message, how how much how long did we say a cubit is About 18 inches. Give or take some about 18 inches from a tip of a finger to elbow in that range there. So 15 times 18 is what? Fifteen times eighteen is twenty-two. Twenty seven point five. Fifteen times eighteen is twenty-seven. Twenty-seven feet is what you're talking, right? Okay, twenty-two point five feet. Let's say it's twenty-two feet. Alright? Don't ever ask Ed in the middle of a message for something. Alright, now bear with me, all right? We're going somewhere with this. 15 cubits of work. So they say, alright, the earth, uh the flood got twenty-two feet high. Have we ever had floods 22 feet high? Sure. I think the Mississippi one was up 30-some feet at some spots above flood stage. So that's not very significant. But here's the thing: that's not what that verse is saying. That verse is not saying it was 15 cubits up from the ground, it was 15 cubits over the highest mountain. Is what he's saying here. The highest mountain peak on the earth at that time, the water was 22, approximately 22 feet above it. Now, why is that significant? Why would God, why wouldn't He just say, you know, the highest mountains were covered? He says that in verse 19. Then, verse 20, he elaborates and gets a little more specific, and he says it was 15 cubits above the highest mountain. Now, why would he tell us that? I want to suggest to you a reason for that. Let me give you the verse. Come back if you would to chapter 6. We've already looked at this, and verse 15. He's given the dimension of the ark. Chapter 6, verse 15. And this is the fashion, extracting to Noah, thou shalt make it of the ark. The length of the ark shall be 300 cubits. The breadth of it, 50 cubits, and the height, what? 30 cubits. The water is going to be exactly half The height of the ark above the highest mountains. What is God allowing for? He's allowing for the submersion of the boat into the water. That thing's loaded up with all these animals and food and everything, the way the boat And it's going to settle down into the water, probably half of its height. And God is allowing that that boat can float wherever it wants on the planet and not scratch bottom, not be punctured by the highest mountain. Now, I don't know about you, but that is fascinating to me. Remember, the Ark was not designed for navigation. We do not believe Noah could steer the Ark. Uh we d as far as I can tell, there's no rudder, there's no propulsion, there's no allowance for sales. This thing is not designed for prop for po propose. I'm not speaking in tongues. For propulsion, it is not designed for navigation. It is simply designed to stay afloat. And God is guaranteeing that. He says the water is going to be 15 feet above the highest mountain and allow for that boat, that ark, to float around and not be damaged. Isn't that cool? So, the depth of the flood tells us that this was a universal flood. If the highest mountain is covered with water, it is impossible for it just to be a local flood. You follow what I'm saying? And here's another suggestion, and this is just kind of a recent, as I understand it, just kind of a recent observation. Is there is a lot of creationists, Bible-believing scientists that have been studying the Teutonic plates. I'm using these words to impress you how smart I am. But the plates that make up the surface of the earth, that apparently there's implication that before the flood, there really wasn't very many high mountains. The idea is before the flood is likely that the entire earth was mostly just planes Mostly pretty level, few hills here and there. Obviously, there were some hills and mountains that were at least 15 cubits high. And so before the flood It's very possible you wouldn't have to have water a mile deep, 14,000 feet deep, like we have what's the hot what's ever not ever 17,000 feet? No, 23,000 feet Uh I think it's twenty three thousand feet is the highest mountain. So you don't uh what's that? Uh four point some miles If there wasn't mountain ranges like that before the flood, you wouldn't have to have water that deep. You follow what I'm saying? The mountains were much smaller, yeah, fifteen cubits above it, you you would have the earth covered. So because of the depth of the flood We believe that it would have to be universal. I don't see how else it could be. Let me give you a couple others real quickly. The duration of the flood Genesis 7 verse 24. We're not going to turn these for sake of time. Genesis 7 verse 24. The Bible says it rained for 150 days, the flood waters were rising. Getting higher and higher and higher. 150 dates. Um Chapter 8, verse 4 through 5 says there was another two and a half months that the waters slowly abated. That comes to two and a half months is 30, 30, 60, 15, 75 days. You add that to 150 days, you've got 225 days, you've got two-thirds of a year. That is fantastic to think of a local flood lasting almost a year. That's unheard of. Why would a local flood not last so long? Because it all runs out to the ocean. It's flooding somewhere, it's going somewhere. All rivers lead to the ocean. So if it was a local flood, it was it'd be very unlikely to last that long. In fact, I read one, John Whitcomb I think is who it was suggested that the there was a total of 371 days of water covering the earth. That is unlikely. I think there I I know of no flood in the history of uh recorded history that lasted that long. And so the depth of the flood, the duration of the flood, thirdly, third reason we believe it is universal is for the demand for an ark. Look at chapter 7, verse 3. He says, fows of the air by sevens, the male and female, to keep, to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth. If the flood was just local, why would you need an ark to keep things alive on all the earth? All you'd have to do is what? Go somewhere where it's not flooded. It's really not the idea of spending a hundred and some years, all this effort, building this huge arc to float around in a couple mile area flood is ridiculous. And so the very fact that there was a demand for an art tells us that it was more than just a local flood, it was a universal flood. Number four, the description of the flood. Boy, I wish we had time. We'd go through chapter 6, chapter 7, chapter 8, chap uh into chapter 9, where the terms all, every, everything that had breath, all the earth, everything under heavens. It is like God is going overboard, emphasizing two things. One, all everything that breathed air died. And all the earth was covered with water. I mean, through, when you read through here, I challenge you to take a pen. I did this. And I underscored every time it made reference to all, everything, everything that had breath, everything under the earth, the entire earth I mean it's just, it's almost it's almost overboard on how he repeats that and emphasizes that God, I believe, is making it absolutely clear that if you do not believe that there was a universal flood, then you do not believe the Bible. Because you can't reconcile the two. And the last reason we hold to the fact that this flood was universal. was because of the divine covenant that God made with man. Now I do want you to turn here, chapter 9, and verse 11. Chapter 9 and verse 11. God speaking to Noah. This is after the flood. They're off the ark. They're settled down. God says, I will establish my covenant with you. Neither shall all flesh, now there's that term again, all flesh, neither shall all flesh be cut off anymore by the waters of a flood. Neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth. And God said, this is the token of the covenant which I make between you between me and you and every living creature that is with you for a perpetual for perpetual generations. I do set my bow in the cloud And it shall be for a token of a covenant between you and the earth. Now let me just stop there for a second, just inject this. We'll probably get to it later on in the series. But apparently never before had there been a rainbow You know what that tells us? There was a change taking place in the makeup of the earth and water water and air surrounding the earth. Something changed. Now the sun can shine through water in a sense and produce a rainbow, whereas apparently before that didn't happen. So there's been some change. But anyway, I will set my bow in a cloud. It should be a token covenant between me and the earth. And it shall come to pass when I bring a cloud over the earth that the bow shall be seen in the cloud, and I will remember my covenant which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh, and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy what? all flesh, and the bow shall be in the cloud, and I will look upon it that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth. See what I'm talking about? It's just overboard. All flesh, all flesh, everything. And God makes this covenant This divine promise that it will never flood the earth again. Question. If there was, if he's not referring to a universal flood, then that promise is meaningless. Because there have been hundreds of thousands of local floods since then. And if God promised I will never flood the earth, and to me he uses the term all flesh, all flesh, all flesh, all flesh, all flesh. If God promised never to flood the earth again, and he was simply referring to a local flood, not promise meaningless, but even worse yet, that promise was untrue. And God, either this story did not happen and it's just a myth, or God lied Or the entire earth was flooded just as the Bible says. Those are the only options. You cannot compromise. Let me make this statement. You and I cannot compromise with unbelief. You cannot do it If we compromise with unbelief, it is always the believer that is giving up something. It is never the unbeliever. The compromiser says, alright, I don't believe it's a universal flood. I just believe it was a local flood, but when it boils down, all I'm saying is that person's wrong. Right? It's impossible to compromise with unbelief. So having said all that is where I wanted to lead into my message, but we're not going to do that But this is what I want to leave us with. If this story is true, as we believe it was, and the flood was universal rather than local. Then that tells me we can trust God's word. We can trust it. Nothing in science contradicts what's taught here. Unbelievers' interpretation of it contradicts what the Bible says. But the facts themselves don't. So that tells me if this flood is true, and we have no reason to believe it isn't We can be sure that if God says something is so, then it's so. Now that tells me several things If what God says about the flood is correct and accurate, then that tells me what God says about heaven is also correct and accurate. Right? Then I can reasonably conclude that what God says about hell is correct and accurate That what God says about answered prayer is correct and accurate. Listen If God said the flood was a certain way, and we look and we find out, sure enough, is exactly what God says, then I can say, God says this about prayer. I can trust that. God will answer prayer. God will do what he says. If I meet the conditions, he'll hear me, he'll answer me. I can be sure of that. If this is if what God says is so, then I can be sure God will help me just like he promised Now, I don't know about you, but I need God to help me. And I can come to his word, find him promising it, and I can say, you know, I'm sure God's going to help me. God will help me. I can be sure that the Holy Spirit dwells within me as a believer. Bible says, you say, well, I trusted Christ, I've been saved, preacher, but I don't feel that Holy Spirit. And I was at the doctor and did MRIs and x-rays, and they didn't see anything But if God's word is so, and God says, I have the Holy Spirit, then I can take it by faith, and I can be sure I have the presence of God and the person of the Holy Spirit in me. Follow what I'm saying? It goes across the board. I have uh God will provide for me. If he said the flood is this way, exactly this. And it's exactly the way he said, and God says, I'll provide for you, I'm sure God will provide for me. And if he said this flood is exactly the way it is, and then he says he's coming again I can be sure he's coming again. And the amazing thing is, the more I study this, the more I find Jesus referring back to the flood. as a support for his second coming. Over and over again, the flood is referred to in reference to the second coming of Christ. Second coming of Christ. As it was in the days of Noah, as it was in the days of Noah, just like they weren't ready, one man's taken, another one left, just like that, second coming, second coming, second coming, we can be sure. The Lord's coming back again. This crackpot about picking dates has done more to harm the doctrine of the second coming than those who reject it. I'm telling you. He has made a farce out of it. He has made a fool. He made those who believe it look foolish. Now, don't let that bring doubts to our mind about the second coming. If God said it, it's so. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to trust you. God, we have needs. We have situations. Help us to come to your word. And um Put our hope, our trust, our confidence in the Word of God, all these thousands of years, Lord, your word has never failed. It's not about to now. And so help us to put it all on there. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Some tonight say, Preacher, I've got issues, I've got situations in my life. I really need the Lord's help. I need the Lord's provision. I need the Lord's direction. And you say, preacher, pray with me that I'll just simply by faith take God at His Word. I'm just going to trust Him, I'm just going to obey Him, kind of like what we talked about this morning. His word is so. I can step out in faith, trusting God and doing what He says. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me do that. To simply take him at his word in faith and confidence. Is there any like that? By the uplift hand, God bless you. Many hands around. That is what the Christian life is all about. Walking by faith. God said it, God, I believe that. I trust you. I will obey what you've said. Father, help us bless us as a church and as individuals to hold to your word in Jesus' name. Let's stand again