And yes. And uh so very good. Genesis chapter six, verse number seventeen And we're going to jump right into it tonight. Notice, if you would, what the Bible says. God speaking to Noah says, And behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life from under heaven and everything that is in the earth shall die. Talking about knowing the great flood and this flood of waters began last week. We'll finish up this message tonight. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Thank you, Lord. For blessing us today for a good day. Thank you for the fellowship we've had with your people this evening thus far and the music and uh all the testimonies have been a blessing Lord, we open our hearts now and our minds. We ask that you would apply your word to our lives. God, I ask that you would fill me with your spirit. I present my body anew this hour. I yield my will to yours. Speak through me, Lord. And help us to grow in our understanding of who you are and your power and our responsibilities to you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So we're going to touch on what we've learned so far, at least uh in the previous messages in this message so far. So far we've looked at the fact that mankind has so corrupted themselves that God comes to the point where he regrets that he created man. That's horrific in my mind, that God would get to the point where he says, I wish I had not even created man uh that almost flies in the face of our understanding of God and the fact that later on we find uh that God had originally planned before the creation of man that uh he would give his own son for man's salvation. Nevertheless, it becomes so corrupted, God says, I wish that had never made him. I'm going to destroy him. Which leads us to our second thing that we've noticed is that God, at this point now, has determined to destroy all of the earth. Kill all of mankind with a universal flood. We looked at that last week. Everything in this passage here, everything we know about what's told of us of the flood is a universal flood as opposed to simply a local flood. Some of our more liberal Bible students and whatnot, they try and compromise with the world and whatnot, say, well, it's just a local flood It's very clear God is killing everybody on the whole earth with a universal flood. Then we noted also that if anyone Now get the picture. Here's the setting. God's so disgusted with mankind. He says, I wish I'd never made them. I'm going to destroy every one of them, everything that has breath. I'm going to flood the earth, kill them all, drown them all. Then we find if anyone is going to escape this flood, first of all, it would be by the grace of God. Right? Noah and his family escaped the flood because, and only because they found grace in the eyes of the Lord So it's the grace of God. Everybody deserved to drown and die in that flood. I want to suggest to you, Noah did not deserve to be in that ark any more than anyone else deserved. He was there by the grace of God. Now, that does not necessarily mean he was living as wicked lives, humanly speaking, as others around him. But nevertheless, it was God's grace. God giving him something he did not deserve is uh if anybody's going to be rescued from this flood, it would be by God's grace. By the way, let me throw this out. If anybody escapes hell, it's because of God's grace. Nobody that goes to heaven deserves to be there any more than anyone that went to hell It's simply God's grace. But here's another thought. If anybody's going to survive this flood, first of all, it's going to be by the grace of God. But second of all, if anybody's going to survive this flood Noah is going to have to do exactly what God tells him to do. If Noah doesn't do what God tells him to do, no one's going to survive this flood. There must be an act of obedience on somebody's part if anybody is going to escape this flood. God says, I'm going to build an ark It's the only means of escape. Here's a preached the message, I don't remember the sermon, but I remember the title because I thought it was pretty cool. I preached on the ark and I called it a judgment vehicle of salvation. Or a judgment proof vehicle of salvation. I thought that was a pretty cool title. How many people think that's a pretty cool title? Raise your hand My wife does. That's all that matters. So anyway, if anybody's going to escape this flood, it's going to be the grace of God, and no one's going to have to do exactly what God says Again, let me throw this little application out there. If anybody in Kazakhstan or any other country of the world is going to come to know Christ as Savior, somebody's got to do what God says and take the gospel to them. Somebody's got to do what God says. Somebody's got to send them there. If anybody's going to escape hell, somebody's got to do what God says and give the gospel out. So, number one, it's the grace of God. Number two, if anyone's going to escape this flood, uh they have to do exactly what God said. And number three If anyone's going to escape this flood, we find out that Noah's going to have to work really hard for a long time. Building this arc was not something that he's going to do in his spare time on Saturday afternoons. This would require commitment. If this ark is going to get built and anybody's going to survive the coming flood of judgment, Noah's gonna have to work really, really hard for a very long time. And I want to suggest to you, we have lost or uh missed somehow, that aspect of our responsibility as Christians is we are to God expects us to serve him very diligently for a long time if we're going to win people to Christ and see them escape the judgment of God hell and spend uh the judgment of God and spend eternity in hell It requires a lot of work. You don't win people to Christ in significant numbers by not working hard at it. You don't reach countries with the gospel without working hard at it. You don't reach people in your community and see lies changed, souls saved. families brought to Christ without working hard at it. This idea that somehow a convenience Christianity is going to rescue people from God's judgment, it ain't going to happen that way It requires hard work. And it requires working hard for a long time. Somebody asked this question. I heard a preacher years ago ask this question in a sermon. He said, When's the last time you've been worn out for the gospel? When's the last time at the end of the day you are just wore out? You're shot because you've been working so hard at getting the gospel to lost people all day long When's the last time you worked a sweat up for the gospel? Um Noah did. If anybody's going to escape God's coming judgment on the world, he's going to have to work really, really hard. He's got to get somebody on board with him. His boys on board with them. They've got to work hard. Uh and he has to keep doing it and keep doing it and keep doing it for a hundred some years. And uh by the way, you're not gonna have one little you're not gonna have one little track month campaign and reach the world for God. You've got to do it over again and over again and over again and over again. You don't go into a community like Mount Lake Park and Oakland and various areas, knock on their doors one time and say, well, we've reached this community for Christ No, you've got to go back to it again and again and again and again and again. So if anybody's escaping this horrific flood, man had just sinned so perversely, so corrupted himself, God says, I wish someone made him. I'm going to flood the whole place. Anybody escapes this, it's going to be by God's grace. And somebody's going to have to work hard doing exactly what God told them to do. Where we're at. Now we get to verse 17, which we touched on last week. And I noticed several things here I want to give very, very quickly. And you don't believe that any more than I do, but I do want to. Number one, I notice the sovereignty of God here. Notice the first few words in verse 17 And behold, I even I. Who's speaking here? God speaking Now, why didn't he just say? Do you ever read the Bible and ask yourself questions like that? Why did he do it that way? Why didn't he just do this? Why did he have to say that thing twice? Why didn't God just say, ah? Why didn't he just say I do bring a flood of waters? Why did he say I even I? Well, he's trying to get something across. He wasn't stutter. God, this is a profound thought. Are you ready for this? God doesn't stutter. That's pretty good. That'll preach. So when he says something over again, he's not stuttering. Now listen, we don't have any biases against people that stutter. God bless you if you stutter. But I'm just saying God doesn't. I'm trying to be politically correct. God's not stuttering here. So there's a reason he's saying I, even I. And I'll tell you what I think God is doing here. I think God is making it clear that this flood is not going to simply be some sort of coincidence or some naturally occurring event. God is making it very clear that He's the one in charge here. He's the one calling the shots. This is going to be a result of what He is doing. Throughout Scripture, we see God's sovereignty. Now, what do we mean by God's sovereignty? Now, you may have some definitions come into your mind. I hope so. My definition, very simply, for the sake of time and our messages, simply when we talk about the sovereignty of God, we simply mean that God is in control. God is ultimately the one in control. Now sometimes we uh certain uh elements of our independent Baptists were a little f We're afraid of that word sovereignty because we'll be afraid that we are being misunderstood. We're afraid of Calvinism. And so thus we avoid the sovereignty of God. Listen, we reject all five points of Calvinism. My the all five of them are unscriptural as far as I'm concerned. Calvinism, uh election, God elects some to go to heaven, some to go to hell, that is a distortion of the biblical teaching of the sovereignty of God. It is taking it to an extreme. It is distorting it, taking it out of the context and limitations of Scripture. So when we talk about the sovereignty of God, We mean God is in control. That does not mean that man does not have a free will. In fact, I'm going to suggest to you the fact that God in his sovereignty has given us a free will, brings more glory to God than if somehow he couldn't handle us having a free will Does that make any sense? Does anybody have any clue what I'm talking about at all? Good. So I see here, all through scripture, we see that the sovereignty of God. And that's a good thing. I'm glad God is in control. Aren't you? It would be scary to me if God wasn't in control Like the lady out in Indianapolis knocked her door, she came to the door, I told her who I was, witnessing soul winning, and she gave me a testimony of Sabbath believe the lady was safe. She was in a different denomination. She began crying Pastor Dennis, I didn't know her. I introduced myself. She's just bawling. And I said, I'm sorry, what's the matter? She goes, my young my youngest son died of cancer a year ago. He was like 20. She said, my oldest son just last week was diagnosed with the same cancer that killed my youngest son. And they gave him whatever amount of time to live. Actually I'm crying across and I'm sorry I'll pray for you. I said we can trust God. You know, God's allowing this. We can uh God can bring you through. I tried to encourage her a little bit and give her some reassurance from Scripture And then she made this statement. She goes, I talked to my pastor about this, and she told me the name of the church where her pastor was. And he said, and at this point she begins crying almost uncontrollably She said, He told me that it's just Satan on planet Earth just wreaking havoc, and uh Satan is just doing all of this. And she began crying, and she said, I'm so scared. Listen, we know there is a real, very real being called Satan, and he's alive and well on planet Earth But I'm saying to you, he can't touch a person without God giving him permission. God is ultimately in control. And I assured her, I said, ma'am, I don't know what role Satan may have in your boys having cancer, but I do know this. He can't do anything without God allowing it to take place And if God allowed it to take place, therefore some good can possibly come out of this. Let's trust God, have faith in God, and see what He will do What I'm trying to say is this. I, even I, God said, have allowed this flood. This isn't something out of Control. This isn't just some natural disaster. I am doing this deliberately and on purpose. I am in total control here. And that brings great encouragement to my heart. That God is sovereign. That God is controlled. Nothing is going to come into my life. Doesn't necessarily mean God wants it to come into my life, that it's His will necessarily, but He does allow it. And if he allows it, then he is in his sovereignty can bring some good out of that. You follow what I'm saying? And I don't see, I see that I don't see anything clearer in Scripture. I don't see the sovereignty of God any clearer way in Scripture than when it comes to the matter of weather. I want to challenge you, and I've done this kind of paid attention over the years, to weather in the Bible Storms, rain, all that. And you know what I found? Without exception, without exception, God is the one calling the shots behind the weather. Without exception. He says, I send the rain. He says, I send drought. I send floods. I withhold the rain. I send storms. I flood the earth. I dry the flood up. Now somebody says, Oh, Brother Leatherman, you haven't read Job chapter 1, where Satan shows up and Satan sent these storms and flattened all of Job's property. killed a bunch of his kids in the one situation and Satan sent them swords. Uh hold it. You didn't read that chapter very carefully. God is the one that gave Satan permission to do that in the first place. So when I look at weather and I read in the Bible weather, my heart is encouraged. God in heaven is in control of the weather. Now the thought that comes to my mind is, what in the world do we do to deserve all the snow God's sending to us? I mean, why doesn't Baltimore get it? They're more wicked than us, surely But the sovereignty of God, wind, snow, rain, sun, drought, cold, heat is all under God's control. God could have destroyed, God could have said Alright, I'm disgusted with mankind. I wish that had never made them. I'm gonna destroy them all. I'm gonna send pestilence. I'm gonna send locusts and they're gonna eat mankind alive. He could have said, I'm going to burn the whole place up. He could have sent an angel and slaughtered all mankind, as he did other uh instances in scripture, where one angel, I tell you, angels Don't mess with angels. He could have sent one angel and slaughtered all mankind. But God in his sovereignty Is in total control of this planet, is in total control of the weather that takes place on this planet And God in His sovereignty said, I'm going to flood the earth. I, even I. It's not just some coincidence, not just some naturally evolutionary occurring thing. I'm in control. I'm making this happen. I want you to understand that. I like what Matthew Henry said, talking about God flooding the earth and other options he may have had. Matthew Henry put it this way: God has many arrows in his quiver. And he may use that which pleases him the best. In other words, God can use a lot of different things to get our attention. And God uses that which he knows is best to accomplish his will against us. Let's not question God. Um let's uh let's bring this home and apply it. How many of us have ever complained about the weather? You get before God says, so you didn't like it, huh? So number one, I see the sovereignty of God. Second of all, in this verse here in chapter 6, verse 17, I see the certainty of the flood. Now we've discussed this pretty definitely, but you read this verse, you read this whole passage here, and you find there's no room for doubt here. This flood's going to happen. I mean, it's clear. It's going to happen. There is nothing. There is nothing The devil in hell. There is nothing, the greatest king ruling on the planet. There is nothing Anybody can do to stop this. God has decreed this flood is going to happen. The certainty of it. Sometimes God will sometimes God will warn of possibilities God will say something like, He won't say, you know, this is absolutely going to happen, but he'll say something like, you know, if you do this You better be careful, you may this may end up happening to you. There's sometimes in the scripture will approach it that way. Or if you don't do this Beware, you know, you better watch out. There could be bad consequences. So there's sometimes God warns us of potential consequences But there are some things that God says are going to happen. It doesn't matter what we do. There are some things God has put in place. God has decreed are going to take place. We have no say in a matter. There's nothing anybody in the world can do to stop it. And the flood was one of those. God told, no, it's going to happen. You all can vote all you want. You can try and stop using gasoline motors and stop global warming. You can do whatever you want. This flood's coming. There's nothing you can do to stop it. There are a few other things in Scripture God has said are certain. He has decreed that they are going to happen. Nobody in the world can stop it. One of those things is the second coming of Christ. Jesus is coming back again. The United Nations can do nothing about it Uh the the liberal theologians and all our uh liberal uh uh seminaries can deny it and mock it and make fun of it. You can get crackpots like the guy out in California and come up with ridiculous statements about it to make it look stupid, but the fact of the matter is it is decreed we can't stop it. Jesus is coming again God has decreed, as we're looking at Sunday school, there is coming judgment. We can't stop that. There's nothing you and I can do to avoid facing God at the judgment. Now, as believers, we are going to face them at the judgment seat of Christ That is decreed. You can do whatever you want. You can run. You can run. But you can't hide. You can deny it. You can put it out of your mind. Say, I'm not going to listen when he's talking about that. But it's going to happen. We are going to stand before God as believers at the judgment seat of Christ. Just as sure as that flood was coming, just as sure as Jesus coming back again, we're going to stand there, give an account. Unbelievers are going to stand before the great white throne. There's nothing they can do to escape it So we have the sovereignty of God in this flood. God's the one making this happen. We have the certainty of the flood. Then we have the severity of God's judgment. Look at verse 17 again He says, I do bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh. Therein is the breath of life from under heaven. And everything that is in the earth shall die. All. Everything. Now we looked at this in detail last week. This judgment is going to be devastating. It is worldwide. Nothing like it had happened up to this point. Nothing in man's history to this point had happened like the Great Flood. Nothing like the Great Flood has happened since that time either. This is devastating. This thing is colossal. This thing is this thing is almost beyond our ability to grasp. What God is about to do from His perspective, from Noah's perspective, and what God has done from our perspective. It is unimaginable. The severity Of God's judgment. I want to suggest that now you might take issue with this, and that's right, that's all right. If I agree with you, we'd both be wrong. But um I like that saying that. Anybody notice? Um but uh I want to suggest to you the devastation of the flood I believe surpasses even the devastation perhaps that will take place in the tribulation period. How many people come out alive at the end of the tribulation period? I suggest more than eight. Only eight people came out of the flood alive. You say, well, uh there's more people. We don't know. There could have been billions of people back then We don't understand this flood, the significance of it, the severity of it. And this is the point I want to make here. The wrath of God is not to be trifled with. Huh, the word of God is not to be ignored When God brings judgment, it is severe. I believe That there are going to be a lot of preachers, so-called, and pastors that are going to stand before God and give an account because they either ignored or downplayed the judgment of God. And that is a horrific mistake. You can't hardly read five pages in your Bible and not come across God's severity, God's judgment on sin on one form or another. It is severe. We must not play with this. I put it this way: we toy with the things of God to our own destruction. God is not to be taken lightly. God's word is not to be taken lightly. He takes things seriously. To the point where he here destroys the entire world. I think we're all aware of the fact that God has even Given severe instructions about the use of his name. Huh? Boy, I hear Jesus' name, I hear God's name bantered about in ways sometimes just makes me cringe. I hear Christians using God's name in ways, sometimes I think, hey, are you paying attention to what you're saying? The severity of this judgment ought to give us pause. Mmm, this is God God loves us. God is tender. He's merciful. He is patient. Let's not forget, God is holy. And he's not to be messed with. And so we have the severity of God's judgment here. Then, last of all, I notice the simplicity of Noah's faith. Now if you would, we've got to go back to the New Testament book of Hebrews. Would you come back there real quickly with me? And this is my last thought. 39 subthoughts under this thought, but this is the last thought. Look at Hebrews chapter 11, verse 7. We got a little insight into Noah's response to what God's telling them here. The simplicity of Noah's faith. Look at Hebrews chapter eleven, come down to verse seven. First two words, what? By faith, Noah. Aha By faith, Noah being warned of God, now look at this next phrase, of things not seen as yet Questioned God and argued with him and got tried to get God to explain to him exactly what this was all about Is that what it says? No. The new Schofield might say that, but the old Schofield. What how did Noah respond? He's with fear. Do you ever see a parody of Noah? Did you ever hear? I think years ago when I was young, Bill Cosby had a parody of this event. And it is borderline blasphemous, but it was very popular. And a lot of times the parody of Noah being approached by God about building a flood goes something to the effect where Noah is dumbfounded. And he's just like, what in the world are you talking about? Are you crazy? I don't And you kind of get this idea that there's a little banter going back and forth. And you can use your imagination and you could develop a very comical situation there and that taking place. The only problem with that, it's not scriptural Now, God, Hebrews chapter 11, verse 7 here tells us that God told Noah of something, and there's a little phrase there that's very significant, of things not seen as yet. In other words, there were no physical indicators that what God told Noah was going to happen was actually going to happen. There was nothing about the world or the circumstances or anything that indicated anything like a flood Not only that anything like a flood was going to happen, there was no indicators that anything like a flood was even possible to happen. If you will remember, and we touched on this earlier, up to this point there had been no rain. If you remember, up to this point, Noah was very post. It's very possible, I'm getting ahead. We're going to look at this later on in the series. Uh after we do our King James series, we're going to come back to this. But um uh we're gonna notice it's a very real possibility that all the continents We're all together just one gigantic continent. I want to spark your thinking a little bit in anticipation of future messages. Sometime get you a world map out and look at the continents. If you look at them carefully, they all fit together like a puzzle. If you pull them all together, they all fit right together It's a very real possibility that before the flood there was one continent on the earth. And that the flood's upheaval and the cataclysmic changes split the continents apart, the Teutonic plates moved, and uh it's really impressive. There's fancy words I use, stuff like that. Pat told that to me. And um and y y uh it's very possible those things took place. And uh but at the point though this is what I'm trying to say When God first approached Noah about flooding the earth and destroying the world with a gigantic flood, there was nothing to indicate that that was even possible But nowhere do we find Noah saying to God, God, that's impossible. What are you talking about? There's no way, God, that's ridiculous. You don't find that at all. All you find in Scripture is Noah, yes, sir. Okay, build an art. Yes, sir. No doubts, no questions, no hesitation. He simply listens to what God says, believes it, and does what God tells him to do. That is the simplicity of the Christian life. Just listening to what God tells us. Believing that what God said is so, and then doing it. There's nothing complicated about the life of faith. There's nothing complex about Christianity. It's just doing what Noah did God says something so. Doesn't matter if it looks like it's possible or not. God said it so. I believe that. I'm going to do what he tells me to do. God touches a heart. I want you to be a preacher of the gospel. God touches a life. I want you to be somebody to go to a foreign country and Take the Word of God and establish churches there. God touches another heart. I want you to uh be a translator and translate the scriptures into languages that don't have the Word of God. And somebody says, God, that's ridiculous. Look at me. I could never do that. God, you've got to be kidding. Me preach the gospel. There's nothing here to show that that would even be possible, that would even make sense. That's not faith. Faith says, all right, God, that's what you say I should be doing. I believe what you're saying. Tell me what to do. That's faith. Simple faith. You know, it's not complicated, and I may be oversimplifying things here a little bit, but it's really not complicated having a church that pleases God. It's just saying, all right, God, what do you want us to do as a church? We believe that we're going to do it. God says, I want you to adopt the country and give everything crazy Give as much money as you can, work as hard as you can and get the gospel, get some churches planned in that country. All right, God, if that's what you want us to do, we'll do it. Show us what to do. I mean outwardly it looks ridiculous. That is that is as ridiculous as God flooding the earth in Noah's day, right? But nevertheless, we trust God. We believe there's nothing complex about being a church that God wants us to be God says, go into all the world and preach the gospel. Dear friends, tell your friends what great things the Lord's done for thee. Don't be like the world. Don't act like the world. Don't adopt the world's values. Don't follow the world's fashions if it violates Scripture. Just follow my principles. Alright. That's what you say, that's what we're going to do. We believe you. The simplicity of Noah's faith. There's nothing complicated about being a good Christian. Just believe God and do what he says. We can talk about faith, we can sing about faith. We can study faith. We can write about faith. But if we're not obeying God, we're not living by faith I can tell you right now, God's not going to tell you to build an orc. But God has told us a whole bunch of things. That we ought to be doing. He's given us a whole bunch of things we ought not to be doing. Now, if I want to live by faith, if I want to live a life that's pleasing to God, I just say, just like Noah, I don't see this, Lord, but this is what you say. You're God. You're right. I believe that. I'll do exactly what you say. And if we do that, we'll be good Christians. Right? It's easy. All Noah to do is just build the Ark Noah. Just do what God said. Well, you know what was moved by faith. He was moved with fear. He believed what God said and built the ark. Now, what does God want you to do? What does God want me to do? He's given us some general principles here, some very specific things, but also in our individual lives. What does God want me to do? Believe Him and obey Him. That's all there is to it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. To not lose the simplicity of it. This is horrific things taking place and You just gave Noah very simple instructions. You told him what you were going to do and you told him what he was supposed to do and all he had to do was just believe you and do what he said. Lord, that's all we need to do. God, I want to give myself as pastor anew after this message. Lord, we believe your word. You tell me how to lead this church and how to pass this church, Lord, I do my best to do exactly what you say. And I pray, Lord, you'd help us as individual believers and husbands and wives and children and Sunday school teachers and church members. Help us to be the soul winners. Help us to be separated from the world. Help us to be Just do what you say. Believe you. Just do what you say. Our heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Between you and God and this pastor. You say, preacher, there is something very specific God's dealing with my heart about. I know he's wanting me to do that. I mean it's between you and God, but it's clear as a bell in your mind what God's leading you to do. Maybe he's been working on your heart for a long time, maybe it's He's just now introducing it to you. Say, preacher, God is working on my heart about a job he has for me for the cause of Christ. About a role I play, a part I have in this, getting the gospel in all the world. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I want to believe God and I want to obey Him Is there any like that? Uplifted hand, preacher. God deal with my heart very specifically. And I know what he wants me to do. I've been dealing with that. It's clear in my mind. And uh I want to obey the Lord I want to trust some of them. How about it? Any hands raised? God dealing with your heart? Any at all? God bless you. How about it? Any others? God's dealing with my heart about this matter of Serium. Now I'm not necessarily talking about Christian service or Become an evangelist or anything like that. I'm talking about soul winning. I'm talking about working a bus route. Uh getting involved in the choir, giving the faith promise. God's been dealing with your heart, dealing with your heart. Man, we make it so complicated. All we gotta do is just say, all right, Lord, I trust you. I'll do what you say. How about it? Any others? Somebody God deal with your heart about soul winning. How about that? About your witness. God bless you. God bless you. I just have a hard time believing that God's not dealing with more hearts about things. God deals with my heart. So, Father, we want you to have your way. We just want to trust you and obey you. Lead us and direct us on a daily basis through our Bible reading and our daily devotions. And let your will be done in our lives in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads about eyes are closed.