Second Kings chapter six, and we are looking at a floating iron. We started this. Oh, a week or so ago. I guess it was last week. We're gonna take our time to go down through here. There's so many things in this event that we can apply to our lives. Look at verse 1 of 2 Kings chapter 6. And the sons of the prophet said unto Elisha, Behold now the place where we dwell with thee is too straight for us. Let us go, we pray thee unto Jordan, and there take thence every man a bean, and let us make us a place there where we may dwell. And he answered, Go ye And one of them said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servants. And he answered, I will go. And he went with them, and when they came to Jordan, they cut down wood. But as one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water, and he cried and said, Alas, master, for it was borrowed. And the man of God said, Where fell it? And he showed him the place And he cut down a stick and cast it in thither, and the iron did swim. Therefore said he, Take it up to thee, and he put out his hand and took it A swimming iron. Let's pray. And uh we'll pull a few things out of this here this evening. Father in heaven, we ask now that you would bless our study of word. I'm grateful for the music, the testimonies, the expressions. of appreciation one for another. Bless my heart. Lord, we thank you for the history of the hymns and uh oh what these hymns mean to us And the people you use to uh produce them. Now, Lord, as we look in your word, help us to grow in our faith. I pray that uh our love for you and commitment to you would be stronger than it's ever been before. And Lord, I pray that you would please take me and fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I yield myself to you and I present my body anew I pray your will be done in each of our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We pointed out last week, by way of introduction, there's two things that are very, very important for every Christian to understand. One of them is this, that is the assurance of our salvation. We need to have that matter settled. We cannot have real peace. We cannot face the trials of life. If we do not have that settled, if there's always a nagging doubt in the back of our mind whether we're saved or not, it's going to be a real burden on us as And the other thing is that we need to have clearly established our mind, and that is the continual presence of God. We need to know that we are in the presence of God every moment and that we're in His will. Now, if you remember, we pointed out last week that the sons of the prophets were concerned about the presence of God's prophet. In the Old Testament, at this point in time, they did not have a complete Bible. And so the man of God, the prophet Played a very, very important role, and in many ways, he played, he was to the people the word of God. They would come to him often to find what God had. He would So he was, not literally and not across the board, but in many ways, he was to the people of Israel what the word of God is to you. And so the sons of the prophets were very concerned that the prophet go with them when they went to this other place. But we pointed out last week that the sons of the prophets were aware of their situation. They looked around and the place where they were, the Bible term is was too straight. Now we understand that means it was too small. The little school that Elisha was teaching in in that area was growing. There was more young men being called to preach. They were coming in to be trained under Elisha, and they didn't have room in the facilities they had. And here's the thing, they became aware of that. And they adapted to their needs And I tell you, sometimes I think churches in particular, many times we have more business marts in our businesses and our personal situations than we do in the church. And just kind of go on in the church and not pay attention to what your circumstances are, what the situation is, and don't adapt to that situation. I am not talking about compromise. I am not talking about uh laying aside Standards or anything like that. Those things should never change, regardless of circumstances. Sometimes facility-wise, sometimes uh material-wise, financial-wise, Now in their circumstances Yes, they were growing. They needed more room. Somebody could have said, Well, he ain't never had a bigger facility than this, and we don't think he should build another one. It's like the one church got in a big fuss. Preacher said, I think no Oh, they've got to get one, first of all. Nobody knows how to spell it, and second of all, nobody knows how to play one. And so, you don't know what they're talking about. So the sons of the prophets were aware of their situation, their circumstance, they didn't just let things go on. If there was something, situation need to be dealt with, they dealt with it. And I admire him for that. Then the second thing we pointed out, they sought the Lord before they acted. They went to the man of God, verse 1 and 2. They went to him and said, Hey, the place is too straight. We ought to go down there and build us a place down by Jordan and build a place, a bigger place. But they checked with the prophet first. Now, the Bible teaches that it is wise to get counsel. The ultimate counselor in life is the Lord Jesus Christ. And before we ever make a decision, Particularly in the large areas of life, we ought to always seek the Lord. Um if we are going to, and we gave a few Instances last week. In marriage, I ought to never marry someone because I love them. That ought not to be the reason I marry them. I ought to marry someone because it's God's will. For me to marry them. Now I need I ought to love them. Amen. Are you with me? Uh yo have already struck This last week, so it's okay. Uh you say, well, you shouldn't love the person married. No, you you ought to love them, but that's not the sole reason. Alright? Everybody, okay? Do I need to Explain this more? Yeah, you alright? Y'all say, I'm right already, get on with it. Um my wife said, You over explain things. That's a because I'm trying to figure out what I'm talking about. Uh so uh we need to seek the Lord before we marry, uh uh before we move, change our vocation. Can I offer a few other suggestions? I think before you buy a house. Huh? That is a major, that is a major effect in your life. Making commitment for 30, whatever years, where you're going to live, where you're going to train your raise your children. You ought to really seek the Lord about that And say, just wait on God and let God lead you and direct you. Can I go so far as to suggest you ought to seek the Lord? Maybe in buying a car. Ask the Lord to lead you and direct you to a good deal, a good vehicle. I mean it's like gambling sometimes you go out there and buy a car, especially if you get up there running Connie's deal, you know you no, I'm kidding. We bought a lot of cars today. But uh But anyway, you follow what I'm saying. We need to seek the Lord. And we need to bring it down even smaller and smaller. Now, I don't think you need to go to Walmart and stand over the two-paced Lord. All right. But we ought to seek the Lord before we make a decision. And then third thing we noted last week, the sons of the prophets were concerned for the presence of Elisha. And we mentioned that. God has to be in what we're doing. God has to be in. We have got to get God in. We can have the greatest programs. We can have the greatest facilities. You can have the greatest creatures In the country come through, but if God admitting, it's really not going to have much of an effect. And we need God in it. We need God in raising our young people. We need God in, hey, our wild game bear, I'm so excited about this. This thing has come together, God, but I'm telling you. I'm praying every day. Lord, we need your presence there. We need the power of God there to see souls saved and life saved. I do not want this just to be a party. We wanted to be the presence of God of people coming under conviction, turning to Christ and having their lives changed. Amen? So we need the presence of their liv Now we get to the second point. I'm going to go through this very, very quickly. We notice the passion. First was they were concerned for the presence of the prophet of God. Now we notice the passion of the sons of the prophets. Look at verse 4. It says, so he went with them. Now look at this next phrase. And when they came to Jordan, they cut down wood. First thing I noticed under their passion for what they were doing was, once they determined God's will, they got right to work. They said, this place is too small. Elijah, we think we'd go down to Jordan and cut trees, lumber, and build a place there. Is that okay with you? He says, yep, that's good. Go ahead. They said, we want you to come with us. All right, I'll go with you. They got down there and they didn't sit around for a while. They got right to it. And he began cutting wood. And here's the point I take from that. There's a time for waiting, and there's a time for working. And once we determine what God's will is, then we need to get after it. Once God gives us clear direction, Once God makes it, assures us in our hearts what He has for us to do, then we need to get about it. They didn't go down there and sit around the trees and say, you know, we're just going to trust God to provide us with a nice building here. Faith. See if you agree with this. We are saved by faith You agree with that? Amen. I put this: we are saved and we live by faith. But Genuine faith inevitably produces works. Humble, grateful service. We do not work for God to be saved. But we work for God because we are saved. And these guys went down there And they were trusting God, they sought the Lord, but there came a time to just get after it. And listen, if we have genuine faith in God It will at some point produce service for God in our lives. God will chasten us. God will work in our hearts. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, preaching. I love it. And I'll tell you, there's good parts of bad part. I love it when I'm preaching. And you kind of sense somebody's getting under conviction. You know, and the Lord's deal. It's like night. And uh the bad part is when that's you while you're preaching. But the fact of the matter is, if we're genuinely saved and we know the Lord is Savior, the Spirit of God is going to stir in our hearts the impulse To serve the Lord. I am very much concerned about someone who claims to be saved, yet never does anything for God. That bothers me. There's something wrong there. I'm not going to say they're not saved, but faith produces works. Keep your place here, and I'm going through this quickly. Come with me, if you would, to the New Testament book of James. Very much misunderstood. I think I've been to this passage just recently in a message, but I want to look at it again. James chapter 2, if you would. One thing, uh Says love the brother Charlie. One thing I appreciate about Brother Charlie, you can always make sure I got a glass of water up here, and that is a blessing to me. James chapter, other than that, he irritates me, but that's one thing I like about him. I couldn't just say anything nice, could I? Look at verse 14 of James chapter 2. What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith and have not works? Can faith save him? Now, yes, faith can save him. But he doesn't have much of a testimony of his faith. Follow what I'm saying? Look what he says. If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of doubt feed, one of you say unto them, Depart in peace and be ye warm. And fill, notwithstanding, give you that not those things which are needful to the body, what does that profit? What doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, I have works. Here's the point. Show me thy faith without thy works. And the implication there is what? You can't do that. I can say I have faith all I want, but if my life, if there's no words there, there's no testimony of faith. I can't show you my faith. I can't prove to you by faith if I don't have words. But I will show thee my faith by my works. Thou believest there's one God, thou doest well, devils believe also in trouble. But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? What is he saying here? If I have genuine faith in God, if I trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior, and I am living by faith, that will be evident by my words. That will be faith will produce service to God in one way or another. And these these sons of the prophets get down to Jericho to uh Jordan. And they got all this wood there, and they didn't just say, well, you know, we're just going to trust God that He's going to put a building together here for us and uh God will do all of that because we don't believe in works, we believe in faith. No, I suggest to you their faith in God got them to cut the trees down. They trusted God was blessing, and they trusted God had provided those trees so they could build a building big enough to house everything And they got right to work. They were passionate about their thing. They were the once they determined God's will, they got to work. Now, go over to Mark chapter eleven. Now some of you Bible scholars are going to challenge me on this, and that's okay. I'm not going to defend what I'm going to say here, but I do want to throw something out to give you something to chew on. Alright? Mark chapter 11. This has been my life verse for many years, verse 22. But I'm going to look at verse 23 Now again, I really can't defend what I'm going to say here, but I do want you to think about it. Alright? Mark chapter 11, verse 22. Jesus answering saith unto them, have faith in God. Alright? Now look at verse 23. For verily I say unto you, that whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed. And be thou cast in the sea, and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he has saith shall come to pass, he shall have whatsoever he saith. Now, again, I'm just thinking. Alright, so bear with me. If you disagree with me, you can probably come and prove me wrong, that's fine. But I just want you to think about it. About something. If the Lord say that if you have a mountain, or if you've got a school facility That needs to be built, or a mountain that needs to be moved, or an incredible bill that has to be paid, or a community That needs to be reached with the gospel, or a country that desperately needs someone to go to it. Is the Lord saying, just sit back Do nothing and say to that mountain, be moved, and I believe with all my heart that mountain will be moved, and the mountain will move itself. Is he saying if you just need a school facility and you just sit back and you say school facility be now built, and I don't do anything, I just believe that it's going to happen is it's going to happen. magically going to happen. Is by my bill, just believing and saying to it, poof, my bill's going to be paid. My community's going to be reached. That name is going to have a possible witness. Is that what the Lord is saying? Now, again, I'm just thinking But I wonder if implied in this passage isn't, you know, God is able To move that mountain. I believe it is possible. And I'm going to get up there and I'm going to start digging and I'm going to start blasting, and I believe God can use me to move that mountain. There's a school facility that needs to be built. We're going to touch by faith, touch God, he's going to provide that school facility And they get down there and they start packing trees down and saw them and barking them and splitting them and getting them ready. And uh somebody says, I thought you were trusting God. We are trusting God. Kitty, without works is dead. And their faith is what motivated them to do the work. Somebody says, Man, I got this unexpected hospital bill or whatever it may be. And uh man I I I I need God I need a miracle. God I need you to pay that. So I'm gonna sit at home and flip the the rate the um remote uh notice Tom knew that right that And uh God's gonna I just believe God's gonna meet that need. Is that what the God is that what God teaches us? Or is it out there, I'm trying to find a job, I'm sleeping so Whatever I can, trusting God to help me provide me that need. You follow what I'm saying? And so these guys determined that it was God's will that that building needed to be built. And you know what they did? Once they determined that building need to be built, they got to work. And they went down there and did. Listen. Well, I'm getting a little ahead of myself. Um I'm preaching a lot faster than what you realize. God has made clear to us what we as a church are to do. Now, do we just sit back and say, all right, we're saying to this mountain of responsibility, God has given us Be thou moved, cast in the sea, and we're just going to sit back, and somehow our responsibility is miraculously going to be met? No We trust God, we believe in God, and that produces works. And we get out after it. I think our responsibility, I think what God has told, I'm talking about Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. You know the Mount Lake idea the better about this church is point yourself thus all of us God has told us what we're supposed to two. He's made it clear. We are to glorify the Lord Jesus Christ in everything we do. Number two, we are to do everything we should possibly. To give the gospel to every lost person in the world. We are to train those who trust Christ for the teaching. Give out and teach and preach the word of God. Now that's what God has told us to do. So do we sit in a few And say, well, amen, that's what we're supposed to do. We trust God and we believe it's going to happen. If those sons of the prophets would have done that, that building never been built God told them what they were what needed to be done. Do you know what they did? They went down there and God doing it. God worked it. I believe it all my heart. This is what I'm going to touch on a moment, but I believe with all my heart God has opened the door for this radio station for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church I think, and we talked to the men, the leadership, we believe, Nor Bark, he talked about it in me a number of times, we believe that this is God leading us and directing us to association. Now I'll be very frank with you, it scares me to death. To be honest with you, great our leader scare death for Motorists. But I'm telling you, I have no doubt. That means we gotta get about it. And we're waiting on the Lord out, but time comes. I do it all my heart. God has directed our church to focus on causing sin as a nation to reach for the gospel. So what do we do? We sit up here, say, amen, praise the Lord. Somehow, miraculously, God's just gonna somehow Christianize that country? No, we've got to get after it. God shows us what we did. Say, well, what are we supposed to do? Well, we've got to pray, we make efforts to get there, we're trying to translate scripture, we try and get missionaries there. And so there must be work about it. Now I don't know where you're at in your personal relationship with the Lord, but I trust that God is revealing Himself to you and directing you in your life. And when God directs you, say, this is what I would have for you to do, then we need to, once that's determined, we need to get up and be about it. Amen? We need to be involved, we need to be after that thing. Second of all, each individual had a role to play. Come back here real quickly with me and unwind it down, believe it or not. Look at verse 2 of 2 Kings chapter 6. Let us go, we pray the Uncle Jordan. Look at his next phrase. Are you there? Everybody with me? We pray the uh let us go, we pray the Uncle Jordan, and take this, look at this, I underlined his next four words. Every man a beam. And let us make us a place there where we may dwell. Every individual had a role to play. Everybody that was a part of that body, so to speak, of the student body, everybody was a part, went down there And everybody took a beam of wood. Everybody helped carry the burden. Everybody was involved in the building of the new school facility, man. That was clearly God's direction for them, and they immediately got to it, and everyone had a part to play. Every member of the body of Christ, every member of a local church. Every member of a local church has a role to play in that church's responsibility before God. Say, well, I'm just a a lowly member of the church. Listen, you may maybe you're a lowly member of the church, but you're part of the body. You've got a role to play in this thing. You have a responsibility in all of this. Now we could go down a list of things. I'm talking to young and old. Church is not just to be carried, the burden of the church is not just to be carried for the folks 30 and over It's for all. Everybody has a role. Everybody's to be a witness. Everybody's to be a testimony. Everybody is to get to have a part in getting the gospel out. That's what God has told us to do. And so each man was to do his part. There was an important job to be done. There's a story about four people. One guy's name was everybody, another guy's name was somebody, the third guy's name was anybody, and the fourth guy's name was nobody. There was a job to be done, and everybody was sure that somebody would do it. Anybody could have done it, but nobody did it. Somebody got angry about that because it was everybody's job. But everybody thought that anybody could do it, but nobody realized that everybody wouldn't do it. It ended up that everybody blamed somebody when nobody did what anybody could have done. Boy, isn't that the truth? Everybody has a role. All of us. All of us are to give out gospel tracts. You say, you don't think everybody you don't think every member of the church is supposed to come out to soul winning, do you? Yeah, there's nothing wrong with that. You say you mean everybody's supposed to come to Wednesday prayer meeting? The whole church pray? Uh yeah. They go down there, you're not expecting all of us to carry those logs, are you? Yeah. Everybody take a bee. Everybody carry their you don't expect everybody to give their tithe. Yeah, I do. You don't expect everybody to be involved in faith promise. Has God told us to do that or not? Yeah. You don't expect everybody to have a testimony and be separate from the world, personal separation from the sins of the world? Yeah, we are. Everybody take a beam. God's intention is for every member of the church to diligently do their part for the success of the gospel. Reminds me of Nehemiah building the wall. Every man had his little portion of the wall. And the Bible says the people had a mind to work. And everybody got involved. And that wall was rebuilt in record time. Just imagine. Just imagine what we could do if every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church gave their tithe. We won't be in financial straits. We could probably rent an apartment in Kazakhstan and go back and forth. Hey, that's a great idea. I just thought of that That is a good idea. First of all, they had a passion. They determined what God's will was, they got about it Second of all, every individual was involved. Thirdly, they did look to government or outside agencies to do what they could do. They didn't go down there and call, excuse me, Cindy, they didn't call housing department and say, y'all come on down and build this house for us? No, they could do it. So they did themselves. I'm real concerned. I know this isn't popular preaching anymore, but years ago it used to be. But I'll be honest with you, I'm very concerned about how dependent we are becoming on the government. Man, if the government agency shuts down, I don't have nothing to eat. That's not good. But yeah, we are becoming a nation of servants. The more dependent I am on someone, the more that person controls me. Now don't misunderstand, there's a place for government and there's a place for agencies. And I'll be honest with you, I don't think it's always wrong to hire someone to come in and maybe do some work for us. You follow what I'm saying? Sometimes it's a better deal. Sometimes you can get a better quality. You know, for instance, building this barn. We debated whether to try and do it ourselves. Bring someone in. We felt like warranties and whatnot. They have the facilities. They could do it a lot better we could and we'd finance it rather than trying to ourselves. But I am saying this. There's a danger in always running and depending on somebody else doing for me. what many times I can and should do for myself. And so they didn't go to the gov by the way, the government was corrupt at this time. Jehoram was the king. Good grief. And want him helping them build this thing. Last of all, number four, they were content with what was available. They went down there. These weren't cedar trees. These were just your everyday, whatever kind of trees they were. And they were fine with that. Here's my point. They were content with what God had provided them with. I can imagine maybe if it was a modern day, some of those students would have said Well, you know what I think? I think there ought to be marble floors in this place. I think the ceilings ought to be made of cedar I think we ought to have mahogany in the in the bathrooms and the cabinets ought to be mahogany veneer. You know what? They were content with what God had provided them. Now I think we ought to make the best of what we have, but I believe we ought to be content with what we have. Amen? They'll be content. God provided them with this lumber, and they said, Praise the Lord, we're gonna make the best of this lumber we can. But we're not going to be dissatisfied and we're not going to always whine and complain for something else that we don't have. We're going to live within and rejoice within our means God has clearly directed Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church what needs to be done. Just like those sons of the prophets determined they needed to build a new facility. God has made clear to us that we are to reach our community with for the Lord Jesus Christ. My desire is that before I, as pastors, stand before the Lord Jesus Christ give an account, and for us, our sake as a church, my desire is that every person living within Garrett County would at least one time in their life hear the gospel from a member of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Whether it's gospel track form, whether it's Acts 1631 on their door, whether it's tuning into the radio station. But we would reach our community, every single member, with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the job God has given us. Now I'll be honest with you, Elisha could not have built that building by himself. And the pastor Dennis Leatherman cannot fulfill the responsibility God has given our church by myself. I give you my word, I give myself to it. I'm out there knocking on doors, I'm out there trying, but I'm telling you, it takes everybody. God has given us responsibility. He's given us Acts 1631. He's given us trap month coming up in just a few short weeks. He's given us the radio station we can all have a part in supporting. He has given us buses to run throughout the community to bring children and people into the gospel. He has given us, and we must be about what the Lord has given us to do. He's given us the nation of Kazakhstan. God, I've never seen anything, Brother Brian, where God has burdened the heart of a church like God has our heart for that country. And it's not just me, it's people coming up to me all the time saying, hey, I saw this, here's something about Cosmic. And it has gripped, God has gripped our hearts with that country. Am I right or wrong? Now, God's direct us. We all have a part in that. We need to pray and do what we can. World missions, training, discipling believers. I'm so excited there's some young couples that have trusted Christ within the last year that are growing. You know what? Our church needs to take them in, put their arms around them, say You're part of this family. I want to help you grow. I want to establish a relationship with you. I want you to understand I'm praying with you and loving you. I want you to get to know us and us get to know you and make them part of this body. The preacher can't do that alone. The deacons can't do that. It has to be everybody a part of that. So There was a passion in the heart of these preacher boys. And they're fired up. We got to do something. Should we go down there? Yeah, okay. We got to go ahead. Let's go. Get the word. Everybody, grab your bean, let's go. And that ought to be the attitude of our church about what God has given us. Amen. Father, help us, Lord, to be about your business. In the middle of winter, six feet of snow, help us to be about your business, doing what we can, trusting you, and getting after it. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, how many would say, preach?