This is exciting. That explains Dan being here. And I said, uh I said, Dan, hey, surprise. How long you staying? He said, just a couple hours. I said, you drove three hours. And uh he goes, yeah, I got a load of wash I gotta do. I said Drive three and a half hours, do a little wash, and drive back. But um I'm glad he's here and um I can't wait to find out what's going on. Genesis chapter number seven, if you would. We're looking at Noah and the great flood. Let me get here quick. And I'm going to read verses 17 through 24. What we have here is a pretty significant portion of scripture is just giving us um information uh about the flood itself some statistics and some technical information here. And so obviously God put it in the Bible. There must be something for us here. So we're going to go down through here And just look at some of the facts about a flood like no other flood that has ever been or ever will be. Verse 20 uh verse 17 of chapter 7. And the flood was 40 days upon the earth And the waters increased and bare up the ark, and it was lift up above the earth. And the waters prevailed and were increased greatly upon the earth, and the ark went upon the face of the waters. And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth, and all the high hills that were under the whole heaven were covered. Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail, and the mountains were covered And all flesh died that moves upon the earth, both of fowl and of cattle, and of beasts, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, and every man All in whose nostrils was the breath of light, and all that was in the dry land died, and every living substance was destroyed. which was upon the face of the ground, both man and cattle and the creeping things and the fowl of the heavens, and they were destroyed from the earth. And Noah only remained alive And they that were with him in the ark, and the waters prevailed upon the earth a hundred and fifty days. God takes, as I said, a pretty good portion of scripture here To emphasize a few things. Did you notice when we were reading there, it gets almost repetitious, some of the things he says? There's a reason for that, and uh we'll look at that. Let's have a quick word of prayer And uh I'll try and get through here real quick because I can't wait for the surprise. Let's pray. Father in heaven, bless our time and your word. And uh we're so grateful for your love and goodness to us. And so speak to our hearts. Lord, you recorded this for a reason, and uh we want your Holy Spirit to Apply it to our lives as you know we need. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Well we've been looking at Noah for a pretty long time now. We noticed several things. First of all, we noticed that Noah had a walk with the Lord In a sinful world, Noah did right. When everyone else was doing wrong, Noah was doing right. When everyone else was living for themselves, Noah was living for God. When everyone else was disregarding the principles of Scripture and the teaching of God, Noah was submissive to the Lord. So he had a walk with God. The second thing we noticed was that Noah worked for God. He worked very hard for a long time to build this ark that God instructed him to build. Now, my question is I have a couple questions about this. One is, do you think Noah's faith ever wavered? For 120 years, he's getting up every morning Without any change in the weather whatsoever. 120 years he's preaching the message of coming judgment and salvation in the ark that God is having him build. For 120 years, 365 days a year, for 120 years, for 12, how many decades is that? Twelve decades. And nobody is responding. Can you imagine that? Nobody's coming forward at his invitations, so to speak. The altar's dry. Nobody's responding whatsoever. My question is, do you think Noah's way faith ever wavered? My thinking is he's a human being. There had to have been of some days he got up and said, you know I hope I'm right on this thing. And uh but he plugged away, he stayed at it, and um uh and uh God honored his faith. So he worked very hard Now this is the thing, every time I think of that, I take this away from it. You know, if we're going to influence our world, if we're going to see people saved, we've got to work hard. We just have to stay at it. Now here's my second question, and this didn't come up until uh Kathy and I were out knocking on doors this afternoon and we were talking about Noah and um I said to her, I said, I don't think that Noah every day was intense. um fervent working on that thing for 120 years. I think he got up This was a new day. He went about his work. He got at it. He stayed at it. Worked hard all day. Put a good honest day's work in. Went to bed at night, got rested, got up the next morning, and went right back at it I don't think that we have to be hyper intense every day we gotta reach souls. But I do believe we gotta stay consistent, work hard at day after day after day after day after day. If every day serving the Lord is hyper-intense, all-out, full-blown, you know what's going to happen? You're going to burn out. And you're not going to last 120 years. And I'm convinced that the most effective ministries are those that just stay at it, plug away, plug away, plug away. Keep giving those tracts out, keep sharing the gospel, keep being a witness, keep doing right, just day after day after day after day after day. That's what Noah did And he just plugged away. And of course my wife agreed with me, which is one characteristic I appreciate so much about her, is when she agrees with me. But Anyway, he worked hard for the Lord. Now we get a portion here where he first of all we said he walked with God, and he worked for God. I notice here he's waiting on God When we read down through here, somebody tell me, verse 17 through 24, what is Noah doing? What activity is Noah involved in? He's doing nothing. He's sitting in the ark. Now there's an important principle here. God does the saving. When it comes to the salvation of our soul, there's nothing we do. You say, what are you doing to make sure you get to heaven? Nothing Christ did at all. Well you're living for God, you're giving out tracts and you're witnessing and serving the Lord, you're in the ministry so that you end up in heaven, right? No, I'm doing all that cause I'm already sure of heaven So as far as his salvation, he's just waiting, letting God do what God needs to do here, letting God do his part, and just waiting for this thing to subside, and he comes out that door eventually in the next chapter to a new world. And that's kind of a picture of salvation. So God gives us here. I don't think I'm on, Brother Dave. I think I'm on here, but I don't think I'm on here. Maybe I'm not there we go. Um God gives us some uh details about the flood here that I thought were interesting. Interesting and uh I hope uh they'll be a help to you. The first thing I notice he tells us in verse seventeen and verse twenty-four, he tells us the duration of the flood, how long this thing last Or I'm sorry, not the duration of the flood. He tells us the duration of the rain. Look in verse seventeen with me, if you would. And the flood was forty days upon the earth And the waters increased. Now, as I studied this and compared it over earlier in the chapter, I find that what he's telling us here is there were 40 days of torrential downpour. Look back at verse 12 with me if you would. And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights Now if you remember when we worked our way through that portion of it, that term rain there is it's not just, you know, oh look, it's raining outside. It was and um did you get that? It was pouring down rain. It was what we would call torrential downpour for 40 days. Now think about that. We pointed out in a previous message that the day that God closed the ark, where was it? Back up in verse number Uh where is it about the earth uh breaking up and the clouds? Uh verse eleven. In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, the selfsame day were the fountains of the deep broken up and the windows of heaven were opened. You remember when we preached on that? And what that was talking about was literally perhaps the continents were moving, underground reservoirs of water were bursting up upon the the surface of the earth uh the water canopy that we believe was around the earth uh suddenly collapsed. That may be the point where the earth shifted off of its axis axis its um axis And uh this catastrophic day of upheaval, I doubt seriously in my study, my impression here is I doubt seriously very many, if anybody, survived that first day Other than the people in the ark. It was probably devastating. Then you have on top of that 40 days of torrential rain. If anybody happened to survive that initial upheaval I can't imagine they survived 40 more days of just torrential downpour. How many days would it have to rain torrentially in Oakland before we would have massive flooding? Just two or three days, maybe. If you have a week of it, it would be devastating. You imagine 40 days. And so you have this 40 days of this torrential rain coming down. Then look at verse 24. And the waters prevailed upon the earth 150 days. Now that word prevail there has the idea of increasing in their strength. So in other words, the water level on planet Earth is continually rising after it stops raining for 110 days. So you have 40 days of rain, 110 days after that, the water level is still going up, rising, rising, rising. The impression there, by the definition that word is, is rising intensely. So the flood continues to rise 150 days, almost a half a year. The water is still rising, still rising, still rising Now look at verse 17, the second half. Here's just an interesting trivia. Tidbit. And the four the flood was forty days upon the earth, and the waters increased, and bare up the ark. Now look at this last phrase. And it, the ark, was lift up above the earth. My impression here, and studying this and looking at and seeing what others folks had to say, my impression here is that it was about 40 days after the rain started before the ark finally shifted a little bit and began to lip off office It's frame that was holding it. Look at that again. The flood was forty days upon the earth. Reference that back to verse 12. That's the rain coming down, torrential rain, the waters are increasing and they bare up the ark and it was lift up above the earth. The idea is after that 40 days. So apparently, it looks to me like Noah and his family are sitting in that ark. They hear the torrential rain pouring down. Forty days and forty nights, and then finally they feel that thing break loose. And then now they feel themselves up. So, 40 days, then the ark begins to rise. So we have the duration of the flood. 150 days that water level is rising, rising, rising. The next thing is we're given here in verse 19 to 20 is the depth of the flood. How deep was the water really in this world in this flood? Look at verse 19 with me. And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth. And all the high hills that were under the whole heaven were covered. Fifteen cuberts up. Here he gives us a figure. Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail, and the mountains were covered. Now it's Word it a little diff a little awkwardly here, I guess I could say, but just reading that the way it is It makes it, in my mind, impossible to come up with the conclusion that this is a localized flood. You follow what I'm saying? How in the world are the mountains covered and it's only a local flood? This has to be a universal flood. Now for you and I, we go to work this week, that is meaningless Whether it's a universal flood or it's just a local flood or was it the whole world, you know, who cares? What's the difference? I tell you, it's very significant If we're going to buy the fact that this was just a local flood that just affected the area where Noah lived, then we've got serious problems with the inspiration of Scripture. And then that brings into question a whole slew of other teachings of Scripture. So either this thing was worldwide or the Bible's not true. Now let's look at this, and uh and you'd be surprised you get some old commentaries, men that have some good things to say, and you get reading what they say here, and they start suggesting it's just a local flood, and uh I'll tell you they're wrong And I think I can show that to you from the passage of scripture here. Look at verse 19 again with me. The waters prevailed exceedingly. And then he says, um Wat is prevailing seen upon the earth? And look at this. And what's that next word? All the high hills were covered. All the high hills that were under the what? Whole heaven were covered. If that's all we said about the flood, what would be your logical conclusion? It's worldwide If all the high hills are covered, that means there aren't any hills that are what? Uncovered. Is that profound or what? And if all the high hills that were under the whole heaven were covered. It's interesting. The phrase, the high hills In verse 19, come down to verse 20. 50 cubits upward did the waters prevail, and the mountains were covered. The word high hills in verse 19 and the word mountains in verse 20 come from the exact same word. He's saying every mountain on planet Earth was covered. And he repeats himself. Why does God repeat himself? For to make a point, for emphasis. He's emphasizing the fact every mountain's covered. And so every mountain is covered. Now here's where it gets in my mind a little interesting. Look at verse 20. Uh he says, uh fifteen fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail. Now cubit, as far as we know, you can't say dogmatically because we don't know for certain, but the generally the idea is A qubit is 18 inches. Pretty much the distance from the tip of your longest finger to your elbow is pretty much the standard understanding of what a qubit is. So this thing's 15 cubits upward We are told earlier that the ark was 30 cubits high. Am I right? Yeah, that's right. Don't question me. Of course I'm right. So what you have here is that doesn't sound right. Am I right? All right, thanks, Pat. Um So what you have here is half of the distance, you have half of the depth of the ark. You follow what I'm saying? So the water is going 15 cubits above How many feet would that be? Two and a half feet. Twenty-two and a half feet. So uh you have the water is half the height of the ark above the waters, above the mountains. Does anybody have any idea what I'm talking about? Okay, good. Tell me. The water is 15 cubits above the highest mountain. The ark is 30 cubits high Why would it be significant that the water would be half the height of the ark above the mountains? Yeah, for um uh for the uh submergence of the ark. God was making sure, get this. God was making sure that the ark wouldn't scrape, the bottom of the ark wouldn't scrape the top of the mountains. He was making sure there's enough water there that the ark would clear that. I think that's cool. How many people think that's Nido? I think it's Nido. Um now here's something interesting. We're told that the highest mountains in the Ararat range, the Ararat Mountains, which is where the ark settled on, The highest one is 17,000 feet high. That means the flood was overs was 17, at least 17,000 feet. 22. 5 feet deep. Now tell me where you would have a localized flood that's 17,000 feet deep. That ain't gonna happen. Now, I found one exception to that. I'm having fun. I don't know whether you are or not. I don't have a fun. I found one exception. I can see in my mind one exception to that. It is possible. That before the flood, the mountain ranges weren't that high. Right? Because we have catastrophic things taking place Continents perhaps are being ranged. Mountain ranges are rising up where they never were before. Perhaps some are collapsing in when the waters recede. You find uh portions of the earth collapsing in to absorb the water And so it's possible that we have a completely different um layout of the land before the flood. But nevertheless There is no way in the world this could be localized. So we have the duration of the rain, we have the depth of the flood. Number three, I notice the death of the flood. Look at verse 21 with me. And all flesh died. That moved upon the earth. Sounds pretty universal to me, huh? If all flesh died that moved upon the earth, how much flesh was left alive on the earth? None. I don't know how you get around that. But anyway, all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl and of cattle, and of beasts, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth And every man, verse twenty-two, and all in whose nostrils was the breath of life, all that was in the dry land died. Every living substance was destroyed, which was upon the face of the earth Uh he's getting repetitious. They all died. They all died. Everyone died. Old of them died. Everyone was dead. He's emphasizing the fact here that every single living thing that breathes, that needs air, died. Verse 21, he says, every man. If every man's dead, how many are alive? None, except the ones in the ark, of course. Now here's an interesting thing. I never caught this before, verse 23. And every living substance was destroyed. He names creeping things that creep on the earth. He names things that whose nostrils was the breath of life. He talks about the things that fly, the fowl, he talks about the cattle, the beast. Then he says, every living substance. Well, he's already named all these others. What's the living substance? The suggestion is that this is vegetation. Even plants were killed. Wiped out. Um if you stuck if you took care of how many folks here have a plant in your living room or in your house somewhere you have a plant. We have them uh they're about all dead, but we have a few How many, if you filled your bathtub up and put your plant underwater for one year, how many folks think that plant would still be alive when it's not? No. It would die. So the idea here is that even vegetation. So you have the duration of the rain, you have the depth of the flood, you have the depth of the flood, and last of all, I notice in verse 23, deliverance from the flood Look at verse 23 of the last part. And Noah only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark. I would say Noah's wife and kids were glad they were with Noah in the Ark. You know what my first impression was when I sat down and looked at that verse and began putting working on the message, my first impression was this. It's good to be around a godly man. Huh? They listened to him. They believed him. They followed what he said and taught. And it paid off. It paid off. It's good to be in a godly man. I put this down. It's good to be in God's place. God wanted them in the ark. They say, I could see someone look at that arc and say, you crazy? I ain't getting in that thing. That thing will fall down on me. That would be dangerous to go in that ark. The safest place to be, you've heard this before, the safest place for a person to be is to be smack dab in the middle of God's will. Right exactly where God wants me. Doesn't mean I'm not going to have difficulty, not does it doesn't mean I might deal with issues. But the fact of the matter is, if I'm where God wants me to be, then I am safe from the judgment and chastisement of God. What does Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 say? Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, lean not into an understanding, and all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall what? Directly ways, you know what he's saying? He says, you do right, you follow my leadership, you believe what I say, and I'll make sure you're right where you ought to be I'll make sure you're right where you ought to be. It's a good thing to be with a godly man. It's a good thing to be in God's place. The sad reality is I studied this. Sad reality, overwhelming majority of the people on planet Earth died. Lost. I hate to say this, but in the day and age you and I live in, the overwhelming majority of the people in the world are not going to get saved. It's a tragic thought. We have whole countries where there's very, very little gospel being preached. Can anybody be saved? Let me ask this. Could anybody survive the flood that wasn't in the ark? No. Can anybody be saved that hasn't trusted Christ? No. Has the majority of the world trusted Christ? No. I submit to you, the majority of the world hasn't even heard how to be saved. Billions. Never heard the gospel. Never heard the gospel. Here we are sitting in our ark. Praise the Lord, I'm saved, I've trusted Christ. Nothing for me to do, I'm on my way to heaven. There's a lot of work went in to making that art possible. Right? Noah worked a long time. He invested a lot of money, a lot of effort into obeying God and putting that ark together. Now we're saved by grace through faith But we have a job to do. God hasn't called us to build an ark. Well, what's he told us to do? When do all the world preach the gospel? Make that salvation available to others. That requires just as much work as Noah put into building that ark. It requires just as much effort, just as much investment Getting that gospel all around the world. So God gave us these things here. He's waiting now. God's going to do his job. I like 2 Peter 3:9. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some mount count slackness. But his long suffering to us were not willing that any should perish. Hundred and twenty long years Noah worked and worked and worked and worked with no results, no visible evidence that what he was doing had a lick of relevance to anything going on. But God was faithful, and the day came and the flood showed up. Listen, we have a job to do. Jesus coming back. Judgment is this world's facing judgment. We've got to get the gospel into all the world. Amen. Father in heaven, as we come now to the Lord's Supper, we think back of the price that was paid for our salvation. God, we're glad that we don't have to work to be saved. We praise you for that. Lord, you've made it available for us. But I pray now, Lord, That as we enjoy our salvation, you would stir our hearts to take the fact that you died and shed your blood for us. Help us to take that to others. We could see people saved and lives changed And you have your way in people's homes and lives. God bless us. Challenge our hearts, Lord, as we come to the Lord's table. Search us Help us to come pure and humble as uh we recognize what was paid for our price. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I'm glad I'm saved, and but I need to be about the Lord's business I need to be busy for the Lord, serving Him, my prayer life, my Bible reading time, my witness. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me in this coming year I would grow and be busy about the Lord's work. How about it? Any like that? Up God bless you. My hands raised. I want to be more faithful. I want to be busy for the Lord. Father, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. Help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand again.