If you would take your Bibles, turn with me to 2 Kings chapter number 6. We are working our way through the life and ministry of Elisha. 2 Kings chapter 6. A guy was sitting in the house watching TV. His wife was outside. She watched the car and she was cutting the grass. It was in the middle of the hot summer. He was sitting Inside wa in an air-conditioned house watching TV. Finally he worked up the energy to go out and ask his wife what was for supper. Well she was pretty irritated by him sitting in the air conditioner house walk all day long watching TV while she watched the car and mowed the grass, so she scolded him. So I can't believe you're asking me about supper right now Just imagine I'm out of town. Go inside and figure out dinner for yourself. So he went back in the house, fixed a big steak, grilled it out, uh, made baked potatoes, garlic bread, tall glass of iced tea Finally the wife came walking in about the time he was finishing up and she said, uh you fixed something to eat, where's mine? He said, Huh? I thought you were out of town. And All right. Second Kings chapter six, verse one. And the sons of the prophet said unto Elisha, Behold Behold now, the place where we dwell with thee is too straight for us. Let us go, we pray thee, unto Jordan, and take thence every man of being, and let us make us a place there where we may dwell And he answered, Go ye. And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servants. And he answered, I will go. So old Father, we're going to get tonight. I want to look at this story of a floating iron, but uh I just want to look at the first few verses and set the stage for a miraculous event takes place a little bit later on. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, uh Lord, I'm grateful for the Sunday evening service. Lord, we're grateful for the folks that came out tonight. And I pray now that you would bless our time in your word. It's been a real joy, encouragement, the fellowship, the singing. And now, Lord, we're asking you to speak to our hearts. God, once again, tonight, again I ask you would fill me with your spirit. I yield my will to you, Lord. I present my body anew. Please speak through me. Just use me, Lord, as a conduit. And help us to grow in our faith. Help us, Lord, to trust you and obey you in our lives, our ministry. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I'm speaking to the crowd tonight. We would all of us claim to know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. I think there's two things. That each of us that know the Lord, two things that are absolutely necessary if we are going to be able to face the challenges of life and have any kind of peace in our heart and mind. If we're going to go through life with any comfort of God, there has to be two things that are settled in our hearts and minds. The one is this: the assurance of our salvation. That has to be settled. I don't know how a person can go through life and have any sense of peace or rest and not know for sure that when they die they're going to heaven. How can you lay your head at night and have that question in the back of your mind? Am I going to go to hell forever and ever and ever? Until you get that matter settled, until you can say with full assurance, I know God has forgiven my sin, I know the Lord has saved me from sin in hell, I know I have a home in heaven, until you come to that point. You cannot know complete rest. You cannot have peace. And I tell you, uh I'm really grieved With preachers and Bible teachers who teach that a person can lose your salvation or teach that you cannot know that you're saved. They are wrong. And they're doing great harm to God's people. And so that's one thing that must be settled in our heart and mind. And the second thing That I believe must be clear in our heart and minds, if we're going to have peace as we face issues of life, is uh, second of all, is understanding the continual presence of God in my life. The presence of God in my life. Now think about that. What it means as a child of God to have God's presence. In every situation of life. I tell you, those two things, assurance of my salvation and the presence of God, will take us through any trial. Will take us through any difficulty. Um my family and I have been here uh sixteen, going on sixteen and a half years. And I tell you, in the years pastoring, it there's been some trials we face There's been some difficulties. Anytime you pastor someone like Joey Wagner, you're going to have trials and difficulties. She sends snide remarks in the email and critical things. And so, but here's the thing that's carried uh carried us through that and has carried me through that I know that I'm exactly where God wants me and God is with me in this. Now you can say the same thing in your situation In fact, you need to get to the point where you know you're saved, that settle, and that you have God's presence in your life in a real way. Now we have a little bit of advantage that uh that the Old Testament saints did not have, and that is this. Our faith is based upon, our faith in a very real way is based upon historical facts We are looking back at the incarnation of Jesus Christ. Now, what do I mean by the incarnation of Jesus Christ? What do we mean by that? Yeah, the Jesus Christ coming down, taking on flesh. Christmas, we celebrate the birthday of Jesus. He was incarnated. He took on flesh. And God, get this, God came down to man God took on human flesh. Jesus thought it not Roderick to be equal with God took upon him the form of man. So we look back at that. And we see and know that God is with us. Christ came to earth 33 and a half years, crucified, rose from the dead, ascended to heaven. And right now, tonight, as I'm standing here, as we're in this uh in the house of God, Jesus Christ is at the right hand of God the Father. And get this He has, he is, takes his, our human nature with him in heaven right now. Think about this. We have someone that stands before God on our behalf that has our nature. Not our sinful nature, but our nature. He was tempted at all points like as we are. He's touched with the issues of life just like we are. We have someone in the person of Christ who stands before God who knows us Knows what it's like to be a man, to be a human. Isn't that great? Man, what a God we serve When he ascended to heaven, he sent the Holy Spirit, whom Jesus called the Comforter. And when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit of God, the Comforter, dwells within us. And we have the literal presence of God in our lives, in our bodies. Holy Spirit God, inside. How many folks here? Saved you know it. Say amen. Holy Spirit of God inside your body. Right now. God, the person of the Holy Spirit in your body and my body. The presence of God. Now, the Old Testament saints, as I said, didn't have that. We have an advantage they did not have. We have an opportunity, I should say, that they did not have. Their view of God was anticipation. They were looking forward to the day when God would become man. They anticipated the day when God would pour out his spirit, as Joel said, on all. And so They didn't have the the historical facts to base their faith on. They didn't have the immediate presence of God in their life like we do. They were a faith that was based upon prophetic statements of God, anticipation of God doing something, rather than a reliance upon something God had already done. Follow what I'm saying? And as a result of that, they didn't have the Holy Spirit of God indwelling within them. Nevertheless, man needs God. We need God's presence. And so we find that in the Old Testament, the presence of God was represented By the presence of the prophet of God. And that brings us to our story. Look at this passage here again. The sons of the prophets said unto Elisha, Behold now the place where we dwell with thee is too straight for us. In other words, it's too narrow, it's too crowded, too small. Let us go, we pray thee, unto Jordan, and take thence every man a being, and let us uh make us a place there, where we may dwell. Now we're going to look at this in a future message, but why would they go to Jordan? to make a bigger place. Anybody want to take a guess? More trees. On the rivers, more trees, more lumber. They could build it. So it's a practical thing that they're suggesting here. But look at the next verse. And let me finish this. And let us make us there a place where we may dwell. And he, Elisha, answered, Go ye. Now. Does that not sound like Elisha? When I got studying that, I thought that's what Elisha's always doing. Uh the Shinamite woman. My baby's dead. All right, go on, you go take care of it And they say, Oh, we need to build a new building. Alright, you guys go on and do it. I like Elisha. Delegate And uh so he's uh I mean we gotta give uh Elisha the benefit of the doubt. He's a busy man. He happens to be the prophet of God to the nation of Israel. So, you know, I can understand his schedule's full But look at the next verse. And this is where tonight's message comes from. And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go what? With thy servants. We want you to be with us. And he said, I'll go. My message tonight is the presence of God's prophet with these people In the Old Testament, the prophet represented the presence of God. And with that fact in mind, we need to understand there could be no failure with the prophet. If the prophet was going to endeavor to do something representing the person and presence of God, that endeavor could not fail. The prophet could there could be no loss when the prophet of God was involved. There could be no impossibility. With the prophet of God. There could be no defeat with the prophet of God, because where the prophet was, that's where the Lord was. He was representative of the presence and power of God. If the prophet of God would fail, Then that would imply failure on the part of God. Um, if a prophet If the prophet of God could not be relied upon to meet a need, to solve a problem, to do the impossible. Then God's message could not be relied upon. You follow what I'm saying? The prophet of God was the representation of God He could not fail. There could be nothing impossible for the prophet of God because his message was God's message. The prophet of God was a spokesman for heaven. And as a spokesman for heaven, he must have the credentials of heaven. If they if Elisha or any one of the number of the other prophets face the situation and they said this is impossible, this cannot be done, then the message communicated to the people was that God is limited in what he could do. So the prophet could not fail. The prophet could not tolerate an impossibility. If God's prophet would fail, his mission as God's representative had failed. In many ways. It's hard to exalt the office of prophet too high, other than putting them in the place of God. But the position he held as the prophet of God, the man of God, was very, very powerful, was very, very significant, and in many ways. As the man of God, as the prophet of God, in the Old Testament, he functioned in many ways as the Word of God You follow what I'm saying? They did not have a completed Bible in the Old Testament, like you and I have. And so the prophet In many ways, function to the people then as God's word functions to us today. Hey, if God's word would fail In any way, then that would that would cast doubt on God Himself. Right? If any promises of God's word would fail, if there would be any situation where God's word said that is impossible to be accomplished, where God's word would fail to accomplish whatever it promises to do. Then we would doubt God. And that was the role the prophet played. And so the presence of the prophet In these sons of the prophets, endeavor was vitally important. They wanted him there. Because whatever situation they faced, if the prophet of God was there, then the power and presence of God was there. So a couple things I notice about these guys, the first three verses, and I really wasn't intending to preach on these verses. I was going to try and get down to the a main part of the story, but man, there was a number of things here that come out to me. The first thing I notice is that these sons of the prophets We're aware of their situation. Look at verse number one. Sons of the prophet said unto Elisha, Behold now the place where we dwell with thee is too straight for us. Man, we're on top of each other Um when I first went down to Tennessee Temple in 1981, the place was booming. Uh the dormitories were packed full, and they started buying houses all around the campus, just anything they could get a hold of, they bought and they would just cram students full of them. Um when I first got down there I was freshman, I was just, you know, I was like, oh, I didn't know anything. I was so why actually I was a What I wasn't a freshman, I transferred, I was a sophomore. So I knew everything as a sophomore. But I got down there and uh I was excited and they said, You're gonna stay in Holly Hall. I said, Wow, praise the Lord, that sounds fancy, Holly Hall. Holly Hall was an old apartment building that really should be condemned. And uh it was a one-bedroom of The what where I was in was one bedroom apartment and had one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight guys in it. One bathroom, no shower, it's just a big old claw, eagle claw, uh what It's so gross. Uh what do they call bathtub? Was it claw foot bathtub? And it was more like cockroach foot bathtub. And uh No Sherry had this little thing, shh, you know, and uh eight guys in there. And uh I'm telling you, there was eight guys and about eight hundred cockroaches I never in my life yeah I never before in my life saw a cockroach. I didn't know what I heard of them, but I never knew what they were. I never saw 'em. There's there wasn't a whole lot in the suburbs that It's too cold. But um there just I never and one day oh and and by the way, the place had nineteen sixties shag carpet everywhere. So one day I come in and uh I went in I was in the back I happened to get in the room where the bedroom actually was, the other four were out in the living area, and um I walked in and there's this thing going across the shag carpet. I thought it was a mouse. I wanna run out, there's a mouse in there, we all went running in and looked and said, that ain't a mouse, that's a cockroach. The thing was huge And so we killed it. And uh I mean we're all crammed in there on top of each other, two bunk beds in each room, and uh we're crammed in there and with these cockroaches. And it This story is kind of taking on a late bit own, but uh let me tell you the rest of it. I've probably told this before. Uh these cockroaches would fly. I never heard of flying cock anybody ever heard of flying cockroaches? They flew like bats around the thing. I was in the bathtub one time. What is and his cockroach You know? It was crazy. In our bedroom, you could hear them at night. You'd turn the lights off. You could hear them. So we got this game. It was it it was introduced me to hunting, big game, this thing. And we would get newspapers, we'd lay it, we had two bunk beds. In between it was the shag carpet we'd lay newspapers out there and we'd get cracker crumbs and we put them in the middle of the newspaper and we'd turn the light off And my one roommate's name was Kim. He was a man. Kim was his name, but he was a guy, believe me. And um we'd sit there with our shoes, with the heel part, and we'd turn the light off. Turn it off, okay. We wait a few minutes and you hear this Turn it on! There'll be eight cockroaches coming out. And then we mark our beds with the number of cockroaches we kill. The place was on top of each other. So when I read this and they said this place is too straight for us, it reminded me of my college days, first year down there, on top of each other. But here's the thing These are young men, these sons of the prophets are young men whom God has called into the ministry. They have committed themselves to serve God as future prophets. And they are now being trained by Elisha. And by the way, I always try and point this out: when God calls a young man or a young lady in certain cases to the ministry. It is always a call to preparation. God always prepares those whom He plans on using someday. I'm very skeptical. I'm very skeptical of somebody who claims to be called but refuses to submit to preparation. Well God's called me they go right out and they never prepare, they never get grounded, they never get training. Now I'm not saying everybody has to go off the Bible college, but I am saying this. If God calls someone to the ministry, he intends to prepare them for that ministry. Through a process, maybe it's internship or some types of things like that. But you must be prepared. And that's what's happening here. God called these men, they're committed, they're sincere, they're on fire for God, they're submitting themselves under the training of Elisha. He's teaching them and training them. And apparently God was blessing. They were growing. And the school was increasing. And there was more and more of these sons of the prophets coming in. And the place is getting crowded. I think, I take from this, our labor is not in vain. Now we may not see great crowds, but I'm telling you this, if we keep serving God and keep serving God and keep serving God, God will bless our efforts. I believe that. There will be results. Now, it may not be necessarily a huge church pack full of people, but it may be having an influence on a country on the other side of the world. It may be seeing souls saved. It may be any number of things. But God was blessing their efforts. Their labor was not in vain. And now the place is packed. And this is what I take from this. They did not just make do, but they were aware of their situation. They looked around and said, you know, something's got to change. We have to deal with this situation. Now, in their case, they needed to expand In their case, they're not going to say, well, we'll just keep doing what we are, even though it's getting crowded. They said, no, we look at our situation. We've got to deal with this situation. We've got to function in a way be able to function. We've got to deal with this. And having faith in God is not ignoring your situation. Having faith in God is being aware of your situation and adapting to it and doing what is necessary. Now it may be financial times become very tight. Having faith in God is not just saying, Well, we're going to keep on spending, keep on doing what we've always been doing. No, having faith in God is being aware of your situation, saying, all right. We need to adapt to the situation. Right? Follow what I'm saying? Uh in their case, it was increased bodies. They needed a bigger area In other cases, and again I've touched on this a couple times. I'm not trying to harp on it, but I am saying that our country and it affects our church are going through financial hard times. We don't just ignore that. are aware of our circumstance and we adapt and we change and we do what we need to do to continue serving God effectively. Is everybody on board with that? And so I see these guys were very aware of their situation. And they understood it, and they understood something had to be done. They had to deal with it. They had to take some steps. Which leads me to my second observation here. The sons of the prophets, first of all, were aware of their situation. Second of all, they sought the Lord before they did anything. Look again at verse 1 and 2. Sons of the prophets said unto Elisha, Behold now the place where we dwell with thee is too straight for us. Alright, they're aware of their situation. Let us go. What's the next three words? We pray thee. And unto Jordan, and take thence every man a beam, and let us make a place there where we may dwell. What are they doing? They're seeking the man of God's direction. Correct? They made a suggestion. They're aware of their situation. They made a suggestion. Hey, let's do this. But they didn't just go out and do it. They went to the one who represented God, who represented the presence of God, and said, We pray thee. This is what we think we should do. This is what this is the solution we see to our problem. Now, as the prophet of God What do you say we should do? Is this okay? Do we have your leadership and your direction on this? They did not just act on their own ideas And I tell you, a lot of people get themselves in big trouble because they act on their own ideas and do not seek the Lord And do not say, God, what would you have me to do? God, here's my situation. I'm aware of it. What should God should, I'm just going to do this. No, no, no. Lord, I'm praying you, is this what I should do? And seeking the leadership and the direction of God. It is dangerous to go ahead with our plans without the assurance of God's leadership. We've got to know that this is God leading us and this is God directing us. Now there's so many areas of life I could apply that. First one comes to my mind, applies particularly to young people, but that of marriage I need to be sure if I'm a if I am pursuing a spouse and it's right and it's good and it's of God, if I am pursuing a spouse It is not a good idea just to go on on my own ideas. I need to stop and seek God's leadership and say, Lord, I need your direction in the one whom I'm to spend the rest of my life with. Can I get an amen? Somebody says, well, you know, as long as you love them, that's fine. I don't think that's true. You know, a saved young lady could fall in love with an unsaved young man. Is that God's will? No. So just loving them isn't enough. It has to be the will of God. And my advice to every young person, uh, well, regardless of what age, a person pursuing marriage would be you find out What God has you to do, you wait on that one that God has for you. You go ahead with your own plans, and you could be looking at a life of heartache. And so they looked at their situation and said, we need to we gotta find another place. This isn't working Then they sought the Lord's direction. God, this is what we think we should do. Is this what we should do? I think that's a good idea in marriage. A young person, hey, you know, I don't I don't want to be alone the rest of my life, I'd like to be married. Alright, then you seek God. You seek the Lord's move. Hey, that is true not just for young people. That's true for all ages when we make a move. Jerry and Cottonie. Went through this this past year. And I believe with all my heart I met with Jerry a number of times. I believe he sought the Lord, sought the Lord, sought the Lord on this. He Saw the situation. He was doing what he thought he should do, but he was seeking the Lord. And I believe God intervened and directed them in what they should do. Now suppose they would have said, I don't care what God says, we're going to head with this. It'd been rough, wouldn't it, Connie? And so I believe whenever we make a move, I've found a lot of people mess their lives up, get out of fellowship with God when the situation's bad and they just don't jump up and move and don't seek the Lord's leadership Now I don't I don't want anybody to move away. I don't anticipate anybody moving away. But if God would move you away, I believe the first thing you ought to consider is not how much money you'll make there, but is there a good church there Is it God's will? Is this going to enable me to be a better Christian by going to this place? I'm telling you, too many Christians bow down at the dollar and serve God on the side. And so marriage, making a move, we ought to seek the Lord. Let me throw another one out there. And this is something the Lord talks about in the Bible, so don't get mad at me But uh uh making investments with our finances. I think we ought to seek the Lord on that. Huh? Buying a house Maybe you come into some money or you've been putting some money up, you've been investing in something. I think you ought to seek the Lord. I tell you, we get all these plans. How many folks here like me could give me a witness on this You got it all figured out if you ever come into money. You know exactly where it's all going. Anybody ever do that? Do you ever walk out to the mailbox? Boy, there's a hundred thousand in there. I know, I'm gonna put this in there and that. Can I get a witness? Anybody I'm the only one that thinks that, huh? I've come to the conclusion years ago that check ain't never going to be in that mailbox. Quit looking for it. Amen. It got lost in the mail, it's gone, it ain't showing up. But we get all these plans with our finances and this. Well, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that, and do this. Listen, I think it's wise to plan. I think it's wise to invest. I think it's wise to invest in God's work. I think it's wise if you make a will out, include God in your will. But what I'm saying is this, before we go ahead with what we think, why don't we seek God? Why don't we say, Lord, I want you to show me What is the best thing to do with my finances? God, I want you to show me. Should I buy this house? Should I not buy this? Lord, I want you to lead and direct me. And so they didn't just act. They sought the Lord before acting. You can apply it to any number of areas of life. And I'm telling you, I believe this. If we seek the Lord with all our heart, He will lead us and direct us. We'll know what we should do. Can I get a witness? God will lead us, God will direct us, but let's trust Him. Let's wait on Him. Let Him show us. Don't just get ahead of ourselves and say, well, this is what I want. This is what I think I should do. No, no, no, seek the Lord. Now, God may direct you to do what you think you should do. He did these people. I tell you, I love Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. What powerful verses Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not into thine own understanding. In all thy ways, acknowledge him, and he shall what? Direct thy paths. God will need you. God will direct you, but just seek the Lord. Trust him. Look to him. Last thing I noticed in these guys. First thing they were aware of their situation. Second thing they sought the Lord before they acted. And the third thing is what I started out with the introduction with, and that's this. These sons of the prophets were concerned that they had the presence of Elisha. We need Elisha with us. Look at verse 3 again. And one said, now Elisha says, all right, you guys want to do that. I got other stuff to do. It's kind of in the Hebrew that part there. And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servants. The phrase be content simply means, listen, we would you be pleased to go with us. Would you be willing? It was an entreat. They were entreating him. Please come with us. We would like for you. To come with us. You know, Moses had that same concern when he was starting to lead the children of Israel in Exodus 33. 15 If thy presence go not with me, carry us up not carry us not up hence. He's saying, Lord, I don't want to go anywhere without your presence. Lord, I don't want any endeavor without your presence in it. Any effort made without the presence of God in it is doomed to ultimate failure. We, as Pastor Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and I'm sure as members, we all understand we need God's presence in this place. In our efforts, radio station, Kazakhstan, Act 1631, Bus Ministry, Sunday School, Children's Church. Scripture assembly. We need God's presence in all of this. If all it is is us doing it, then it's doomed to failure. We must have God in this thing. God, be content. Go with us. Tell ya, I think we ought to work hard at getting visitors here. Amen. I think everybody ought to work hard trying to get visitors out, visitors out, get people here. But I tell you, one thing we ought to work equally hard at, or even more so, is seeking God's presence here. And that's where Wednesday night prayer meeting is so important. We have got to seek God and have His presence here. Listen, I probably as much, I know as much, if not more, than anybody else would like to see every one of these pews packed. That's what our desire is. But I tell you, if we only got five people and we've got God here, then we're in good shape. Amen. If uh uh tell ya, God's presence, be content, will you go with us? The prophet of God represented the presence of God. And these young sons of the prophets did not want to do anything without the presence of God. It is not enough just to serve God We must have God's presence and power in our servants. I was preaching somewhere not long ago. I forget. It's a preacher somewhere in the last month or two. I made the state where did I Ohio. Yeah, no, it was Indiana. Um I was preaching in church when we went out to Chicago, and I made the statement here, but it just struck home with me again as I was preaching it. You know, we do soul-winning training, and that everybody really ought to consider getting involved in soul-winning training, learning how to share the gospel with others. But We can have our little patter down, our little spiel, our little script, and we can have all the gestures and all the things that you're supposed to do. But if we don't have the power of God in that, we're not say seeing anyone saved. And we can talk people into saying a prayer, but that's not our concern. We want God to save souls. And there's only one way to have that, is have the presence and power of God in it. What did the Lord tell the disciples? Go go therefore and teach all nations, baptize them in the nations. Name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, teach them to observe all things whatsoever you command you. And lo, I am what? With you always. He's saying you just going. Now you've got to go. You've got to teach, you've got to preach, you've got to disciple. But you just doing it isn't enough. You need my presence. You need my power. And I tell you, my hat's off to these sons of the prophets. So we don't want to do nothing without the presence and power of God. I'm telling you parents, you can't raise your kids for God if you don't have the presence and power of God in your home. You can't be a witness. You can't teach a Sunday school class. You can't influence others without the presence and power of God. I think if there's one thing I pray about my preaching more than anything else, is I pray that God fills me with his Spirit and His power. That when I preach, it is not Dennis Leatherman running his mouth, but it is Almighty God speaking to hearts. That is the presence of God in the Word of God influencing people for Christ. Whether anybody follows you or me or not is not the issue Is God using us to get people to follow Him, follow Christ? And it takes God's power. Let's commit ourselves this coming year. To seek God with all our hearts, that His presence would be in the services of our church, that His power would be in our witness, in our outreach. Some of the greatest compliments we had as a church over the years have been people that come visit our church. I'm thinking of a number of people in particular that have said we walked in there and you could sense the presence of God in that service What a compliment. That's what we want. The presence of God. I don't care if people walk out, man, what great music. Boy, what a great message. That's not what we're after. If they walk out and say God was in that thing then we're doing what we need to do. Will you join me and pray with me that God's presence and power. Let's say the Lord, Lord, be content. Be here with us. Go with us. We go out in the highways and hedges. Go with us. We run those buses. Go with us. We take these mission trips. God, be content. Will you be with us? Will your presence be here? Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to trust you, to seek your leadership. And God, we pray that your presence would be in our homes. In our witness and our services. Lord help us. How many tonight would say, Preacher, I have some decisions to make? Maybe your future, there's several important things coming up in the not too distant future. And you'd say, preacher, I need to make some decisions and I want to seek the Lord.