Second Kings chapter six, and how my family and I thank God for this church so much. What a blessing today has been so far. 2 Kings, I'm going to read verses 1 through 7. We're dissecting this event here recorded for us. And just kind of breaking it down step by step, getting through here. It says in 2 Kings chapter 6, verse 1. The sons of the prophets said unisha, Behold now the place where we dwell where we dwell with thee is too straight for us. In other words, too small, it's too narrow. Let us go, we pray thee unto Jordan, and take thence every man a being, and let us make us a place there where we may dwell. And he answered, Go ye And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servants. And he answered, I will go. So he went with them, and when they came to Jordan, they cut down wood. But as one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water. And he cried and said, Alas, master, for it was Baruch. And the man of God said, Where fell it? And he showed him place. And he cut down a stick and cast it in thither, and the iron did swim. Therefore said he, take up thee Uh take it up to thee. And he put out his hand and took it. A floating or swimming iron. I believe I have it on, guys. It's on. Dead sound thing. So somebody else have a testimony real quick. Well we learned in Bible time to fill time with testimonies. Alright, let's see if this one. How's that? We got anything there? There we go. Very good. This kind of reminds me of the message this morning, a demon-possessed sound system. A floating or swimming iron. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. We ask now that you would bless. Our study of this passage of scripture. We ask you would take the truths and principles here. Pray your Holy Spirit would apply them to our lives. Please fill me with your Spirit, Lord. I don't want to be in the way of what you have for us. Lord, many of our folks are out and about working, serving you, and others are out of town for the winter. We just pray your blessing on all our members Help us all to grow in our faith and our commitment to you. And use this study now, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. We've been looking at this event. historical event given to us here in the Bible and we noted first of all, if you remember, uh we considered the presence of God's prophet. These young preacher boys were very concerned as their um uh living quarters, their school facilities were too small. The s the school of the prophets there was growing. These young preacher boys were studying under Elisha and uh they didn't have enough room. So uh they were concerned about building a new place. And we noted that uh they did three very, I think, wise things in their um in their endeavor here. First of all, they were aware of their situation. Remember we pointed that out. And it just ignore the fact that they were on top of each other. They said, all right, this is our situation. We need to deal with it We need to adapt to it, we need to build bigger. And it's very important in our lives that we are aware of the situations we find ourselves in that the Lord allows us and we are able to adapt to them. That does not mean compromise our conviction. It does not mean disobey the Bible, but sometimes We just have to adapt the situations. I wish so badly Tom Sharon was in here right now, because sometimes you just need to break down and buy a cell phone Somebody say Amen there. And um Mike says Amen to that. And uh they adapted to their situation. The second thing they did that was wise, I think They sought the Lord before they acted. Remember we talked about that. They didn't just go running down there. They went to Elijah. He was the prophet of God. He represented the Word of God And they went to God, so to speak, and they sought the Lord's direction. And uh before they did this, they wanted to make sure they had the okay from God That is a smart thing to do. In any number of uh endeavors we pursue, the good thing to do, hey, there's nothing wrong with coming saying, Lord This is what I think should be done. This is what I think I need to do. But I want to make sure I have your okay before I pursue this. And you know, God has ways of showing us God has ways of directing us if we will sincerely seek him and trust him. So that was smart. The third thing they did uh that I thought was smart and is where I got the name for this point uh seeking the presence of God. They were concerned for the presence of Elisha. Now remember we said that Elisha represented the Lord. He was God's spokesman. He was the prophet of God So they wanted to be sure God was with them in what they were doing. They didn't want to go down there on their own do this themselves. They wanted God with it. And how important it is that we have God in what we're doing here. God's presence be here in our ministries, in our witness, and um in our endeavor. Then we noted last week, not just uh the the um Uh the what was the point? Um the presence of God's prophet. We know we know that. But then last week I noted the passions Of the sons of the prophets. They got right to work. In verse 4, we noted they got down there, and man, right away they started chopping stuff down. We said that once they determined what God's will was, they got to it And once we figure out what God wants us to do, then we need to be about the Lord's business. Then we pointed out that each individual had a role to play. Every man felled his own beef Every one of those people that were a part of that uh school, they got down there, everybody had a job to do, and we pointed out in the local church Everybody has a job to do. God, we all need to be a part of it. Then we noted that they did not look to government or outside agencies to do what they could do They didn't hire a building firm. They didn't ask the government to build this for them. They could do it and uh they did it themselves. And uh I think it's always a good thing when people can be independent Amen. Uh we can support ourselves, we can take care of ourselves. Now we need each other, but that's always a good thing, and uh that's the way they were there. Then we pointed out last of all They were content with what was available. They didn't have cedar trees, they didn't have marble, but they did have some lumber there, and they were content with that. What God made available to them they were satisfied with. I'm telling you, that would solve a lot of our problems in our homes if we would just be satisfied with what God makes available to us. Amen? Solve a lot of solve a lot of financial problems, solve a lot of marital problems, solve a lot of work-related problems if we would just be satisfied with what God provides for us. Now there's nothing wrong with seeking to improve yourself. If you're able to get a better paying job or able to advance within the company to a a better salary or whatever, if you're not convict if you're not compromising Biblical principles or convictions. Uh you have the okay from the Lord, there's nothing wrong with that, but it'll do us a real heap of good if we be satisfied with lumber and not demand cedar necessarily. Follow what I'm saying Now, tonight, and it's just, I want to notice one more thing. I'm going to knock off another segment of this event here. I want us to notice the problem with the axe head. Look with me at verse 5 again. But as one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water. And he cried and said, Alas, Master, for it was borrowed. I would imagine working with young men in the ministry as I have over the years, I can see these guys, these young preacher boys, fired up I mean there their school is growing. They've gotten the okay from the the president of the school, Elisha, they've gotten the okay. We're gonna go down there, we're gonna build a bigger school Now working in Bible time and working with these young creature boys, I can just see it. Several reasons they'd be fired up. One, it's an exciting thing that's happening, God's blessing, there's always excitement with that. But number two, they're getting out of class You know, so knowing young men like I do, they're fired up about that. We're gonna go chop wood down. And so I can see them get down there, they're down along the Jordan River, they're fired up, and they are just hacking away. They are not professional builders, but they are highly motivated. They are excited about this. I can just You're a couple hundred yards away, and you can just hear that chopping of the axes and uh hollering to one another and trees falling and Just all the commotion going on down there, and these guys are excited, and they're chopping away And like I said, they're not professional builders. They're called to preach. They're being trained to the ministry. They're not being trained in any um uh what's the word I want? Um Trade. Very good. They're not being trained in any trade, necessarily. So They're kind of doing the best of good. But like I said, they're highly motivated. I thought I gotta think about that. You know, that's kind of the way the church is Very few churches are made up of professional religious people, right? Very few people are made up of highly trained salesmen or highly trained uh um administrators. Now thank God for those in the church that have training. Amen? We're not against that. But for the most part, you know what God uses in a church Just people that aren't professional necessarily at a whole lot of things, but they are fired up for God. And I will take fired up common folk over highly trained deadheads any day of the year. And so these young guys, they're not professional buildings, they're not architects, they're not engineers. Maybe some of them may have a little experience. And uh, boy, don't get offended if you're an architect or an engineer. I'm not against that, alright? You understand? Everybody's okay. I'm trying to keep my job here, alright? But they are highly motivated. And you know, you may not be, and Brother Mike does a great job on soul-winning training. He really does. He was trained by one of the best. And um that was a joke. But um You know what? You say, well, I don't have a lot of soul-winning training. I don't have a you know what, you get fired up for God, God will use you You might not have all the plans and programs down and all that, but you get burdened for the lost. You get a get a grasp of the reality of hell and the power of the gospel And you just get fired up about that, and you know what you'll find? God will use you to reach people for Christ. Just be stirred up about it. So I like these guys. Man, they got right to it. They got down there, and they are hacking away. Now I am not a lumberjack. Is anybody shocked to hear that? I know I probably look a little bit like one, but I am not a lumberjack. But I think there's a number of lessons That we can learn from these young men hacking away at these trees to build their bigger school. The first one lesson I pull out of here is this. It is important to aim our strikes. Young man's got an axe. They're going to fell these beams, these trees. They're going to use them to build log schoolhouse. It is important when you're chopping, I've done a little bit of it, but it's important when you're chopping, Stuart or Paul can probably tell more than I can, but when you're chopping, it's very important that you aim for specific areas You don't just hack all over the tree. Am I right or wrong, Stu? Am I right? You don't chop here for a while, then down here, then over there. You got a spot you zero in on and you aim that strike. You take it to you're not just swinging blindly at the tree. See if any of you guys, any of you parents can relate to this. When our boys were small, my tools would tend to vanish, disappear. Can I get a witness? It's just where'd they go? And it always seemed to be our axes. I'd have an axe or a hatchet or something, it's gone. And so you had asked, you know, the boys, hey, where's my Oh, I haven't seen it. I don't know where it is. And um so I get walking around the woods out behind the house, lo and behold, somehow my axes and hatchets were out in the woods And uh you look at the trees. This is when they were real small, you know, this was a year or two ago, but no. There'd be a little hack on a tree here, and a hack over here on a tree, and this one here is chopped over there And uh they never got any of the trees down. I don't think the trees appreciated what they did too much, but none of them ever fell. Because they never chopped at one area, zeroing in. They just kind of chopped around And when we're going to bring down a tree, you don't just swing blindly. And tell me, uh I see if I'm not right on this. I don't think it is even so much the force behind the swing as it is necessarily the accuracy of where you're cutting. You can throw a violent swing around and hit here one time, and throw a violent swing around and hit down here one time and then bring it over here, and you can put as much force behind it as you want. If you're not hitting the right spot, you're not going to accomplish a whole lot. And the point of the matter is this: the application is this. A Christian can be very sincere and very zealous. But if we're not wise in our zeal and our sincerity, we can possibly end up doing more harm than good. What I mean is this. It is possible just to get so fired up about the things of God, and I'm for that. God knows we need that. But we've got to be wise. And we've got to take that zeal and that energy that the Lord stirs our hearts with, and focus that in on very specific things that God has given us to do. For instance, we uh when I was traveling as an evangelist with Neighborhood Bible Time, we were in Michigan, and we got to a very large church, and this was back in the mid-80s And the church at that point was going contemporary. You could just sense it. And got in there just different things, and you know, that was twenty-five years ago. And uh there was an element of folks in the church very large church, there was an element of folks in the church that were still old school They were fired up, their old fundamentals, soul winning, separated from the world, blah, blah. Then you had the new element in there that was wanting to go more of a contemporary, laid back, drop the standards, back off the soul-winning way And you could sense the tension. Now, what happened was there were some people in that church that were influenced by the old school and got the zeal. But the new way of thinking didn't train them to be wise and focus that zeal in an appropriate way. And so we had a few folks in the church that were fired up about soul winning, but they were never taught how to bring that together. And so they're just hacking wildly out there, and this is what happened We had one fellow, we went out blitzing, and we've been done Bible time enough. Most of us are aware of what we're talking about that. We went out blitzing one afternoon. And there was a guy who was fired up about souls. Praise the Lord. I'm excited about it But he thought it was a waste of time to invite children to come out to Bible time. You just needed to confront them about hell right then and there. And if they died They're going to hell right now, and uh they gotta get saved right now. And man, he's here today. Now listen, I'm all for confrontational soul winning But this guy was so blunt and so abrasive, he'd just hack away at those people and he turned everybody off. There was no tact, there was no friendliness about it, there was no um uh there was no Cordiality? Does that make sense? There was no kindness or grace or compassion about it. And guess what? At the next day we run the bus down his area. Guess how many kids wanted to come to Bible time and learn about Jesus? None. He had so turned the people off and confronted them. He stands over. You know, if you know you're going to hell. That's why we came by here so you take it. You know what? He had all kinds of force. He had a violent strike. But it wasn't zeroed in, it wasn't wise, it wasn't hitting the mark, and he ended up doing more damage than good, turning people away. Listen, it's not enough to just say, well, we'll just go out and praise Jesus. Now thank God for it. Jesus needs to be praised. Amen. But we need some wisdom in this. We need to do it according to truth. And so the preacher boys, we're gonna build a school. Amen. Let's get down there. And they get down there and they just start hacking away on trees. That's not gonna cut it. Somebody's going to get hurt. Amen? And nothing's going to be accomplished. They need to be a little wise. So my first thing I glean from this, it's important to aim your strike Know what you're getting after, know where you need to hit that trunk, know what angle you have to hit it at, and figure that thing out so you accomplish something for the cause And that's the way it is in serving the Lord. What if we uh I think our choir does great. Amen I think Brother Mark, Brother Jerry do excellent job. I think my wife is doing a fantastic job at the piano, one of the greatest piano players I've ever heard in my entire life. I'm wanting pork offs is what it is. But um uh what if we got everybody up here and says, listen, we're fired up, we just want to praise Jesus. All right, you all just sing whatever you want. It'd be chaos Nobody would come back. You know what? You gotta hit the mark. You gotta bring that thing together. All right, we're all hitting together on this. That's why I think our soul-winning training is important. You know what our thinking is behind our training? Now you get out there and you tell people about Jesus. You do what we want. God will use you, you get fired up. But If you get some training in on that, you know what happens? Everyone that goes out from this church, if we knock on a door and they say, you know, someone from your church was by here a few weeks ago, I know exactly what they were told And they hear the same thing over again. And they hear the same thing over again. Then somebody works with them, been through the training, they say, hey, do you know for sure. You know what? Somebody else asked me that same question a few months ago You know what? Somebody came out the door. They said the very same thing you're saying. You know what that is? Striking that mark. Boom. Boom. Boom. Same message, getting out. Over and over and over and over And so, uh, it's important to aim our strikes. Number two, I notice from this, it's important to understand that the axe head does the work. It's that sharp axe head that is actually doing the cutting. Um You need a man to hold it, you need a handle, that is all a that is all a means of uh getting the axe head to the place it needs to be. But the axe head is the thing doing the cutting. Right? Are you everybody with me on this? Alright, some of y'all look like you uh uh like you just woke up, Brother Tom. No, I'm kidding. Um uh that axe head's what does the job. The iron axe head is very much like the word of God. The iron axe head is very much like the Holy Spirit for the believer. And I'll use some modern computer terminology here. But the the man and the handle are the platform for the axe head to do the work. You follow what I'm saying? The man and the handle are what enable the axe head to do what it needs to do. The believer Is the platform through which the Spirit of God and the Word of God works. Follow what I'm saying? Jesus said, Go ye into all the world, and what? Preach the gospel. Me going is the man and the handle Preaching the gospel is the accent. Cutting the heart, convicting, doing the job. And so it's important to understand it's the axe head that does the work. Our training And I'm I'm I'm not I don't mean to give mixed messages here, but we need a balance, as guess is what I'm trying to say. Our training, our personality, our position, that's all part of the handle Getting trained in soul-winning, uh being learning how to pray, uh having sharp good literature When you speak of the truth, quality stuff. That's all the handle. It's the word of God and the Spirit of God that does the work We simply apply it. Uh say, well, you know, we we gotta get people saved. We we don't see people saved. Uh so I'm gonna shout louder That's not going to do it. We're going to uh uh preach harder. Well, that's not gonna do it. Now I'm all for shouting and I'm all for hard preaching. Well, we just need nicer materials. We need our fires to be fancier. We need our literature to be sharper. We need full-color, glossy Uh and all that. Um hey, that's that getting a fancier handle isn't gonna do top more trees down Now if you can afford a fancy handle and uh you can shout while you're doing it, praise God do it, but don't miss the point. Don't miss the point. You need that axe head on the end if you're going to cut any trees down And if we're going to make any difference in the world, we can have the nicest facilities in the world, we can have the fanciest handle, we can uh be the loudest preachers and uh shout the loudest as anybody But if we're not getting the Word of God out into the hearts of the people, we're not accomplishing the job. And so they chopped away and chopped away, but we need to understand the axe head does the work. Without the axe head All our positioning and all our efforts are in vain. Conversion of souls, influence on a community is the work of God's Spirit. It's the work of God's Word. And he does it through us. Now, for sake of time, we won't turn there. I wanted to go to Acts 19. And remember the story. In Acts 19, you had a fellow by the name by a fellow that was described as a vagabond Jew. Anybody remember that story? He had seven sons. They were unsaved. The vagabond, he was just out there on his own. They heard about Paul and Jesus casting out devils, kind of like what we preached about this morning. They decided that they wanted to cast out devils too Problem was, they didn't have the word of God, and they didn't have the Spirit of God. All they had was a handle. And they went out to cast out a devil, and guess what happened? The devil turned on them, the man, and turned on them and tore them up, and they went running out. And the devil in the possessed man said, Paul I've heard of, and I'm paraphrasing here, Jesus I've heard of. Paul I've heard of, but I have no idea who you are. You don't have any axe head on that handle. You're not touching me. Does that make sense? And so all our effort, all our souling, all our preaching, all everything, website, uh tracks, all that, we've got to make sure we've got the Word of God in all of it, and we've got to make sure we have the Spirit of God. That guy's chopping away, and we'll look at this next week. And that axe head goes flying off. What if he'd have just kept there hammering? It'd have been nothing So we've got to have the power of God. We've got to have the word of God. Third and last thing I notice in the problem with this axe head is it's important. When we're chopping, this is lessons, I'm not a lumberjack, but some things I pulled out of this, it's important to keep the axe head firmly attached to the handle. Now this I've heard from others, this is not from experience. But if I'm gonna I've got to bring that chop down right to the right spot. I've got to aim that thing, I don't just hack away. I've got to understand the axe head does the job. Thirdly, I've got to keep that axe head on the handle. I understand that there are two types of pressure. That the axeman will use to keep the axe head on the axe handle One is an external pressure. And what that is, they slide that axe head down on the handle, and in olden days, I don't think they do this now, but in olden days I understand, they would take leather strings, leather strips. And they would wrap them around the axe head and the handle. And that they pull that tight. In fact, I was reading one article. They said they would soak them in water. The leather strips. Soak them in water. Then they would tie them around. Then when it dried out, it would draw itself tight. And it what it was was external pressure on that axe head to keep it onto the handle. Now for the believer, the axe head represents the Spirit of God, represents the power and presence of God, the Word of God. And what we need, and we are the handle, so to speak, we are what the Spirit of God uses, works through Now, what we need is we need to keep the spirit and power and word of God tied closely to us. We need that accent And one of the ways we keep the presence and power of God, the Word of God, effectively, in our lives is through external pressure. And I like to view that as believers, other believers. Keeping the pressure on me to stay right with God and keep the power of God and be filled with the Spirit of God. So you have this external pressure. We need that. Hey, you and I need the other members of the church to help us stay right with God. How many folks found it's easier to overcome a temptation when you've got another believer there with you than when you're by yourself? Huh? Come on, be honest. It's a whole lot easier to be bold soul with him when you've got somebody with you than when you're by yourself. It's a whole lot easier on the job to give out the Word of God when I've got other believers around me than when I'm by myself. And so we need that pressure to keep us right with God, to keep our axe head, so to speak, on the handle. Take your Bibles quickly with me, and I'm winding down here, but I'd like for you to see some verses. Come with me to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. And we're just going to look through a series of verses here real quick. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. And verse number eleven, First Thessalonians five eleven I have this verse underlined in my Bible. 1 Thessalonians 5. 11. Wherefore, comfort yourselves what? Together. Word comfort means strengthen and encourage. Comfort yourselves together and edify one another. Edify means build up. Encourage, strengthen one another, even as also ye do. So one of our responsibilities as brothers and sisters in Christ, as fellow church members, we're to encourage each other. We're to say, hey, hang in there. Trust in God. God's going to take care of that. Like the guys did this afternoon. Boy rallied around. You don't think Charlie's not encouraged tonight? You think Jesse's encouraged by the folks in the church coming out there? Edify one another, lift up, help one another, keep our strong faith in God, help each other, keep that accent on So our witness is effective. Turn with me, if you would, to Hebrews chapter 3. Just real quick, and I'm almost at the end here, so hang in here. Hebrews chapter 3, and notice verse 13. Um but exhort one another daily Wow it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. Can I paraphrase that verse and put it in the context of our message? Hey, keep one another's axe head on. Don't lose the presence of God in their life. Do all you can to help that other one. Be that leather strap, holding it on to them. Encourage them, exhort them. We need that. External pressure. Turn over to Hebrews ten, verse twenty four and twenty five External pressure to keep God's power and presence in my life. Hebrews 24 and 10, 24, and 25. Let us consider one another, look at this, to provoke unto love and to good works. Uh we're supposed to stir each other up and I'm supposed to try and provoke others, my brothers and sisters, so that they would love others more and do good works and They're doing it to me, provoking me, and uh we're helping each other keep that sharpness there, that relationship with the Lord. Uh then verse 25, not forsaking the assembling of yourselves together, as a matter of sum is But exhorting one another and so much the more as ye see the day approaching. How many times Individuals, God's people, have come to a church service and before church they're out of whack spiritually. Can I get a witness? Anyone here? Every Sunday morning. They fight all the way to church, get in the parking lot, and put the smiles on. Hey, it happens. But they get in among God's people, and we start praising the Lord. We start talking to one another, encouraging one another, we sing some hymns. God is so good. We sing these hymns like we did tonight. We hear a message, and the choir sings, and we shake hands, and we walk out, and we feel praise God, things are back in whack. Amen. And so that external pressure, they put leather straps around there. And man, that just held that axe head there. The effectiveness and boy, God's people help us stay sharp for the Lord. Help us stay right with God and help us stay where God can use us. But last of all, there was an internal pressure on the axe head. To keep that access in there. And what they would do is they'd slide that thing down, and before they tied the leather straps around, they would take a little metal wedge And they'd put it down the top of the handle and they'd mash, hammer that wedge down inside the axe head, and it would expand the handle and put pressure from within to hold that axe head on there. That's pressure from within to keep the power and word of God and the Spirit of God fresh and sharp in my life. And you know what I believe that is I believe that represents our internal or our personal walk with God. Something from within. God, the Holy Spirit of God, stirring me from within to stay right with God, to have God's power, to be live in obedience to God, so He can use me to have an effect on this whole sinful world. Internal. And I'll be very honest with you, that is the most important of the two. Now we need the external pressure. We just pointed that out. But if we don't have that wedge of a vital personal relationship with the Lord down in our heart, that external pressure isn't going to hold up. The allurements of the world, the pressure of the devil in the flesh, man, that thing's going to come flying off, and we're going to lose the presence and power of God if we don't have a real relationship with the Lord down inside our heart. That's Bible reading. That's my daily interaction with God I'm telling you, my walk with God doesn't end when I close my Bible in the morning and say amen to my prayers and then go out. My walk with God continues through the day. My interaction with God is throughout the day, Lord, help me with this. Thank you, God, for that. Do you ever just work and you think of something good and just say, thank you, Lord, for doing that? Lord, I love you. You're such a blessing to me That's a daily, continual interaction with God. God speaking to my heart and me speaking back to the Lord. Do you ever get throughout the day and God just speaks to your heart as you go about your work-a-day business? That's a daily walk with God. That's that internal pressure to stay right with God so He can use me to keep that access, so to speak, on External pressure, internal pressure. Both of these require constant attention. That lumberjack's hacking away. If he doesn't stop periodically and check. Make sure that leather is still good. He don't stop here having a check. Make sure that wedge is down in there. He doesn't check that on a regular basis. One of these times he's going to take a swing, and that axe head is going to go flying out into the lake. That's what happened to this guy. And next thing you know, like Samson, you know, wake up, shake yourself off. You're not even going to realize you've lost the presence and power of God in your life, and you're going to find yourself in a total mess. We would stop periodically and just say, all right, where am I at spiritually? How's my daily walk with God? Is my heart right with God? Uh am I in? Am I in the right kind of church? Do I have the is the leather good or has it corrupted and gone liberal? And my friends and associates just gotten so worldly that they're not helping me stay strong with God, but they're drawing me away from God Was there a time when I was closer to the Lord and I had more of a peace of God or had my friends and my associates or even sometimes your church draw me away from God And next thing you know, you wake up and hear I'm so far from God in such a mess, and I made such a failure. And the axe head's gone. And not only that, it sunk to the bottom of the lake. I have no idea how to get it. Constant attention. Constant attention. Make sure the straps are quality, a good church, good associates. When those straps get loose. Boy, that ex head's in in danger of flying off. Hey, you know, when we have a loose church, follow what I'm saying? Conviction standards are loose. Brother, you'll lose your axe head when our friends around us are loose with their morals and their convictions. Just whatever they want goes. Telling you, we're in danger of losing our access. I've been do I've been pastoring here 16 and a half years, been in ministry since 1985. I've seen a lot of people lose their acheads. They once had the peace and presence of God. They were effective in winning the loss. They had a clear testimony for Christ. But they got around some loose straps. They didn't maintain that wedge and keep their heart right with God. And now they're out there. You see no presence of God in their life. You see no testimony. In fact, it's an anti-testimony. They're doing more harm than good. We've got to maintain that. We've got to guard our walk with God. And the last thing in verse 5, he points out: hey, Elisha. It was borrowed. It wasn't mine. You know, the fact of the matter is, any success in the ministry is not ours. It's given to us. We are not our own. We need to understand the responsibility that God has given us. It's not ours, it's his. I tell you something, and I'll be very honest with you, I was prepared this, the Lord spoke to my heart. But something I did for the first many, many years here is every Saturday night. I still come over every Saturday night and pray and just Touch things up and spend some time in prayer for Sunday. But there was a long time, and I haven't done this for a while. The Lord spoke to my heart about this. Every Saturday night I would kneel right about here. For years I did this I would say, Jesus, this is not my church. This is your church. You've just allowed me to have a responsibility here. I'm giving it back to you. I do not want to claim this for my own. It's yours. I want to do what you tell me to do. Because it's yours. Hey Sunday school teacher, that's not your class. That's Jesus' class He's letting you borrow it. He's letting you use that for his glory. That bus route. That choir. Whatever ministry it may have. It's not mine. It's his. It's borrowed. We need to take care of that. I um traveled in Bible time. I told this before up in Massachusetts. Guy picked us up at the airport, two evangelists, Jason Uh, not Jason, not Justin. I forget his name. I think it started with an R. Um He drove us in a, if I remember correctly, it was either BMW or Mercedes-Benz. I think it was a Mercedes-Benz little sports coop convertible. It was in the summertime, Boston. And we're cramped in there and five speed or six speed whatever it was. He had 1986 it was, he had a phone. Car phone. Remember the bag phones? I mean, I didn't even know they had towers. I don't know how it worked, but he had one in there. We got to where we stayed, we unloaded everything. And he tossed the keys to me. I was the rally time evangelist. He tossed the keys to me. He says, There's your car for the week. Sweet. That was fun. But my partner, who I can't remember what his name was, starts with a J. He'd get we'd take turns drying it and he'd get in there. He was much younger and more immature than I was. Um he would uh hey man let's Let's see what this baby will do. And uh, hey, let's let's see if we can smoke the tires on man. And he I'd say, knucklehead, get out of the driver's seat. This is not our car Hey, that'd be good for us to remember. This is not our church. This is Jesus' church. We need to take care of it. It's not my life. I've given it to Jesus. I've got to take care of this. It's borrowed. I don't want to lose that exit. I don't want to lose the blessing and power of God on my life and ministry. I've got to maintain it. It's not mine. I've got to take care of it. How's your walk with the Lord? How's your wedge? That down inside your heart that keeps you close to the Lord. That internal pressure, conviction. That keeps you reading your Bible, keeps you thinking and talking pure, being honest, from within. How do your associates like? Are they drawing you closer to the Lord or are they pulling you away? Got to maintain that. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, as we go to the Lord's Supper here in a few moments, this is a time when we examine our axe head, so to speak. Are things right? Are things in tune? Is there something coming loose? Is there something missing? Holy Spirit of God, show us where we're at. This is not our life. This is not our church. This is not our ministry. It's yours, Lord. So we want to be responsible. Help us, I pray. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I don't know where you're at personally. I don't know what the Spirit of God may be dealing with your heart about. Your walk with Him. But let's examine ourselves tonight before we go to the Lord's Supper. Let's make sure everything's in place. Things are tight. Things are right. The Bible says if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just, for he has cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We can do business with God on a moment's notice. And now is that moment. Father, bless our invitation as we prepare for Lord's Supper in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads above, eyes are closed. Kathy's going to play a few verses of invitation. May the Lord spoke to your heart tonight. Maybe before we come to Lord's Supper, you'd just like to kneel at an old-fashioned altar Maybe you'd want to pray like David prayed, Lord, search my heart, try me. Or what's my walk with you like? Where what is my fellowship with other believers like? Where am I at? And my personal daily interaction with you, is it real? Is it a lie? Or has it gotten loose?