Chapter six, we're going to look at the final passage, the final verses of this passage on Elisha. Restoring the axe head. This axe head flies in the water and Elisha gets the thing. or actually the Lord through Elisha gets it to come floating up to the surface. It swims, the Bible says. Let's look at verse 1 of 2 Kings chapter 6. And the sons of the prophets said unto Elisha, Behold, now the place where we dwell with thee is too straight for us. Let us go, we pray thee, unto Jordan. And take thence every man a beam, and let us make us a place there where we may dwell. And he answered, Go ye. And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servants And he answered, I will go. So he went with them, and when they came to Jordan, they cut down wood. But as one was felling a bean, The axe head fell into the water, and he cried and said, Alas, Master, for it was Baruch. And the man of God said, Where fell it? And he showed him the place. And he cut down a stick and cast it in thither, and the iron did swim. Now picture that in your mind Therefore, said he, take it up to thee. And he put out his hand and took it. We're talking about this floating iron, this swimming iron, and we've broken this down to a number of points, and tonight we're going to look at the last one. And that is the power of God in this whole thing. So let's pray and look at what the Lord has for us here. Father, thank you again for good service, good testimonies. Grateful for your blessings on this day. And Lord, as we finish out the day now in the Word of God, we pray that you would speak to our hearts. And God, I uh yield myself to you and I present my body anew. I ask you to fill me with your spirit Take this truth, apply it to our lives, and Lord uh help us to get back to the business that you've called us to and back to the work, uh the responsibility. you've given us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now I'm not going to re-preach all this. Let me just go down and review briefly the points that we've already considered. These uh young preacher boys were outgrown their facilities and they were going to go down to Jordan, build a bigger place, and they were concerned that the prophet of God goes with them. Now you remember We pointed out that the prophet of God in very many ways represented the presence of God and was in again many ways the Word of God to the people So they wanted to make sure they had the Word of God and the presence of God with them in their endeavor to build a bigger facility. Then we noted the passion of these sons of the prophets. They were fired up. In verse 4, they got down there and man immediately they started chopping down trees and clearing the area and working the area and getting ready to And they didn't hesitate. And the thing we pointed out there that we need to take away from this, once they determined what God's will was, they got about it. And uh, you know, sometimes people People, uh that's one of the things I'm not a big fan of committees. I guess they have a place, but you know you can sit around and lash out and discuss the will of God over and over and over over for infinity, there comes a point where you gotta just get up and start doing what you gotta do, what God's given us to do. They did that. And uh I appreciate that from them. We noted that each individual had a role to play. They all had a part. in building these uh facilities. We noticed that they didn't look to the government or outside agencies to do what they could do. I've got it turned on, Brother Sam. I'm on, is it not working I don't know. Okay, I try I use the other one. I wonder if that one's not working. Alright, I'll try and stay behind the pulpit, okay? I just do whatever those guys in that room tell me to do. So they uh uh decided they uh uh they did not look to government or outside agencies agencies to do what they could do. Then they were content with what was available. uh regular treats, and they were happy with regular treats. And so that was the passion of these young men. Then last week we noted the problem of the axe head There's a lot of good stuff in that thought. It's important we point it out to aim our strikes. You don't just chop or hack around different things You zero in and uh in our ministry we zero in uh on uh what we're at. We teach our soul winners that when you're out sharing the gospel with people, don't get sidetracked. Don't you can discuss every controversial thing in the world. Aim your strikes at the heart trying to win souls and with the gospel. Sometimes people will leave here and they say, Preacher, and I like this. They say, Preacher, boy, you stepped on my toes today And uh I like that. That means I'm getting under the skin maybe sometimes. But in reality what I like to say is actually I was aiming for the heart. And uh we want God, we want to aim our strikes, we want to get to people's hearts, what the Lord is. Then we pointed out it's important to understand the head does all the work The axe handle and the man are just means of getting the axe hand where it needs to be and the way it needs to get there. And the application areas, God does all the work. Our job is to So important treat there. Then we pointed out that it's important to keep the act head firmly attached to the handle. And we've got to have God's presence, God's power. He's the one that does all the work. And we've got to stay close to him. Now said all that to get to verse numbers six and seven, where we see the power of God being established, uh being displayed. Now let me say this. Did I already pray? Did I pray? I did. Rewind the tea. Yeah, I prayed. Yes, I didn't. How many people say I prayed? How many people say I didn't pray Everyone who has their hand raised was sleeping. This is getting out of hand here a little bit Let me say this. I've really, I don't know if anybody else has, I have enjoyed studying the life of Elisha. Amen. The more I'm studying this guy, there's two things that are coming out as I see him. One is I'm beginning to see his humanity You know, he's a bad guy, but he's just a man. And you can see that come through in a few areas, and one of them is it's repeated here, and I touched on this earlier, is uh he doesn't like, I think he doesn't like to get distracted from his Schedule, right. You know, I mean he's got places to go, he's got things to do. And remember the Sunamite woman said uh said my child, and he he sends Gehazi and she goes, Uno, you're coming. He says, alright. And I don't know if he said it that way, but uh and now the guys the preacher boys say hey we need bigger facilities, we need to go down to Jordan and build a bigger place. And he says, Fine, go ahead Did you see that in him a little bit? He's he's got I've got things to do. I've got my schedule mess up my schedule. Um I I can relate to that. You know, being a preacher, your schedule gets messed up sometimes. People call me this, that And so I see his humanity here, but the more I'm studying, we're getting in through his life here, uh the more respect I am having for him And that is this, in spite of his humanity, he's a great man of faith. And he has his human deficiencies, and he has his own little idiosyncrasies, and his His humanity is visible, but he rises above that. And he exercises great faith in God, and he is in every way a man of God. Now, for you and I, you know, we're we're humans. Anyone notice that? That's what we are. At the very best, we're human, but we can rise above our humanity by trusting God, obeying Him Letting God take us and use us as ha as He sees fit, and God can use us in spite of our deficiencies. Now I don't know about you, but that encourages my heart. If I was sitting in the pew and the preacher said what I just said, I would have said, Amen. Because that encourages my heart Now, of course, y'all don't do whatever I would do, but that's what I would do. Now, as we look at the power of God here, there's two things I want us to notice before I give you the little thoughts I have on this. And um, one is this There's nothing said here. Let me read verse 6 and 7 again. Now we know the story. The axe head flies off, goes in a river. Verse 6: the man of God said, Where fell it? And he showed the place. And he cut down a stick and cast it in thither, and the iron did swim. Now that is almost treated like it's trivial. You know, God, it's like the record here is and the iron swam. It's like, what? If it was me writing this, I'd have stopped and talked about that a lot. That's a pretty amazing thing, but God treats it just as, like I said, almost something trivial. We're not there's nothing told us here about how this happened In fact, it's treated as if it's just an everyday occurrence. That iron axe head just comes floating to the top and the Bible describes it as a swimming. Treat it as almost something trivial. As I was reading some different commentaries on this and what other people have said and thought about this It's interesting you have a number of liberals who have tried to explain this away. One of the liberal explanations And you know, here's the thing so often about liberals is uh they try to come across as very intellectual people. Anybody ever notice that? Try and intimidate you, well we're very intellectual, we're highly educated, we know more about this than God does And what happens is they come up with these ridiculous explanations that really make them look stupid. One of the explanations here is this. Elisha, when it says that he cut down a pie a stick and cast him, really what was happening, the water was so clear and shallow there, Elisha could see the axe head And so he got a stick and he simply got down underneath it and flipped it out and it came out and that's where they got the idea of it came floating up. flying up out of the water. Now there's several problems with that. One is, if that was the case, why did the young, why did the preacher boy go running to the preacher all worried and upset? Why didn't he just reach in and get it himself You know, that's dumb. And how you can take an axe head and just get a stick, and the idea of stick there is not a board, it's just what you'd picture a stick. and flip out an achead up through the water and get it out is insane. That would be miraculous to me. The other explanation they've given here is that Elisha, again, could see the achead through the clear water in the river, and he took He took a stick and he poked it down through the hole where the handle was to go, and he kind of stooped it up and brought it out that way. And again, that's ridiculous. Why couldn't the preacher boy do that? In fact, if that was that case, why didn't he just wade out there, reach in and grab it and bring it up? So, these explanations, listen, anytime man starts trying to figure out how God does things, he's going to fall short. Every time. In fact, it's amazing throughout the Bible where man's always trying to find know how God does stuff Now I think it's good to be inquisitive. I think God created us that way to learn and check into things and study stuff and find out. And man has learned a lot of things about this world, amazing things. But God doesn't explain to us how he does things. In fact, many times God will do stuff, and it'll be almost like it's trivial when in our mind it's incredible. You read the Genesis account of creation and God said, let there be light and poop. And it's just like, yeah, it's no problem. What's the big deal? God just said it. You go through the New Testament. Remember when the angel appeared to Mary? And said, you're going to be with child, the Holy Ghost is going to come upon you, you're going to conceive. What was Mary's first question to Gabriel? Anyone? How can this be? She said, how are you going to do that? And the angel, God through the angel, basically says to Mary, don't worry about how, it's just going to happen. Mary basically says, Okay. Here's the balls. Uh remember Nicodemus came to the Lord by night? He says, Thou art a great prophet, no man can come uh obviously came from God, nobody can do the things out of us except God be with them. Jesus says, Except a man be born again, you can't see the kingdom of God. He says, How what does Nicodemus say How can that be? How can a man be born when he's old? Lord Faistig says, don't worry about it. The wind blows where it is. You don't have to worry about it. He explains a little bit there. But God seldom tells us how He does things. Now I have a little theory, but I'm not going to say it now. Come to Bible Institute. Matt Patton uh well actually I guess we were talking in Bible Institute about uh how God doing things. Yep, forget it. Just come to that and you'll find out later. So that's the first thing I notice here. He doesn't tell us how he gets his axe head to float. It's mirac it's incredible, but he just says, Yeah, the axe head swim. No big deal. The other thing I notice here, and this applies to us a little bit more, they did go get a new accent. They said, no, the old one was exactly what we need. They didn't go out and find something new. Yeah. I don't know, maybe somebody would say, Hey, you know that old that thing's been around forever. It's time we're living in a new generation. We've got new designed axe heads. It's time for a new axe head. I said, oh no, no. The old one is the one we want. Now listen, uh I believe that's true for the church. The old Church of Jesus Christ has been around a long time. Amen. And it's chopped down a lot of trees, so to speak, for the Lord. We don't need a new church. Now I'm not talking about church planning. I'm talking about a new style of church. We don't need a new version of Christianity. Now again, if I was sitting in the pews and a preacher said that, I would have said amen. Right there. Very loudly. The old Bible has been chopping down trees of sin and chopping down souls from Lord Jesus a long time. We don't need a new Bible Amen. Amen? Uh the old standards that God has given us in His Word, standards of right and wrong, personal standards. for how we live and all the aspects of our lives. You know, those old standards have been getting the job done for a long time. We need to drop the standards. We don't need to come up with some new standards. standards. The old plan for soul winning, taking a gospel, going out, finding lost people where they are, confronting them, and sharing the gospel with them, knocking on our doors or in the marketplace or wherever. That old axe head of soul winning has been working fine for thousands of years. We don't need a new axe head of soul winning. You say, oh, but we lost it. I'll be the first to agree with you there are some churches that lost the old church spirit. The old church organization, the old church establishment, that I'm not talking about old church as far as man's concern. I'm talking about the old New Testament church. Some folks have lost it. Some congregations have lost it. Now what do you do? You don't go out and get a new one. You go back and get the old one. And you get it back in place where it needs to be. I don't believe we need you say, oh the churches are getting dead, they're fundamental churches, they just don't have the big crowds and they're just not seeing we gotta we gotta change it. You know, I don't think we need new music. We just gotta get the old spirit and power and presence of God back in the old hymns You sing the old hymns without the spirit of God in them, of course it's going to be dead and dry. You don't go to new music, you get the spirit, you get the accent back. Follow what I'm saying? Well, and I hear it maybe more More than you do with preachers and literature, I get in different things from pastors. Well, old door-to-door souling and old confrontation. That doesn't work anymore. I take issue with that even. It's not that it does, well we've got to come up, we've lost that, we haven't done that in years. We need to come up with something new. No, no, no. The old acid works fine. We just need to get it back in place. Given invitations. When you preach and given invitations, you would be amazed how many churches are not given invitations anymore. They just don't give an opportunity for folks to trust Christ. Good churches, years ago, strong powerhouse churches. Listen, the old-fashioned altar call still works. Amen. People get right with God. God stirs hearts and people respond. The problem is that we don't need a new accent. We just need to get it. Get the old one back. And that is where the power of God comes in. That is where, that is where God has to do it. And that leads me to my points. I'm going to throw them out here at you real quick. Number one If we want to get back the Spirit of God, if we want to get, boy, this would have been a good title, Kathy. If we want to get back our cutting edge. Right? Pretty good. Write that down. If we want to get back our cutting edge in the ministry, there's a few principles here, what they did that we can apply. to our lives. And I don't know about you. I'm hungry for an old-fashioned revival. Old-fashioned, God-sent power of God, where lives are getting changed, drunkards are getting saved Homes are being restored. People are being won to Christ, and godliness and purity is in our homes and young people again. That's what I want. We don't need something new. We just need to get the old axe head back You got to do power. Now, how do we do that? Number one, we trust completely in God to restore it. These guys knew that they could not get that access. It was deep in that river. Currents flowing, there's no way they could get it themselves. God was going to have to get that accent back. And listen, if we're going to have revival in our church, if we're going to have the power of God and see people's lives change, God has to get his power back on us. God's the one that has to give revival. David understood that. In Psalms 85, verse 6, David prayed this, Wilt not thou revive us again? Every place you find a prayer of revival or revival discussed in the Bible, it is always, without exception, it is always God sending revival. God is the one that empowers us. God is the one that gives us His presence. God is the one that saves souls. God is the one that convicts cuts the heart with the word of God. It is God does all that, not louder music, not newer versions, not more worldly services. The power of God does that. God has to do that. David understood that all through the Bible, and it's God that's doing the reviving. It's God that's doing the restoring. I know we're a small crowd, but maybe I'm talking to someone tonight. There was a time when you had a cutting edge in your life, your walk with the Lord, and you had God's presence, and you were serving God and you were you were seeing God do things in your home and your life and God was using you and maybe you've lost that. You say, you know, my my ministry to the Lord, my witness to the Lord isn't anything like it used to be. It's falling off in the river. Listen, you can scramble all you want. You can't get it back yourself. You've got to go to God and have God restore it back. It's called revival. And God sends revival. So, number one, if we're going to get our cutting edge back, boy, I like that. If we're going to get our cutting edge back, we must trust completely in God to restore it. Second of all If we're going to get the cutting edge back, we need to go back to where we lost it. Look at verse 6. Elisha says a neat thing here. And the man of God said, Where fell it? And he showed him the place. Yeah. He goes, alright, let's go back. Where was it at where you lost it? W what what place were you at? What was it exactly what you were doing when that thing came off And if I want to get God's cutting edge back, if I want to get the presence and power of God back in my life, I want my heart pure again. I want my mind clean again. I want my witness to be strong again. I want my testimony to be clear again. I want my love for the Lord to be back to that first love I once had. How do I get it back? God has to give it to me. But I've got to go back to the place I lost it. Now where did we lose it? It might have been when we gave up our daily devotions. Well. Might be where we lost it. Say, preacher, no, I used to read my Bible every day But I quit. Faded out. Things came up. I don't have it. You know, maybe that's the place where you need to get back to, where you lost that accent. That presence, power of God. Maybe it's where in church attendance. Maybe you let that sweat fade it out. Well, you know, I don't, I don't, I don't have, I don't sense the Lord in my life. I don't sense that cutting edge in my spiritual life anymore, the presence of God. Maybe uh you need to go back to where well you know I started Now here you are on a Sunday night, 17 feet of snow out there, and you're in church. So I'm kind of preaching with the choir here. But the fact of the matter is we gotta look back and say, all right, where did I lose it exactly? Where? Did the presence of God, that power of God, if I want it restored, I've got to go back to where I lost it. Maybe it was when I s when I compromised some personal integrity. Maybe dishonesty, allow dishonesty to creep in. some deceitfulness. Maybe some areas on the job at work. I compromised my integrity. And God's presence seemed to be removed. The act said got lost in the river of the fares of this world. Maybe it was a matter of personal separation. Maybe there was a day when I had strong convictions and biblical standards in my life, and maybe over time a traction of the world or whatever, and I compromised the conviction here and I sacrificed the standard there. Boy next thing I know I'm just so eat up with the world and I have no presence of God in my life and know the cutting edge is gone. Maybe I need to get back and re-establish those purposes Boy, you know, there was a time I was out there, I was giving out tracts, I was out on church soul winning. I was there doing it, and boy, you know, things came up and whatnot, and I haven't been His soul winning I haven't made an effort to win a soul in years. Maybe that's where you need to get back to. And maybe it's just the matter of our first love for the Lord, which probably this all boils down to I just lost my love for Jesus that I once had. I need to get back and just love the Lord. So, we've got to go back to where it was. Only God can send it. I need to get back to where I lost it. Number three, I need to understand my role in restoring it. Now only God can give it, but I've got a role here Notice again in verse 7. Says, he said, where was it? And in verse 6, he showed him the place. He cut down a stick, cast it in there, the iron did swim. Verse 7. And therefore he said to take it up to thee Notice, Elisha didn't say, here I'll get it for you. Elisha did what the young man could not do, but he required of the young man to do what he could do. And we want God's blessing on our life, and we want God's power, and we want God to do great things in our homes, our lives, our ministries. God has to do it, but God will do the part that we can't do, but he expects us to do our part. In other words, if I'm going to have a Sunday school lesson or I'm going to preach a sermon that's going to speak the hearts and influence people to the Lord Jesus Christ, God has to do it. But guess what? I've got to prepare a lesson. I've got to reach out there and put some effort into this thing. Well God's the one to save souls, so you know I just no no no. God's the one to save souls, but I gotta get out there and talk to them I've got to confront them. I you and I have a role to play in God restoring the power and blessing back upon our lives. I put this quote down. I think this is pretty good. The power and blessing of God is dependent upon my yielding to God's will on a daily basis. If that boy was going to get that axe head back, he better listen to what Elisha says and reach out there and get it. Because he wasn't going to have it if he didn't yield to the will of God in that issue. And let me suggest something. We're talking about reading our Bible every day. Carol gave great testimony about daily time with the Lord. Let me suggest you add one aspect to your daily devotion, and that would be this. And this would be preferably in the morning. Add this aspect, Lord, today I yield my will to you. I present my body anew today. Today I want to be yielded and surrendered to you, Lord, throughout this day. Man, I believe that would make a difference. I'm yielded to you today. And then last of all, number four, if we want God's cutting edge back, we want the power of God back in our lives, recognize only God can do it. Go back to where you lost it. Understand your role in restoring it. And number four, get back to the duty at hand. Now we're not told expressly here, but it says he reached out his hand and took it What do you think he did with that axe head? Somebody talk to me. He put it back on the handle. What do you think he did when he got that thing securely on the handle? What do you think he did? Now if he was your average Baptist, he might have said something like this I ain't doing that again, that didn't work. And that's not even my accent. If I chop this one to go right out, I'll probably lose it again. It probably won't stay. Well if it goes out there again, the Lord probably won't raise it up again Tell you what, I've been around some Baptist, the most negative people I've ever seen in my life. This guy got back up and got back to work. And when God sends a revival, when God restores us back to fellowship with Himself, and we finally get the axe head back on the handle, the most important thing we do is get back up to building the kingdom of God again. God sends a revival to the church. It's not just so the church can experience revival, it's to get back into kingdom building, getting the gospel. established, getting churches established, getting missionaries out, getting people one to Christ. That's what it's all about. They were there to build buildings The job wasn't a C-X-head swim. That was something that was required to get the buildings built. Revival, and I've contended this for a number of times over years, revival is a process that God sends to get us back to where we're supposed to be on a daily basis. People say, well, we want to be in a continual state of revival. I don't think that's scriptural. Revival is the act of moving from carnality to spirituality. Once I'm here, it's not revival anymore. It's being what God wants me to be. Revival is the process of restoration. They didn't just sit there and have accents swim all day long. They got the accent back so they can be about the business that needs to be done. And what is the business of a Christian? What is the business of a church? Take the gospel into all the world, to every creature. Bring glory to God. Disciple new believers. That's what God wants to use us for. That's why He's working on arts. I talked to one of our members on the phone for fairly lengthy time last evening. I guess stay behind us. Fairly lengthy time last evening. You know what I see God doing in his life? I see God restoring his access. He's telling me things was God was doing. He's telling decision he has to make. And I said I said his name and I said, God's working in your life. You need to get back, get things in line. God's working. God wants to use you again. And listen, that's where we're all at. Amen. None of us don't ever lose our axe head at some point or another. Am I right or wrong? Do you ever stand there with an empty axe ha head uh uh empty handle? Uh you know what I'm talking about? I hate to admit it, but I think I've stood behind this pulpit a few times over the last six 16 half years, there had no axe head on. I was just beaten away with a ham handle. You know what I had to do? I had to go back to God and say, God, I need that axe head back. God, I need the power of the Holy Spirit. That's where we're at too, aren't we? Sad fact. Sad fact. Many Christians lose the axe head and they never go and try and get it back. And they're sitting out there tonight, missing the blessings of God, frustrated, their lives are empty, God's chastening them. And if they would just get that axe head back and get back to the Lord's work, they'd have the joy and blessings of God upon them again. Isn't that good? Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us. Lord, it seems inevitable that we lose that axe head periodically. We don't watch the wedge. We don't keep the straps tight and that thing flies off. But Lord, you're able to restore it. And God, so many times you're able repeatedly to give back to us that which we've lost. And Lord, I pray that whoever I may be speaking to tonight, myself included in this, Lord, when we lose that, help us go back to where we lost it and seek your face and get your blessing and power, the joy of the Lord back upon our lives. Give us our cutting edge back. As a church, as individuals, our heads bowed and with our eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I'll use my term I like tonight, preacher, I need my cutting edge back in my spiritual life, that influence, that sharpness that God can give me. And you say, preacher, pray with me. I can get that thing back. Is there any like that by the uplifting hand? God bless you, hands all around. It's called revival. It's called restoration to where we need to be. If we'll seek the Lord and do what He tells us to do, God can use us again. God can give that back to us. And we can see Him do great things in our church, our ministries, our lives. Father, bless us now as we have the invitation time. Help us to seek you in this. matter. Trust you and do our part in Jesus' name.