Something. In Deuteronomy chapter seven and verse nine. I just read through the book of Deuteronomy. I'm still reading about thirty chapters a day. I've read through the Bible nine times since my wife passed And uh it's helped me. The thing that g puts security in me is the Word of God. Now, Deuteronomy chapter seven verse nine. Know therefore that the Lord thy God, he is God. And then it says this, the faithful God. I want us to not just think about a faithful pastor today, but I want us to think about the faithfulness of God. How God has been faithful. 1 Corinthians 1 and verse 9 says it this way: God is faithful. By whom you were called unto the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. I want to say this: it is a joy to get to serve a faithful God. Amen. So we got again seven points. We better get with this. And then I got three closing statements. That's what I'm doing these days. Seven points and three closing statements. My sermons are not getting shorter, they're getting longer. Let's get with it. Point number one, I want us to think about the faithful foundations that God has laid right here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Our church, led by God, our church has been built on a faithful foundation. Hebrews 11, verse 1. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. We've got a faithful foundation at our church right here. Now, a strong building, strong building has to have a strong foundation. And uh you we see some homes that have been erected for a long time that the foundation starts to crack and uh starts to fall apart and and the building is It's not safe and secure that no, you need a strong foundation. Now, I want to say something. I do this once a sermon. If you're listening, say amen. All right, I want to make a declaration. We are a Christian church. We believe in Christ. We follow Christ. Our faith has found a resting place. It is in Christ Jesus. Our faithful God has led us to this faithful church and our church has a faithful foundation. Our rock is Jesus. Rock of ages. Collect for me. Let me hide myself in thee. Yes, in Jesus Christ, friends. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. Make no mistake about it. Our congregation is composed We are a body of followers of Jesus Christ. We've made our decision. We turn to Christ. It's not the world. It's not the world system. Ah, the world system. They try to fix all the maladies of the community. Oh, if we can just get another program in that community over there, Oakland, Maryland, we just get a another program going. We'll start teams against tobacco. We'll get everybody off cigarettes with the teens against tobacco. And then we'll get mothers against drug drivers mad. And then we'll get this program and we'll get that program No, it's not another man-energized program. Now please don't get me wrong. I'm not against organizations trying to stem some things, but they're just stemming the symptoms The cure is still Jesus Christ. And the great teachings are the Word of God Oh, that we could get this community back to Christ and to the firm foundation of the Lord and the Bible. Well, that's what we're trying to do. That's what Pastor Lutherman for thirty-two years has labored to do, to get us on this firm foundation. Oh, if the country gets off the foundation, the country's in trouble. We're off the foundation, aren't we? And so we must come back to Christ. And that's the firm foundation. So, number one, a faithful foundation. Number two, guided by Scripture Our God is going to guide each of our lives by the word of God. We're guided by the scriptures. Our pastor has been guided by the scriptures. Our congregation, our choir, our ushers, our nursery workers, our Sunday school, our our our Sunday school. What do we teach? The scriptures It's the scriptures that are so desperately needed. Have you found how ignorant the world is of the scriptures these days? I was on a plane I was flying from Memphis to Chicago. And I'm sitting by a little lady here. She's 70-some years old. I said, you're certainly happy today. She said, I went to see Elvis Presley's house. I said, that's that's interesting. I said, I was born on January the 8th. She said, that was Elvis Presley's birthday. I said, I know. I said, some of my family members tried to get my mom to name me Elvis You could have had Elvis preaching and singing for you today. You know? For our 32nd anniversary for our pastor, we've got Elvis coming. So I'm sitting by this dear little lady, she's just as happy as she can be, and she's seen Elvis's um home and she knows Elvis' birthday. She knows everything about Elvis. She said, I just love Elvis Presley. And we're just talking a little bit. I said, you know, you've got a happy spirit. I said, you know, a merry heart doeth good like a medicine. She said, what? I said, a merry heart doeth good like a medicine. She said, oh. That's clever. I said, ma'am, that's not clever. That's Bible. Here's a little lady, knew Elvis' birthday, knew about Elvis' house, knew a lot of stuff. Didn't know the Lord. Didn't know, hey, one of the most commonly talked about phrase from the Word of God See, we're in a, and she's 70-some years old, living in a major city of America, Chicago. Oh, I'm glad we got a preacher who's trying to guide us by the word of God. Amen. We want to guide our lives by the word of God. Our businesses by the Word of God, our families by the Word of God, our church by the Word of God. We're guided by Scripture. Thy word is a lamp in the mind feet and a light unto my path. You want to know where to go? Then keep that Bible out there leading you. Oh yes. I'm reading thirty chapters each morning. I read four chapters each night. Oh it's the word of God that we need so desperately. Guided by Scripture. Uh, we've got a constitution, articles, all that stuff, but we got this document, the incomparable word of God. Amen. Number three Our faithful God has led us to be empowered by prayer Yes, it's prayer. Prayer is a driving force around this place. Last night we had choir practice. And the choir. We uh we had fun, we laughed. I saw Austin leading the choir and he is doing Brother Austin is doing a good job. He's got a good voice. He's got got Good conducting skills. I think he loves the Lord. All these things that are just very commendable. And at the end of our choir practice last night, at our pastor's urging, you know what we did? We had a prayer meeting Yeah, and the ladies in the choir up here are praying, and the men of the choir down here praying, some on the altar, some in these seats here, brother Austin and Pastor himself sit right there on the front row on their knees praying Oh yes, our faithful God has led us and taught us about prayer. There is no substitute for the Bible and prayer. There is no substitute. No. Prayer is the driving force. Why is that church over there growing? Well, there's a reason why this church is growing. It's been an answer to prayer. Even this morning the the Sunday school, Brother Heath down there leading the Sunday School Teachers Prayer Meeting, they're calling out students names that we're praying for by name Why are you doing that? Because we believe in prayer. We understand what God has taught us about prayer. Empowered by prayer, the prayer meetings of our church. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth Much, the Bible says. James chapter 5 and verse 16. Matthew 21, verse 13, My house shall be called the house of what? Prayer. House of prayer. All these prayer meetings, the church is composed of families. Should dead be conducting prayer meetings inside of the homes? Oh yes. In a few weeks I'm preaching at a church in Richmond, Virginia. Who's the pastor of that church? His name is Mike McCleary. Well, who is he? Well, he's 75 years old. Where'd he come from? Well He was a hippie. He's a drunkard. He's on drugs And he's finally decided he'd spent a few days over there at the Union Mission in Norfolk, Virginia, and just eat their food, sleep in their beds, and then go on with this ridiculous life. While he was there, they just kept preaching the word of God. Mike McClare with that long hair, all that stuff. He got saved. Yeah, about fifty-some years ago. About fifty years ago he received Christ as his savior. He's in his twenties. And um forty forty-seven or so years ago got saved, received Christ as his savior. Don't give up on people He got baptized. He got baptized with long hair. Yeah, the pastor. He baptized and then he talked to him about his hair. You know what I'm saying? And um Talk to him about some things. Talk to him about earrings in a man's ears. And all you talk to him. You gotta look back fifty years ago. And uh old-fashioned preacher talking to him, trying to make a man, a Christian man out of him. And um God began to work in his heart and life. Got married. He married a wonderful lady named Jan They began saving their money because God was putting something in their hearts. There was one state in America. There's 50 states, and there was one state in America. that had a capital city that did not have a rescue mission in it. I mean Alaska, the capital city had a rescue mission. North Carolina, Raleigh, had a had a rescue mission. Annapolis, Maryland. Every capital city in America had a rescue mission except one. Virginia. No rescue mission in Richmond. And here's a fellow who got saved there in the rescue mission. Finally answered the call to preach. That guy, yes, got married, they saved $20,000. And they went there to Richmond to start it and had no idea on earth how to start a rescue mission. Finally that night that 20,000, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15,000, 14, 12 They're down to the final thousand dollars and they still haven't got really anything going. But God continued to work. Today the rescue mission, oh, it's got a three million dollar a month, uh uh three three million a month, uh three million a year. budget. They have a car shop there, all that. And they take broken men and show 'em what Christ can do. The guy, uh what does he do? He just keeps telling what the Bible says See, our church is guided by the scriptures and the broken lives of Oakland, Maryland, of broken homes. This this church right here with our faithful God leading us. God is faithful. He knows the way we need to go and he's put it down in writing for us what to do. And so sometimes our church glow criticized. Pastor Latherman is so narrow. Yeah, he's trying to be as narrow as the Bible is. The Broadway is the way to destruction. I'd rather be on that little narrow way. And so, yes, guided by the scriptures, empowered by prayer. And we want all of our dads and all of our men of our church to lead prayer meetings inside the home. Would all the men say amen to that? Yes. Men do it. Just do it. I can't pray with Renee anymore. All those golden opportunities. I remember on it was January the 12th of 2012 that Renee and I held hands for six hours, and I had a six-hour prayer meeting. Me and Renee. Where? Right there at our house. How many prayer folk were there? Two. The entire congregation composed of two. Me and Renee. One of the sweetest times we ever had. How you have a six hour prayer meeting inside of your house? Well, we prayed some and then we testified to each other by prayer that we prayed prayed some more and then we gave some prayer requests and we prayed some more and then we sang some songs about prayer. Sweet R a prayer. Sweet R a prayer. Just me and Renee singing And then we prayed some more. And then we talked about answers to prayer that God gives. Hey, God answers prayer. There's four ways God answers prayer for his people. This is not for lost people. This is not for lost people. God has not obligated himself to answer the prayers of lost people. I hear lost people all the time, I'm praying. Now, God is aware of lost people's words, but he is not obligated himself to answer their prayers. Save one. What prayer is that? When a lost person says, Lord, would you save me? God always says yes. He always says yes. Doesn't matter your background. Doesn't matter your social status. Doesn't matter how much money you've got or don't have. When you come to Christ, he says yes. But save people, oh, oh, there's four ways that God answers prayer. Number one, sometimes he just says yes. Sometimes he says no. Sometimes he says, wait. Sometimes he says, number four, I've got something better. And Renee and I have seen God do all of that. Oh yes. And he's continuing to lead. But my time of leading me and Renee in a Christian marriage, that's done. She's in heaven now. So I must go on. I must go on. You must go on. But I'm telling you, see now it's me and mom in my in my home. My home's down just me and mom now. We have our prayer time three times a day Amen to these things. It's prayer in the Bible. That's the foundation that our faithful God is faithful. That's what God has led us to. Number four, we want our church to be known for love. It's like our pastor has led us to love this community. We welcome people. The most welcoming place in the entire county, the entire place, should be the church. The warmest, nicest, most caring place there is. This is what Jesus said. Jesus said, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples. If you have love one to another. Yeah, our church, we goof up, we make mistakes, all that kind of thing. But we we love each other We're known for loving each other, loving this community. This is part of what our faithful God has done because see it's God who loved us first. And uh when my wife was dying last year. Who helped me? Well, hospice, they were great. Doctors were great The hospital, the rehab center, all these things that we experienced. They did a good job, but I'm telling you where the love came from. Pastor. Everybody ought to have a pastor. Either be a pastor or have a pastor. I'm glad Greg Gray is my pastor. Day after day in there praying with us. Then the deacons of our church and the people of our church they found ways. The last few days of my wife's life with our house, 1,103 square feet, 1103. Can you put 40 people inside that house? Yeah. Well, it's a little tight. Got enough chairs for everybody? No. We had 30 and 40 people at our house around the is uh day and some through the night. It was helping. A church saw that they said, send some chairs over there. There's not enough place. You can't see four people standing around. I didn't have I don't how many of y'all have kap a 40-seat capacity? I don't And um my church sent chairs over. And ladies washing dishes for me. All kinds of things. After Renee died, over a thousand cards came in the mailbox from people just showing their love They're love. And we want our church to be known of love. B. R. Lake and that wonderful preacher from years gone by. He prayed it this way. I was a 15-year-old boy and heard him pray it this way. He said, Oh Lord. Please put a love in my heart for everyone for whom Jesus died. I wrote that down. Oh Lord, please put a love in my heart for everyone for whom Jesus died. I'm praying that today. I want you to pray that. Oh, I want us to get a love for people. Even your enemies, those who gossip about you, those who malign you, those who say nasty and ugly. Yeah, love them too. Just love everybody. That's what the Lord has called us to. That's what our faithful God has led us to. And then number five, missions-minded. I want to say it again. God has faithfully led us to be a missions-minded church. He led preacher. Preacher makes sure that we're all uh involved in that. He's trying to get all of us to give. He's trying to get a bunch of us to go. At least go one time. Do something. Go through this community of course. This is what the Bible says Mark chapter 16 and verse 15, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That's what our faithful God has led us to. He wants us to spread the gospel. Now, who is the hero of the Bible? Oh, Jesus Christ. Now you say, well I don't I don't use that kind of verbiage about Christ. I know, I understand, it's a little trite. When I got saved as a little boy. I was eight years old from an unchurch background, from an unsophisticated, unrefined background. And in my first Bible in my Bibles ever since, I've been putting what I Put that first time with a as a little boy. Jesus Christ is my hero. Is he your hero? Oh look, the hero of the Bible is Jesus Christ, the villain of the Bible. Well that's the devil. I have people say, Well, I believe there's a God, but I don't believe there's a devil. There is a devil He's trying to destroy Maryland. He'd like to destroy you, your family. He'd love to destroy this church, but we have a God who's faithful And he's led us to try to be missions-minded. The theme of the Bible, you see, the theme, do you understand that the theme of the Bible is the gospel of Jesus Christ That's what the whole book is about. Oh, it talks about creation. It talks about a lot of things. But the theme of the entire Bible is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And God is always Faithfully leading us to spread the gospel. Give out those gospel tracts. I'm in a group called Phil America. Fill America. Bunch of my Michigan friends. Pastor Rusty Chatfield and a bunch of those fellows, they they begin this thing called fill Michigan. They're going to try to fill Michigan with the gospel of Christ. And man, it evolved to fill America. In the last three years, we've given out three or four million gospel tracts. Every Saturday night we have this prayer meeting, you call in, somebody gives a little Bible and so forth. And we hold each other accountable to carry gospel tracts and give them out You know who gives out gospel tracts? People who have gospel tracts. Yes. And that's part of what God has faithfully led us to to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ. By the way It was 53 years ago that a faithful church reached me with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Number six, persevering through challenges. Our faithful God is leading us to persevere through challenges through all these years. Pastor these thirty-two years there have been a a few challenges along the way. I I looked up what's happened in the world in the last thirty-two years? Well there's that Haitian earthquake in twenty ten where seven point zero magnitude earthquake struck Haiti and it killed somewhere between two hundred thousand and two two hundred and fifty thousand. That was while Pastor was here. Then the hurricanes. I just I'm looking at a list of all the hurricanes. Hurricane Sandy, Harvey, Irma A lot of ladies' names here by the way. Anyway, um Yeah. The space shuttle. Nine eleven. While our pastor was serving here, 9-11 took place where the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon took place and nearly 3,000, nearly 3,000 Americans died. Have you all heard about this thing called a pandemic? Yeah. All this. And new companies in America. Uber. I've been in some of those things. Uber. Can you call me an Uber? Get me an Uber. I need to go over get an Uber so I can get around this city. Yeah, I've been in some of the big cities that instead of trying to drive it, I try, I got an Uber app It's cell phones in the last 32 years. My things have happened all through this, though. It's just remaining steadfast with a few things. What? Reading the Bible. Praying, keep spreading the gospel, be unified in the work of Christ, and just persevere. Persevere. You mean when the building has problems? Yeah. Stay with it. You mean when the the the radio goes off and then you get another little disc thing and and it two days later it goes off and Hey, just stick with it. I love FBN radio, don't y'all? I'm so glad that we get to be a little part of that. And all through these years, how God is faithful. God is faithful. We just need to hold his unchanging hand, the hand of God. And then lastly, let's think about our future. All right? 32 years with our pastor that we have currently Thank God. But we want this church to remain faithful to God till Jesus comes. We say, well, that's a pro probably a long time from now. It could be this afternoon, you know. And that'd be pretty good, wouldn't it? My back that's hurting right now, I'm ready to leave this thing. Yeah, man. Oh yes. There is a future with the Lord And so we want to do this. Here's the last thoughts. We want to stay rooted in Scripture. Our faithful God has given us the Bible. Americans printing the Bible. By the way, Bible distribution, Bible printing, and Bible sales are through the roof. There is something going on, and we ought to take advantage of momentum right now. Amen to that. And we want to remain Rooted in the scripture. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. Our faithful God I'm talking about. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. And it's profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Second thing we want to remain steadfast with, serving with compassion. It is compassion that makes a difference. It's love that makes a difference. Yes, it says this in Matthew 9, verse 35, and Jesus went about all the cities and villages. Teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. Jesus just loves people. I've known of our pastor going up in little areas and finding church buildings that were closed and go out there and do a week of meetings and little communities like that And I say hallelujah to that. We just want to keep serving with compassion. And then lastly, our last little thought I have. to pass on, to pass on the faith. I um As I travel and my travels have changed in the last year, I'm still out a little bit. Three to five days a year is all I can go out of my immediate area. Um and uh my wife, the last months of her life, she said, You gotta get back on the radio. I said, uh I I don't need to do that. Got plenty to do. Then my pastor said to me, said Brother Fox, now that your schedule has been disrupted and so forth The people that know you, they need to hear from you. They need to he said he said you've got to get back on the radio. I said, Ah, Pastor, my equipment is old. I can't do that And then friends of mine in Gloucester, Virginia called me and said, hey, we want to buy the radio equipment you need. Well at that point, all of my excuses were done. So I started doing this radio thing and now 60 substations and 150 podcast platforms, all that. And people say this to me sometimes. They say, now Brother Fox, we want you to keep the faith Keep the faith. Well, I want to keep it, but I don't want to just keep it to myself. I'd like to pass it along. I want to share my faith with somebody else. I'll just tell you, just the other day I got to lead at a meeting that I got to preach, I got to lead two deputies to Christ. A few weeks back I got to lead a sheriff to Christ My wife's doctor. I got to leave my wife's doctor to Christ. I'm just telling you, uh my wife was dying and so many people coming to see us and uh people I didn't really even know One lady came with a Bible this big. Charlene. Everybody stand. Everybody stand. Charlene came with a Bible like this and said, uh, Brother Fox Would you sign my Bible? I said, yes. And I started signing her Bible. I said, Shirlene, when'd you get saved? She said, Oh, I'm not saved. She said, I'm a lost Catholic. I'm still signing her Bible. I said, oh. I said, well, you're on your way to getting saved. She said, I am? I said, of course you are. I said, no one, no one has ever gotten saved until they would admit they were lost. You are or no, you're lost. I said, you're on your way. I took the Bible and showed her how to be saved. I said, now she'll know if you want to be saved. She said, oh, not today, not today. Not today. I said, okay, and we kept talking a little bit about other things, a little bit, but you come right back to it, you know. I said, now Charlene, let's get back to this thing called salvation. The Bible says today is the day of salvation. I said one of the worst things that anybody can do is procrastinate. On saying yes to Christ. I said, because by not saying yes, you're saying no. There's no middle ground on that thing. She said, well not not today, not today. So we talked on a little bit. Now it's not my job to force things. Coercion is not right. Jesus Himself does not force people to receive Him She's about to leave. I said, well, mind if I pray. She said, well, yes, I want you to pray. She said, but before we pray, could I get saved? And right there in front of other folk, Charlie and Sweetley called on the Lord. See, we don't want to just keep the faith. Our faithful God has led us to share the faith. If you're here today and you've never received Christ, today is the day of salvation. And we'd all be happy. Well, if I came forward to get saved, everybody knows something's wrong with me. We know something's wrong with you. What's wrong with us too? We're a bunch of sinners. We all need the Lord. And if you don't have the Lord, we want you to have him. Would you bow your heads? If you've never received Christ, would you not do that today? We'll ask our pianist in a little bit. She's going to play Great Is Thy Faithfulness. We're just talking about our faithful God today and how He's led pastor and how He's led our church. And He's faithful to save any who will come. Is there anyone in this room who would say, Brother Fox, I'm going to be honest, I'm not saved? But Brother Fox, I wish you would pray with me. Pray for me. With heads bowed and eyes closed and me and the Lord looking. So everybody in this room, anybody in this room who would say, Brother Fox, I'm not saved. Pray for me, Brother Fox. Is there someone like that that would slip a hand up right now and say, Brother Fox, pray for me? I am not I see that hand. Oh, I see it. Who else would save Brother Fox? I'm not saved. Anybody else? I'm so glad for the one who raised the hand. I want all of you to join me in praying right now. You pray in your heart to the Lord. Lord, we've had one dear one. Oh my. I want him to be saved, and I know you want him too. I can't get saved for anybody, but I can certainly intercede in prayer. And this one's taking the first step, admitting That he needs you. Oh Lord, please give him a chance today to be saved. Everybody else keep your heads bowed and eyes closed. The one who raised the hand, would you like to call on the Lord today? Why don't you come forward? Let's take a yeah, yeah. Pastor, can you help us here? Thank you. Everybody just keep your heads back for a moment. Praise God. Now, I want you to start playing this little bit sister