Genesis chapter forty. We're all the way at the end of the chapter. And I want to begin reading in verse twenty, the last three ver four verses here in Genesis chapter forty. The Bible says It came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast unto all his servants. And he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants. To remember, these two fellows were in prison with Joseph. How many people remember that there? looked at them last week. They had this dream that uh the b the butler had a dream that he had these grapes and they were pressed and given to Pharaoh And Joseph interpreted his dream that, oh, in three days you're going to be restored back to your position. The butler, or the baker, on the other hand, he had a dream. This time he had these bread up in his on a basket on his head Birds came and plucked it out. And Joseph told him the meaning of that drain was that in three days his head his head was coming off. and he was going to be uh shamefully um executed. And so that's where we're at. So the Pharaoh has this birthday and he lifts up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants. And he's bringing him out of prison is what it means. Verse 21 And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again. And he gave the cup unto Pharaoh's hand on his birthday. But, verse 22, he hanged the chief baker as Joseph had interpreted to them. Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgot him. I'm entitled to the message tonight, A Forgetful Baker, a Forgetful Uh butler, I should say, a forgetful butler. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of your word this evening. I pray that you would Speak to our hearts through these passages here and the truths that are within these passages. I pray our faith in you would grow, it would be stronger. I pray our walk with you would be uh closer, more intimate. I pray that our witness would be more effective because of what you could do in our hearts tonight. So help us to be open and receptive to your Holy Spirit's speaking. I yield my will again for this message and present my body anew for this message. And Lord, I ask you to fill me with your spirit. I pray that you would speak through me and challenge us tonight and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The more we're studying the life of Joseph, and I'm enjoying looking into his life in a little more detail than I have before. But the more we're studying his life, the more convinced I'm becoming that Joseph is one of the most remarkable people in all of Scripture. Uh extraordinary. Um he's not your average Jewish uh twenty-some year old Jewish boy This guy's exceptional in multiple ways, not necessarily intellectually exceptional, though I'm sure he is a smart kid. Maybe not necessarily in gifted or physique. We don't know. We're not told about that. But he was remarkable in his faith in God. And his walk with God, his integrity was exceptional. And uh we're seeing that, and we're picking up as we go through uh go through here. I think it would be wise for every young man. To do a very in-depth character study on the life of Joseph. I think it would help a young man, maybe in his teens, mid to late teens, and early twenties through his twenties. I think it would be a tremendous benefit to study Joseph uh in depth, uh do a character study. I think it'd be very, very helpful. In Joseph, we notice several things. One, we notice uh we see we observe injustice without anger He is treated unjustly over and over and over. And yet there's not a hint of anger. There's not a hint of bitterness on the part of Joseph. I doubt seriously, there's many of us here tonight, that if we were treated at the level of injustice that Joseph has been treated I doubt there's many of us that wouldn't be squawking and carrying on and probably very, very angry, right or wrong. Come on, let's be honest. Be treated this way. Yet we see no hint of that There's not even a whiff of bitterness that I find in any of his statements, in any of his actions. Now I will say this, and I'm jumping way ahead, and we're going to deal with it maybe a little more in depth down the road aways, but uh I do see a hint, maybe Of a temptation at retaliation. And this is much later on While when the the world is in the midst of the seven-year famine, and Joseph's brothers come down and show up. And they're looking to buy corn, because the whole world's in a famine, and under Joseph's leadership, they stocked up and made available to save lives. And they show up, and how many people remember Joseph was messing with them? He recognized them immediately. And he's really, and we'll look at this again, like I said later, more depth, but he's really giving them a bit of a hard time. Now he's very gracious. He gives their money back in different things. In the end, he treats them well. But here, and then the second time they come down, he gives them a rough time again Now here's my question. I can't say dogmatically, I can't say either way, but this is just my suspicion is that Joseph may be struggling with getting some retaliation here. And I sensed just a little bit of a struggle going on within his heart and mind about how to respond to these fellas. And what to do. So I don't know. I just kind of sense that. But back to my original thought was I don't notice any bitterness Even when he encounters his brothers years later, who are the humanly speaking the root cause of all his trouble. There's no bitterness there, there's no hatred, there's no anger. In fact, it ends up, he's saying, listen, God used you guys. Here we have an exceptional man, young man. Treated so unjustly, yet not a hint of bitterness, not a hint of anger. Here's a young man I find, as we're studying it, I notice, uh, I observe Pain without impatience. And he's thrown in prison. And if you remember, we noted, what was it, Psalm 105, I think, where it references they shackled him with irons And he was in literal physical pain. And yet he spares it so patiently. And in the how many people here, when you're sick, I mean you are sick and you're in pain, You would kind of like for somebody to serve you a little bit. Just come and help you. You're hurting. You're sick. You'd like for someone to serve you. How many people like that? Come on, be honest. Yeah, some of y'all milk it for weeks and months And get people to wait on you. But what do we find in the life of Joseph? We don't find anybody serving him. We find him serving the butler and the baker. Would you agree with me? That's exceptional In the midst of pain, in the midst of a broken heart and injustice, he's serving, he's serving. Pain with patience. The closest I can find of Joseph complaining, and it's a stretch to even suggest that this is complaining, but the closest we find to that is in verse 14 of chapter 40 here. We touched on it a little bit, but I didn't really draw it out. But notice verse 14. He's telling he gives the uh he gives the interpretation of the butler and the baker and their dreams And when he tells the butler, hey, you're going to be restored, Pharaoh's going to put you back in your position. Look what he says in verse 14. But think on me when it shall be well with thee And show kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house. Would you agree with me so far? It's not really a complaint He's just saying, hey, listen, I'd like to get out of here. You could maybe facilitate that in a way. But get to verse 15, and there's just a hint. Notice what he says. For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of Hebrew. And here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon. Can you hear a hint of complaint there maybe? Just a bit. I don't I didn't do anything. I was taken against my will I didn't do anything wrong to be in this prison, this dungeon. It's not a full-blown complaint. He's not elaborating on it. He's not dwelling on it. But down inside his heart, down inside his mind, there was a little bit of a sting there. There was hurt in what had happened And um, but that's the closest we come to it. So we have injustice without any blant anger, and I don't see any anger at all, really. We have incredible pain, physical, emotional, no doubt mental, yet they're so bearing it so patiently, so patiently. I say again, the more I study the life of Joseph, the more I admire how remarkable this young man is. How extraordinary is in his his integrity and in his spiritual maturity. self-awareness, I guess you could say, of who he is before his God and what his standing is with his God. And he has something I believe a lot of us can use, and again I believe a tremendous study for a young man do a character study on the life of Joseph. Pain and injustice, when handled correctly can develop a great man of God, a great woman of God. Pain and injustice, when handled correctly Can mold a character into a giant, a spiritual giant, and have tremendous influence. If it's handled incorrectly Pain and injustice can produce a monster. Bitter, angry, hateful, vengeful monster So it depends on our response. It depends on how we see that pain. It's how we our perspective on that injustice. That determines how we respond to it, whether correctly and it improves us and develops us and strengthens us and elevates us as a person Or we respond in anger and bitterness and hatred and vengeance, and it eats away, it destroys us as a person. And makes a monster. A. W. Tozer, one of my favorite authors, he said, It is doubtful whether God can bless a man greatly until he has been hurt deeply. Let me read it again. It's doubtful whether God can bless a man greatly until he has been hurt deeply. I would modify that a little bit in my context for me. It's doubtful whether God can use a man greatly. Until he's been hurt deeply. I found, I've said this often recently, I think, but I found the people that have helped me the most in my Christian life The people that have been the greatest inspiration in my growing faith and developing my faith have been people who have been hurt very, very deeply. But they responded correctly. And they responded in faith and humility and integrity. And God developed them and made them usable in my life and many, many others. Joseph is a remarkable man. Another thing, as we're kind of get building up here to look at what we read, this disappointment, this Hurt that Joseph has gone through, this loss that he's experienced. He's lost his family. He's lost all possessions. Whatever he had, they're gone. And then he rebuilds, and then that's taken from him, and he's down at the bottom. He's in prison. Then he rebuilds, comes back, and he's run the show, and then he's forgotten, and he's back down at the bottom again But I think God's doing something in Joseph's life. I believe God is preparing him not just for a position as number two under Pharaoh. But I think he's preparing him mentally and emotionally for the people he's going to be dealing with. Now think with me. We know the end of the story. We know what's coming, right? Joseph does not. We know that he's going to end up in Pharaoh's court. He's going to interpret Pharaoh's dream. We're going to get into that in a week or two. We know that's going to happen. We know how Pharaoh is going to respond to Joseph's interpretation. of his dreams. He's going to place him into the second most powerful position in the nation overnight. We know that there is going to be seven years of great plenty. And they are going to fill the the bins and they're going to fill the uh what's the word I want? Uh huh, silos and the storage departments, they're going to build warehouses. I mean they are just going to store up for seven years under Joseph's leadership, under his direction, under his administration, under his organization And then seven years of famine is going to come, and we know what happens. As those supplies dwindle, the people are selling what they have. And he's going to end up, by by the time the 14 years reach, gets the end of the 14 years, he's going to be dealing with people who have lost everything they own. He's going to be dealing with people who are hurting. He's going to be dealing with people who are scared. They don't know What's going to happen tomorrow? Everything, their lands, their resources, their finances, they're selling their kids to the state. Their hearts are broken, they're lost everything, and Joseph, I believe, God is preparing Joseph's heart to have some compassion because he knows what it's like to lose everything. He knows what it's like to have your family shattered. He knows what it's like to be disappointed and afraid. And I believe there's a whole lot more going on here than just getting Joseph into a position where he can hold this position here, this process he's going through. There's a preparatory process, there's a molding. There's a developing taking place in the heart and soul of Joseph where he can be compassionate to those who he's going to have to help. And I tell you, I found that nothing makes someone more compassionate than responding properly to a broken heart. I think sometimes God lets our hearts be broken so that we can learn to have a little empathy for people who have broken hearts. Sometimes God lets us suffer loss and setback and hurt, and He allows us to go through that so that we can have a little bit more compassion, a little bit more empathy For people around us who have broken hearts and who've been hurt. And so Joseph's a remarkable man And God is doing some remarkable things in his life, though whether he realizes, I doubt seriously, he realizes what's all taking place At this point, I know at the end of the book of Genesis, he looks back and he understands with perfect clarity what God was doing. And we'll see that later on. Humility, patience, faith, and compassion. That's what Joseph is learning. Ah, he doesn't really, apparently he's naturally gifted to some extent in administration He's apparently naturally gifted at overseeing projects. That's all he's done since he's got to Egypt. But he needs to learn maybe some compassion. I know this, he didn't learn any compassion at home. Right? He didn't learn any empath how to empathize with somebody at home. His home was filled with hatred and anger and jealousy and envy to the point of murder, attempted murder. So he didn't learn any of this at home, but he's learning it in prison. He's learning it with shackles on his feet. And so I've been in Bible college. I squeezed, literally, I squeezed Six year a a four-year degree in the six years of Bible college. And that wasn't easy. But uh I noticed one thing. I had classes in Bible college, I had classes on everything you can imagine Homiletics, hermeneutics, doctrines one, doctrines two, English, literature, I mean you name it. I even took a class on typing Actually the I think one of the most practical classes I took in all college was my typing class. And they didn't have laptops then. It was the old electric In fact I had one that wasn't even electric that had a shh Can I get away anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody under forty has no clue what I'm talking about But I noticed in Bible, all these classes, and they were helpful. I'm grateful for all of them. Listen, I am all for Bible college. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I wish every person, young person, would go at least one year. I say it old time. Except for 30 years I've said that. But I noticed they never I never saw a class in Bible college on humility. Would you agree with me? Humility is one of the greatest virtues in the Christian life. One of the most necessary. If I'm going to grow spiritually, if I'm going to serve the Lord effectively, I've got to have humility. I've got to get pride out. But I never saw a class on humility Patience. Would you agree with me? Patience is an important virtue in the Christian life. Can I get a witness? Yeah. If you're an impatient, you're not going to be very effective in serving the Lord. You're not going to grow very well. But I never had a class on patience, how to have patience. Integrity, would you agree with me? Integrity is vital. Yes. I never had a class on integrity. Patience, nothing on patience, nothing on humility, nothing. Compassion. I never had a class on compassion, how to be compassionate. Looks to me there ought to be a whole semester. On how to be a compassionate Christian, how to have faith. I don't have a class on any of them. And I got thinking, why don't they have classes on these subjects that are so vital? That are absolutely necessary to serve God and to be a mature, godly, useful Christian I come to this conclusion. I don't think it's because they neglect it, maybe in some cases, but I think those are virtues and lessons that can't be taught in a class. I don't think you learn compassion from reading a book. I don't think you develop integrity by listening to a lecture. I think these are things we have to learn in the experiences of life. As we have our heart broken, as our integrity is tempted to its breaking point. We're able to say no. And we're able to show served even when we're hurting. And to be fair even when we're in and treated so unjustly. We have to learn that in the experiences of life. It cannot be taught in a classroom. We don't pick it up through a lecture And Joseph is learning all of this, not in a classroom, but in a prison. Not with a professor, a doctorate of compassionology. But serving others when he's being treated so unjustly. I repeat my statement at the beginning: Joseph's a remarkable man, a young man. Extraordinary on so many levels, and God is working in his life in extraordinary ways. Not what we would say are pleasurable ways, enjoyable ways But in ways that are effective in what needs to be done in his life. I'm going to have three observations. Now let's get to our text here in the little time we've left. I made three observations from Genesis chapter 40, verse 20 through 23, and I want to make my first observation from verse 23, the last one in the chapter. It says, yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forget him. My first observation is this people will forget. People are going to forget. Sad fact is, forgetfulness is a normal part of life. Can I get a witness? I've seriously I've come to the conclusion a huge percentage of my day is spent going back to get stuff I forgot initially. I don't even remember the last time I left my office to go do something and I didn't get to the car or get down the halfway down the driveway and I loop around and say, oh, I forgot something. Forgetfulness is a normal part of life. Now here's the question: why do we forget? Why in the world are we so so forgetful? Well, I have several reasons, but I can't remember what they are. So I wrote them down. That's why I have notes. Some reason some re one reason we forget stuff is just simply because of aging. The older we get, the old computer in the head slows down a little bit. And it's hard. The way I look at it, just over the years, we have retained so much information in this break. That to sort through it all, sometimes we can't find where that we stored that information. Sometimes aging Produces forgetfulness. Sometimes I'm told by medical folk that our lifestyle facilitates. Sometimes a lifestyle may facilitate forgetfulness. For instance, lack of sleep, doctors tell us. The person is perpetually sleep-deprived. They have a tendency to become very forgetful. So if you want to help your memory, get a good night's rest. Get a good sleep. The one article I was reading about the causes of forgetfulness, they said one major cause is liquor, drinking liquor. Alcohol affects the brain. How many people are aware of that? And liquor literally affects our ability to remember. And so they say that's a factor sometimes in forgetfulness, our lifestyle, not getting sleep, being just few hours or not getting enough sleep or indulging in liquor. Another cause they said is uh can be stress or grief. Over situation, death of a loved one, or circumstance, whatever produces grief, or we find ourselves under a lot of stress, that affects our mind And can affect our ability to remember stress, liquor, lack of sleep, a diet Said how we eat, how healthy we eat, can affect our memory. So aging is a factor, lifestyle is a factor. Sometimes there's medical reasons why somebody is forgetful. Um a chemical imbalance can produce forgetfulness. A tumor In the brain, or some sort of mass there can affect a person's ability to remember. Aging, lifestyle, medical causes, medicine can sometimes cause forgetfulness. Maybe you take medicine for high blood pressure or for uh some sort of uh disease or ailment you have That medication can produce forgetfulness. I know my dad, I don't remember what the medicine was, but the doctors had told him there was one medication he took. They said that's going to affect your short-term memory It's going to be a factor. It's going to affect that. And then I added one. These were the medical reasons. I added one, and I think it's the one that relates to our subject here. And that is lack of interest. If there's something I really don't care about, I'm not interested in, I don't have a tenant, I have a tendency not to remember the specifics about that. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You know, somebody's a subject and they're talking, I really don't care about it at all. I hear what they're saying, but I don't remember a word I I I don't care about. I'm not interested in it in the least And I think that's a factor sometime, just unconcerned. And along with that, lack of interest, I think sometimes it's simply selfishness. If the subject or issue is not about me and benefiting me in any way, then I'm not interested and I don't think about it. Somebody asks me to do something or somebody uh sa says something, they asked me to do something, because I don't doesn't affect me, it doesn't anything that benefits me, I'm really not interested in, I tend to forget what it was. Oh, I forgot all about that. I think selfishness, lack of interest, unconcern is a huge factor on why we forget stuff sometimes. That which is important to us, we remember, or at least we tend to remember more a little better. The word forgat here, notice what it says. It says, He yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgot him. He's kind of like that last statement. He's kind of explaining what he means by them not remembering him. Didn't remember him, but he forgot him. The word forget means what you think, to forget. But it also has this idea, and I think this is where it comes in. It has the idea of ignoring it. Joseph had made a very clear, very passionate request to the butler: please remember me and mention me to Pharaoh or to somebody because of my situation. There's no misunderstanding on the part of the butler what Joseph was asking him to do. But he got out, Pharaoh's birthday, he got caught up in that. And because it really didn't concern him, because it really was no benefit to him in any way, shape, or form He just tended to push it aside. In fact, one of the meanings, look at this, of that word forget, is the idea of simply laying aside, pushing it aside. Here's what I think took place. I think the butler knew what Joseph situation was. He knew what his request was. He wasn't opposed to it. It was a legitimate request. It was reasonable. But it didn't concern the butler, and therefore it wasn't important to him. Because it wasn't important to him, he really just kind of pushed it aside, and I'll get to that one of these days. Now granted, we see here Pharaoh's birthday was involved. He could have got caught up in that. This all takes place in three-day period. But nevertheless, he was so absorbed, I believe, this is what I think, apparently he was so absorbed in what was going on in his life. That Joseph's needs were crowded out of his mind, and he just pushed it aside. I found that most people that get what they want Generally are ungrateful. Those people that can just get whatever they want generally are ungrateful and generally are unmindful of those who made it possible. This butler forgot Joseph was the one that interpreted his dream But because, and again, I'm making accusation here that I can't totally substantiate, but it appears he was so absorbed With his being restored and his service to Pharaoh and his life and his well-being, he forgot what Joseph's situation was and what his need was. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Jeremiah chapter 17. Now keep there in Genesis. I want to get back to that quickly here, but notice Jeremiah 17. And verse number 5, give you a moment to find it there, Jeremiah 17 in verse 5. And then from there I want to go over to Isaiah, just before Jeremiah. Keep your Bibles handy. Genesis or Jeremiah chapter 17, verse number 5. If you found Jeremiah 17, say amen. All right, that's the majority. If you haven't found it, just look intelligently at your Bible there, and nobody will know. Verse 5. Thus saith the Lord. Now notice the wording here: cursed be the man that trusteth in man and maketh flesh his arm. And whose heart departeth from the Lord. For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not see when good cometh, but shall inhabit the parched places in the wilderness and in the salt land and not inhabited. What happens when we put our trust in man according to this? What happens? We lose out It's not a good ending. It hurts us in the long run when we put our trust in humanity in a man. But, verse 7: blessed is the man that trusteth in what? In the Lord, and whose hope the Lord is. For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, and that spreadeth out her roots by the river, and shall not see when he cometh, and shall not be careful in the year of drought. Sound like Egypt. Neither shall cease from yielding fruit. Joseph's hope, maybe for a period of time, was in the butler He's the man, he'll get me out of here. But in the long run, Joseph's trust ultimately was in who? Was in the Lord. It wasn't the butler that was going to get Joseph out of his situation. It was going to be the Lord. And we'll talk about that here in a moment. Come over to Isaiah. Chapter 49. Remember, the butler forgot Joseph. He got so caught up in what he was doing, his life, his world, his well-being. He just kind of pushed aside Joseph's need, Joseph's request. Maybe he thought, one day I'll get to that. I'll get to it someday. I'm glad our God doesn't do that. Notice verse 15 of Isaiah chapter 49. Can a woman forget her sucking child that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? Yea, they may forget, it's possible a woman would even forget her nursing child. They may forget, now this is God speaking, look at this, yet will I not forget thee Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands, thy walls are continually before me. Listen, man may forget, but I'm here to tell you, God never forgets. And he says, I've got you written on my hands. I will not forget you. I will not forget you. I'm glad God does not put your needs. And you're de your on my needs, I'm glad he doesn't push them aside and they go out of his mind He's ever, we are ever before him. So number one, my first observation coming back here is that people will forget. The butler did, people forget. Number two, quickly, I want us to notice back in verse 20 now of Genesis 40, God has his timing. Look at verse 20. It came to pass the third day. Which is what exactly what Pharaoh, or what Joseph had said would be three days. The third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday of all days. Then he made a feast unto all his servants, and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of chief baker among the servants. Why was it three days? Well, I don't know specifically why it was three days, other than to say this. God has a timing for everything He does. God has a timing for everything he does. Now it mentions Pharaoh's birthday. That caught my attention. Pharaoh's birthday. This is the first time a birthday is mentioned in the Bible. There are no birthdays mentioned before this in Scripture. In fact, there's only one other birthday mentioned in Scripture. You have Pharaoh's birthday. Does anybody know who the only other birthday mentioned in the Bible is? No, it's not called a birthday. I mean we celebrate as a birthday, but there's only one other birthday mentioned in Scripture. That's called a birthday. Not John the Baptist. Herod and Matthew chapter number uh fourteen, Mark chapter six, be on Herod's birthday He had his daughter-in-law, his stepdaughter, dance for them. How many people remember now? It's the only other birthday mentioned in the Bible. His birthday. Pharaoh's birthday and Herod's birthday. And Herod's was a disaster. By the way, as I was studying this, According to Jewish historians or according not Jewish historians according to historians, this is the first time a birthday is mentioned in all of human literature. There are no birthdays mentioned before this point in any of man's writings, all through the ancient writings, all through the history. Nobody mentions a birthday. First time a birthday is mentioned in all of literature, of any sort, of any source. You say, what's that mean? I have no idea. I just thought that was really interesting. His first time birthday is mentioned anywhere ever in on uh in all of human history It's Pharaoh's birthday that has to do with Joseph. Absolutely no application that I'm aware of, but I thought you'd like to know that. Not only do people forget, now we're talking about God's timing, not only do people forget, but they forget quickly. This has been three days, and this guy's forgotten. Now I think there was a little, as I said, unconcern there. I think he was so wrapped up in the fact that his life was spared, he escaped prison. And now he's back, and the first thing he's back to is probably one of the biggest feasts, festivals, parties he's ever hosted, is Pharaoh's birthday, so he dives right into this thing And um this royal birthday, and he puts aside Joseph's request and then it goes out of his mind. But here's what I w want to observe. What was negligence on the part of the butler was deliberate timing on the part of God. God has a plan, God has a purpose. And there was a very specific time that everything was lined up for Joseph to be able to step into the position that he needed to be, and that time is not yet. Not in three days, not in three weeks, not in three months, but it is going to be two more years. That Joseph sets in prison forgotten. And then one day Pharaoh has a dream, and that old butler's memory is sparked. Hey, I had a dream, and there was a guy in prison who told me hell. What I'm trying to say is this: God's timing is perfect. God's timing may not be your timing, it may not be my timing, but I'm telling you, God's timing is perfect God had a timetable, and Joseph needed to learn to wait patiently for that hour to strike when it was his time to step up. God is like a master chess player that can take man's forgetfulness and take man's injustice and take man's hatred And turn all that and use that as instruments to prepare and plan and time for a man to be right where he needs to be when God needs him there. Isn't that amazing God? I think one of the best lessons we can learn from Joseph, one of the best lessons we can learn for Joseph is this: to learn to wait on God. To wait on God's timing. Psalm 26, 14 says, wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait. I say on the Lord. David wrote that. Does David know a little bit about waiting on God? Good night he does. Saul chasing them all over. Heartache, disappointment, failure. And David learned the importance of waiting on God. He says, if you'll do that, if you will wait on God, it'll strengthen your heart. And then he repeats it. Again, I say, wait on the Lord. In Psalm 37, 34, David says again, he says, wait on the Lord, keep his way, and he shall exalt thee to inherit the land. He says, you just wait on the Lord and you keep to the way, you keep doing right, you keep serving the Lord, you keep trusting him, you keep memorizing scripture, you keep going to church, you keep giving out those tracts, you keep saying no to temptation. You keep serving others. You say, yeah, but it was unjust and unhurting. You keep to the way. He says, in his time he'll exalt thee to inherit the land. Wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. I think it's one of the best lessons we can learn from the life of Joseph. Number one, people will forget. Number two, God has his timing, and I'll end with this. I got a couple minutes. What God says will happen will happen. Mark it down. If God says in three days you're going to be lifted up out of this prison, You mark it down. In three days he's going to be lifted up out of that prison. Look with me at verse number twenty-two. But he hanged a chief baker Butlers restored. He hanged the chiefbaker. Look at the last statement in verse 22. As Joseph had interpreted to them. Where did Joseph get the interpretation from? God. It was not Joseph's word that was being fulfilled. It was God's word being fulfilled. It wasn't Joseph's interpretation. He was simply passing it on. I'm telling you, what God says is going to happen is going to happen. You mark it down in any category. You mark it down. Bob Jones Sr. said, what God says is so The whole basis of our faith, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, the whole basis of our faith is that what God says He will do, He will do Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Call on the name of the Lord, shall be saved. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ with all thine heart, and thou shalt be saved. The whole basis of the assurance of our salvation is not on our lifestyle. Is not on the good, nice things we do, the whole basis of our assurance is the promises of God These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of my son that ye may know that you have eternal life. I know for sure I'm going to heaven. Not because I'm a preacher, not because I'm better than anybody else. Lord knows I'm not. But because God promised that whoever calls on him should be saved. I called on him, and what he says is so. Amen? Or not? What God says will happen will happen. And we have a whole book of God telling us what He will do, what will happen. Our confidence of eternal life is based upon what God has said to us. Our courage to stand against the world. As we see a society of this that is increasingly increasingly an uh uh what's the word I want? Uh increasingly and not animalistic. We see this increasing animosity against believers. Do you see it or not? I mean an open hatred for God and the things of God and the people of God And if we're going to be able to stand true to God, if we're going to stay faithful to the Lord in the midst of a society that will uh is increasingly and will more so treat us unjustly And God forbid the day come when we suffer pain for our faith in Christ are committed. If we're going to be able to stand true to God in the midst of a world that is against him We've got to be convinced that what God says is so. That's the basis of our courage, our commitment that what God says is so. Brother, don't you, I'm telling you, don't you let anybody, anybody, put doubts in your head or mind about that book right there. What God says is so. Satan's very first assault on humanity was, yea, hath God said. Oh, is that really true? Is that what it is? Oh yeah, is that correct? Oh, is that what God says? Yeah, that's what God said, period. And that's the basis of our ability to stand true and stand strong in the midst of a world that is so unjust and so unkind. Number one, people are going to forget us. Don't put your trust in man, put it in God Number two, God has his timing. You just wait on God. You just keep doing right. Keep his way. Just follow Joseph's example. Just don't get bitter. Don't get angry. Don't get revenge. Just keep doing right, keep doing right, keep doing right. God has his timing. And then trust God that what he says will happen will happen. Learn to wait on God, and he will come through. He will come through. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you take this lessons of Joseph and this butler and this speaker. I pray that we would be able to incorporate these lessons into our lives and to understand man is very limited what he can and will do. Lord, you are perfect in your timing, and we can trust you in your word that you'll come through. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need to learn to be patient. And just wait on God. Anybody like that? I know I want patience. I want it before I go home tonight. God give it to me right now. Well, it takes a process. I wonder if some would say, Preacher, I need to learn to be more compassionate. More empathy towards others, what they go through. Is there any like that? Hey, I need that. Need more compassionate, more sympathetic for people, sure. Hey, got news for you. You're probably going to need your heart broken You're probably going to have to go through a valley. If you're sincere, you want that. That's what Joseph went through. How many people say, preacher, I've been praying, I've been trusting the Lord for something. It just seems like it's so far off I don't know if it'll ever come through, but I'm just going to wait on God. If there are any like that, I'm just going to wait on God. I'm going to trust him that he'll come through in his timing. God bless you. And then what God says is so. Don't question. I'm not going to ask your hand, but don't let Satan put questions and doubts in your head. You just trust God. Trust God on purpose. Decision. Nope. I'm sticking with the book. I'm trusting God. Deliberately. And God will come through. I guarantee it. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.