And for sake of time, if you would also while you're turning there and finding that uh find second Peter chapter two also. Peter Chapter two. I am turned on up here with Yeah, there we go. Genesis chap chapter nineteen. In just a little bit, I'm going to go over to 2 Peter chapter 2. So if you would uh find that also and uh mark that and we'll be able to get to that real quick. real quickly I want you to notice that. Uh as mentioned about our situation with the plumbing this morning. I preached it wasn't too long ago, just a couple years ago for a church over in West Virginia and a good pastor, good church, very rural, very, very rural. And they had no indoor plumbing at all. In fact, you they had some outhouses just like, you know, years ago, but you had to cross a creek to get over to the outhouses And uh they had a little bridge there, and uh he said, we're really praying someday we can get indoor plumbing. I said that would be good But uh I thought of that this morning when they told me the situation. I do want to ask that during the preaching time, actually the whole service, but especially during the preaching time if folks would put their cell phones up and those types of things and uh uh not be passing notes and playing different things. I had a few comments from uh people concerned that uh uh there was a lot of uh noise and whatnot going on around them. and they could not uh pay attention to the service. So I'm convinced I I've been doing this a long time and there's no doubt in my mind that when the Bible is being preached, the most important thing in all the world is going on at that time There's nothing on that phone, there's nothing that your neighbor's involved in that is more important than the preaching of the Word of God. So I just want a kind request is that everybody give their attention uh during uh really the whole service, but as I said, especially during the preaching time. Genesis chapter nineteen, if you would notice, I just want us to highlight two verses, verses um fifteen and sixteen. In Genesis chapter 19. I'll read it again. I know James just read a few moments ago, but I want to highlight this. The Bible says, and when the morning arose, Then the angels hastened Lot, saying, Arise, take thy wife and thy two daughters, which are here, lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city. And while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hands, of course the men being these angels, the men laid hold upon his hands, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters. The Lord being merciful unto him, and they brought him forth and set him without the city. Read this recently in my devotions, and you know what we have here in verse, particularly verse 15 and 16. We have a forced evacuation. He is being grabbed by the hand, his wife and his daughters, and they are being drugged out of the city almost against his will. So I want to speak this morning about this forced evacuation. Let's pray. Father, as we look into this portion of Scripture and some others, I ask, Lord, that you would speak to our hearts Uh we're in the middle of winter now and um God uh we just pray that uh even uh when the weather is the way it is this time of year that our hearts would stay warm for the things of God, that we would be submissive. Lord, sometimes I know being all that you intend for us to be this time of year requires a little extra effort and a little more discomfort. But Lord, help us stay focused. Help us stay at this matter. I yield myself to you. I present my body new. Fill me, I pray, with your Holy Spirit. And have your way in our lives. I'm so grateful for folks that are faithful to the house of God. And bless us and help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. I think we know the story. Most of us, no doubt, are familiar with the story of Sodom and Gomorrah and Lot being in there. And we have no reason to believe this chapter 19 We have no reason to believe that this is not a literal event, that it took place exactly as the Bible tells us it took place here. In fact, there's numerous Old Testament passages later on in the Old Testament that refer back to this, and every one of them address Sodom and Gomorrah and Lot's experience here as if it was actually actual real literal event. You get into the New Testament. Did you know that Jesus referenced Sodom and Gomorrah and Lot on numerous occasions? Every time Jesus referenced this event, the folks involved here, he did so very clearly, understanding this to be an actual, real, literal event. You get into the epistles. And the epistles of the New Testament reference this event and lot. And every time it is actual, real, literal events. Um our modernist neighbors and uh folks that stand behind pulpits that reject the authority of Scripture, they like to suggest to us that this was simply uh an interesting story just to teach some moral truths. It was simply uh never really happened. This is uh they would say it'd be ridiculous to think that fire would fall from sky and all of this And they dismiss it as an allegory, maybe, or just a myth. Listen, if Jesus took this literally, we're safe in taking it literally. The Bible refers to this at an actual event. There's no reason we shouldn't. Now here's where I'd like for you to turn to 2 Peter. 2 Peter makes an interesting gives us some interesting perspective on Lot's experience here in Sodom and Gomorrah. 2 Peter chapter 2 And I want to read verses 4 through 8. 2 Peter 2, verses 4 through 8. And I'd like for you to see this in your Bibles. That's why I'm having you turn there. Because there's some real light shed on what's going on here. I think it will help us understand the the story here a little bit better. Verse 4, 2 Peter chapter 2. Notice what the Bible says. For God, for if God spared not the angels that sinned But cast them down to hell and delivered them into chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment. Now That's a fascinating study right there. We don't have time for that in this, but what I want to point out in that verse here is Jesus God, uh Peter, under the inspiration of God here, is referencing a very real, literal place called hell. There were a certain number of angels that the fall of Lucifer sinned with Lucifer, and this certain class of angels, according to this passage, were uh sent to hell and uh are in chains of darkness. Now again, we don't have a time to address all that, but he's talking about a literal hell. Read on. And spared not the old world, but saved Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness. Bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly. Now he's using Noah as an illustration that God judges sin Hell's an actual literal place. The angels, certain number of the angels, are there now. Noah was spared. God's judgment on the world because of sin. Now, notice verse 6 And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes. Condemn them with an overflow, overthrow. Look at this. Making them an what? An ensample, an example, we might say today. An ensample unto those that after should live ungodly. Now without taking the time to elaborate on this, I want to suggest to you that Peter is using the fire and brimstone that burned up Sodom and Gomorrah. He is using that literal event to illustrate the actual reality of a place called hell. He's basically suggesting that hell just like just as Sodom and Gomorrah were turned to ashes Just as that fire was real and that judgment was real, God's judgment on sin and hell is just as real. And so Peter is using here in a New Testament Sodom and Gomorrah as an example of the reality of God's judgment and hell. Now let's read on. There's something else we learn from this. Verse 7. And delivered, boy, that next word throws me a little bit. And delivered what? Just lot. Vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked. Look at this next phrase. For that righteous man Dwelling among them in seeing and hearing vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. Look at the terms that God uses to describe what. Verse 7, just Verse 8, righteous. A righteous man. Later on in verse 8, his righteous soul. Now I'll be very honest with you. In reading Genesis chapter 19, previous verses, and the rest of that chapter, I do not come to the conclusion that Lot was a just man. That was very righteous. I've said this before, and uh I I still see it this way. If it was not for 2 Peter chapter 2, verse 7 and 8 I would have never guessed that Lot was a saved man. Lot by his behavior, not by his associations. Not by his actions and uh uh and recorded there. We get to the new test and we find, lo and behold, this guy was saved. He was righteous in the eyes of God. He was just as far as the heavenly record is concerned. Now his behavior did not match his standings. Would you agree with me on that? Now that's a challenge to you and I that uh hey let's live up to what we claim to be. If we're saved, let's live like it. Let me try that again. If we're saved, let's live like it. Amen. And so here we have Lot. So we learned some things here. In this passage about our text this morning in 2 Peter, we learned, as I said, Sodom and Gomorrah were examples of a literal hell. Second of all, we learned that Lot was a saved man. And all the lessons and the applications that go along with that, it's possible for a saved person to really, really mess up. Can I get a witness? Sure. And so Lot is an example of that. Now, if you would come back to um Genesis 19, if you would. Here's a saved man. He's living as a lukewarm Christian. Now I'm using that term Christian. Of course, they weren't Christians in the New Testament sense of the word. But he was lukewarm Christian, so to speak, living in a wicked society that was condemned by God. It's not that Lot didn't know God. Lot obviously knew the Lord. It's simply that the Lord was not a priority in his life. That's a problem. It's not that he rejected God. He had accepted the the Lord at some point to be a just man. There was a point where he had put his faith in the coming Messiah, of what he understood of it. It wasn't that he had rejected the Lord. I want to suggest to you, he just didn't have time for God. He was living his life. We learned from the previous chapter, he was a fairly successful shepherd, businessman. His flocks are growing, his business is booming. And the things of God, the principles of Scripture, the convictions that God would have a Christian to have, were not important to him. What was important to Lot was that his business would succeed. So he would move down to the plains of Gomorrah, where it was well watered. It was good for shepherding. It was good for the business. And so he didn't hate God, he didn't reject the Lord, he just had some more important things Than the things of God. He didn't have time for this living for God business. He simply had other things going on. It got so bad. Lot's relationship with the Lord had so deteriorated that it got to the point where His concern with his business associates became more important to him than the welfare of his own family. Now we didn't read this in our reading of the text, but if you would come to verse 8 of Genesis chapter 19. Verse 8 of Genesis 19, notice what it says. Now let me remind you of the circumstances here. Two angels in the beginning of the chapter show up down in Sodom and Gomorrah. They are uh going to uh uh see what the deal is there and uh uh evaluate the situation and they get down there and uh um uh Verse uh they run into Lot there, and um uh they're going to stay in the streets or whatever. Anyway, uh Lot brings them into his house. Perverse sodomites, by the way, this is where you get the term, the biblical term for homosexuality, is sodomy. So I generally refer to them in the biblical term, folks that living in homosexuality, I refer to them in the biblical term is sodomy, living in sodomy, sodomites So these angels show up, these men are perverse. They've forsaken their normal relationships with women, and in this place have established relationships with men. Working that which is unseemly, which is an abomination to God, distorting the natural order of creation. And they pursue these two angels who are in the form of men. They pursue them for their own perverse pleasures. Well, Lot brings them into the house, and he begins to, of all things, negotiate with these sodomites who want the angels. Now, here's where it shows you how bad it got in Lot's moral frame of mind. Look with me at verse number eight. He's negotiating with these sodomites about these angels. Behold now, Lot speaking, I have two daughters which have not known men. Let me, I pray you, bring them out unto you. Look at this. And do ye to them as it is good in your eyes. Only unto these men do nothing, for therefore came they under the shadow of my roof. Do you see what Lot is saying here? His standing in society. He was more concerned that he could pacify the desires of these perverse men He was more concerned about that than he was about the well-being of his own daughters. He was willing to sacrifice His family and his children, so that he could be esteemed in the eyes of a wicked world. God have mercy When the Almighty dollar becomes more important to us than our own the well-being of our own families, God have mercy on that Christianity. Lot, you say, I would never uh I would never have thought that Lot was a saved man If it were not for 2 Peter telling us that he was a just man in the eyes of God and before the Lord, would you agree with me? That does not look like the actions of a saved man. Would you agree with me? How in the world? How in the world do you get to the position? How in the world do you develop the frame of mind? That what people think about me is more important than the well-being of my family. So, we have a sad situation here Lot and his family are forced by God to evacuate Sodom and Gomorrah before the judgment of God fell on these cities. It's interesting. Lot did not go willingly. Now he did not openly resist. I can't say fully in my mind that he they drugged him out kicking and screaming. I think in Lot's mind he knew he needed to get out of there. But he sure enough didn't want to. Look with me, if you would, at verse number. Verse 16. And while he what? Lingered. He's not saying, nah, I ain't going. I ain't going with you. No way. I ain't going with you. I can hear this, and this is my injection into the story, but uh I can hear him saying stuff like, yes, I know we gotta get out of there, but wait a minute, there's some things I have to take care of. I know God's judgment is coming. It's obvious, but You know, just give me a little bit of time. There's a couple things I gotta take care of. Until finally they grab him by the hand, grab his wife by the hand, grab his daughters by the hand, and say, Let's go, we're out of here No more time. No more time. The Bible says that the days before the return of the Lord The world is going to be in the same situation. Jesus said, as it was in the days of Sodom and Gomorrah, so will be in the days of the coming of the Son of Man. Now, uh I would like to think America is not at the point where Sodom and Gomorrah was as a nation yet. I'd venture to say there are areas of our country That if they're not there, they're awfully close. They're not there, they're awfully close. The mentality of much of our country, at least in the media, is this Christians are bad, sodomites are good. Am I right or wrong? And so, this isn't some far-fetched story from several thousand years ago that has nothing to do with you and I. This is an event, that actual literal event that took place thousands of years ago that is very relevant to what you and I are facing today Now as I read through this, there is so much here. And God began, I believe, as the Lord impressing me and directing me to preach on this subject today, this passage today, and as I was doing this, man, there's so much here he could deal with. Well, one thing stood out in my mind is those two angels. And their uh lack of a better term, their tactics In getting Lot out of that city, getting Lot to escape the judgment of God. Now there's a lot involved here. There's a lot involved here. We know Lot was a saved man. Let me ask you a question. Now, this is for you theological Bible students out there. Is it possible for a saved person to fall under the wrath of God? I shouldn't have asked that. I shouldn't have just said. Um Thessalonians tells us That saints are not appointed unto the wrath of God. For you and I as sinners, the wrath of God for our sin was poured out on who? Jesus Christ. He was judged for our sins. The wrath on the cross was poured out on Jesus Christ. I believe that took place on those uh Uh several hours where darkness settled down over the earth. He said, My God, my God, why has thou forsaken me? God's wrath was being poured out on Jesus Christ for you and I. So uh to clarify uh uh uh perhaps God's chastisement comes upon believers. We are chastised for our sins. What is the purpose of chastisement? Correction to correct our behavior to get us back in line with the Lord. The wrath of God is poured out in retribution for sin. So Thessalonians tells us that God's wrath, his retribution, is not believers are not appointed to that. In fact, the angel says here, I can't judge this city till I get you out of here. I believe that was supposed Sodom or Lot and his uh was a saved man. And God could not pour his wrath on Sodom uh on Lot for sin uh because he had already that had already been paid for. So my point is this. Lot was a saved man. So these angels' tactics with Lot, they were dealing with a saved man. But I've got I want to take a little different angle on this. I want us to consider, in a little bit of time we have left, um How you and I can learn from these angels and how they got Lot out of that city How you and I can learn from that, and we can use perhaps those same tactics to win others to the Lord Jesus Christ. To get them out of the judgment of God. Are you with me? How many folks are glad you got up and went out to church this morning? Raise your hand. Amen. Some of y'all wouldn't catch up on your sleep if you hadn't come to church today. So um I'm glad you did too. Let me uh let me know let me share with you a few things I picked up here First of all, I noticed in dealing with these tactics of the angels, I noticed that they had no hesitation to go to where Lot was Look at verse number one with me. And there came two angels to Sodom and at Eden, Eden, and Lot sat down at the gate of Sodom. By the way, that's interesting. Lot sitting at the gate doesn't mean he was just sitting out there drinking a glass of iced tea in the evening. In the Bible, when somebody sat at the gate, it means they held a position of authority. He was a leader in this city of all things. I put this in the margin of my Bible. He had authority, but obviously no influence He had a position, but he had no power with these people. His testimony was so shy that he can even be a leader in the town and yet have no moral influence whatsoever. But anyways, I noticed first of all that these angels went to where Lot was If they're going to get Lot out of a city that's about to be destroyed by the judgment of God, they had to go to where Lot was. Questions: Where do angels come from? Heaven! Where would you rather live? Heaven or Sodom? They left the glory of heaven, the security of heaven, the blessings of heaven, the joy of heaven, and went down to an unbelievably wicked city. Where their own lives, so to speak, were threatened. Their own well-being was put at stake. But I see no hesitation on the angels' part to go to where Lot was to get him to a safe place. They went to Lot's house. You know what I found out? How many folks here I enjoy fishing. How many folks here enjoy to go f enjoy fishing? Yeah, a lot of us I fish with a bunch of I enjoy it. I don't like ice fishing. That is the dumbest, most boring thing I've ever done in my life. But other than that, I like fishing. Um, you know what I found out? If I want to catch fish, guess where I've got to go? I've got to go to the creek. If I want to catch fish. Now where I grew up we called it the Creek, but I married my wife from West Virginia and they call it the Creek. And uh Amen, there you go. I can't sit in my house and think I'm gonna catch any fish Now, my son came to me the other day and says, you know, we ought to go out, we ought to go out brook trout fishing. My first thought was, man, that requires effort. You know, and there's snow on the ground, you slick and uh and I I thought of all these reasons why it's more important to stay inside than go out, even as much as I enjoy it. Uh you've got to go where the fish are if you're going to catch any fish. Uh I enjoy deer hunting. How many folks here enjoy deer hunting? You know what I found out? Uh I'm not going to get any deer in my garage Now some of y'all do out the windows, but But I've got to go out into the woods Where they are, and that requires inconvenience. That requires some effort. That requires leaving my house. That requires putting behind the uh the coffee pot and all the nice things and go out and sit in that tree or walk around that woods or whatever. Because I want to get deer. You know why we're willing to go where the fish are and where the deer are? Because it's important to us that we get that. You know why those angels left heaven and went down to where Lot was? Because it was important to them and God that Lot escape the judgment of God on that city. Now let me bring it home. If we're going to see people saved, if we're going to see people rescued from a literal, actual, real hell. If we're going to see people find salvation from God's judgment on their sin in the Lord Jesus Christ, we have to do exactly what those angels did, and we have to go to where those people are. It means we've got to get out of my house. It means I have to leave the comforts. I might have to put an extra coat on. I might have to make a little extra effort. I might have to inconvenience myself. But if we're going to reach them, we've got to go to where they are. I came to the conclusion years ago after, shortly after coming here at Mountain Lake, and we had lots of visitors over the years, I thank God for it. You know, I came to the conclusion that most people in Garrett County, surrounding areas, are not going to come and sit in our services of our church. Anybody notice that? Most lost people now we can have special events and different things. Dr. Williams comes in and we get folks in and different things and we're gonna stay at that and that's part of it. But if we're going to reach people who need Jesus Christ, if we're going to get to the folks who are already under the wrath of God, And bring them to saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, I've came to one conclusion. I've got to go out to where those people are. We've got to go into the the little hollers. We've got to go downtown. We've got to hit the alleys. We've got to hit the apartments. We've got to hit the farms. So the first thing as I read through here, I noticed about these angels was they left heaven without hesitation and went to where Lot was. This is our 50th year in existence as the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Isn't that exciting? Fifty years ago, a fellow by the name of Ed Wilt And his precious wife, who are both with the Lord now, as most of you are aware, came to Oakland. And you know what Ed Wilt did? Now I wasn't here then, but I talked to him. We drove around downtown. He showed me things. You know what Ed Wilt did? He came to Oakland. Found a little place to have a church service, and he sat there waiting for all the lost people to come in and fill that building up so that he could have a church started. How many people believe that? No, he didn't If he'd have done that, this church would not exist. You know what Ed Wilt did? He went out into the highways and hedges. And knocked on doors and went door to door all through this town, all through this area, and told people of a place where the Bible was going to be preached, salvation was going to be offered. And he shared the gospel with them. Several years ago, I believe my wife was with me. We were out off of Fingerboard Road. What a weird name for a road. And we're busy in a an apartment. Uh uh it was a not an apartment, a um mobile home And as an elderly lady came to the door, and when she invited us in, and we're sitting there, and I'm going through the gospel with her, she goes, I've got something that might interest you. She went back in her bedroom, came back out. This lady was easily in her 70s, probably her 80s. She came out with a little gospel trap You know what that gospel tract said on it? First Baptist Church of Oakland. Pastor Ed Will She goes, Pastor Wilt gave this tract to me when he came to town at that point it was like forty years ago or whatever, forty-something years ago, and gave this to me. She goes, I keep it beside my bed. For all these years. You know what that tells me? Ed Wilt went out to where the people were. He went out to where lost folks were. He gave out the gospel. He went out to them. Um several years ago I was visiting on Woodlawn Avenue. Is that the road you live on, Ron? Woodlawn. Woodland app road. And uh I was going down there and I got past Ron's house. I just skipped his house. And um Uh I went around the corner there. I was coming up towards if you go up to where you get up to the golf course and uh knock on the doors, knocking on doors down through there, and um uh Lady came to the door. I said, I'm Pastor Lemon from Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I want to leave a little gospel track with you. And I began to share the gospel, try and talk to her and try and get an opportunity to share the gospel. She goes, you know what? She goes, I knew Pastor Ed Will I said, really? How'd you know him? She goes, he was coming through, going door to door, just like you are. And while he was there in the neighborhood, a car came around and hit my daughter on her bicycle. My daughter's riding her bicycle. The car hit her, and he said, Ed Wilt ran and got his car and took my daughter to the hospital and spent the day with us while my daughter's in the emergency room. She goes, I will never forget that Isn't that something? Forty years later, and this woman immediately remembers somebody that came to where they were. Left his house, got out of the house, went out in the community, and was sharing the gospel with people. So I was challenged as I read through here, I saw these angels. I thought, you know, if I was an angel, I'd rather stay in heaven I wouldn't want to go down there. Good night. But I read that and I can't find anywhere where these angels lingered. I don't find anywhere where these angels hesitated. They went down there. The second thing I notice about these angels, not only was there no hesitation on our part to go where Lot was, but they told Lot very plainly of the coming judgment. They got down there and said, Lot, you gotta get out of here. God is gonna pour fire down on this. God is gonna rain uh fire in brimstone. He's gonna destroy this whole city. You've got to get out How many people agree with me that Lot was probably not a very good husband? Yeah, I don't think so. Would you agree with me, Lot was probably not probably, would you agree with me Lot was not a very good father? Without a doubt. He was not a very good husband, no doubt. He was not a very good father. Did you know that Lot was actually fatherless? His father had died previously, is being raised by his uncle, Abraham. So Lot had a lot of baggage. Lot had a lot of issues. He was a poor husband, Piers. He was a pitiful father He no doubt had some, maybe perhaps some emotional deals or whatever, coming from being raised in a difficult situation. Whatever it may or may not be the case, it's clear that Lot had a lot of needs But it's interesting to me. These angels didn't show up and sit Lot down and say, listen, we want to tell you how to be a good husband. Lot could have been the best husband in Sodom, and if he would not have gotten out, he would have been destroyed They didn't sit them down and say, listen, we're going to have a seminar on how to have good children and be a good parent to your kids. Now, obviously, that was a need, and obviously, perhaps at some point that is something that would have to be addressed. But that wasn't their purpose. That wasn't Lot's pressing need at the time. His pressing need was to escape the judgment of God. Now, this is what I'm trying to say. We have family conference coming up. I believe it's important. We have other issues we try and deal with, other things we try and teach what the Bible says, but every single person in Garrett County and around the world. Their pressing need is to come to Jesus Christ as Savior, escape the judgment to come. That is the need. And we are failing as a church if we do not preach and warn and teach every man That God's wages of sin is death and hell. And if they do not escape it, they're doomed. That is the pressing need. That is what we've got to do. Well, preacher, we just love people too much to talk about sin, and we just love people too much to talk about hell. I want to submit to you, they don't love people at all if they don't warn them of the coming judgment. What if those angels would have sat down with Lot Lot? Now here's some principles for fatherhood. Do this, don't do that, do this, don't do that. Now, work on those. We'll be back in a year. Five days later, he'd have been burned up. Right or wrong? Listen, there's a place for all of that. But if we don't warn people of judgment in hell, we're not helping them. What good does it do someone if they're the best daddy in the country and they die and go to hell? So the angels were very plain. Told Lot very plainly of the coming judgment. God was going to destroy this family, this city, and his family must get out. Read a fictitious letter. I read it years ago, and I searched and searched, and I found a version of it. A fictitious letter of a person who died and went to hell. And wrote a letter from hell to their friend, who they found out later was, when they got to hell, they found out that friend was a Christian. Now obviously people in hell don't write letters. And even if they could, they couldn't mail them back to us. And even if they could, if but uh anyway, the whole thing's fictitious, but it's challenging. This is the letter or a version of it that I came across. It says, My friend, and it's kind of in poetic form. It says, My friend, I stand in judgment now. And feel that you are to blame somehow, never did you point to me the way. You knew the Lord in truth and in glory, but never did you tell the story. My knowledge then was very dim. You could have led me safe to him. Though we lived together on earth, you never told me of the second birth, and now I stand this day condemned because you failed to mention him. You taught me many things, that's true. I called you my friend, and I trusted you. But I learned now that it's too late. You could have kept me from this fate. We walked day and and tal We walked by day and talked by night, and yet you showed me not the light. You let me live and love and die. You knew I'd never live on high. Yes, I called you friend in life. I trusted you through joy and strife. And yet, on coming to my end. I cannot now call you my friend. These angels Well very plain. They said, Lot, God's going to judge this city. You've got to get out. You've got to get out. How many people do we know? How many family members do we have? How many co-workers do we stand side by side and work with? And we never one time mention to them The horrific fate that awaits an unsaved person. Never one time made any effort to try and share with them the gospel. I've told this several times over the years. When I worked at the meatpacking plant, T. M. Landis meatpacking plant, uh well, I was worked there when I got saved. I worked about a year after I trusted Christ until I went off to Bible college. But there was an old lady there, and she worked on what was called quality control. She had been there forever. I think she was one of the first ones that when God said they could start eating food, meat or food, that she was involved in it. But she she was an elderly lady And uh she worked on quality control, and if there's any bones or something got through in the line or whatever, she'd pick them out and sort it and all that One we'd rotate around. One week I was assigned to work across the conveyor belt from her to help with quality control. Monday morning I got there, I got my assignment, went over and I'm working, put meat went in these big bins. And boy, that Monday morning, God impressed on my heart that I need a witness to this lady. I need to share the gospel with her. Why is it so hard to do that? I could talk about the weather, could talk about everything else in the world. That whole day. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? In my heart, I knew I needed to talk to it. Anybody anybody know what I'm talking about? It's just eating at me. And I come up with every reason in the world not to give this lady the gospel. Day ended, went home. Tuesday came back. Same thing. I'm miserable. I need to say something. I need to talk to her. Now I'm about six months old in the Lord. I've witnessed to other guys on the job there. They all knew it's Christian. But for some reason I got hung up. Wednesday, never said a word. Working across from each other, this far apart, right like this, eight hours a day, never said a word. Thursday. Finally it's Friday. I thought I gotta talk to her. I'm gonna be moved to another station next week. At lunchtime I went out in the car, I got a gospel tract. I said I gotta do this. Does anybody know, have any experience what I'm going through? Anybody know what I'm talking about? You feel like an idiot later. So what was the deal? Finally, it's the end of the day, they're putting down a line, the last pieces of meat are coming down, starting to clean up, reach in my pocket. And I don't remember what her name was. I said her name. I said, here's a gospel tract. It tells us how we can know we're going to heaven. You know what she did? She said Thank you, Dennis. I appreciate that. I'll read that. She didn't cuss me out. She didn't make me feel like an idiot. She was very friendly, very polite. I could have done that Monday Would not have been an issue. I gave it to her Friday. I felt a little better. Cleaned up. Went home. Monday came in. I had another station, I don't remember what it was. I said, where's Ms. So-and-so? I said, didn't you hear? I said, no. Said she had a heart attack and died Saturday. So you gotta be kidding me. Did she read that tract? I have no idea. She told me she would. Did she get saved? I have no idea Oh boy, I blew it. I blew it. Plata at least gave her the track. You know what that was? God was saying that woman needs to know very clearly and very plainly the danger she's in. If a person dies without Christ, they go to hell. It's our responsibility to make sure they're aware of that. So the first thing these angels did, they didn't hesitate to leave heaven and go down to where Lot was. It had to be done They got there, they told very clearly, very plainly what his danger was. Judgment's coming, burned up. You know who the plainest preacher on the reality of hell in the Bible was? It wasn't Apostle Paul. It was Jesus Christ. Read the Gospels. He just laid it out. You hypocrites! You're in danger of hellfire! He said if your right eye on things they pluck it out. Hey, it's better to go to heaven with one eye than go to hell with two. That's Jesus talking. Jesus did not hesitate to tell people and warn them very clearly, very plainly what their danger was. Now the opposite side of that coin is we need to be tactful about it. Alright? You don't just knock on someone's door and say, Come by and tell you you're going to hell. That ain't gonna work. Right? There has to be an element of trust and respect on the person that we're talking to if they're going to pay any attention to what we're saying. Right? But they need to know. God have mercy on Pastor Dennis Leatherman if I ever stop preaching on the reality of hell. We ever stop preaching on the reality of God's judgment. God pity Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church if we ever quit going out into our community and telling folks about it. Amen. I'm preaching it myself. They went to where he was. They told him very plainly, and last of all, the Second, last of all, they pressed the issue until a decision was made. They didn't just say, oh, by the way, Lot, we came by to tell you uh fire and brimstone is going to fall and burn this place up. You got it? Okay. Good luck. God bless. They didn't do that. Look what it says in verse 15. And when the morning arose, the angels, what's that next word? Hasten. I circled that in my Bible. I looked it up. You know what it means? To press the issue, to urge They didn't just say, well, here's God's message. Turn up, see it. You know what they did? They started pressing it. Lock. Come on. Read the passage there. They're saying, come on, let's go. You gotta get out of here. This enlightened, you've got to make a decision one way or another. This is for real, Love. Think about it. Come on. You got a family and kids. Let's go They refused to leave until the decision was made. Now, in this situation, they actually grabbed them by the hands and drug them out of there. You and I cannot grab people by the hand and drag them to heaven. I can save someone else. There's nothing I can do to save your soul or anyone else's soul or even my own soul. But you know what we can do? We can beg and plead and press and do everything we can to persuade people to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. We don't treat it indifferently. We don't we're not unemotional. We have it it's not unconcern on our part in giving the truth of the reality of God's judgment. We are concerned. The love of God constrains us to beg with people and plead with them and do everything we can to get them to make the right decision concerning Jesus Christ. We must not be content until all are saved. And the fourth thing I notice here in this passage. As far as I can tell, they received no rewards or recognition from Sodom or from Lot and his family. Now, correct me if I'm wrong, but I can't find anywhere where Lot came to these guys and said, you know, I really appreciate what you did. Man, thank you. None of that. Lot's daughters didn't thank the angels. Lot didn't thank the angels. People of Sodom certainly didn't appreciate what they were doing. In fact, they were mad at them. No reward of Lot, no no record of Lot ever thanking them. I don't know what God's response was to the angels. We're not told. They got back to heaven. Did God have a special reward from a pen? My feeling is they got back to heaven and they just said, Hey, all we did was what was expected of us. Just what God wanted us to do. There's no special reward, there's no special recognition. Listen, if we think If we're serving God to get recognition or to get rewards, you're in it for the wrong reason. Can I suggest to you for these angels, simply getting Lot out of there was reward in and of itself. Just knowing That he was saved from that judgment was reward in and of itself Oh, put on the headlines of their newspaper. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church had X number of people saved in 2010. They don't care. Listen, we're not doing this. We're not having uh we don't have uh wild game dinners and Bible time rallies and soul winning campaigns and track month things. To get people to thank us or reward us or acknowledge us. We're doing it for two reasons. One, God told us to. And two, people are dying and going to hell. And if we don't do it, who's going to? I don't find anywhere where these angels were thanked or rewarded or acknowledged in any way. Well, I went Oh, it gave out a tract one time and nobody even recognized nobody even acknowledged it. Well, what do you do? Remember I told you about the roommate I had in Bible college. Comes home one night. Well, I did it today. He said, really, what'd you do? Gave out a track. Good. Yep, just walked right up to the guy and gave it right to. He said, that's wonderful. Yeah. Just gave that track out. It's like, very good. I read about a fella by the name of this is an this is an old story, it's the actual event, Edward Spencer. Lake Michigan, there was a side wheel or steamboat. How many people know what a side wheel or steamboat is? It has the big wheel, not in the back, but on the side. And it rammed into another boat. The steamboat sank almost immediately a mile offshore from the village of Winetteca, Winetteca, Illinois. 393 passengers on board. 279 drowned. A guy by the name of Edward Spencer saw this taking place out on the lake. He plunged into the lake, swam the distance out to where the drowning people were, towed one person into shore. Dove back in, swam out again, towed another person in the shore. I mean, he swam in a mile almost. Dives back in, goes out, grabs another drowning person, brings them into shore, dives back in, does that 17 times. Seventeen people up on shore, their lives are spared. He's totally exhausted. He goes to dive in again and people ground and said, You'll drown yourself if you go back in there. You have no strength to swim up there. You've done everything you can. Spent some time in the hospital. They say the nerves in his legs were so completely destroyed he never walked again. He was an invalid in a wheelchair in a wheelchair for the rest of his life. Someone years later asked him To relate his most vivid memory of that dreadful day. He said, the no, the joy of having seventeen people's lives were spared He said, but the thing I remember the most is not one of those 17 people ever came back and thanked me. Not one Does he regret saving their lives? Not one bit. I have no doubt he'd do it again. Necessary. Listen, we're not in this for the applause of man. We're not in this for rewards or medals or pens or recognition Like these angels, God has given us a job to do. And that is to rescue the perishing, to take the gospel to the lost, to leave our comfortable uh our comfort zone And get out to where people are. Share the truth with them. Do all we can to bring them to Christ. And not let it bother us whether anybody appreciates it or not. Just do it. Let's make the 50th anniversary of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church a year of reaching the lost. I'm committing myself to renewing my efforts of getting out in the community, door-to-door areas, communities, and doing my best to share the gospel. Me personally And let's as a church commit to that. Asking God to lead us and help us for His glory. Father in heaven, bless now. Help us, Lord, to stay focused on the purpose this church was started. God, help us to stay focused on the commission you've given us, the need that is so pressing all around us. Help us, help us, I pray. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed, how many Christians this morning, as I'm preaching, the Spirit of God is pressing in your heart of a particular person that needs Jesus Christ as Savior. They're coming to mind. Then you know you need them. Maybe like that lady I worked across from, the Spirit of God is pressing on your heart that you need to de uh share with them the truth of the gospel. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. Do what I need to do and what I should do in this particular person that's on my heart and mind, that God has brought to my heart and mind. You'd appreciate if I would pray with you on or any like that by the uplifted hand. My hand is raised. Pray God would help me as I think of this particular person. God bless you, hands all around. How many would say, preacher, just in a general sense? Spirit of God is dealing with my heart about being like these angels, getting out of my comfort zone and getting out to where the need is. And sharing the gospel in one way or another. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I want this year to be a year of personal involvement And sharing the good news of salvation with other people. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, that is my prayer, my burden. This year, to be a year of personal involvement in reaching the lost. God bless you. Hands all around God will lead us, God will help us. In the book of Acts, they pray, grant to us boldness that we may speak the Word of God as we should. They dealt with the same issues you and I did. And they look to the Lord for help and boldness. I wonder if there's someone this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. Say, I don't want to go to hell. And I need to be saved. And you'd like for me to pray that God would help you settle that matter. Is there any like that this morning? Any at all? Uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure that if I die now, I'd go to heaven. I'm concerned about that. Father, bless our invitation now. You know our hearts. God, you lead and direct in our lives so clearly. Help us to trust you. Help us to have faith in you and step out. Lord, follow your leadership and give you the glory. Bless. Many hands raised. Help us, I pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Let's stand. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verses of invitation.