And we're looking at trying to get wired up here. We're looking at the life of David very thoroughly, working our way through the life of David. We already started this here uh several weeks ago, so we're going to be picking up kind of in the middle of a message. Let me get my place here. Oh, by the way, um anybody here are you or do you know someone that's a that's a vegetarian or a vegan? Anybody here know anybody you are or you know somebody that I found out uh how you can get vegetables, turn if they're vegan, they just eat vegetables, vegetarian, you can turn vegetables into meat. It's a very simple process. You just feed it to a cow and um it works beautifully. And you can turn those vegetables into meat and you can eat them. Alright, 1 Samuel chapter 20. I want to read, uh starting verse number one. Am I turned on, Dave? I don't am I good? No. There we go. All right. 1 Samuel 20 and verse number 1. I'm going to read down through verse number 9. And David fled from Naoth in Rama and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? And what is mine iniquity, and what is my sin before thy father that he seeketh my life? And he said unto him, Jonathan said to David, He said unto him, God forbid, thou shalt not die. Behold, my father will do nothing, either great or small, but that he will show it me Why should my father hide this thing from me? It is not so. Obviously Jonathan did not believe that King Saul was out after David. And David swore, moreover, and he said, Thy father certainly knoweth that I have found grace in thy eyes, and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved. But truly, as the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death. Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will even do it for thee. And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I shall not fail to sit with the king at meat. But let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even And if thy father at all miss me, then say, David earnestly asked leave of me, that he might run to Bethlehem, his city, for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the family. And if he say thus, It is well, thy servant shall have peace. But if he be very wroth, then be sure that evil is determined by him. Therefore thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant. For thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of the Lord with thee. Notwithstanding, if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself. For why shouldest thou bring me to thy father? And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee, for if I knew certainly that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee Then would not I tell it thee. I've entitled this A Friend's Counsel. David comes to Jonathan and and looking for help and looking for advice. So let's pray. We'll briefly review what we covered before and then we'll look at some new ground tonight. Father in heaven I thank you for the life of David and uh these Old Testament history books that record these events for us. And I pray you'd help us learn from this. I pray that your Holy Spirit would take the truths presented here and the examples given, the principles that are here. I pray your Holy Spirit would apply it to each of our hearts, each of our lives in a practical way. That we can live by faith, Lord, and that we can be strong, mature, victorious Christians. So please fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord. I yield myself to you. And I pray that you would be our teacher and our preacher tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. David is coming to Jonathan here, and uh he is looking for help, as I said. And uh David is going through, and I keep repeating this, but it keeps coming out as I re-study this and look at this. I believe David is going through what we might refer to as a spiritual boot camp. God is preparing him to be king. That's no small thing, to be king of Israel. And the thing that just boggles my mind, and again, I know I keep saying this, but it's an amazing thing to me that David, the throne of David, is the throne that Jesus Christ The eternal Son of God is going to sit on the throne of David. Now what does that say about David? What an amazing man. What a man after God's own heart, a man that God honored by titling the throne that Jesus Christ sits on after him. And so that doesn't that doesn't just happen. So God's preparing them, He's putting through these trials and these difficulties. I believe with all my heart, and I never really looked at it this way until we started this study. I really believe with my heart God is breaking David down. He is removing all self-confidence. He's removing any self-strang. And he's getting him to the point where he has nowhere to look but Jesus Christ. Now I know what some might say, they might say, but uh Pastor David already was strong in faith. He killed Goliath by faith. You know, sometimes, and and by the way, David's a man of tremendous integrity as a young man growing up. And sometimes, if we're not careful, we can start trusting in our faith and trust in our integrity and think that that is what we rely on that. You follow what I'm trying to say? Well, I've I've learned to have great faith, and I start trusting in my great faith. You know, I'm I'm a man of integrity, we might say. I'm a woman of integrity, and we start becoming confident in our own integrity in our own faith. What's the problem with that? Our confidence and our reliance is not to be on our own faith or our own integrity, it's to be on what? On the Lord. On the Lord. Now I can't say that was David's situation, his condition, but God sure is working him over. He's letting him go through it. Now we noted here last time, we noted in the first three verses, that David comes to Jonathan and he discusses this whole situation with King Saul trying to kill him. He discusses it with Jonathan. David's confused if you remember. We looked at verse 1. He says, why is this happening? What is going on here? Jonathan is certain. Jonathan says, no, no, no, no, no. My dad wouldn't do that. It's not so. You're mistaken. If I if he was doing that, he would have told me. And if he told me, I would surely tell you. No, no, no, you're wrong. And then David is absolutely convinced and he lays out here in verse number three, he's saying, uh I'm telling you it's the truth. Now I I'm I brought this up right at the end last time. I got thinking about it and looking at it again. Jonathan's an amazing man, and my respect for Jonathan is growing. The more I study him, the more my respect for him is growing If you remember when Saul came to Jonathan and told Jonathan to kill David An innocent man, there was no reason, no justification for David being executed. What did Jonathan do? Y'all gotta wake up here. Y'all are sitting there looking at me Yeah, he pled David's gate. He spoke up in defense of David, right? And he says, Oh, it's not so. Listen, he killed the Goliath. He's a great champion. You said so yourself. And he defended. When Saul made a indirect accusation against David Jonathan stood up and defended David to his daddy. Now the situation is reversed. Now David is coming to Jonathan. He's in the middle of all of this. David comes to Jonathan. He makes an accusation against King Saul, his daddy. And what does Jonathan do? He defends his daddy. I tell you, I appreciate Jonathan in the fact that he defended David to his father. Then he turns around and he defends his father to David. And we'll say more about that here in a little bit. Now here's where I want to get to. Verse 4 through 7, I notice this. First of all, he came and discussed the situation with Jonathan. Verse 4 through 7, I put it this way: David devises a strategy with Jonathan. Jonathan's not convinced that King Saul is out to kill David. Now, it's pretty obvious in our minds, but Jonathan's not convinced. So David comes up with this strategy, and he is going to convince Jonathan that your dad really, really is out after me. And he has quite a scheme here he's put together. I think, now, this is easy for us to look back, and I'm not saying this to be critical of David. I'm saying this to observe Things in the Bible, and I'm saying this too so we can learn from it. I'm getting the impression here that we are seeing early stages of King David's wavering in faith. Now it's not too long down the road here in a few chapters. We're going to see David says in his heart, its Bible says, I'm one day going to die by the hand of Saul, and he goes to the enemies of Israel to dwell with them. A total lack of faith at that point. Now again, I'm not trying to be critical. I'm just observing. Total lack of faith And I'm wondering here as I come back and we look at this, if this then isn't a few early stages of David's great, great faith that that slaughtered, uh, that killed uh Goliath and had a great slaughter of the Philistines. I wonder if that faith isn't starting to waver. And before we get too critical of David, I wonder how many times you and I exercised some faith in something and we trusted God and God did something great and before long we found ourselves struggling again. Can I get a witness? Anyone like that? You know, sometimes we're going to witness to somebody, and boy, we get up, Lord help me, and I'm going to and boy, we do it, and we witness to them. Maybe they get saved, or we go through the gospel with them and Man, God helped me through that. And the presence of God was there. Obviously, the Lord enabled me to do that. And then the next person we come to, we don't open our mouth. We're scared to death. And so it's pretty common for that to happen. So here we see David, I think we see him struggling, wavering a little bit in his faith. And there's a couple indicators for this. Look at verse number one. We'll back up a little bit. He says to Jonathan, there's a word he uses here, or a phrase he uses here repeatedly. I underscored it in my Bible when I noticed it. What have I done? What is mine iniquity? What is my sin before thy father that he seeketh my life? What is David's focus on at this point? It's on himself. And you say, well, good night. Of course it would be. And that's the thing, when we go through trials, when we go through tests, when we're being mistreated, when somebody's not doing right, or we're in some sort of circumstance where it's unjust and it's not right If we're not careful, we get our eyes off of the Lord and we get our eyes on ourselves and we start saying something like this, woe is me. Nobody loves me, everybody hates me, everybody's out to get me, I'm gonna go eat worms. Right? And I think David's getting in that situation This is getting so intense, it's getting so overwhelming. His eyes are coming. When he was standing before Goliath, man, there was no wavering, there was no doubt. The Lord is able to conquer this. But now he's not saying that. Now he's saying, what about me? Why is this happening to me? What is this going on to me? Why am I having to do this? So we see that, and then we see something else. He is starting to take matters into his own hands. Rather than trusting God, rather than letting the Lord work this out, he comes up with this scheme and he's taken matters into his own hands. Look at verse number three, the end of verse three. Now we touched on this before. But truly, as the Lord liveth and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death. Now that's an indirect reference to King Saul's going to kill me. Man, it's just one step. King Saul's going to kill me And later on, he says, I'm going to die by King Saul. The problem with that thinking is, the problem with those statements is, he completely forgot the anointing of God was upon him. He completely forgot that God had promised him he will one day be king, and God cannot go back on his word. And so David, I think, David's faith, not being critical, Lord knows, but I think David's faith is uh starting to waver. He's in a in a tense situation. And he's starting to shake a little bit. First Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 11 says that all these things happen unto them, Old Testament individuals, for in samples, and they are written for our admonition. So we see this, we look at this in the life of David, not to be critical of David, not to look hindsight and condemn him, but to say, hey, I see this happening, I need to learn from this. I need to be careful. When I get in a trial, when I get in in an overwhelming situation, when people are throwing accusations, when things are unjust happening to me, I need to number one, keep my eyes focused on the Lord, and number two, remember God's promises. So let's look what happens here. Let's look at this strategy he comes up with Jonathan. The first thing I notice in verse number six, Jonathan, when David tells him Expresses his concern to him, very first thing Jonathan does is he extends his loyalty. Look at verse six. What a statement he makes here. Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth I will even do it for thee. How many people agree with me? That's quite a commitment. Whatever you want Whatever you want, I'll do it for you. I thought that has to be encouraging to David to hear a friend say that. Praise the Lord for loyal friends. Amen? Thank God for friends when we are overwhelmed, when we're struggling, when it when it seems like everything's against us, we got a friend we can go to, and that friend says, hey, listen, I'm with you in this. Whatever your soul desires, I do it. Here's the problem, I think, sometimes. I know I tend to be this way. We have a tendency to dwell on our adversaries and take our allies for granted And all we can see is Saul, Saul, Saul, Saul, and we fail to see the fact we got a Jonathan here with us. Now I don't know that David was doing that. But what a tremendous friend here. And I put two things down about Jonathan's friendship as it's expressed here in verse number six. First of all, I notice it's enduring friendship. This has been going on for some period of time. And David is becoming less and less popular in the eyes of Saul and in the eyes of Israel. Yet Jonathan stays true to him. So he was a friend over it stood the test of time, and it stood the test of trials. Stood the test of trials. Jonathan's being pit between David and his father, and he's trying to stay loyal to both of them. And it's being tested tremendously. Anybody here know what this is? How would you describe a fair weather friend? A fair weather friend would be somebody what? Yeah, when everything's going good, when the bills are paid. You know who I thought of when I thought about fair weather friends? Was the prodigal son. Remember that guy? And he went to a far country and he wasted a living. And then when he was run out, all of a sudden all the friends are gone. And no man gave him And he had fair weather friends. As long as he was buying the drinks, and as he was as long as he uh was hosting the parties and all of that, brother, they were his buddies. But when tough times came, they disappeared I I tell you, I thank God for Jonathan in that he was faithful to a faithful friend to David even when things started falling apart. And that statement he makes. Look at verse 6 again here. Look at this. Then said Jonathan David, whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will even do for you. I put this down. It wasn't just an enduring friendship, it was an ext-friend. Expensive friendship. Whatsoever thy soul desireth. I wrote down this. Verse 6 is a blank check A blank check. I'm saying verse six. It's actually verse four. I don't know why I said verse six. Verse four Then said Jonathan, whatsoever thy soul desires. He's giving David a blank check. Whatsoever, there's zero restrictions on it. There's zero exemptions. David, whatever your soul does, whatever it is, I'm going to do it for you. I tell you, a genuine friendship can be expensive. Genuine love for someone can be very expensive. It may cost us. John 15, 13. Greater love hath no man than this, then he would. Lay down his life. Would you agree? That's expensive. Give your own life. And Jonathan is expressing a love and a loyalty to David here that is exceptional. It's enduring and it's expensive. Of all the people that are involved in this saga that we're looking at, you got King Saul. We got David earlier. We had Jesse, David's dad, and a couple of his brothers were involved there. We had the ladies. uh Michael, his wife, and and a couple of those ladies that are Saul's daughters. You have all these people involved here in this whole saga that's taken place. But do you know which one of all those people, do you know who's the most Christ-like in their attitude and their actions? Jonathan. Jonathan. He is loyal, he's honest, and he's willing to give whatever, whatever it would cost him Whatever it would cost him. So Jonathan, first of all, extends to David his loyalty. Second thing I notice in verse 5 and 6 now, David explains his layout. In other words, here's his scheme, here's his plan. King Saul had a scheme earlier how to get David. Now David has a scheme, and David is already convinced of Saul's intentions. He knows that Saul's out to kill him. Um I I thought, well how how did David know Saul was out to kill him? I think having javelins thrown at you and landing in the wall beside your head is an indicator that somebody's out to kill you. Would you agree with me? If somebody's shooting a shotgun in your direction, it's probably they don't mean well. So David's not trying to figure out. This little scheme he comes up with, David's not trying to figure out whether Saul's trying to kill him or not In David's mind, that's obvious. He's already convinced of that. What this scheme is designed to do in David's mind is to convince Jonathan. That Saul is out to kill him. And Jonathan needs to see it with his own eyes and hear it with his own ears from his daddy's mouth and see his daddy's actions, so Jonathan will understand the situation that David knows that he's in. And so the scheme has a purpose. Again, not For David to figure anything out, he's already got it figured out. Look down at verse 7. Look what he says. He says, if he say thus, if your daddy says thus, it's well Servant, uh, then thy servant shall have peace. Then I'm wrong, you're right, there's no issue. However, but if he be very wroth, then look at this next statement. Then be what Sure. He's talking to Jonathan. Jonathan, I want you to see this with your own eyes. You've got, I want you to be sure, know that what I'm saying to you is true. And so he has this scheme. Now here's what his scheme involves. Again, I tried to alliterate it here. First thing they're going to do is they're going to test Saul. Verse number five. Saul's going to have a banquet. David's going to stay away. See how Saul reacts. If Saul reacts kindly and gracious, well then everything's okay. If uh if he doesn't, if he gets angry, then we're going to know uh what Saul's true intentions are. So he's figuring out, he's testing Saul. Saul doesn't know it, but they're setting him up here And they're going to determine by his reaction what his true attitude is towards David. So verse 5, we have this test they're giving Saul. Now here's where it gets interesting. In verse number 6. They tell a lie. David gets Jonathan to lie. How many people caught that when we read through there? You read that and you say, wait a minute, that's not true. David's not going down to Bethlehem. He's hiding out here in the field, outside of the palace here. The Bible is not endorsing David's action. The Bible nowhere says that David get uh getting Jonathan this the scheme that involves lying to the king, the anointed of uh the King Saul, God's anointed The Bible is not suggesting, God is not suggesting that he is endorsing that, that that is something okay. The Bible is simply accurately recording what took place here. Now here's the interesting thing about the Bible. This is one of the things that makes the Bible so uniquely God's Word. And that is this. God never sugarcoats his heroes in the Bible. This is one of the greatest men in the Bible, by all accounts, a man after God's own heart. But God does not sugarcoat the fact that David was still just a man. With a sinful nature and had his fault faults and had his flaws and came up short, not just here, but we'll see it repeatedly. And and uh I'm grateful for that on I'm not grateful that David told a lie here. I'm not grateful for the flaws that we see in the Bible, the great men of God But I am grateful that God records them for us. You know why? Because when I look at my own life and I see some of my own flaws, I see some of my own failures and I see some of my own faults, and I think, wait a minute, God can still use me. Even though I'm a fallen human being. Because he used these people. And so again, this brings me back to my conclusion or that I mentioned at the beginning. I see David's faith is starting to waver. I see some cracks in the character of David that we don't pick up just reading through this. David is uh his faith is wavering, his character is sh is showing some flaws here. Now there's two tendencies in a time of trials. Now, having said that, My heart can go out to David. I can sympathize with him in that he is going through it. I mean his life, he is being hunted like a like a dog in the streets And so there are two common tendencies I think we see in David that are true when we get to a time of trials. One of them is this: we have a tendency to lean on our own understanding. Anybody here ever get yourself in a situation, you get yourself in the mess, and you say something like this, I've got to get myself out of this. And we start coming up with schemes and we start coming up with all these ideas and these plans. I can do this and I can do that and maybe I can do this. And there's a real tendency to lean on our own understanding because I tell you, sometimes it's hard to trust God. Sometimes it's hard to just say, listen, I'm just going to put this in God's hand and trust Him that everything's going to be okay. Sometimes that's hard. There's another tendency, and sometimes there's a tendency in the midst of trials and difficulties, one to lean on our own understanding, and number two, and this is closely associated, there's a tendency to be dishonest. We try to manipulate the circumstances. We try to manipulate the facts so that we can get all this. Well, if I tell the truth, I'm going to lose my job. If I tell the truth, I'm going to lose that friendship. If I tell the truth, it's going to cost me a lot of money. And so when we get in a tight situation, when we get in a trial that becomes overwhelming Sometimes there's a tendency, that temptation is there, to lean on our understanding, and a tendency to be dishonest. And I think that's where King David is. David is, he's not king at this point. So first thing he does, he says, we're going to do a test on King Saul, Jonathan, so you can see what the what the situation is. Number two, we're going to tell a lie to accomplish that. And then number three, he does this, we're going to take up a conclusion. Look at verse 7. However, he responds, if he say it's well, thy servant shall have peace. Then this is all a mistake. If he be wroth Then be sure that evil is determined by him. So we're going to figure this out. One way or another. Jonathan, I'm going to get you to see what the situation is. So then my last point is this, and I'm trying to go through here because I want to finish up this section tonight. My last point is this. David demands sincerity from Jonathan. Now they've got the scheme in place. He's came to discuss the situation with Jonathan. Jonathan says, listen, whatever you think, David, whatever's in your heart, I'm with you on it. I'll do it. David says, All right, here's my scheme. We're gonna I'm gonna be absent. We're gonna have a he's having a big uh meal, I'm gonna be absent if he gets mad. We know that he's out to kill me. If he's okay with it, then I'm wrong. Jonathan says, okay. Now David looks at Jonathan and he starts making some demands here. Look at verse 8. Therefore, all right, because of this scheme, what we got set up here, thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant. Who's thy servant he's talking about? David himself. He's saying, Jonathan, alright, you need to deal kindly with me. Look what he says. Why? For thou hast brought thy servant into a what? A covenant of the Lord with thee. He's bringing that up. Notwithstanding, if there be iniquity, if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself. Or why shouldest thou bring me to thy father? So David first of all makes this plea to Jonathan. He reminds them of their covenant. Back in chapter 18, verse 3 Jonathan had made this covenant with David, and he's bringing that up. Remember, he made this covenant with me. We were going to be loyal. And then he requests Jonathan his critique. Now look, that's where he got that second part. If there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself. Why shouldest thou bring me to thy father? I think what he's asking Jonathan is this, listen, either defend me or condemn me. Don't be in the middle, don't be indifferent. If I'm guilty, if I'm guilty of some sin and I've done wrong and your father is just and trying to kill me, then Jonathan, don't even take me to your dad. You just do it yourself. I have no defense here. If I'm guilty, kill me But if I'm not guilty, then he's putting it back on Jonathan. If I'm not guilty and I'm innocent, and what your daddy's doing is wrong, then you have an obligation to help me. You have an obligation to defend me. So he requests Jonathan's critique. You tell me, what is it? Am I guilty or not? If I'm guilty, kill me. If I'm not, then defend me. And then last of all, I notice here in verse 9, Jonathan makes a pledge. Now here Jonathan shines. Look at this And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee, for if I knew certainly that evil were determined by my Father to come upon thee. Then would not I tell thee. That statement there tells me that Jonathan is not convinced up to this point that King Saul is out to kill David. He's saying, listen, if I knew it, if what you were saying was true and I knew that for certainty from my daddy, I would tell you. I would tell you Jonathan, now here's my application. Jonathan wanted to be certain that what David was saying about King Saul was true before he reacted. Now, if it's going to be true, if if we want to find out that what David is saying about King Saul is true, then I'm going to do right by David. But I am not going to react against my daddy or anybody else simply because someone says to me that they did such and such. I tell you that is tremendous insight, that's tremendous maturity on the part of Jonathan Even his dearest friend, a man he loved more than anyone else in the world, he is not going to respond to what David is simply saying is true. against his father and anyone else. He wants to know for sure before he responds to it. How many of us here, now I've been in the ministry, I've this happens to me far too often. I wish I w I wish I was smarter than what I am Somebody come and says so-and-so did this. And I go and confront them about that and find out that that wasn't the case at all. It was a total misunderstanding. What I should do, if somebody comes to me and says so-and-so did this, or so-and-so isn't that, or they're not doing this, or whatever, what I should do is find out more for myself ahead of time and find out whether it's true, not just act on somebody's word Follow what I'm saying? Just because somebody says something is so doesn't mean it's so Hearsay, second hand, sometimes second, third, fourth hand. Don't react to that kind of stuff. We do it all the time. And Jonathan says, I'm not going to do that, David. I'm committed to you. Whatever is in your heart, I will do it. But I am not reacting against my daddy just on your word. I want to know that what you're saying is so. And if it is, and we see it, and I know it, then I'm with you, David. It wants to be short. So I put it down, I put it down this way. Some people will believe anything if it's whispered to them. Right? Have you heard? Oh no, what? Tell me. Oh, it must be true. Sister so-and-so told me. Oh, it must be true. Deacon so-and-so told me, oh, it must be true. Preacher so-and- Both said it Listen, just because somebody says something doesn't mean it's true. Can I, that's an old, old quote from a couple hundred years ago. Some old guy said that a couple hundred years ago. But let me let me modify it to modern day. Not everything that's on social media is true. It has to be true. It's on Facebook. It has to be true. It was on chat Snapchat. It has to be true. I read it on the computer. It has to be true. CNN said it. I'm telling you, we get ourselves all worked up and we get ourselves in a mess and we end up saying things that we end up with our foot in our mouth because we react to stuff, we do things. In reaction to what we heard, and we don't know it was we don't know it definite. And Jonathan is not going to be that way. He wanted to be certain that what David was saying about King Saul was true before he reacted to it. And I tell you, that's a tremendous lesson for you and I. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to learn from David and Jonathan. We see their humanity. We see their humility. We see what you are doing in their lives and molding them and testing them and trying them. We see when they have victory. We see when they fail in some ways. And I pray you'd help us, me and all of us, to learn from this. That we could grow and we could be effective witnesses and we can be strong in our faith. And so I ask you would help us. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how we would say, Preacher, the Lord spoke to my heart, and I just want to be, I just want to be a mature Christian. I want to be strong. And I want to have a good witness for the Lord. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? That's a very general statement. I know we all feel that way. But maybe as God deals with us and he speaks to our heart about some of these areas, about trusting God in the midst of a trial. About being honest when when we're scared and we're tempted to be dishonest. Just let the Lord have his way. Father, bless now. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.