First Peter First Samuel chapter number twenty-three if you have your Bibles, first Samuel twenty-three and um We had a great service Sunday, the Veterans Day, that several people commented to me since then and today, even tonight, a few people mentioned that uh the Veterans Day service was a blessing. We have some of those proclamations. We have a number of them left over here. And uh if you're interested, you know somebody that you could share them with, let me know, and we'll be glad to pass them on. Uh look nice there. And then the uh they had a There was a real nice luncheon today for the widows and uh just had a good turnout, good number of ladies, Courtney and Trish put together a nice program and um I felt obligated at lunchtime when they ate uh just be a part and be a good pastor and get in on that and it was great. It was it was a full blown Thanksgiving dinner was what it was and to top it off the blueberry pie That traditional Thanksgiving pie. And uh it was a wonderful time. Alright, 1 Peter chapter number 23. I'm going to read verses 13. What did I say? 1 Samuel. I got 1 Peter on my mind tonight. 1 Samuel, verse 23, and verse 13. Now, this is an unlikely passage, but we've kind of parked it here And uh there is a ton of uh very, very helpful truths, I think, here. And so uh we'll try and work our way through. We'll watch the clock there if the clock works with us. We'll try and finish up this section, but um I think there's some real helpful thoughts here. Verse 13, we already looked at a couple weeks already, but it says, Then David and his men which were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went whither whithersoever they could go. And it was told Saul that David was escaped from Kelah. Now notice his last phrase. We're going to come back to this here in a little bit. And he forbeared to go forth. David escaped from Keilah, but Saul forbear to go after him. We'll look at that in a bit. And David abode in the wilderness and strongholds and remained in a mountain in the wilderness of Zip. And Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not into his hand. And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life, and David was in the wilderness of Zeph in a wood. Look at verse 16. And Jonathan, Saul's son, arose and went to David into the wood and strengthened his hand in God. And he said unto him, Fear not, for the hand of Saul my father, shall not find thee. Look at this next statement, and thou shalt be king over Israel And I shall be next unto thee. And that also Saul my father knoweth. And they too made a covenant before the Lord, and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house This is the last interaction we have between David and Jonathan. Jonathan later on, as far as we know, they never met again, they never talked again, communicated, at least not directly, that there's any record of And later on Jonathan will be killed. And so this is their last encounter with each other. And uh I've entitled the message A Friends Encouragement. Let's pray. Father, I ask you bless our study and time in your word. I ask that you would speak to our hearts. Lord, maybe some of us need encouragement tonight. Maybe some of us need to be challenged. But I just pray your Holy Spirit would be here and as uh always pray all many, many years, Lord, I just pray that preaching time comes, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. As I yield my will to you, present my body, I pray that you would speak through me. And that I would just be one of the church folk and that you would uh speak to our hearts. So uh please bless now, in Jesus' name. Amen. A friend's encouragement, a friend is important. I was reading about um uh uh conductor on a train, uh the old days and and uh when people travel by train a lot. And uh they stopped one place and the conductor noticed that this old bum uh had slipped on the train uh he thought undetected he was going to try and uh steal a seat there. And so uh um He saw the guy there. So he got to the back. He's making his way through the conductor. He got to the caboose and he told the brakeman back there. He says, um Because I want you to go up and talk to that tramp up there that snuck on and kick him off at the next stop. He doesn't have any tick or anything. I saw him sneak on. Next stop, kick him off So the brakeman said, okay. So there he watched and um they got to the next stop and he went up and as soon as he approached the old tramp, the tramp pulled out a big six-gun revolver and went like this to him. And the guy said, whoa, okay, all right, never mind, just stay right there. He walked back and the conductor said to the brakeman, she says, you kick that guy off. He goes, uh, I got up there and saw him and uh it's a he's an old friend of mine. I told him he could stay there. Said, okay. So the conductor said, Alright, next stop, I'll go up, I'll kick him off. And so uh got to the next stop and the conductor went up and the guy did the same thing, got the gun out, pointed at him. He came back and the brakeman he went back and told the brakeman, Huh, yeah, he's an old buddy of mine. I haven't seen years also. That's not the kind of friend that uh Jonathan was to David We pointed out here first thing we noticed, just for sake of time, is we noticed that David had a daily struggle, and I thought there were two tremendous truths there. For the Christian life. Number one, we've got to deal with other people failing us, other people doing us wrong. That's part of life. How many people here have ever been done wrong by somebody Yeah. You say a Christian would never do that. Uh don't don't be too sure about that. Christians have simple natures. Much as anybody else does. And by the way, you don't have to raise your hand, but uh I wonder how many of us ever done someone wrong. Goes both ways, doesn't it? And so we've got to learn to deal with that, or it's going to throw us. I've uh all these years I've been in the ministry, I've seen as many, if not more, people uh uh bail out on their Christian walk and fail in their Christian life because of someone else's actions and they weren't able to deal with it and they weren't didn't respond properly So David had to deal with the people of Kalah there and they uh they betrayed him. Uh he just walked away. We talked about that. Then the other struggle he had to deal with every day uh was the um not just the failure of others but also the tenacity of Saul. Saul wouldn't give up. He just stayed after him. Saul's out to kill him and he just stayed on him and stayed on him and stayed on him. Saul was on a mission, kill David. And you and I live in a world, we have someone that's out to destroy us, devour us, devour us like a lion And is on a mission. And that, of course, is the devil himself. Peter said, I've been talking talking about Peter. Peter said be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring Lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour. I mentioned some things I admire about the devil. One of them is his tenacity. Now I want to look yet on to verse number 14 And so that was, first of all, David's daily struggle. Then I noticed in verse 14, at the end of verse 14, I noticed David's divine assistance. I am glad that when we live in a world where people fail us and Satan's assailing us, that we have a God that steps down and helps us. Praise the Lord for that. Look at the last part of verse number 14. It says Saul Sodom every day. And what's those next two words? End of verse 14. Saul sought him every day, but God. I circled that. I touched on this the other week. I highlighted it as I read it. But God Delivered him not into his hand. You could put beside where it says, but God, you could write this down. You could put down the sovereignty of God. When you read through the Bible, you'll see several places where the situation is going on. As circumstances maybe are dire for one of God's people or o or a group of God's people. I mean it's tough and it looks bad. It's like uh old uh it's like there's old Louis Lemoore Western novels you read that oh he's trapped up in a holler and the bad guys got him surrounded and there's no hope and then there's always some little way out. Do you ever anybody ever read books like that And uh, oh, there's a little cave he can crawl up through and get out somehow. Um, there's no cave here for David to crawl out or anything, but there's a God in heaven looking for out for him. And uh the sovereignty of God. Saul's pursuing him relentlessly. He's out in the wilderness, in the wood, the wilderness of Zip. And he's in a wood, there's uh, and Saul's coming after him. But God, the sovereignty of God. Somebody help me here a little bit. What do we need? What are we talking about? And I think I might have done this recently But what are we talking about when we mention the sovereignty of God? What does that refer to? God's control? God's power? Any other? A God's authority? Sometimes it will refer to as a k a king, that will refer to him as a sovereign. On occasion, a king will be referred to as a sovereign. They have the highest authority in that land. When we reference the sovereignty of God, what we're talking about is God is ultimately in control. God is in control. Sometimes you'll hear the term, you'll hear preachers use this term, the providence of God. In other words, God is a plan, God is a purpose, He's in charge, He's in control. Now some people take this doctrine, this teaching of God's sovereignty. God is the ultimate authority. He is the one in control. He has power to be in control. He has power behind that. He actually is in control because of his power. Sometimes they'll take that and twist that and distort that to the point where mankind has no free will. Where actually we're just uh programmed by God, everything, uh some, even to the extent where God becomes the author of sin That God is in control. God is sovereign, and nothing happens that God is not in control of. That is a distortion of the biblical teaching of the sovereignty of God. God's sovereignty does not take away man's free will. And it certainly does not eradicate man's responsibility. Saul has a free will. Saul is of his own free will. God is not pre-programmed by God to respond this way to David's successes. It's his sinful nature. It is a decision he makes. Let me emphasize this. When a person sins, they sin because they choose to, not because God in his quote-unquote sovereignty programmed to do that. Alright, you follow what I'm saying. Now that is such an extreme distortion of that biblical teaching, but nevertheless it it it becomes very popular sometimes. So the word sovereignty, this concept, but God God is sovereign. God's in control here. He governs over uh the affairs of men. And uh but Saul has uh free will. He's making these decisions. Now here's the thing: this is what encourages me, and this is true not just for Saul, but across the board. God was able and he did limit Saul's actions Saul had a free will. He could do what he uh he could uh uh make the decisions he made. He wanted to pursue David, he wanted to try and kill David, he could do that. But what I'm trying to say is this, there were certain lines that God in his sovereignty drew that Saul was not going to cross over. Follow what I'm saying? God is in control, absolutely, and in his sovereignty he gives man a free will to make decisions, act as we choose to. But in in in what uh when it comes to his plan and purpose He put certain lines down he f uh that you cannot cross over. Several years ago, it was many years ago, um, I don't remember one of the presidents uh presidents, there was some ish fuss going on over in the Middle East, and uh they said, we're drawing a line in the sand. Anybody remember that? I just remember they drew a line and you're not crossing that, that's all the farther you're going. Well, uh man can say that all he wants to and it doesn't always work out But when God says, I'm drawing a line in the sand, you're not crossing this, here's one thing you're not doing, you mark it down, it ain't happening. It ain't happening. And so God is limiting what Saul is able to do to David. Now, he gives them a lot of leeway, he gives them his free will to make a lot of decisions, but there's something Saul is not going to do, and one of them is he's not going to kill David. He's not going to kill David. Can you think of any other situations in the Bible where somebody had a free will and somebody uh And Satan was pursuing somebody and God drew a line in the sand. God limited what Satan was able to do to that person. Who are we thinking about? Job. What a classic example of Satan having been forced to submit to the sovereignty of God. Now he had some leeway. He says, you can do what you want, you can do whatever you want, but don't touch his body. Then the second round, listen, you can touch his body, but you're not taking his life. I'm glad God is sovereign over Satan I'm glad God is sovereign in our lives. He gives us a free will. Anybody here ever make decisions you wish you hadn't made? Yeah. Come back and bite you. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And uh God lets us. In his sovereignty says, all right, you're free, but there's some things you're not going to do. There's some things I'm going to limit. And so, but God Saul's out after him. David's running for his life, but God steps in here. Now that brings me back to what I mentioned when we're reading this, the end of verse 13. It says, and it was told Saul that David was escaped from Kilah, and he, I believe it's referring to Saul, forbear to go forth. Now I got looking at that word forbear means to cease or desist. Now picture this in your mind. David has just found out that the Kilahites are going to betray him. They're going to turn him over to Saul. He leaves there. He doesn't make an issue. He just leaves. And now he's out in the woods and Saul is hot on his tail. Saul is after him. Saul thinks, I'm no doubt in his mind, I got him. And then inexplicably Saul de ceases. Saul uh uh ceases pursuing him. He desists. He just stops for whatever reason. And I thought when we was studying it before, I thought, well that's strange. I mean here he's he's relentless and now all of a sudden he forbeared to go after him. You know what I think? I think God says you ain't going after him You ain't going after him. Listen, like I said before, when God says somebody ain't doing something, they ain't doing it. You with me? And I believe that forbearing inexplicably, all of a sudden Saul's not chasing anymore. I think that's part of the but God. But God delivered him not into his hand. Do you see that throughout scripture, where people of their own free will are making decisions And then suddenly they do something that you can't doesn't make sense, it can't explain it, and uh and God's will is accomplished. I was thinking of Cyrus sending the Jews back to Jerusalem Now these are the enemies. They've got him as prisoners. Why? And there makes no political sense, makes no um uh economic sense for Cyrus to let the his prisoners, the Israelites, go back to Jerusalem. You know what? God moved on his heart. To do that. And so you see that. David's divine assistance. God steps in here. It says he delivered him not. That phrase delivered him not. What does it mean if you deliver something? I would venture to say probably the ladies got stuff delivered from Amazon to your house sometime this week. I don't know what your house is like, but our house is like this is like the prime stopping station for Amazon Prime. It's like they got they can send drones. They don't even have to drive here anymore. They just know our house. We need a bigger mailbox. And um I'm exaggerating a little bit just in case my wife is listening. But um To deliver, it means to hand over into someone else's possession. They deliver. Here's your package, Mrs. Leatherman, and they hand it over. Saul inexplicably stops this pursuit, and it says that God delivered David not over into the hands of Saul Uh the implication is the implication is I like this. David was in God's hands. I don't know about you, but I like that thought. David was in God's hands. God says, I'm not delivering him over to you. Everything that happened to David had to pass through the permissive will of God. Now I wasn't going to m mention this because we're going to preach on it eventually on a Sunday night in our study of 1 Peter, but the end of 1 Peter Uh Peter makes a statement to these uh believers who are being persecuted, uh not mu much not unlike David here, very similar situation. They're being hounded, pursued by the enemies of the gospel. And Peter says to them, he makes this statement, he says, You are a peculiar people How many people ever remember reading that or hear a preacher preach on that? You're a peculiar talking to believers. You're a peculiar people. Every time I read that, certain people in our church come to mind We won't mention any names. But when we think of something being peculiar, what do we think of? Strange. Oh, they're peculiar. And uh like I said, certain people come to mind. But um when when Peter is writing to these believers and he says, you're a peculiar people, he's not calling them weirdos. He's not saying, boy, you guys are really strange. You're peculiar. It's not what he means at all. In fact, that word peculiar there means to be encircled. You're a peculiar people. You are encircled. And when I first studied that a number of years ago, I saw that and I thought, we're encircled. And I got given it some thought and studying that a little bit. And here's the idea. The child of God. How many folks here tonight are saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. That means you and I, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we are encircled. You know what I think that is? We are encircled by the providence or the sovereignty of God. In other words, God does not let anything come into the life of a believer that does not first pass. through his permissive will. And the only reason God is going to allow something to come into my life is when it matches, when it fits the criteria of Romans 8. 28. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose And so God's not going to allow anything happen to David. God is not going to let anything enter David's experience that God is not certain that is going to accomplish his will and carry it out. Now, does that mean nothing bad happens to David? No, a lot of bad stuff happens to him. A lot of heart-wrenching things, a lot of difficult things. Does that mean David doesn't make any stupid decisions? No. But God in his sovereignty and his love and his wisdom allows that to happen. He allows David to make those decisions. Not necessarily his will, but he what? Allows it. He allows it. Um how many folks when you when your kids were small, they there had something, you let them do it, you really didn't want them to do it do that, but you allowed them. You allowed it. You thought, well, they'll learn from that or whatever. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's exactly the way it is with God. And so God in his sovereignty says I'm not going to deliver David over that. I've got him in my hands. He's encircled. He's a peculiar person in the eyes of God. He's in my hand. And what's true for David is true for you and I as believers Now that brings great assurance. That brings great peace. How many folks have ever, uh maybe right now, but have ever had something happen in your life you really didn't like? Anybody here ever have something happen in your life and you look to God and say, God, what's the deal? Anybody know and talk about God? Why? You find out in the Bible. Why? Job, David says many times, why? Wherefore? God doesn't always tell us why, but one thing we can be sure of, he's in control and he's allowed it for a purpose, for a reason. We can trust him, because if there it was outside his purpose for our life, he would not deliver us over to that. Just like David here. So this is a tremendous statement for the believers, tremendous assurance here that we have God's help. God is active in our lives. Whether we see it or not, whether we understand it or not, he is. And uh he's working behind the scenes. I put down three ways that God was active in David's life. Now I'll try and buzz down through these, and they're not all right here. But we're seeing it as we're looking at the life of David. First of all, God was active in directing David's steps, in leading and directing him. Go with me if you would to Proverbs chapter 16. Here we end up back in Proverbs again. Proverbs sixteen and verse number nine. Proverbs 16, 9. Uh look at look at this. Now this may apply it a little bit more on the end of Saul in this circumstance we're looking at here, but it's David is the one that's being affected by it. A man's heart does what? Deviseth his ways. What's that mean? What's he saying there? Somebody talk to me. He says, a man's heart deviseth his ways. Man, a man chooses his ways, or he's devised it. Man, I've got this, I've devised this plan. I got a plan to shoot that book that's on my camera. I've devised a plan. Any you hunters here ever figure I got a plan all planned out. I'm gonna shoot that staker. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And uh but look at the rest of the verse. A man's heart divides his way t his way, but the Lord what Break the steps. But the Lord, there's the sovereignty of God. Saul had it all planned out. He's in the wood Ah, he's not down in K uh Keilah anymore, that defense city. I've got him now. And inexplicably Paul Saul tells his troops, uh, hold back, let's just take a break Uh we'll just uh we we'll we won't go down there right now. We'll forbear right now. I can hear his military men say, what are you talking about? He's a sitting duck. Now's the time And uh he forbear. Um uh got man's heart deviseth his ways, but the Lord does what directs his steps. God leads and directs. So God was leading and directing him there. I was I'm watching right now a little documentary on World War II, the early Days of World War II, and um they were talking about uh Dunkirk. Anyone familiar with that? And the guys were trapped there and they're trying to ferry them out. And uh inexplicably Hitler stopped the troops and says, nope, not send them in. They could have slaughtered him. Inexplicably he held back and uh he was going to use his air force and just decimate them with the Air Force. So he had this plan. We got him trapped. We're gonna slaughter all the Allies and uh this thing will be over before they know it. Inexplicably he he doesn't advance on them with the with the tanks and everything, and he says, well, we'll just let the Air Force wipe them out. Guess what happened for the next two weeks, I think? Heavy overcast. All of a sudden, out of nowhere, heavy overcast comes over, they can't see the targets. They didn't have radar and all of that then. And uh hundreds of thousands of lives are spared. You know what that? Man deviseth his ways, but God directs his steps. And that's what's happening here for David. God says, I'm active in David's life. I'm active in leading. David maybe didn't see it, but he may have not even known about any of Paul Saul's plans here. But um uh nevertheless God was active in his life. God was active in directing him. Now, this is a little rabbit trail, but how does God direct you and I in our lives? What what does God use to direct us? in our lives. A word of God. That's the first thing I put down. And God leads us and directs us. Anybody here ever, uh, you know, you think of something, you read the Bible, all of a sudden God speaks to your heart and you say, you know, I need to do this a little differently. Or maybe you hear a sermon preached. and and God redirects. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's happened to me. And God puts a thought there and speaks to my heart and say, you know, I I need to I need to change this. I need to do that. That's God directing in our lives. That's God's sovereignty working in leading and directing us. Sometimes he uses wise counsel. That's a good thing. Yeah, get some wise counsel. Somebody that's been through it before. One thing when I was early in my ministry There's less and less of these anymore, but when I was early in my ministry, I always got my counsel from people that were at least 25 years older than me Preachers that were 25, that was my criteria. They had to be in the ministry at least 25 years longer than I was. Well, back then there was lots There's not as many as there used to be. Oh no. But uh here is my thinking. Wise council, here is my thinking Well, if they've been in the ministry the same amount of time I have been in the ministry, they don't know anything more about it than I do. Right? They don't have any more experience than I have. They don't have any more they might be smarter than me. There's a lot of those, but I want to go through somebody that's made some bad decisions and learned from it. Somebody that's made some good decisions, learn from it, and get it like. So I found out that I talked to some older preachers and different things, listened to them, and I made some changes. God directed me. leading, active in my life, and he's using wise counsel. So the word of God, wise counsel, and then sometimes I put it this way, just to alliterate, well-defined circumstances Sometimes God will put you in a position where you have no choice but to go a certain way. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You say, well, wonder what I should do. Well, there's no choice to make. I have no other options And God's put me into this straight place where this is the way I have to go. This is the only choice I have. And so God directed him in his life. Number two, I put it this way: God was active in developing him We've said this over and over and over again. God was using all of this to develop David to be a mature, strong king. He had some growing to do. He had some developing that needed to take place. He had some maturing that needed to be done. Paul cautioned Timothy when he was writing Timothy in the New Testament, and he was addressing the office of the pastor. And he made a statement to Timothy in putting up the criteria, the qualifications for being a pastor. One of them, he was not to be a novice. What is a novice? A beginner, a newbie. Somebody that hasn't grown. They're very young in the faith. They're very new. They're just starting out. He says, don't you put them in a position of responsibility Don't you put them in a position of uh of authority and all of that. They need to grow, lest they be swelled up with what? Pride. Says pride, the danger there. And so God is humbling David. God is developing David. God is letting David learn and see that behind the scenes God's in control. He can trust God He's learning that when God says something is so or something's going to happen, mark it down, it's going to happen. And David's learning this. David's learning this. He's not there yet, but uh this is part of his development. And then God was active in defending him. In defending him Um and here we see that he Saul forbeared to go. And God uh but God delivered him not into his hands. David's learning here with all his military skill and all his highly trained weaponry training that he has Ultimately, safety is of the Lord. He's got to learn to trust God. God's going to, God's, God put it this way, God's got his back. God's got his back. What's the military? He's got your six. Right? That's what they said in the movie anyway. I've got your six. David's learning this. David's learning. But God, what a tremendous statement. How many times? I bet we could stand and testify for hours we could get up and say, you know, man, I was in a situation I thought was hopeless And lo and behold, God came through. And I didn't see it, but God worked it out. Anybody, I'm thinking of several instances in my life where I thought, man, everything's a mess. I don't know how. But God. But God Divine assistance for David. I thought about, I'm not sure why. We were in Indianapolis. There was a an older fellow there. He was retired from the school system. I think he retired right about the time we showed up. He was an older guy All the retired people are old. And um he was an older guy. And um he had a fascinating story, Mr. Walraben is named tall thin fella. He worked in coal mines to up until his mid to late forties. And there was an accident in the coal mine. And uh one of the uh carts that they were hauling coal in and out of with, it's on a rail uh rail line And uh one of the carts drove over his foot and severed off from about halfway down to his toes, just crushed it and I mean just cut it clean off. Well of course he got disability and they you know he made boot kus out of that and and he retired from the coal mines and 40-some years old he decided it's too early to kick back so he went to college And he got a teaching degree, and if I remember correctly, he went and got a master's in teaching and became a high school teacher. I don't remember what subject he taught And if I remember the story correctly, and we made some contacted some folks back there, and I think I got the story straight, if I remember correctly, he won some awards for Teacher of the Year in the Indianapolis area there In his late 50s, early 60s. And he always credited, he says, that losing that foot was the greatest thing ever happened to me, apart from his salvation. He said God redirected my life into something that was much more fulfilling and he invested his lives as a testimony and a witness and an influence in hundreds and thousands of young people's lives there in Indianapolis area. Isn't that something? And he always said, he said, God was active in my life. That was God working in my life, leading and directing me. I'm sure when he's sitting on the ground, that blood's squirting out, his foot's part of it's laying here, and the other part's over here. I doubt he's saying, oh yeah, God's working in my life. He was probably screaming or something, but later on he looked back and he says, Oh, I see God. Here's the term, but God God was in control. God was leading and directing. And that's what we're and we're going to see that over and over and over for David. But God, but God, but God. Now, I've got three more pages of notes that I was going to squeeze in tonight. And I still haven't gotten to Dav uh Jonathan's friendship. But um what we'll do is we'll have to wait until after revival and after Thanksgiving. And we'll finally finish up these five verses we've been on for six and a half years. Not quite that long. But here's what I want to, I just want to end with this tonight. I know we're a little early, but I doubt there's one person going to complain about that. But uh here's what I want to end in. If we're saved, we're saved Here's one thing we can be sure of. God's got us circled. We're peculiar. God is active in our lives. And God is helping us, whether we recognize it or not. Every time, let me ask you this. Every time we make a stupid decision or we sin And something falls apart. There's some consequences from that. You know what that is? That's God active in my life. Got anybody here ever it's confession time. Anybody here ever do something and boy there was negative consequences. Anybody yeah, three. Um You know what that is? That's the love of God. Bible says, whom the Lord loveth, he chasteth Discourages every so that can you imagine what our lives would be like if we would sin and there'd be no negative consequences, there would be no chastisement? What would it be like? It'd be a mess And so when that's God active in my life. Alright, you want to make that decision? You're seriously? You want to you want to disobey? You want to violate my my my commands? You want to You want to uh sin against me? You're free to you've got a free will. I tell you this, there's going to be consequences. There's going to be consequences. Because I love you. I love you. And so God's active in our life, in the negative and in the positive area. He's active in our life. So what do we do? We just trust him. And we take heart. God's going to send Jonathan and and And encourage David, hey, you're going to be king. You're going to be king. And it's like the icing on the cake of this lesson. God intervenes. God doesn't let Saul get him. Jonathan shows up and says, you're going to be king. It's going to be all right. It's going to be alright. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would help us to trust you when we don't see you And Lord, help us to believe, and I'm preaching it myself, Lord, you know it. Help us to believe that when things seem to be so difficult like it was for David, help us to believe that you are active. That you are working. Help us just wait on you and trust you and follow your leadership. And I pray that you would teach us and help us grow. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight would say, preacher I'm in maybe I have a situation or just struggle, and I'm just going to take heart that God's in control. I'm going to trust Him I'm just going to believe that he's working and wait on him and follow instructions. Any like that, anybody like that, goodness, hands all over. Sure. It's part of Christian life. It's part of our development. God teaching us And maybe there's some specific issue, specific area. What I like to do for myself is I take that situation and I just bring it to the Lord and say, Lord, I don't understand. I don't know the answer. Sometimes we do, Lord, I'm struggling. Just God, I need you to help me. God lead me. God direct me. And trust them and trust them. An altar is a good place to do that. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.