Chapter number 20, if you would turn there, we're back to the life of David while you're finding 1 Samuel chapter 20. I read an article that up in um Massachusetts, Brian, again, they found uh the department of uh the Massachusetts Department of Transportation, this one stretch of area they found uh two hundred crows dead along the road. Two hundred crows. And so they um you know first they thought uh what's that Arvarian flu? That bird flu type thing what's going on? And they thought maybe that was going on. They analyzed them. It wasn't, the birds were perfectly healthy. They determined that they were killed by vehicular the cars hitting them, vehicles hitting them And so they thought, well, why in the world would all these crows in this one area and um uh they look out looking at them and they did analysis And they found they came to the determination it wasn't cars hitting the crows, it was motorcycles. And they thought, what in the world? And they got got studying that. And you know, crows always have a lookout, you know. No that you know they'll have a lookout and if danger comes they'll caulk and so what happened was the crow the lookout could could cry out caulk car but they couldn't cry out bike bike bike And so they didn't know it and the bikes hit 'em is what happened. Well, that was long, but I don't know if it was worth it. Uh let me get hooked up here. 1 Samuel chapter number 20. I'm going to be read the first nine verses. We're not going to get to all of these verses this evening. Maybe, Lord will, in the first three is what I want to get to, but uh we're studying the life of David as it's recorded in Scripture. Of course, there is a whole lot more to his life. Than what the Bible tells us. I'm going to turn this on, Dave, so here we go. You know, there's a lot more to his life than what's recorded in Scripture. So we're looking at what the Bible tells us What God's Word tells us about the life of David and what we can learn from that. Now the question is, why would we study the life of David? There's all kinds, there's thousands of people in the Bible we could study and we should But I think studying the life of David is important for us and unique in because David is so unique David is the only person that God says he was a man after God's own heart. No one else is that statement made about. Now that's a pretty tremendous statement to be made About a person. This is a man, this is a woman, this is a young person, God to say, after my own heart. And so that very fact alone That David would be described that way by God. I want to learn from that. I would like to be after God's heart. I would like to be in tune with the Lord. And uh we talked about this long early on in our study. What does it mean to be a man after God's own heart? It's to see things the way God sees things, to value things the way God values things, to love things as God loves those things, the heart of God. beat in the heart of David, so to speak. And so that makes a study of his life valuable and and important. He is also, unless I'm mistaken, I don't think I am, he's the only man that is directly chosen by God to be a king of Israel, God's people. Now Solomon, you know, the people want a king and God allowed them or King Saul, I should say. God allowed them, and from there on it's kind of like offspring and different ones. But David is the only one that God directly chose of his own volition to be a king of Israel. And that's unique. And so we're studying him. Now let's look at verse chapter 20. I want to read verses 1 through 9, and we'll see how far we get this evening. Notice it says here, and David fled from Naoth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? What is mine iniquity? And what is my sin before thy father that he seeketh my life? And he, Jonathan, said unto him, David, God forbid, thou shalt not die. Behold, my father will do nothing, either great or small, but that he will show it me And why should my father hide this thing from me? Look at this next statement. Jonathan says, it is not so. David, what you're saying is not correct. You're wrong. And David, verse 3, swear moreover, and said, Thy father certainly knoweth that I have found grace in thine eyes. And he has said, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved. But truly, as the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death. Sounds like David's getting pretty discouraged here. Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will even do it for thee. David said unto Jonathan, Behold, tomorrow is the new moon. And I shall not fail to sit with the king at meat, but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even And if thy father at all miss me, then say David earnestly asked leave of me, that he might run to Bethlehem, his city, for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the family And if he say thus, it is well, thy servant shall have peace. But if he be very wroth, then be sure that evil is determined by him. Therefore, thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant. This is David speaking to Jonathan. For thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of the Lord with thee Notwithstanding, if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself, for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father? And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee, for if I knew certainly that evil were determined by my Father to come upon thee, then would not I tell thee. I've entitled it A Friends Council. Let's pray, and we'll try and look at at least some of this here this evening. Father in heaven, I thank you for the midweek service. And the opportunity we have just to put aside our busy weekly schedule and come together in your name and sing these songs and fellowship together a little bit and enjoy each other's presence. But Lord, now with our Bibles open, I ask that you would speak to our hearts and that we could learn from the life of David and particularly this event in David's life, and that we could be men and women, young people, after your heart People that share your view and your values. And please fill me with your spirit. I yield my will to you, present my body anew for this time And pray that you would fill me and speak through me, Lord, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen. You would think, and I know this is a we've said this repeatedly throughout the study, but it's been a while since we've looked at David But you would think that his journey from being anointed by the prophet Samuel by uh of God to be king and to his and his journey from that point to the throne, you think that would be a fairly plain or smooth journey God chose him. It's obviously this is God's will. And we all know that whenever we do God's will, everything goes smoothly, right? No. You might think that David's anointed of God. He's a man after God's own heart. It would be a smooth transition from a young shepherd boy to the king of Israel. That is not what happens. You would think it might be a very popular transition from a young shepherd boy to the king of Israel. And there's periods of time where David was extremely popular, more so than even King Saul. But it doesn't all it does it isn't that way the whole time. In fact, we're going to see here before too long, David becomes very, very unpopular in the eyes of Israel And so this transition, this journey from a young boy, shepherd boy to king doesn't go smoothly. It isn't He isn't riding on the shoulders of people shouting he's a jolly good fellow. Um it isn't prosperous Uh it's tough. It's tough. He is going through some incredible trials And I came to this conclusion. As I was reading over this again and refreshing my mind for where we're at here, the thought came to me this. God's ways are not our ways. Anyone ever make this statement? Well, I thought it would happen this way. Do you ever pray for something? You ever pray for something to happen or God to meet a need or whatever? You made this request to God and you had it all figured out in your head how God was going to meet that need. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I don't think it has ever worked out the way I anticipated God would meet that need. God's ways are not our ways. His thoughts are not our thoughts. As the heavens are higher than the earth, so are his ways higher than our ways. His thoughts higher than our thoughts. God doesn't work on our schedule. God doesn't work on our plans and our uh uh our uh the way we think he would Would. Like most folks that God uses in great ways, David had to go through the school of hard knocks. Did anybody ever hear of that university? Anybody ever hear of that school of hard knocks? I've come to the conclusion, I'm absolutely convinced of that. Anyone that God's going to use in a great way, they have to first go through a tough time. First go through a tough time. I enjoy reading biographies. I recommend reading biographies of great men, great women, missionaries And uh I've shared many of the biographies with many of the people in the church. And if you'll pay close attention to every one of these men and women that God has used in great ways in years gone by, You're going to find two things out about them. Number one, they were men and women of great prayer. They were men and women of great prayer. And number two, they were men and women of great trials, great heartaches, great sorrows, great suffering. I was reading about a preacher was referencing I was reading a preacher was referencing another preacher who was a elderly man when this preacher was young. Now this is an elderly preacher referencing A preacher who was elderly when this preacher was young. So it was a long time ago. And he heard this preacher say, whom God was using in great, great ways, impacting many, many people for the gospel. And he said, he heard this preacher say, years ago when he was young, this preacher said, when I was a young preacher I was preaching a special meeting at a church somewhere across the county or the state, wherever he was. And he said, I preached my heart out, and I gave it my best message, and I gave it the best I could, and I sought the Lord. And he said afterward, when it was after the service, he kind of slipped out and he was in a side room and I guess just getting his things together, and he couldn't help but overhear two ladies talking in the hallway outside the room of the where the preacher was that just finished preaching. And he said, the one lady said to the other lady, What do you think of the pre young preacher's sermon tonight? And the other lady said this. She goes, oh, it wasn't bad, but he'll be much better after he suffers for a while. I thought, isn't that interesting? And the preacher that was referring to this preacher said, as it turned out, that man suffered great heartaches. And great disappointments throughout his life. And he says at the end of his life, God was using him in great, great ways to impact thousands of people for the Lord. I have no idea of the name of that preacher. I have no idea the lady that made that statement. But I tell you, that lady had understood a truth, of life, and of scripture. To be used greatly of God often, and I want to say always requires great heartache and great trials And great suffering. And it was true in that man, and that's what we're seeing in David. God is going to use David in tremendous ways. God is going to use David In such a way that the Lord Jesus Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God, is going to sit upon the throne of David. How do you attain that level? One of the ways is through great faithfulness in spite of great suffering, great heartache. And so David is going through this series, a school of hard knocks. He is in what I wrote down as God's boot camp God's boot camp. What do they do in boot camp? How many people remember Brother Bill Barons? What a hoot. How can you forget that character? Well he's been with the Lord a number of years now. I miss that guy. I don't think a week goes by. I don't think about Bill Barons. But he was a drill instructor down at Paris Island for the Marines. And he'd tell me stories about there. Of course they were hilarious. So we'd go out, I'd be almost rolling on the floor laughing. He'd tell me all these stories And uh can you see him as a drill instructor? Very easily. And he said, he said the goal of boot camp. Now a lot of you guys already understand this. But he said the whole purpose and goal of boot camp was to break down that young man, that young person, that young soldier or whatever, that young Marine Break them down mentally, emotionally, physically, break them down And when they attained that goal, then they rebuilt them into the soldier that they wanted them to be and needed them to be. And as I'm reading about David and we're going to start seeing what starts and what's happening to David and what he's going to go through, I think David is going through some sort of spiritual boot camp to prepare him so he can be the king, he can be the man of God that God intends for him to be. And God changes us and God molds us and God breaks us so that we can be the people He intends for us to be. Oh, I had somebody say to me this is a number of years ago, something bad had happened. They say, Why is this happening to me? And my answer, I tried to be very gracious and tactful, but my answer was basically God's molding you, God's making you. God has something He is trying to accomplish in your life, and these things happen in our lives. And so things aren't playing out, I don't imagine, the way David anticipated. Things are not playing out the way I would have anticipated. And David is now experiencing some things that he never experienced before. We have no record of David responding this way to any situation up to this point. A bear attacks, a lion attacks his sheep. He is very confident, he is very fearless, he is filled with faith, and he just and he kills the bear and he kills the lion and he delivers the sheep out of their mouths. without any fear, without any hesitation, absolute confidence in the presence and power of God. He faces a sh uh a giant that the entire Israeli army is trembling before David goes out there by himself with a s with a um uh slang Without any fear, without any hesitation, absolute 10% confidence in the presence and power of God, and he destroys the king. But now David is trembling. We've never seen him this way before. Something is different about David. He's confused. Did you see there in verse 1? And I'm going to come back and look at this, but look at verse 1. David fled from Naoth and Ramah. and came before Jonathan. Look what he says here. What have I done? What is mine iniquity? What is my sin? What? What? What? I haven't read anywhere in the life of David up to this point where he is confused like this. We always find David confident, we always find David in control. We always find David he has his act together, he has complete faith in God. Now he has lack of confidence. Now I'm getting way ahead of myself and way ahead of our study, but this dawned on me. Come with me, if you would, to chapter 30 of 1 Samuel. Now he's gone through a horrific period of time. His faith shakes, his faith wavers. In fact, he He makes some foolish, faithless decisions. He is going through it. This great man after God's own heart But there's a turning point, I think, in in 1 Samuel chapter 20, and look at verse number six, or I'm sorry, chapter 30. And verse number six. This is where David has he's uh he's been f he's been uh running from Saul for some suggest up to ten years this man been going on. I don't know the exact time frame But he finally says, he he leans on his own understanding. He says to himself, Saul's going to kill me. I've got to run over to the Philistines. He runs over to the enemy. He's in the enemy's camp He gets raided while he's out. His camp gets raided. His wives are taken. The supplies are taken. He is absolutely at the end of his rope. He is absolutely at the bottom of the barrel. Look at verse number 6 And David was greatly distressed, for the people spake of stoning him. He's not popular anymore. Because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters. But David did what? Encouraged himself in the Lord his God. If you come back up to verse 4, David and the people that were with him lifted up their voices and wept until they had no more power to weep. He is at the absolute bottom of the barrel. Everything has turned against him. Everybody has turned against him. Now they're wanting to stone him. His family is gone. His possessions are gone. And something, David makes a decision that I believe is a turning point. And finally he's no longer trusting in his own strength. He's no longer trusting in his own experience. He's not even trusting in his own faith. Now he's looking to God and God alone. And from that point, if you'll study, and we're going to down the road here a little ways, from that point on, things start turning. Things start changing. He gets his family back, he gets his possessions back. The next chapter, I believe it is, King Saul dies, and David becomes king I believe everything that's happening from chapter 20, chapter 19, 20, all the way through chapter 30 and verse number 6, I think all of that was leading up to that point where David finally got to the total end of himself in nothing but God. And God says, all right, now you're where I need you to be. Now I can use you. You know, as long as self, I hope you'll get this statement. As long as self is on the throne, as long as self as as long as self is calling the shots, as long as I'm trusting in myself Even if I'm trusting in my the strength of my faith, I have strong faith. As long as my eyes are on me, I may be a good Christian, I may be serving God, I may be doing all that But at some point I've got to get to the place where it is no longer I that liveth, but it's Christ that liveth in me And that's where I think God is bringing David, where he is absolutely broken, no confidence in himself, not even in his own faith But his confidence is completely and hopelessly on the Lord. So having said that, come back with me if you would to chapter number 20, and let's start looking at this a little bit. We're just going to look at a first couple verses here Verses 1 through 9, I broke it down this way. If you like to follow my outlines, I like to outline stuff, and I put it this way. Verses 1 through 3, I notice that David discusses his situation with Jonathan. And then in verses 4 through 7, David devises a strategy with Jonathan. Now you remember the setting. Saul is coming after him. Saul is out after David. He is this is the beginning of his fugitivity So he devises this strategy with Jonathan to determine Saul's intentions. And then number three, David demands some sincerity Now those last two points we'll have to get to another week. But let's look at the first few verses here, verse 1, 2, and 3. Let me read them again. And David read uh fled from Naoth and Ramah and came with uh came and said to Jonathan, What have I done? What is mine iniquity? What is my sin before thy father that he seeketh my light? And Jonathan responds and says, He sa and he said unto him, God forbid, thou shalt not die. But behold, my father will do nothing, either great or small, but what he will but that he will show it me, and why should my father hide this thing from me? And David counters back Jonathan's statement, and he says, uh, thy father certainly knoweth that I found grace in thy eyes And he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved. But truly, as the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death. The first thing I notice here is David is confused. David's confused. He's looking for answers. What have I done? What is my iniquity? What is my sin? We've not seen this in David before, as I said. David's acting and talking in a way we would not expect from him. Now one thing I do find in David's response here is those two To his friend for counsel. Let me read to you from Proverbs, and if we have time, we're going to look at a couple verses in Proverbs. But Proverbs chapter number 27 and verse number 9. It says this, ointment and perfume rejoice the heart. I like that verse. How many people like it when somebody wears some sort of cologne? Or smells nice. I found uh one of the evangelists left some shaving cream here. They forgot it and left it here, and I found it and I've been using it man it smells good i've been spraying it all over me ointment and perfume rejoice the heart But look at the next part. So doth the sweetness of a man's friend by what? What's it? Are you there? Am I just reading you're not there? Okay, well I'll read it then. Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart. So doth the sweetness of a man's friend by hearty counsel. Just like you walk up to somebody and say, boy, you smell good That's pleasant and smell nice. The Bible says that when you go to a friend, when you're having a hard time and things are falling around, and you've got a friend you can go to, and you can talk to that friend and you can get feedback and get some counsel and work things through, that that is a blessing. Thank God for good friends. Thank God for godly friends that I can be open and honest with. I can express my fears. I can express my concerns. They'll be straightforward with me. They're going to understand with me. They're going to help me. And so David comes to Jonathan when he's scared, he's confused, he's never been in this situation before, and he's coming to Jonathan. Now, as I got looking at this, the thought entered my mind I'm wondering, is David a little bit concerned about Jonathan's loyalty to him? He's saying to Jonathan, What have I done, Jonathan? What's my sin? What's my iniquity? And did you catch it later on down there in verse 8? We'll look at this later. Therefore, thou shalt deal with kindly with thy servant Jonathan. You be kind to me. Thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of the Lord with thee, saying, Listen, you made a covenant with me. If there be iniquity in me, slay me thyself, for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father? I'm wondering, though David loves Jonathan. Jonathan absolutely loves David. I don't think this mic is on, Brother Dave. I don't think I have any sound on this mic. Or how What if I turned it on, would that Sorry. I thought it said no, but it was it's it was on. David's coming to Jonathan. Jonathan loves David, absolutely. There's no doubt about it. I believe David loves Jonathan, but David is such a point now where he is breaking down his confidence that he's, I think he's beginning to question the loyalty of Jonathan to him. Saying, Jonathan, what are you doing? Are you listening if you're in cahoots with your father, just go ahead and kill me now However, David is very, very confused, and he comes to Jonathan. Verse number two, I notice that Jonathan is very certain. Look at what Jonathan says. And he said unto him, God forbid that thou shalt not die. Behold, my father will do nothing, either great or small, but that he will show it to me. Why should my father hide this thing from me? And that last statement summarizes Jonathan's response back. It is not so. I don't believe that my father is trying to kill you. Jonathan was unwilling to believe evil about his father. There's no doubt in my mind, Jonathan loved King Saul, his father. Jonathan honored his father. And he refused to believe evil statements about his father. It is not so. My father would not do that. Now, Jonathan's being a little naive here in this case. I think it's pretty obvious what's going on. But to me, this is a positive trait in Jonathan's character. That he is he will not accept evil, he will not accept evil speaking against his father without absolute proof that it's the case. How many times do people, how many times do Christians, somebody comes along and says something evil about another one, and we immediately accept it because they told us I believe Jonathan is giving his father the benefit of the doubt. I believe Jonathan is refusing to accept simply on someone else's word that this person is that bad, that my father is that bad He wasn't going to think or speak evil of his father just because what someone else said about him. Now I think that's a positive attribute. And I think we could use in our churches today and in the toxic, bitter, angry, hatred society that we have in, where Nobody can say anything positive about anybody, and the the top news is how terrible other people are. And that is creeping into our churches. It's creeping into our preaching And what we could use is just a good little dose of, hey, let's be a little bit positive about other people. And let's give people the benefit of the doubting. Let's not assume the worst in everybody's situation Now again, Jonathan was being naive here, so I grant you that he was mistaken. But I really, really appreciate the mentality of Jonathan That he's going to stand up for people. I I tell you, I I I I hope this next statement is true. I want to believe it's true, and I've certainly tried to make this true, but in 20 coming up on 26 years as being passed to this church. If someone spoke evil of a member of our church, I defended them. I would not now unless they come and say, all right, here it is. But I tried to I try to defend people unless we know for sure And God help us to get a little bit of what Jonathan has and give people the benefit of the doubt and give people a positive uh response there. Now, having said that, Jonathan is being naive and he's going to learn here in another chapter that, you know, David is correct about his father. Proverbs 22 and verse 3 and Proverbs 27 and verse 4 says that um the prudent man foreseeth the evil and hidens themselves, but the simple pass on and are punished. Solomon is telling us in Proverbs there is, hey, listen, sometimes you gotta open your eyes. You can't just be naive and you can't just whitewash everything And Jonathan's going to see that here in a little bit, that his assessment of his father is incorrect. But having, like I said, I really appreciate Jonathan's loyalty to his father and giving his father the benefit of the doubt at this point. And then the third thing I noticed, verse 3, and David swear moreover. I mean he and he's not swearing, cursing, using bad words But he's vowing, he said he is absolutely s convinced that what he's saying about King Saul is true, and he's emphasizing this to Jonathan. He says Thy father certainly knoweth that I found grace in thine eyes, and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved. Listen, Jonathan, your daddy's hiding from you his true intentions towards me He's not letting you in on what he's trying to do. But truly, as the Lord liveth and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death. David's assessment of Saul seems to be correct. Now the Bible doesn't tell us whether King Saul was hiding this from Jonathan, but it sure looks that way. I believe it's the case. So his assessment of Saul is probably correct, but his conclusion is inaccurate. Question. He says, truly, as the Lord liveth as I soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death. Question, is that true or false? Is it true or false? It's true and false. Actually, every one of us, there's but a step between us and death. You know that. You could go home and walk down your basement steps, stumble, and you'd be in heaven, right? You might go out and go drive some drunk drive through a traffic uh intersection and plow Indian dice. So yes, in a sense it is true in that we could we could be called out of here at any moment, any time, right? So that's true. We shouldn't boast ourselves of tomorrow. We don't know what a day may bring forth. So, in that sense, David, yes, you're correct, there is but a step between us and death. However, in this situation, it's not true. Because as God has clearly promised David would be a king, as we keep emphasizing that. God said, You're going to be the king, you're going to be the king, you're going to be the king. Saul is not going to kill David Now why would he be talking this way? Why would David be saying this? Oh I'm gonna die. There's just, oh, just one more, uh he's gonna kill me, he's gonna kill me. Why would he start thinking this way? I think there's two reasons. One is I believe David forgot God's anointing on him I think he got so overwhelmed with the situation. He got so overwhelmed in the circumstances that are going on around him, he completely forgot the promise of God. And before we get too hard on David, I'm afraid you and I do that sometimes. Anyone ever say something along these lines? Oh, it's hopeless! Anybody ever do that? There is no way this is ever gonna anything good is gonna come out of this. There is no way this can be fixed. This is hopeless. Ah, when we start talking about that, we're forgetting promises of God, such as with man this may be impossible, but with God all things are possible. We forget promises like this, God can do anything. Is anything too hard for the Lord? Is his hand shortened? And we forget these promises that God is still on the throne and God is still all powerful and God is still sovereign and he can take any situation, any circumstance Even being hounded by the king and turn that thing around and make something out of it. So before we get to the point, oh, it's hopeless, I'm going to die, let's come back and remember the promises that God has given us And he will not fail us, he will not forsake us. And so one reason David's talking this way, I think, is he forgot the promises of God, and I think another reason is his faith is starting to waver. David's faith is starting to waver. And anytime you and I get away from the Word of God and the promises of God, our faith will waver. I say this so often. I say it so often. Somebody comes in, they're having trouble, and they're having a problem, and I'll ask them this: I say, are you reading your Bible regularly? And without fail, the answer is no. And faith begins to waver, and discouragement sets in, and despair takes over. If we just get back to this old book, Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by what? The Word of God. This is our source of faith. This is our source of Feeding our faith and strengthening us to trust God when everything has fallen around us, when everything seems hopeless. I go to the Word of God and I claim the promises of God and I trust them David forgot God's anointing. David's faith is beginning to waver. Now, before I get too hard on David, he's not alone. You go through the Bible and we find some of God's greatest men and women of God struggled in their faith. Can you think of anybody in the Bible whose faith wavered besides David? Somebody talk to me now. Y'all are little Lethargic out there. Who? Abraham struggled in his faith. Oh no, we're gonna die. We gotta go to Egypt. Who else? Elijah, oh, woe is me! I'm the only I wish I were dead. Who else? Moses struggled. Who else? John the Baptist. Is he really the Christ? Is Jesus really the Christ? Or should we look for another? Who else? Peter's faith struggled. I don't know him. I mean, you just go through and some of the greatest men, some of the greatest people in the Bible also had times of incredible discouragement and incredible wavering of their faith. I think one of the easiest things to do in the Christian life, and I've been guilty of this more than I like And one of the easiest things to do is we get in a situation, we get in a circumstance, and we look at it from a human perspective rather than God's perspective. And we see, and then what would what does Ecclesiastes say? We're looking at it from where? Under the sun. And God is trying to teach David in this most horrendous, hopeless, fearful situation, he's trying to get David to encourage himself in the Lord and see all this from God's perspective. And David is struggling. He's struggling. He's going through this. So here's my challenge for us this evening. Here's my challenge. In any situation, in every situation of life. Let's not look at it from our perspective. Let's not look at it the way things appear. Let's view it and assess it from the way God says it is. Romans 8. 28. Don't write it off because we know it so well. Claim that promise. That is true promise of God. And we know that what? All things work together for good to them who are called according to the purpose, who love God and who are called according to his purpose. We quote that and we say it and we don't even think about it, but the fact of the matter is that is an absolute truth of God In every situation, every circumstance. So we can't be too hard on David. He's going to go through it here for a little bit, and he does good and he struggles. He's up and down, up and down. But he finally comes to that point where God completely breaks him and he looks at the Lord and then God uses them. Father in heaven, I pray that you would use these thoughts tonight from the life of David, and I pray you'd help us to have faith in you. Help us, Father in Heaven, not to assess things from our perspective, but assess our situation from your perspective Lord, I pray you'd give us good friends that we can go to and take counsel and share our hearts and pray together with. I pray, Lord, you'd help us. To walk in your word so that our faith would be strong. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say tonight, preacher Maybe you're in a situation now or you're coming out of it or you're bending them, and you say, Preacher, there's some times where I just forget to look to God. And I look at it from my perspective and I need to stop doing that. I need to see things from God's perspective. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? Sometimes I forget, I get overwhelmed, I get caught up God bless you, hands all around, my hands raised. There's some here tonight say, preacher, my timing, God's word, isn't what it ought to be That's where my faith needs to be fed, and that's where my faith needs to be strengthened. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I get this daily Bible reading down and Make that a stable, consistent part of my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I get that settled. God bless you. We need that. And then maybe you just need the Lord to help you see things from heaven's perspective. Years ago, I was by my bed and my heart was so broke in the situation and I was weeping. Kathy and I were praying, and I didn't plan it. It just came out of my lips. Lord, help me to see this from your perspective. God helped me. That's what we need. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.