Chapter twenty-three, if you would, turn in your Bibles there and um studying the life of David. I am thoroughly enjoying this. I don't know if anybody else is getting anything out of it, but I am liking this study of David, and the m if you'll notice the more I like a study, the longer it lasts. Somebody said, boy, you must love some of these. But um David is amazing man and all the people that become part of it. First Samuel twenty-three, if you would, turn there. We're going to start reading. I we're going to read thirteen. We're not going to look at that. We're going to get uh down to sixteen, but I want to read this together as a section. I was talking to a preacher friend of mine and we're talking about Sunday and visitors. We had visitors here Sunday and and we're always happy for that. He said, uh they had uh uh a stump got in the church. And I said, you're kidding, where'd it go? He said, well he had his own pew. Oh brother. Verse thirteen, First Samuel twenty-three, the Bible says this. Then David and his men, which were about six hundred, arose And departed out of Keilah. Remember, he'd helped deliver Keilah from the Philistines. David saved their lives, really And uh went whithersoever they could go, and it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah, and he forbade to go forth, forbeared to go forth. And David abode in the wilderness in strongholds and remained in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not into his hand. David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life, and David was in the wilderness of Zeph in the wood in a wood. Now look at this. And Jonathan, Saul's son. Arose and went to David into the wood and strengthened his hand in God. Boy, praise the Lord for friends that help us in our Christian life, huh? And he said unto him, Fear not, for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee. And thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be next to thee. And that also Saul my father knowed. And they too made a covenant before the Lord, and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house. We're talking this section here, and um I I I titled it uh a friend's encouragement. Let's pray And uh we'll look at this section here. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for your word. I thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank you for our church. And uh we can get together and Lord, maybe just a handful on a snowy night, but Lord, you promised that your presence would be here. And so I ask that you would fill me with your spirit. You'd be the teacher and preacher And that you would speak through me your word and apply it to our lives as you know that we need. So I yield myself to you and pray that would be true. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. One of the greatest challenges, I think, in the Christian life, and this lesson, these truths here we're talking about, are designed for folks that know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. But don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, if never been born spiritually, then a lot of these principles here really won't apply to our life. Let's see if you agree with me on this. If someone doesn't know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, that's the most important issue in their life, right? The salvation of a person's soul is the most important issue in life. So once that's in place, then the great challenge of the Christian life, uh, I believe, is this is simply learning To trust God and follow his instructions in every situation. Would you agree with me? The Christian life is simply a matter of learning to trust that what God says is so and what he instructs me is what I need to do. And if I can get that down, we we have a song we sing that in my mind uh uh it ca uh uh it it uh summarizes the Christian life. As good as any song I know of. Living the Christian life. Anybody want to take, guess what song I'm thinking about? Trust and obey. Trust them. And do what he says. And that's what God's teaching David here. David's going to be king. Now he had the faith down, no doubt about it, when uh you know he killed Goliath by faith. He trusted God and God gave him great victory and all that. But what David is learning and what you and I need to learn is to trust God in every situation of life When David killed Goliath, and I know we brought this out before, but when David killed Goliath, you know, he it was God did it through him. He said, God will give the victory. Um but that was very clear-cut what the situation was. There's no clouds about it. Goliath was the enemy. He's blaspheme God. He needs to be dealt with. David trusts God and did what obviously needed to be done. So when the enemy, when it's an obvious enemy is is threatening me or opposing me, then it that's not difficult, I don't think, to trust God necessarily However, when it's somebody we think we should be able to trust, and then they're chasing us down and they're giving us hard times, sometimes that's a little more difficult. And there are situations in life that God allows us to go into. There are situations in life that God allows us to face, valleys to go through where it doesn't seem like anything makes sense. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? And sometimes you don't even know what's right and wrong. It's just fatty. And it's in those times, it's in those situations where we need to learn to trust God. It doesn't make sense. I don't understand why in the world would this be happening to me. I can see why the Philistine giant would be threatening us. That's what they do. They're the enemies of God's people. But Saul and then these folks here in Keilah that betrayed him. And so David's learning to trust God. He's learning to uh uh follow God and trust him even when things don't make a whole lot of sense This is a tremendous section here. And to be honest with you, when we went into this, you know, we we were interrupted with the revival and thanksgiving and different things, but um I I I didn't see everything that was in this passage that was here. If you remember we noticed in verses 13 through 15, David was facing a a struggle, a daily struggle First of all, the injustice of these people, and that's something we've got to learn to deal with, people that don't do right, don't do us, sorry. And uh we've got to be able to handle that without getting bitter, without getting derailed And David just walked away from it. He he didn't he didn't take it personally. They did him wrong. He just walked away from it. And then Saul every day is pursuing him, much like the devil, you and I, is a roaring lion, seeketh about whom he may devour. uh Saul was after him. And David needed to learn to deal with that. This relentless, tenacious assault by Saul and this pursuit, being hounded day by day by day uh by King Saul trying to kill him. He d he had he did not have the luxury of uh of uh of uh getting distracted. He didn't have the luxury of just relaxing a little bit. David had to be on guard 24-7 every single day. And what I'm suggesting you is this Satan doesn't take any vacations. He doesn't take a day off. Yes, I take Tuesdays off usually Uh I ended up doing work anyway. But uh uh yesterday I took the day off and to be honest with you, a little uh maybe I'm saying this because I'm a little convicted, but I didn't do hardly nothing I ain't done nothing all day. And I did a few things. But um uh Satan doesn't we don't uh Satan doesn't do that. He doesn't get Tuesdays off or Mondays or Fridays or any other day off And so David needed to learn to deal with this daily struggle. Then the next thing we noticed is that God would intervene with him. We put it this way: David's divine assistance in verse number 14, the last part. But God It says there, uh, delivered him not into his hand, in spite of Saul's tenaciousness, uh tenacity, I should say, in spite of Saul's relentless pursuit of him God did not let Saul touch David. And God steps in and God intervenes. And I don't know about you, but I am so glad God helps us. I am glad God helps me. Did you ever have a struggle, maybe a temptation or some situation, you're tempted, whatever, get bitter or whatever it may be. And uh you just pray and you ask the Lord and you come out of it, and uh you look back and say, Man, God helped me through that. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And that's what God's doing here for David God's stepping in and he's putting himself much like in that Old Testament when Israel was uh uh fleeing from Egypt under leadership of Moses and uh armies of Egypt are coming out and God put himself between Israel and the Egyptians in the form of a what? A cloudy pillar, yes, and uh by day and a fiery pillar by night. And uh those those is those uh uh Egyptians were not going to get the Israelites. God was between them. And that's kind of the situation here Though not a visible presence, God was not letting um uh King Saul touch David. Now we come to verse 16, 17, and 18 This is, we pointed out before, David's last interaction with Jonathan. And um I want to suggest to you, this is perhaps, Jonathan is perhaps one of the greatest examples of true friendship in all of Scripture. What an amazing man. We could do a series on the life of Jonathan. And if you'll notice, I'm pulling him in a good bit. Every time he shows up, I want to spend a little time. on Jonathan, 'cause what a just a tremendous man. In fact, I was thinking about his uh uh friendship, uh one of the most faithful friends in all of Scripture. In fact, I can only think of one other person in Scripture that is more a more a loyal and faithful friend than Jonathan. Can anybody take guess who I might be thinking about? One other person in Scripture that is a more loyal and faithful friend than Jonathan Yeah, the Lord Jesus Christ. He's uh uh I like in John 13, 1, it says, having loved his own that were in the world, and then he makes this statement. He loved them unto the end. Man, you don't get more loyal than that. You'll get more faithful than that. And if we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, He is a friend that sticks closer than a brother. He is faithful and loyal to the end. He will not forsake us. And so we see in Jonathan a human example of what the Lord Jesus Christ is, just a tremendous tremendous thing Uh this is John This is Jonathan and David's last interaction together, as we pointed out. And um Jonathan is really a tool In the hands of God to help David. David is being formed. David is being developed. He's going through these tests, these trials, these difficulties to prepare him for the throne someday And Jonathan is part of that process. The Philistines were part. King Saul is a part of that. He's a negative tool. But Jonathan is a positive tool. in the hands of God. He's being used of God. I tell you, did you anybody here ever ask God to use you? Anyone ever say that, God, I want you to use me. God, I want you to use me You know what I found out? Sometimes God uses us in ways we're not even aware of. Sometimes God will use us ways we're not even aware of. In a variety of ways. And sometimes we're not even conscious of it. Let me just give you an illustration of that and and uh you know for it God used all of us differently. But years and years ago, our good friend Brother Fred Schindler, you know remember, he hasn't been around, he's he's getting up there, he don't get out too much anymore. But um I was talking to him the other day on the phone, we were reminiscing a little. And years ago, when he was in Downingtown, he had a big conference, big sword conference. He asked me to come and preach on the Tuesday morning one time And uh we had Bill Barons was here preaching a revival. And so we left at 4 30 in the morning, drove all the way over there. I preached, and as soon as I was done preaching, we turned around and drove back and had the meeting here at night And so it was kind of silly, but we did it. And I I didn't know just rushed in there, came in, I preached on a uh something on separation. Uh Abraham separated from Lot and preached a message on that. Never thought anything of it. We got in came back and went on with our revival meeting Years later, I mean I'm talking 10, 12 years later, I get a phone call from a guy up in Hanover, Pennsylvania, Pastor Myers. He says, would you come up and preach a uh men's meeting on a Saturday for me. I said, sure, I'd be glad to. I said, uh have we met? I didn't I didn't know him. He goes, yeah, he says, you preached a sword conference for Brother Sindler back years ago. And he says, I was in a denomination a denominational church, and he said, when you preached on Abraham separating from Lot and getting away from disobedient brothers separating yourself God convicted me so much I came back and I led our church out of the denomination. We're an independent fundamental Baptist church now. I said, you're kidding? And so sometimes we just say a word to somebody. Sometimes we just make a visit like Jonathan does here. Sometimes we just write a note or we just something that we don't even aware, yet God uses that to have a profound impact on other people's lives. And so I guess what I'm trying to say is the Christian life is uh uh is a tremendous thing, is an exciting thing. Um Uh God will use it along the way. Just a visit, a phone call, a letter, sending a text. The other Sunday, it's been several months ago now, but one Sunday morning I got up and usually I get up pretty early Sunday mornings come over and get ready and different things, prepare myself for the day. And early, early in the morning, um I'm going about my stuff and my phone goes bing. Anybody know what that means? I got a text early in the morning. I thought, who in the world is I looked and here it was a preacher from another state said, Brother Leatherman, you've been on my mind this morning. I just want to let you know you were praying, I'm praying for you. So I'm read back and said thanks. And I bowed my head and said a word of prayer for him, and I just prayed for you too. About a half hour or so goes by. Being Here's another preacher. I think it was Brother Mike Edwards or somebody. Hey, Brother Lennon, you've been on my heart all morning this morning, and uh been praying for I just thought I'd send you a note and say, uh, you know, we're praying for you and thinking about you I said, huh, okay, thanks, brother. God bless you. I'm praying for you. About half an hour and 45 minutes, bing, another preacher. I got about five or six preachers that morning, all texted me that morning and said they're praying for me I knew nothing going on. I was happy. Everything's going good. I didn't know what was going on. And I told Kathy, I said, something's up. The devil's about to do something, I don't know what it is, but God has all these people texting me. Uh you better put your armor on it, something's coming And uh nothing ever happened. And it was a good day, and everything went on. But you know what I wondered? I wondered if Satan wasn't maneuvering somehow. And God saw and knew that and says, Man, I need to get some prayer warriors going here and protect Brother Leatherman that day. Isn't that something? And so you never know. God uses us. Jonathan shows up here and visits David, and he's in the midst of this struggle. He is scared running for his life. And Jonathan shows up and God uses them in a great way. A couple of thoughts here, real quick. Let me give it to you. Number one, I notice here they have a sincere friendship They have a sincere friendship. Look at verse 16. And Jonathan Saul's son arose and went to David into the wood and strengthened his hand in God. Now think about this for a minute. How safe is it for someone to be with David at this point, humanly speaking? It is very dangerous. John David is the most dangerous person to be around, humanly speaking at this point in time. I mean the entire he is the what what's the FBI? They have their um most wanted list. David is on the top of Israel's military's most wanted list. Who is this terrorist they just killed here a few weeks ago? I can never say those guys' names Uh whoever he was, they went in. That's what David is to King Saul and his army. Baghdadi. Well, he's in a Baghdadi now. But uh that is the kind of situation, predicament that David found himself. He wasn't a terrorist, he was Saul's best friend, actually. But in Saul's mind That was the pursuit. That was, this is what I'm trying to say. That was the level of danger it was for Jonathan to come and make a friendly visit with David. The entire military's out after David. And so Jonathan is putting himself in great danger here. Now, this is not the first and only time that Jonathan was willing to put himself in danger for something that is right. Would you come back with me to chapter twenty of First Samuel? And we have an incident incident here where Jonathan is displaying his bravery. Jonathan is a man of tremendous courage. He's a very brave man. And chapter 20 and verse number 33 Um this isn't the first time Jonathan put himself in great danger for David. Uh verse 30 Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan. And he said unto him, Thou son of a perverse, rebellious woman, do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own confusion And unto the confusion of thy mother's nakedness, for as long he's insulting Jonathan here horrendously, his son. For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom Wherefore now send and fetch him unto me, for he shall surely die. And look at this. Jonathan speaks up for David, and he answered Saul his father and said to him, Wherefore shall he be slain? What hath he done I could hear him yelling at each other. And Saul cast a javelin to smite him, whereby Jonathan knew it was determined of his father to slay David. So this isn't the first time Jonathan's putting himself in danger of his father's anger and wrath for the sake of David, on behalf of David. So he's a brave man You know what? Sometimes friendship, sometimes friendship requires some courage. Sometimes friendship costs us something. Sometimes loyalty to somebody requires bravery on our part to stand up for them even if it's not popular, even if it costs us something. I tell you, a friendship, a friendship that I am not willing to pay a price for isn't much of a friendship, is it? What's that old saying? You you get what you pay for, right? You buy something cheap, it's probably what? Cheap. And Jonathan's loyalty to David, Jonathan's friendship to David was such that he was willing to put his life on the line for David. Is does that remind you of anybody in the Bible? I already referenced them. Uh uh what how uh uh the verse just slips of mine. Um uh friend layeth down his life. What's that verse? No greater love hath any man than this than a man lay down his life for his friends. And I'm telling you, what a testimony. Jonathan was a very brave man. Jonathan loved David dearly He loved David dearly. We've already noticed that. I thought of 1 John 4 and verse 18, it says this: There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear. And so Jonathan, he's tremendous dangerous. David is a tremendously dangerous man simply because of Saul's hatred for him. And Jonathan puts all that aside and finds David, and he goes and associates with him in spite of this tremendous danger. I wrote this down. I believe this with all my heart. Love is a powerful, powerful force. Love can motivate and stir people to do things. that they wouldn't mit normally do. And Jonathan's love for David puts him in a in a tremendous place. So Uh this was I put it this way this was a covert meeting. Nobody knew. Jonathan comes in after hours. He's got he's got Black Hawk helicopters coming in there, lights out You know, they're sneaking in under radar and he shows up. Uh by the way, they didn't have Black Hawk helicopters back then, alright, just so you know But he's coming in covert. He's coming in off the radar and he's meeting up with Jonathan. So it's a covert meeting. I put this down. It's a calculated meeting. Now this is the question that came up in my mind How in the world did Jonathan know where David was? Saul doesn't know where David is. He's hunting them, he's looking for him. They know basically where he's at. But how could Jonathan get in there and find David, but Saul couldn't? Apparently Jonathan had put quite a bit of research in this, and somehow he figured out Where David was at. Now think about this. Jonathan has to approach David unseen, unknown. Saul finds out he's cooked. So he's got to get in there unseen and unknown, but yet he has to do it in a way that David doesn't kill him on his way in Right? I can see David's men that are with them, these six hundred men, somebody's coming up this little side of the hill up to them in the dark, and they see the shadow coming, and man arrows. And so I don't know all the logistics behind it, but um Jonathan had to put a little bit of effort in. This wasn't something you just uh I think I'll swing by and stop by uh David's house. Uh my dad and I were up in Morgantown Friday visiting George in the hospital and we're going up and I was trying to explain where the hindballs lived. We're going up 60 and I said, over that hill right over there, that's where they're at, where that big ri uh uh phone tower is, you go back in there. And uh so we're coming back and I said, tell you what, let's just swing in and say hey. And we did, but I got there too soon. The fudge wasn't ready yet. I messed my timing up. That was not what Jonathan was doing, just saying, hey, I think I'll swing by and see David. Uh-uh. He had to put a little thought into this. He had to go about this very, very carefully. So it was a covert meeting. It was a calculated meeting. And this is what it was all about. It was an encouraging meeting. Look what it says here Jonathan Saul's son arose, went to David into the wood, and there's this whole purpose for going. This tells us exactly what Jonathan was after. And strengthened his hand in God. Something, probably the Holy Spirit, the Lord somehow, something stirred in Jonathan's heart and was this. David needs somebody to come by and encourage him David needs somebody. I how he what made him think that uh uh there's no doubt in my mind it was the Lord leading him. Did you ever get an impression in your heart and mind, boy I ought to call so and so up and just let them know and pray information? Anybody know I'm talking about? Somebody heavy on your heart and mind. I've had this so many times. I'm driving around or I'm working, and one of the missionaries just comes there on my mind so hard And so heavy, and I'll stop and pray, and sometimes I'll send them an email, say, hey, you've just been thinking about it. And um God directs us that way And God leads us sometimes. And I don't know how it was or what it was that prompted Jonathan, but uh he went there and he wanted to help him. Now notice how he encouraged him. The word strengthened there means this, to give strength to, obvious, but it has this idea to infuse boldness into Jonathan shows up and he's trying to get David, listen, you stay bold, you stay at this thing. Another definition I found was to sustain or to make firm He's getting he's getting in there and he's strengthening David. David, don't get discouraged. Don't quit. Don't give up. You press on. You press on. God has called you. God has a plan for your life. Don't you back out of this thing. Don't you cower, give in. And he's strengthening them, but notice how he does it. Look there at the verse. And he strengthened his hand, and that is not where the sentence ends. God adds two more words at the end there. What are they? In God. Listen, it's one thing to quote little cliches to somebody. Don't ever, ever quit, never, never, never quit. That's great. Sometimes that's all we need to hear. There's other cliches, you know, when the going gets rough, the rough get going. You know, what are some others? Anybody? Uh these little cliches we give people. Um uh that's the only two I can think of. And they're fine and they're good, but you agree with me, those just in and of themselves are a little shallow. You know, when your world's falling in around you and somebody says, well just look up, you know, just uh don't quit Yeah, thanks. I appreciate that. We need to strengthen people's hands. We need to encourage people and lift them up. But we need to go a step farther and strengthen them what? In the Lord. We need to get their eyes, we need to redirect their focus. This is what Jonathan's doing for David. He's helping them get his focus off of his situation and even off of himself and get his focus on God. And I tell you, there's nothing more encouraging in the world than know that God is with me and God is for me. There was a fellow, um, a church father years ago, and oh Name slip my mind right now. Um but um he was uh teaching he he was preaching the Trinity, he was writing books. I mean this is early in church history, there's a lot of apostasy. Catholic Church was starting taking off and people were drifting. And he was preaching and teaching on the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, the great three and one And um I'll think of his name afterward, but uh somebody approached him, and everybody was taking heat, and they were threatening him, and all this stuff, and somebody said to him, They said, the whole world's against you. Your position on the Trinity. And he without hesitating, he said, then I'm against the whole world. He was standing on truth. He was standing for what was true, whether everybody was for him or nobody was for him. And his eyes were on the Lord. He knew that he was grounded in the Word of God in that position. And that's what Jonathan is helping David. He's getting him grounded in the Lord. This is the substance of his encouragement. He encouraged them in the Lord, in the Lord, in the Lord. I tell you what our church needs. What our church doesn't need on Sunday mornings, Sunday nights, or Wednesday nights or any other time, me to get up there and just give a little bunch of encouraging cliches. And little encouraging stories, as nice as they are. But our church and our community, Christians, need to hear: hey, God is the one that helps us. We have a source, we have a strength that's beyond ourselves. And he's strengthening him here in the Lord. That that's this stresses to me the importance of having daily Bible reading. You know what daily devotions are? It's encouraging myself in God, in the Lord. in the Lord. Um uh some of these we we use the Baptist bread devotionals. I think they're good. I don't think it should substitute for the Bible, but it's a nice little supplement for Bible reading But I'm telling you, there's some of these little devotional books out there that are just uh just froth. If you know what I'm talking about, they're just nice little stories, and there's no scriptural truth to it. There's no substance to them And Jonathan is giving David some good, solid substance here. He's giving them, uh pointing them to the Lord. So daily Bible reading, faithful church attendance. This is all part of being encouraged and strengthened in the Lord. So we have Jonathan here. He's a sin has a sincere friendship. Then, I got a little time here, bear with me. Then we notice he tells David of a submissive future. Now let me explain what I mean by that. Look at verse 17. And he said unto him, I underlined those next two words, fear not, why? For the hand of Saul, my father shall not find thee. And thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be next to thee, and that thou knowest. And that also father Saul my father knowest. Several things he points out to David. Number one, David, you're safe. Fear not. Fear not. And that statement is based upon God's word. God had said, you're going to be king. Fear not. David was safe. Yeah, but what's the best way to deal with fear? Anybody here ever been afraid? Some of y'all are afraid to raise your hand right there. Yeah, we deal with fear. It's part of it. I thought when uh uh when I went off to Bible college, you know boy it'd be a good strong, I won't never be afraid of nothing. I got to Bible college, I was scared to death of every test we took And then I got out and I was scared of pastoring, being in the ministry. Then I was scared of this. Then I was scared of that. Then I became a pastor. I got scared of deacons. And then uh um no, I'm kidding. They don't scare me. But um Fear is a real part of life. What's the best way to deal with fear? What time I'm afraid I will trust in thee. I want to suggest to you the best way to deal with fear is trust God by going to God's word, getting grounded on God's promise. If you don't get anything out of this tonight, get this. If God said it, it's so God says something's going to happen, you mark it down, it's going to happen. If God says something isn't going to happen, ain't going to happen, mark it down, it ain't going to And that's what he's doing. He says, fear not. Don't be afraid. Listen, you've got God's promise on this. You've got the word of God behind you. You're not going to be killed. You're going to be king. You're safe, David. Then he says, David, you're secure. Thou shalt be king. Thou shalt be king. The best way to strengthen someone in the Lord is to point them to the Word of God. David, God told you, you're anointed, you're going to be the king. Then David had his support. Look what he says here. And thou shalt be king over Israel. Look in the next statement. And I shall be next unto thee. How about that? Who was actually humanly in line to be the next king of Israel? Jonathan was And Jonathan knew that David was anointed by God to be king, and Jonathan, this is where I got my point, was submissive To God's will for David, and he says, All right, I I know I'm not going to be king. I'm fine with that. I'm good with that. Tell you what, David, since God chose you, I'm going to be right there with you. I'm going to be right next to you and I'm going to help you I'll be your assistant. I'll be the assistant king or whatever. Question, did that ever happen? No, no, did. Never did. God had another plan. Jonathan's life was taken in battle not too long from after this. But his heart was there. And I'm telling you, Jonathan is a tremendous man in his submission to the will of God. Sometimes it's hard to let somebody else take that position. And just step back and say, all right, this is God's will, God knows best. And man, what a tremendous statement here. He not only believed God's word, but he accepted and submitted to God's word. What a tremendous statement. And then I put this. David was safe. David was secure. David had Jonathan's support. And I put this down, the last part of verse 7. Saul was stupid. Saul was stupid. Say, where do you get that? Look what it says. Uh you will be k thou shalt be king over Israel. I'll be next to you. And look at this last statement. And that also Saul, my father, what? Noah. Jonathan knew his daddy. He's working side by side with him. I don't know if there was conversations going on or or how Jonathan knew this. But he knew that Saul knew that David's next in line, that David's going to be king. Saul knew that. Now think about this. You say, well what makes him stupid He knew he could not kill David. He knew he wouldn't that David's not going to lose to him. He knew. And yet he hardened himself. And hated David and sought to kill, sought to do something he knew he could not do. He was fighting, I put this down, he was fighting the decree of God God had decreed, God had declared, David will be king. And Saul knew that was so, and he fought it and fought it and fought it, knowing there's no chance of winning. Knowing is no chance of accomplishing what he's wanting to do. How many people agree with me? Beating your head against the wall is pretty stupid. I mean just fighting that and fighting that and fighting that and fighting that, it's like come on. You know who that reminds me of? Somebody that's fighting, fighting, fighting, and they're going to lose in the end, and they know they're going to lose in the end. Satan. Satan. Satan reads Revelation just as much as you do. I do. In fact, it says he comes down to earth with great wrath, knowing. That he's limited, that his his cause is a failure. And so Jonathan comes by and says, David, listen, don't be afraid. I just want to be here. I'm your friend. I want to encourage you. Don't be afraid. God's all got this. God's settled this. You're secure. You're going to be king. You've got my support. My daddy's an idiot. Now he doesn't really say that That's what he's implying. And um, you know what's interesting? That opens up a whole nother area. I'm gonna have to quit here. But study parents and children in the Bible. That's an interesting study Some of the most terrible parents in the Bible had kids that grew up and turned out to be something for God. And some of the great men of God in the Bible had kids that were terrible. Terrible. You say, well, how do you explain that? This is the way I explain it. I have no idea. I don't know. Some of these great men of faith in the hall of faith, the great men of God. And they lost their kids. And you have some people like Saul, and you have a then he has a child like Jonathan. Isn't that an amazing thing? I don't know how that works. Individual, we each have our own free will. There's no doubt suggestions offered how that happens. But I'd be honest with you, I don't fully know the answer to that. But you have a s a k a daddy that is so carnal and so wicked And here you have a son that is so godly in tremendous faith. And then the last of all, verse 18, I end with this. It's a secure friendship. Verse 18, and they and they too made a covenant before the Lord. It's the last time they're going to see each other. They don't know this, but it is. And they make a covenant. This is the third time David and Jonathan made a covenant. Now remember, a covenant isn't a isn't a contract. It's A covenant is, I I'm making these promises to you and I'm going to keep them regardless of what you do or don't do. And Jonathan is basically saying to David, David, you have my love and you have my loyalty, you have my support. Unconditionally, and David is saying to Jonathan, Jonathan, you have my love and support my loyalty unconditionally And they're making this is the third time they're restating this. And I thought I got thinking, why do they keep saying this to each other over and over and over? I think when we love someone, and I'm not talking about a romantic love, I'm talking about a good, godly, 1 Corinthians 13 love When we love someone, we want them to be assured of our love for them. Right? I say this often. If I love someone, I want them to know I love them and be assured of that. We did that when we were kids. I love you. Do you love me? Check one. Yes or no? We want them to know we love them. Two things. One, we want them to be a sort of our love for them. And we want them to love us back. We want them to love us back. Now Jonathan doesn't say this, but he's expressing all this love to David, and I think down inside his heart he's wanting David to love and be loyal to him back. And they make this covenant. They make this covenant. Um last words they say to each other is a covenant of friendship. Jonathan goes back. As far as we know, I mean as far as what the Bible record is, we we we don't know that they ever met or saw each other again. They ever spoke again. Jonathan's killed later on. And I got thinking about Jonathan when I was done this, and I thought, boy, that'd be something to have a friend like Jonathan. Maybe you do. I have some good friends. I have a lot of good friends. I thought to have a friend like Jonathan, to be in David's position and have a friend like Jonathan. But then the Lord convicted me. And I thought, more important than trying to find a friend like Jonathan, be a friend like Jonathan. Be that friend. I think if I'll be the friend that God wants me to be, God will make sure I have the friends that I need to have. When we were in college, big thing in college for the young people was Finding that spouse. All the girls were there for their MRS degrees. MRS degree. And the guys were there, they're going off to preach. They need a wife. And so everybody had all these lists, what I'm looking for in a husband, what I'm looking for in a wife. Oh, she's gotta be beautiful, she's gotta be this smart, she's gotta love God, she has to do this had all these lists of things. She needs to wash clothes, you know, iron uh cook and have all these things. And uh he needed to be good looking, handsome. He had to have be bold and he had to have all these things and All these high qualities considered in men. And finally, we got talking a couple of us one time and says, you know, maybe rather making up a list of what we're looking for in others Maybe we want to make up a list of what I should be to others. That might work better. And that's what I thought about, Jonathan. I ought to work at being a blessing, being loyal, being loving, be an encouragement, rather than always looking for somebody to encourage me and be loyal to me and love me. We have, I say this often, we sometimes we get a bad case of ingrown eyeballs. All we see is ourselves. Everything revolves around me. We need to get those eyes turned out and look, how can I be a blessing? Amen. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless us and help us to learn from Jonathan and the role that he played in how you used him to help this tremendous man of God down the road. And I pray maybe we could be a Jonathan to somebody this week and maybe just give our lives to helping, encouraging others in the Lord. And uh I pray you'd help us. Heads bowed, I suppose, how do you say, preacher, that's my heart's desire, my heart's stirred. I want to find somebody to be a blessing to, and be an encouragement to. Maybe you thought of someone to send a text or make a call or a visit And just encourage them in the Lord. And if we're willing, God will use us. Might take a little courage, might be inconvenient. We might have to rearrange our schedule a little, put take a little rest, pay a little price But to be a help to somebody is invaluable. Father bless us and help us and use us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen