We started this last week, and I wanted to cover these five, six verses here in one message, and that didn't happen, and we're not going to get through it tonight. But let's read in verse number thirteen. The Bible says, And day then David and his men, which were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah. And went whithersoever they could go. And it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keelah, and he forbear to go forth. And David abode in the wilderness in strongholds and remained in a mountain in the wilderness of Zeth. And Saul sought him, I circle the next two words in my Bible. Saul sought him every day. But God delivered him not into his hands, into his hand. David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life, and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in a wood. And Jonathan, Saul's son, arose and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God. And he said unto him, Fear not, for the hand of uh for the hand of Saul, my father, shall not find thee. And thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be next to thee. And that also Saul, my father, knoweth. They too made a covenant before the Lord, and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house. Let's pray. Father, pray you'd help us to learn from this passage tonight. I pray your Holy Spirit would uh open our hearts and minds and apply to our lives the truths that are presented here so that we can be stronger Christians. Our faith in you, Lord, would be stronger, our walk with you a little bit closer, and our witness in this whole world more effective. So I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord. I present my body anew. I yield my will. I ask with all my heart, Father, you be the preacher tonight and help us, Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Alright, we looked at this before, and uh we pointed out that David's trials, I'll just quickly touch base what we mentioned last week and just get the ball rolling here But uh we pointed out that David is being affected by Saul's sin, Saul's actions, Saul's decisions he's making, which are very selfish, very sinful, all rooted in pride and and envy are affecting David uh very negatively. Um we made these observations that our decisions and our behavior affect others We pointed out that God often allows someone's negative actions, someone's sinful actions, God allows that to affect us negatively sometimes. He does not shield us from the effects of other people's actions. He allows that. In his love and his wisdom, he allows us to experience that. And then God uses Those consequences that we experience from other people's actions, God uses that to develop our faith, to develop our maturity, to help us grow in our faith. And we see that in David's life. The whole reason I pointed that out is we're seeing that God is using Saul's envy, Saul's selfishness, Saul's violence. God is using that to develop k David to prepare his character to be the king of Israel. And so I think it's important to keep that in our minds. I took this section I read and I broke it down into three sections. We started the first one last week. Verse 13 through 15, I noticed the daily struggle that David faced. And then verses 16. Let me give the verses here correctly. Verse number 14, the last part of verse 14, I notice David's divine assistance. And then 16, 17, and 18, we notice a devoted friendship in the life of Jonathan, his relationship with David. So we looked last week. We started off at David's struggle. And the first thing we pointed out, if you'll remember, is that David is fleeing from, verse number one, David and his men, about 600, departed out of Keelah. Now David's on the run from Saul. He gets word that Keelah, which is actually a pretty m uh fortified city is about to be attacked by the Philistines. The Philistines outnumber the military there at Keilah. They've got, no doubt, greater weaponry. Keelah in and of themselves are sitting ducks for the Philistines come in and take over that city. David gets word of that. Somebody sends to David, said, Hey, Philistines have come to attack Keelah. David goes, he prays, he goes, and he defends them. And we're not given the details, but it has to be a miraculous defense. David's got four to six hundred men in there that range somewhere He's outnumbered by the Philistines. He's outgunned by the Philistines. But David, through his own military, um his own military uh uh experience and know-how and plus God's intervention, he delivers this little this town from the Philistines. Looks like they would be very what But it looks like the folks in the town there would be very what? Very grateful for what David had done. Looks like they would uh you would want to honor somebody like that. Came in and saved their lives, their possessions, their family, defended them. But Saul finds out that David is there with these Kilah heights, or whatever they're called. And David prays. And David, we're seeing him doing this more and more again. He's kind of getting back in tune with the Lord here. He's a little rattled for a while there, I think. And he says, he asked the Lord two things. He said, Lord, is Saul going to come down here and get me? Is he coming after me? And number two, if he does Are these Kilahites, Kilahites, are they going to turn me over to him or are they going to protect me? Are they going to defend me? Well, God says, yeah, Saul's coming. God tells him, He's coming. And then David says, well, what are they going to do? Are they going to defend me or are they going to hand me over? They're going to betray me. And God tells David, they're going to betray you. They're going to hand you over. How many people, if you were in David's shoes, you'd be a little bit ticked? That's a Hebrew word. Be a little uh frustrated with that. What do you mean? What do you mean they're going to hand me over? But we pointed out, if you remember, that's not how David reacted Verse number 13, David said, David and his men, which were about 600, arose and beat the Dalites out of the Kelites. No, it doesn't say that Says, what did he do? He departed. He departed out of Keilah. He walked away from him. Now just again, I just want to throw these out there. I got looking at that. And then later on it says at in verse number uh 14 at the end it says Saul sought him every day, and God delivered him not in his hand. Saul sought him every day. And I took from these two events, verse 13 down through the first part of verse 14. I got two observations here that David had to deal with on a regular basis. I think two things you and I have to deal with on a regular basis. Number one is the failure of other people. The failure of other people to be what we expect them to be, and many times to be what they should be, the failure of other people. And so David dealt with that admirably. I think he's a great example for us. He didn't get mad. He didn't retaliate. He didn't uh beat the daylights out of them. He walked away from them. I gave four observations here. One, he didn't take it personally, at least not that we can tell. He didn't react unkindly. He didn't dwell on it, as far as we know, it didn't just get under his skin and eat on it. How many folks here, if somebody does you wrong, you have a tendency to let that eat away at you? Anybody like me like that, man, it just gets under my skin and it cooks As far as we can tell, you never find it mentioned again by David. He just dropped it and walked on. And then learn from the failures of others. I'd like to think that David saw what they did and he learned from it. And maybe God is teaching David a the negative side of Loyalty. What loyalty is not, and somebody turning on him. And I'd like to believe that he learned from that what loyalty is by observing the actions of people who were not very loyal to him. So, be that as it may, uh you and I as Christians, we're gonna if we're gonna grow, if we're gonna be strong in our faith, if we're gonna end up being mature Christians, we have got to be able to learn We've got to learn to deal with the failure of other people in a mature, spiritual, biblical way In a mature spiritual biblical way. We live in a world where some boy somebody just does the slightest thing that we don't appreciate blow up on them. and just make a scene and carry on. You ever been in Walmart or somewhere or somebody that uh they m put gave the wrong change back and man they just freak out and go, anybody know what I'm talking about? You ever see that And um that's not a mature Christian. That's not maturity. Uh and so uh we've got to be able, as I said, we've got to be able to deal with other people's failures, other other people's shortcomings. I think my experience as pastor And the ministry has been as many, perhaps more people have walked away from church and and hurt their testimony Not because of false doctrine or anything, but because if somebody else in the church didn't treat them the way they thought they ought to be treated or somebody didn't do them right. And uh boy, they made a scene out of that. So uh we've got to learn to deal with uh with the uh the failures of others. Now the second daily struggle that David had to deal with, and I think we can learn from is the tenacity of Saul. The tenacity of Saul. Look at this. And Saul sought, excuse me, Saul sought him every day. Excuse me. Uh what does tenacity mean? Anybody want to try and give me a definition of tenacity? What is that? Hangin' on, won't let go, won't drop it. What else? Anybody else? Stick to it to it to diviness. Right. Tenacity. The way I always picture tenacity is an old bulldog gets a hold of uh somebody, the old bulldog gets a hold of the mailman's leg and won't let go. I mean he just sticks to it. He won't let go. Tenacity can be a very good thing. Right? That can be a good thing. Get a hold of what's right. Get a hold of what is true. Get a hold of what honors the Lord. And man, I ain't letting go. I ain't dropping it. I made a decision, Lord will, and I hope I live up to it Uh I made a decision back years ago in Bible college. I found out what and even before that, when I saw what was right, what this Bible taught, I saw who God was, what the Lord uh did for me And I just made a decision. I am going to dedicate my life to the Lord. I am not walking away from that. I am sticking to that. And by God's grace, He helps us do that So there is a positive side of tenacity, but there's also a negative side of it. Saul would not give up. on on uh hounding David down. He was bound and determined to take this man's life, to eliminate this imagined threat to Saul's well-being. And um Saul King Saul's pursuit of David was relentless. It consumed him. Look there, it says the last part of verse 14, and Saul Sought him. That word sought means to earnestly and thoroughly seek after, to pursue. He is not letting go. He is not letting go. David With that in mind, with Saul's tenacity, Saul is not going to let go. Saul is not letting down. He is on his trail every single day. With that in mind, that means a few things David could not do. Number one, David could not let his guard down. He could not let his guard down. David gets uh David could not allow himself to get distracted. And we're going to see that here. I think that might have been part of the deal with the Kent the um What was the town? Helites. That might have been part of his deal there. I'm not gonna get I'm not gonna get caught up on the side track, this little other thing. I'm just won' walk away from it. David could not let his guard down. He could not let himself become distracted. He could not come off of, see if you don't understand what I mean by this, he could not come off of high alert. High alert. Nine eleven, back in September uh eleventh, nine two thousand one, of course our country was attacked. And they established the Homeland Security, I believe it was at that point, and they put in place uh four levels, uh four levels of threat to the well-being of our country and our citizens. The first one was low. Was low threat. There was a low threat. The second level of threat to our country was guarded. You had low. You would guard. Each one had a color-coded The next one was, there was five actually. The next one was elevated. In other words, there's a threat, and the next level was elevated. Then they had a fourth level. It was high. The danger to our country was high level, and then they had one more above that, and that was severe. A severe threat. And and that was that situation, if I understand it correctly, was they were anticipating an attack at any moment At any given place. It's a severe alert. I said all that to say this. David is living on severe alert. It is at any moment Saul is after him, and he cannot play games, he cannot let his guard down, he cannot get distracted, it is red alert, it is severe alert for David Can I suggest to you that you and I as Christians live in a world where we have three Three deadly enemies to our spiritual well-being. The Bible lays them out very, very clearly. We have anybody want to tell me what are those three given to us in the Bible? Three deadly enemies to the Christian The flesh, the world, and the devil. We have a threefold enemy that I'm saying to you is just as tenacious is just as diligent at taking you and I out and and uh destroying our spiritual well-being as Saul was determined to take out David. And look, notice what it said. And the Saul sought him every day. Now this is what I want to, this is the application I want to take away from that. The moment you and I wake up in the morning, the moment you and I become conscious in the morning. Now some of us have to go through a process for that to take place. Some of us it's a half hour 45 minutes We're in that zone where we're not asleep, but we're not conscious. Coffee helps a lot. But the moment you and I become conscious, We are under attack from the world, the flesh, and the devil. Absolutely. Just as tenacious I'm telling you, you can wake up in the morning, you can have the most wonderful devotions in the evening before you went to bed. You can be at revival meeting and God spare your heart And you go to bed with visions of heaven and angels singing in your ears, most wonderful, and you wake up in the morning and that old flesh just begins an assault. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And man, just everything comes to mind. Do you remember what so-and-so did you, and they did that, and you wake up, and the next thing you know, you're in the flesh before you're even hardly conscious. And the world and the devil. The world, the flesh, and the devil, particularly the devil, is as tenacious in taking you and I out as King Saul is. I want you to go to a verse. Now I wasn't planning this, but uh come back with me. I believe it's 1 Peter, somebody correct me if I'm wrong, and chapter 5. Anybody know where I'm going with this? I'll take that as a no. 1 Peter chapter 5, and look with me if you would at verse number 8. 1 Peter 5. 8. Give you a chance to get there way back in the back of the New Testament. 1 Peter is right before 2 Peter. 1 Peter 5. 8. You got it. If this isn't highlighted in your Bible, or I'd recommend underline it or s underscore it or something to highlight this passage because it is incredibly important. For the Christian. He says, verse 8, 1 Peter 5, be sober. What does that mean? Not talking about drunkenness. Be very, very serious. Take what I'm about to say very, very seriously. Take your Christian walk very seriously Be vigilant. Would you agree with me? Red alert. High alert. Be vigilant. Be on high alert. Why? Because your adversary, who? The devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, look at this, seeking whom he may devour. Very similar wording to what King Saul was doing to David. Seeking him, sought him every day, every day, every day, after him. And I'm telling you. The Christian life is very, very similar in that we have an enemy, the old flesh, this old world, but particularly that devil. He is out after us on a daily basis. We have got to stay close to the Lord We have got to be very, very careful about our associations, about allowing uh inroads for the devil to get in One of the big inroads that the devil uses to get in and mess us up spiritually is, believe it or not, unforgiveness Unforgiveness. Corinthians says that unforgiveness gives the devil an advantage. The most unforgiving being in existence. The most unforgiving being in existence is the devil himself. He is an accuser of the brethren, and that is the exact opposite of forgiveness. And so we have got to be very, very careful. The Christian life is a lifelong struggle with the world, the flesh, and the devil. The Christian life is a daily struggle with the world, the flesh, and the devil. And we must live every day on spiritual high alert, red alert. I want to give you just briefly here, real quick, three things I admire about the devil. You say, you admire the devil? No, I don't admire the devil, but there's some characteristics that I tell ya, uh I I admire, I respected them. Let me give them to you. Number one, the devil isn't stupid. He knows what he's doing. He uh uh he uh he uh he's figured you and I out. In fact, I want to suggest that the devil probably knows human nature better than you and I do. He can read us. He's been studying his art for his craft for many, many thousands of years. And he knows how to guess. And we uh we uh we uh mistake to our peril if we get the idea that the devil is stupid or that somehow I can outsmart the devil. You're never going to outsmart the devil. He's good at what he does. I put this down. The second thing I admire about the devil is he does not quit. He does not quit. His tenacity, there's that word again, is overwhelming. He just stays at it and stays at it and stays at it. Even when it seems like there any ha anybody here any folks here have been saved long enough that you know what it's like for the devil to harass you? Anyone know what that's like? Man, he's just there I mean not physically, but he's just at us and uh and uh messing with our head and and trying to provoke us. Um and then sometimes it seems like there's a little reprieve See if you guys know what I talk about. Sometimes it seems, uh, he didn't really give me a hard time lately. Anybody know what I'm talking about that we think? That's the time you need to be the most alert Uh remember when the kids were small and they were hollering and carrying on, you didn't worry about them, but when they went silent That's when you knew something was up. Right? And when the devil goes silent, brother, you better get close to the Lord. You get right close to God Um and so uh he does not quit. He'll stay at it. And even if he does re give us a reprieve every now and kind of let things are going pretty well Man, there's no you know uh just seems like uh God's blessing, everything going on. Uh even when he does that, I think this is leathermanism, I think he's setting us up To get a little negligent, to get a little comfortable, to put let our guard down. In military I read different things over the years, but uh sometimes the enemy will just back off and they'll sane like they're retreating or they'll they'll act like uh they're whipped and then uh oh we'll let our guns down and relax and then boom they come back. Anybody know what I'm talking about And so the devil is relentless. If you'll study, we don't have time, but if you study Matthew chapter 4, the first few verses, Jesus has been out in the wilderness. He got baptized, went out in the wilderness, fasted, and prayed for 40 days And when he comes out, the Bible says he was tempted of the devil. And uh boy, there's a lot we can learn about the tenacity of the devil there. The first thing he does. Now just think, Jesus He's human being, he's man, he's God, but he's man, hundred percent man. He's dependent on food, humanly, he's dependent on water. So he's been out fasting for forty days And uh he'd come out of that, how many people would agree to me he'd probably be a little hungry? Probably be hungry. I'd get hungry if I fast forty minutes And uh he's 40 days, he comes, he's hungry. What is the very first thing the devil does? What's the very first area the devil tempts him with? Turn these stones into red, didn't say gold. He didn't say anything else. He said bread. Why? Because Satan's not stupid. He knew where he'd be most vulnerable. Of course, Jesus, being God, was not going to give in to that. But humanly speaking, he'd be vulnerable in that area. And and you think, well, Jesus, answer him, you know, it is written, thou shalt uh not live by man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that presents And he comes back with scripture and he defeats the devil, and the devil walked away with the tail between his legs and never bothered him again. No, wrong And he came again. And he came again. Then he shows up again, I think, in the Garden of Gethsemane. And he is tenacious. He just keeps Listen, I trust you get victory in your life and victory over temptation or victory over some issue. Somebody does something you want to get mad and say, no, no, no, I'm going to yield to the Spirit, not the works of the flesh and fruit of the Spirit. And you're patient and you think, oh, I got I beat it that time. You better stay on guard. You better stay on guard. He's gonna it's gonna come up again It is a daily struggle. So the devil isn't stupid. The devil doesn't quit. And the third area I respect about the devil, and we could apply this to King Saul. He could say things I uh admire about King Saul. is uh he worked hard. I'm telling you, if King Saul would have worked as hard at being a good king and building up this kingdom as he was trying to destroy David, he'd have been somebody. And the devil works hard. We cannot let our guard down. If a Christian If you and I as Christians would be as diligent in our Christian life in pleasing the Lord if we worked as hard and as tenaciously and as smartly As the devil did, and as King Saul did, if we did in our ministries, I believe our ministries would be boomy. If we'd apply ourselves and work as hard. We can learn a lot from King Saul. We can learn a lot from the devil and in tenacity. in being smart and in working hard. Working hard. Um we'd have a profound impact on this old world If we could learn these things from these guys, we could uh have some real blessings in our lives if we would apply those areas to our lives. Can I put this down? This is a little rabbit trail, but while we're looking at this daily struggle He's dealing with the failures and faults of others, shortcomings of others. He's dealing with the tenacity of Saul, his enemy. Every single day he has to deal with this. Every single day he's got to deal with this Well, let me give a positive side here, and this is not from this text, but just from experience maybe, five things a Christian should do every single day. I've shared this before. I encourage you to jot it down. I wrote it in my Bible. And five things a Christian should do every single day to help me in dealing with these daily struggles that face me. Anyone want to take a guess? What's one of the five things a Christian should do every day? Alright, you said two of them. One of them was pray. A Christian ought to spend some time every day in prayer. You ought to have a prayer list, you ought to pray for your family, you ought to pray for your spouse, your children, your parents You ought to pray for your church, you ought to pray for the members, the pastor, the folks involved in church, you ought to pray for our country, you ought to pray for your neighbors, you ought to pray for your boss, you ought to pray for yourself That God helps you. One thing a Christian ought to do every single day is spend some time in prayer. Now let me throw this out along those lines. I believe families should pray together. The kids are in the home, get those kids around and pray together. Read a little scripture, pray together. Let them pray. Take turns. When we had the boys home, we'd pray around. I always ended up, I'd pray last and the boys and then Kathy and I'd pray. We had a little prayer list, prayed for missionaries. So you ought to pray every day. What's another thing a Christian ought to do every single day? Oh every single day. Read your Bible. I put meditate in the Word of God. And sometimes we get caught up. Do you ever do this? Oh, I've got to read this verse today. Zing. You read down through there and don't ever, you know, you just do it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And that's better than nothing, I guess. But um Uh meditate in it. Take a little time and let the Lord speak to heart and look down through there. Think it through. What is this saying? How does it apply to my life? You ought to do that every day. Let me give you a verse for that. Joshua chapter 1, 8, and 9 This book of the law shall not depart out of mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do what according to those written therein. Then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Yeah, victory in your life. Psalms chapter 1, his delight is in the law of the Lord, and his law that he meditate day and night. And so spend some time together, some time in prayer, individually, and if you can, as a family Number two, spending a little time in the Bible, meditating on the Bible, and letting the Lord speak your heart. Let me give you three others real quick. Write this one down. A Christian every day ought to try to be a witness Or to try to be a witness, try and share the gospel one way or another. I've set a goal years ago. This might not sound like much, and um I guess it isn't, but I set a goal many, many years ago, try and give five gospel tracts out a day That's just my personal goal every day, try and get five gospel tracts out. Sometimes I go way, way over that, sometimes I come up short, believe it or not. And uh but just try a five different any way I can, get five gospel tracts out a day. Every Christian should seek to be a witness Somebody I can share the message of Christ with on a daily basis, every day, every day, every day, and work towards that. How many people agree with me? If every Christian in the world would witness to somebody every day It might have an impact on this whole world. Anybody know? I think so. I think so. So one, spend some time uh in prayer every day. Number two, spend some time in God's word every day. Number three, try to be a witness to somebody, at least one person every day. It's a gospel track or something. Number four, I put this down. You might not think of this, but I've got challenged this Sometime actually we were having a super seniors luncheon, I think it was at Perkins, and I was driving there and um these five things just came to mind while I was driving them down. So I don't text and drive, I write on napkins and drive So I wrote these five things down in ACK and they've been a great help to me. Number, what are we on? Number four, write this down. Every day, perform an act of kindness. Trying to find some way I can be kind to somebody. Ephesians 4:32. And be ye kind one to another. I believe I've said this so often, I believe Christians should be the kindest people in a community. I believe the folks, and I'm not trying to say anything about anybody else, that that You know, but I think the folks at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we ought to be the kindest people in Oakland and this area. Just kind. Kind of you. You say, yeah, but there, doesn't matter. As kind to them. Even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven me. Be as kind to others as God is to me. How many folks, God's ever been kind to you, even when you weren't very kind? Has God has anybody here God been very patient with you when you were grouchy? Yeah, like every day And he says that same way, be to others. Be kind. Be kind to others. Be kind. Number five, and then this one: express gratitude. Find something to be grateful for. Say, yeah, it's Thanksgiving, 30 days of gratitude every day. I'm going to have something like it's funny. Some folks they'll grouse 11 months out of the year, then November comes, all of a sudden I've got something Thankful for every day. Then December hits, it's right back. And uh uh we ought to just be con uh be uh grateful. And I believe the root of most of our defeats, most of our spiritual defeats are rooted in ingratitude. A rooted ingratitude. Does anybody know what the last of the Ten Commandments is? What's the tenth commandment? Thou shalt not covet. Very good. What is coveting? Wanting something you don't have. What's another way of saying that? Coveting is not being content with what I do have. Right? I'm not content. Oh, I need to have that. I need to have this. Covetousness is a form, isn't it, is probably the root of ingratitude. Take credit to you. I deserve better than this. I need to have more than this. This isn't good enough for me. I need that and I want this and it has to be this way and I need this circumstance. And uh I'm telling you, if we could, and um I'm telling you the devil will use ingratitude, he that's an open door for the devil to walk in and turn your world and my world upside down and to mess us up spiritually. If we had time, we go to Romans 1. We don't have time, but you go there and it says It says they changed the image of God into an uncorruptible thing, and it says, neither were they thankful. And the idea there is the root of mankind's descent into the most immoral, perverse depravity is rooted And not being grateful, not being grateful. Years and years ago there was a situation and somebody had been unfaithful to their spouse and they were come back and they were working on it, trying to get it right, and they did. And uh but they made this statement to me They said, I just wasn't grateful for what God had given me. I just wasn't grateful. I thought that was great observation They saw that and realized ingratitude was the root of that covetousness for others. And so there's a daily struggle for you and I. David faced it. One is other people's failures, other people's disloyalty, other people's injustice, their actions affect us, the Kielites. They betrayed David. He didn't let that sidetrack him. He didn't get distracted. He didn't respond in kind. He walked away from it. The other is King Saul's daily, constant assault on him, hounding him, hounding him, hounding him. And you and I can learn from this in the Christian life and uh realize that um we have a daily struggle also. We have a daily struggle also. Oh, there's coming a day, though The rapture take place, the trumpet God sound, the angels shout, rapture take place, we'd be out of here, and that daily struggle is over. How many folks look forward to that? Man, what a day that'll be. But until then, we've got to be faithful. Until then, in Hebrews, there's a statement, and I don't have it exactly, but it's something along those lines. This is not your rest. We're not in a time of rest spiritually. We can't let our guard down. We can't oh we can take a break. Oh by the way, now you brought that up, uh taking a vacation. How many people like to take vacation? I like to take vacation. I like taking to. Um I tell you what, you better watch out on vacation. The devil don't take vacations. The devil don't the devil don't let that down. We gotta stay you say even read your Bible every day, even on vacation? Yeah. Pray? Yeah. Give out trash? Sure. Be nice to people on vacation? Yeah And uh be kind on vacation, yeah. Hey, let me throw this one out. Go to church on vacation, yeah. Yeah, find your good church around there I'm glad Doc. He's been up here for a week hunting, and um I was a little worried, but he did come out to church and uh was glad for that. Him and Nan. And so every day I want to get into the next one here, but I think we'll shut it down right here. Notice the last phrase of verse 14 Well, he says, and Saul sought him every day, relentlessly, tenaciously. Look at that next phrase But God delivered him not into his hand. I love the butt gods in the Bible. And we'll look at that next week. Well notice David's divine assistance Here's a good thing. I'll leave this with you. This might be an encouragement. In this daily struggle, we're not in it alone. We're not in it alone. We've got the Lord's help We got the Lord's help. So we'll look at that next week. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord, to be on high severe alert spiritually every day. Not let our guard down and uh be careful to put our things in place as David had to and and uh be on our guard uh every moment. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher In my spiritual life, I've noticed that Satan is pretty tenacious. Anyone give a testament? I've found that out. I've learned that. Boy, he gets after me. He gives me a hard time. He'll try to mess me up And if we look to the Lord and ask God to help us, follow the Lord's instructions, follow his guidelines, maintain the right attitude, and then God helps us. And God will help us, but we've got to trust him and we've got to obey the Lord. Trust the Lord and obey him. Do these things Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless now as we give an invitation. Maybe we just want to ask, Lord, uh, for you to help us. Maybe there's some areas there where we know where the devil's getting after us and we need to shore them up and be careful there. So I pray you'd help us to respond in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed