Verse thirty-six, first Samuel chapter twenty-five. And Abigail came to Nabal, and behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. And Nabal's heart was merry with him, for he was very drunken. Wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light. But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife had told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone And it came to pass about ten days after that the Lord smote Nabal that he died. Let's stop there. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now you'd bless our study of your word I thank you that we can visit with each other and have a service this way through technology, as Brother DePew mentioned in his letter. I ask you to help us to have open hearts and open minds And that your word would not return void, exactly as you promised, that our heart that we would be, our lives would be changed, our faith would be stronger Or maybe some of us need to address some spiritual issues in our lives that need strengthening or correcting. And whatever the case may be, I pray with all my heart that you fill me with your Spirit And that you speak through me and help us to make those decisions and help us to grow. I yield my will, present my body anew, as I always do. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We're introduced, as we know, as we've been studying this, to uh this odd couple, as I call them. You got Nabal, a churlish fool. arrogant, very, very wealthy, very, very powerful. And you have his wife Abigail, who's a be very beautiful, very intelligent, very wise woman. That's a tremendous blessing that we read here. She's a tremendous blessing, even to her very obnoxious husband. And uh we've been looking at them. David uh had been, just to briefly review, David had been providing protection for Nabal as David was fleeing from Saul. He's up in the mountains Nabal's got his shepherds and his flocks up there, his cattle up in the wilderness feeding and grazing. And David provides protection from them, from the Philistines, from thieves. and uh marauders and and dangers they would face. David just of his own free will, uh putting his own self at risk, provided protection for them David has six hundred plus men with him and others no doubt. He needs supplies. He sends down the Nabel, makes a very reasonable and and uh justified request Can you help with supplies? I provided uh protection for you, maybe you could help me out. Nabal responds in arrogance and rudeness, makes some awful accusations of David, and really attacks his integrity Well that gets under David's skin, and David reacts in a non-spiritual way. And David comes down in wrath and in vengeance. And he is going to kill Mabel, he's going to kill his wife, he's going to kill the whole household. Abigail finds out she's wise, she's intelligent, she intervenes She stops David, provides him with the supplies he needs in abundance. She goes overboard and taking care of that, asks him to reconsider what he's about to do, that he would regret it someday David heeds Abigail's advice and he withdraws. Abigail comes down. That's the passage we read here and we picked up last week. Abigail comes back. And uh here Nabal has this big feast going on, and um and uh and that's what that's our point here. Let me get back to uh my outline here. We have what we see here in this passage here is the death of a fool, the death of Nabal Nabal, the death of a fool. And last week we pointed out, we saw we notice the faithfulness of Abigail. She didn't abandon him. Uh she saved his life, really, and all their whole household. And uh and she comes back home and Abigail is uh is a very, very faithful wife in a very difficult situation, a very, very difficult marriage Nevertheless, she's faithful, she does right. And that's very commendable we we praise the Lord for her tremendous integrity on her part. Then we notice this feast that Nabal had And uh the feast of a king, I called it a feast of ingratitude. Rather than sharing his abundance with David, he consumes it upon himself, rather than being grateful for what the service David provided him. He just consumes everything and disregards David. And so he has this feast. Then we noted last week, and this is where we spent most of our time, the foolishness of Nabal. I get that from verse 36 And it says, For he was very drunken. And we pointed this out. The Bible is very, very clear, and without re preaching that message, let me just make this statement It is very, very foolish to consume alcohol of any shape, of any type, of whatsoever. And Nabal is a fool in every sense of the way in the word uh when he is drinking himself drunk. Nobody's life has ever been improved because they drink liquor Nobody's marriage has ever been better. Nobody's become a better employee. Uh, or and certainly not a better Christian Because of the influence of alcohol. It is foolish. Now, we're going to pick up in verse number seven. So we've had the faithfulness of Abigail. We had the feast of Nabal. We have the foolishness of Nabal in drinking. And last of all in this section here, we have the fatality of Nabal. In other words, we have his death. This is where the funeral and the wedding comes in. Here's the funeral. Look with me again at verse number 37, if you would. But it came to pass in the morning, now the night before was the feast, the drunkenness, came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, probably in a hangover, no doubt And his wife had told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone. And it came to pass about ten days after, and his heart died with him, he came as a stone, that the uh ten days after, that the Lord smote Nabal that he died. The fatality of Nabal. Now Abigail was very wise uh in waiting till the following morning uh to tell her tell him what exactly had transpired. If she had told him in his drunkenness It would have been meaningless and uh uh who knows uh how he would have responded. So in her thinking, her reasoning is the guy's drunk, he's not going to be able to be rational in his response I'm going to wait until the morning till he uh till uh he the drunkenness is out of him, the wine is passed out of him. Uh wisdom. We've been talking about the wisdom of Abigail Wisdom knows what to say and when to say it. And we see that again on Abigail's part. If you would, turn with me to the book of Proverbs. Seems like so often we end up in the book of Proverbs, but uh it is a tremendous book on the practical application of wisdom to our lives. Uh Proverbs and chapter number 15 And as I was studying Abigail's uh response here on about uh when to tell Nabal w how she had intervened and saved uh his life and the household's life I thought of Proverbs chapter 15 and notice with me if you would at verse number two, particularly the first part of verse number two. Proverbs 15, verse 2. The tongue of the wise, I believe that's the tongue of Abigail here in this case, the tongue of the wise, look at this, useth knowledge aright Now, Abigail had some knowledge, she had some information, and she was going to she needed to communicate this to her husband. However, because of her wisdom, she knew when to to communicate that to him. She assessed the situation. This guy's a drunk. This guy is out of his head. This is not the time to deal with this. This is not the time to discuss this. I'm going to wait until appropriate time. I tell you, it would help us in our homes, in our marriages, in our relations, and re uh relationships with other people or interaction if we would learn to know what to say and when to say it Sometimes it's not the appropriate time. Sometimes you need to back off and wait until a proper time. Um uh uh preachers complain about this on a Sunday morning or uh uh fifteen minutes before a service is about to begin, somebody comes up and says, Oh preacher, we got a big problem we need to I need to tell you about and they'll unload this horrible thing five minutes before you gotta get up on the pulpit and try uh get up on the platform and try and preach. Uh don't do that, please. Uh wait till after the service, wait till some other time And so we need the Lord to give us wisdom on when to address things and how to go about it in the appropriate time. And so we see that in Abigail here She uh uh brings the problem at an appropriate time. Now, here we have Nabal's death. Come back with me there to 1 Samuel. And I see three steps in Nabel's debt. This is a a bit of a process that uh takes place Until finally Nabal is dead. The first thing is that he sobers up. Again, verse 37, the first part. Came to pass in the morning when the wine was gone out of Nabal uh that he sobers up here a little bit. I believe there's a reason God um had Abigail wait till the morning till he sobered up. I believe Nabal had crossed a line with God's patience. and with God's mercy. In other words, God is, in so many words, saying this. Alright, I've had it. I'm done with this. And uh we need to understand, though God is tremendously patient, and we thank God for that, and God in many times is infinitely patient There is a limit to God's patience. And there is a limit to God's mercy. In Genesis, I believe it's chapter 6. God says, My spirit shall not always strive with man. And the whole flood with Noah and the Ark, that whole issue was God saying, I've had enough. And the man has gone on far enough. And I'm not going to tolerate anymore. We're not going to be patient anymore. My mercy, time of my mercy has run out. And God brought horrendous judgment on the whole world. Eight people survived. What I'm trying to say is this. At some point here, Nabal obviously passed a point, crossed a line, I should say, with God's mercy and God's patience. And what a horrible thing that is, what a tragic thing that is, that somebody would be so foolish, and somebody would be so hard-headed and stiff-necked against God. That they continue on in their way, and God being very patient, God being very gracious, and finally God says that's enough. God says that's enough. And what a tragedy it is here. Apparently, God wanted Nabal to understand exactly what had happened. God wanted Nabal to be sober and understand what his wife had done for him What God had done for him in intervening in his sovereignty having uh Abigail do that, God had uh shown tremendous mercy, and uh and so God wants him to be aware of that. So I thought it was interesting as I was studying this. That God didn't just take his life in the midst of his drunkenness. God waited till he sobered up, till he could comprehend and understand exactly what was going on. Because, as I said, I believe Nabal had crossed a point of uh cross the line of God's mercy. Now you say, preacher, is it possible for that to happen in our day? I believe so. I believe it's possible to grieve the Holy Spirit to such a point Proverbs 29:1 says that. Yes, I believe it absolutely is. I know for sure when one line is crossed for God's mercy, and that is the moment of death. If you're listening in this evening and you're not saved, you've never genuinely been born again by trusting Jesus Christ, your personal Savior The moment of death is the moment of no return. There's no salvation. There's no mercy. There's no forgiveness. After a person dies in their sins, unsaved, lost for all eternity. And so I plead with you, if you're not saved, I plead with you, trust Jesus Christ. Acknowledge your sins. Get on your knees. Call out on the Lord Jesus Christ to have mercy and save you. Died for your sins, was buried, and rose again. Don't squander that. Don't play with your soul's salvation. Nabal was a fool And don't be a fool and toy with God's salvation. Today is the day to be saved. Now is the accepted time. And so Mabel sobers up. He had crossed this point, and God's about to bring judgment. Second thing I noticed, not only did Nabal sober up, but he goes into shock Now look with me if you would at verse 37, the last part. Now it's worded here, and we kind of uh try and figure out what exactly is taking place here It says when the wine was going out of Nabal and his wife had told him these things, look at this, that his heart died within him, and he became a stone. Now, at the first reading, it sounds like he died. His heart died within me. He became a stone. But then you get to verse 38, and it says it came to pass ten days after that the Lord smote him, that he died So apparently what took place here at the last part of verse 37, when he gets this information, he hears what David was going to do to him and how his wife had intervened. He responds in shock and apparently goes into some sort of coma or something. He's for all practical purposes he's dead, although he's still alive, if that makes sense. Um so I put it this way, uh he goes into shock. Apparently, when he realized what took place, uh he had some sort of stroke, the few Bible scholars have suggested that They're describing he had some sort of stroke and went into a uh a condition where he couldn't respond. He was like a stone. Uh whatever the case was And I don't know. I may be reading into this a little bit, but to me, how he responded to this information is another indicator of somebody that has a very weak character. He got some bad news, he got some shocking news, and he could not handle it. He could not deal with it. And it overwhelmed him. um uh uh uh an indicator of a weak character. Now I may be uh you know reading more into it than what's implied there But that great theologian that I quote every now and then, John Wayne, he made the statement one time. He says, a big mouth does not make a big man. And brother, that is the truth for Nabal. He sure could run his mouth when David was up in the wilderness. He sure had a big mouth when it's going on and on, but he was an awfully small man when it came down to reality. And I tell you, uh, that is the absolute truth. There's a lot of people running around with big mouths that are awfully small people. I thought of my pastor for many years, Dr. Lee Robertson, down at Highland Park back in the early 80s. I was able to sit under his uh uh his ministry there for a number of years. And he used to say this often. He said, Critics are a dime a dozen. Any fool can criticize, any fool can find fault, any fool can throw accusations That's exactly what Nabal was. He had a big mouth. He could make some big accusations. But when the test came, he could not live up to it. It overwhelmed him. And so one we have uh a Nabel sobers up. Number two, he goes into this shock. And then last of all, verse number thirty-eight, he's struck down dead. He's struck dead. Look what verse thirty-eight again with me. And it came to pass about ten days after that the Lord smote Nabal that he died. It's important to understand, Nabal did not die of natural causes. God struck him dead. God struck him dead. Now what's going on here? I believe God is teaching David some important lessons. For later on in his life, when he becomes king of Israel, David is given a clear object lesson here, and here's uh one of two lessons I believe are being given here. Number one Vengeance belongs to the Lord. Vengeance is the Lord. David uh got angry and he determined he was going to take vengeance into his own hands He was going to deal with this. Now I would like for you, if you would, turn with me to Romans chapter number 12. Way back in the New Testament, Romans chapter 12. And this matter of vengeance, Paul touches on it under the inspiration of God, Romans chapter 12. And if you would, notice with me verse number 19. Now, this is an important lesson for us to learn in our lives as Christians. Romans 12 and verse number 19. Notice the Bible says, Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves. But rather give place unto wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Now he makes an interesting statement in there. He says, Beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. Now what does he mean when he says give place unto wrath? This is what he's talking about. He's saying, listen. You step aside. You get out of the way. You let me deal with this. You let God's wrath deal with this person that has done you wrong. You let God deal with this person that has uh uh you're so angry about, you're wanting your own vengeance, give place to that, step aside, get out of the way. And let God deal with that. Don't, in other words, he's saying this: don't get in the way of God. The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. The Bible's very clear in James. And when somebody does us wrong and somebody gets under our skin and somebody hurts us maybe deeply, our flesh, our natural tendency, our natural response, reaction Is to get angry, and I'm going to make them pay, and I'll deal with that. That's exactly what David did. And God says, No, David, you have got to learn that I'll deal with those issues. I'll deal with those circumstances. So one thing David is learning, he's learning that vengeance is the Lord. Let God deal with that. Let God bring vengeance. There's a second lesson, I think, being taught here to David, and that is this. We need to do what is right in every circumstance, and God will deal with the situation. Very similar to vengeance is mine, but it's an important lesson here. I just got to do what's right. You say, yeah, but they're saying this. They're treating me that way. They did this to me. Alright, all right But you just make sure you do right. I just need to make sure I do what's right and let God deal with the situation I'm trying to uh I find myself in I tell you, over the years, I hate to admit this, I wish I had been a better Christian, but over the years there have been a number of times, more often than ought to be, where I took things into my own hands And something wasn't what I ought to be, or somebody said or did something. Boy, I got in the flesh, and that anger swelled up, and uh vengeance uh uh took over. And I'll tell you, I've learned to regret it every single time. I took things into my own hands. I'll tell you something I've never regretted, not one time have I ever regretted, and that is this: trusting God. Just waiting on God. Let God deal with that. Make sure I do what my responsibility is, maintain my Christian attitude. keeping the mind of Christ in my heart and mind, keeping the Spirit of Christ, being filled with the Spirit, not getting in the flesh, and wait on God and let God deal with that. I have never ever regretted it. We've got to put away wrath. We've got to put off anger and let God deal with it. Let God take with take care of it. I've learned this, and many of you could testify to the same thing. I've learned that God is a whole lot better at dealing with situations than I am. I've learned that God is a whole lot better at uh getting things right than I am. Get out of the way. Give place to wrath. Get out of the way. Let God take care of that. God will if there's if vengeance is necessary, God will do it in his way, in his time. in the exact perfect way. I just need to stay out of the way. I believe David's learning some tremendous lessons here. In fact, I believe David did learn a tremendous lesson. Later on, as we work our way through the life of David in probably 14 years from now, we'll get to 2 Samuel chapter 16. And here we're going to find David is being run out of the city of Jerusalem by his own son, Absalom. Absalom rises up a coup d'etat, and he's going to overthrow David And David flees the city, and as he's fleeing the city, and we'll look at this in more detail later on, as I said, but as he's fleeing fleeing the city, there's a fellow on the outskirts of the city that is treating David and saying things very similar to what Nabal had said about David. This fellow's name was Shimei. And he's throwing accusations at David, he's attacking his integrity, he's attacking his character, and uh he is insulting David and Tremendous similarities between Nabal's response to David and Shimei, but a huge difference between David's reaction. To Nabal, David got angry. He's going to take things in his own hands. He's going to deal with this. He's going to slaughter them all. But Abigail intervenes. God teaches David a tremendous lesson. And years later Shemiah is treating David very similar to Nabal, but David reacts in a completely different way. And he says, and I'm putting my own words, he says, basically this: God will take care of Shemiah. I don't have to deal with that. Uh God will deal with that. Let God deal with it. And I'll tell you, God deal did deal with it. Now listen I don't know who I'm talking to. Maybe that somebody you has gotten under your skin. Maybe you've been harboring some bitterness and uh uh maybe even hatred and vengeance towards somebody because of something they said or did that hurt you and insulted you. Maybe they attacked your integrity. I want to urge you with all my heart, as your pastor, and according to the teaching of the Word of God, I want to urge you with all my heart, let that wrath aside, put it aside, get out of the way, let God deal with it. Just humble ourselves before the Lord and say, God, I'll trust you. I'm going to do my part. I'm going to do right. Fulfill my responsibilities. And Lord, I'll let you deal with them. Do not let hatred and anger and bitterness Eat you up, it will destroy you. And it was God's grace that Abigail stepped in and protected David, and he learned a tremendous lesson from it. A funeral and a wedding All that David was taught through the death and funeral of Nabal. Then next time we'll look at this wedding of David and Abigail. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. to trust you. Help us to cast all our care on you. And just to get out of the way when these situations arise and someone does us wrong. I pray you'd help us just step aside. Let the Lord deal with that. And um and uh Lord, just teach us, help us, I pray. Maybe there in our homes, wherever we're at. May we just need to get on our knees and confess the sin of anger and vengeance that's gotten in our hearts and forsake that, repent, and just trust you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.