Chapter twenty-five. And uh do again want to encourage you to have your Bibles follow along. You might want to have um uh notebook uh uh notepad or something there. I'm gonna give some things. You might want to jot down the outline or uh Maybe a thought or something comes to your mind. I have a wide margin Bible and I enjoy when I see something and God gives me a thought or somebody makes a statement. I like to write it in the margin of my Bible for future reference. I invite you to do that, and maybe God might use something said, might help you tonight and then in the future. 1 Samuel chapter 25 And begin reading in verse number 36. You follow along as I read. Verse 36 says, And Abigail came to Nabal And behold, he had a feast, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. And Nabal's heart was merry with it within him, for he was very drunken. Wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light. But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife had told him these things that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone. And it came to pass, about ten days after, that the Lord smote Nabal, that he died And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be the Lord that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from uh That hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil. For the Lord hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head And David sent and communed with Abigail to take her to him to wife. And when the servants of David were come to Abigail to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David sent us unto thee to take thee to him to wife. And she arose and bowed herself on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, thine handmaiden be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my Lord And Abigail hastened and arose, and she rode upon an ass with five damsels of hers that went after her, and she went after the messengers of David and became his wife David also took Abinoam of Jezreel, and they were also both of them his wives, but Saul had given Michael, his daughter, David's wife, to Faltai, the son of Laesh, which was of Galeb. I've entitled the message this evening, A Funeral and a Wedding. A funeral and a wedding. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for David, the life of David, as you recorded here in your word. I pray this portion, this experience of David here that we just read, that your Holy Spirit would Teach us and apply to our hearts and lives truths and principles here that would help us be uh better Christians, to be stronger in our faith and closer in our walk with you Lord, if by chance there be somebody tuned in, listening that does not have assurance of sins forgiven a home in heaven, I pray, Lord, that something said or somehow they would come to Christ and trust you as their personal Savior Those of us that know you, again, help us to grow. Help us to make good decisions, to walk with you and serve you. I yield my will to you, Lord, and I present my body anew this hour, and I ask with all my heart That you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you speak through me to our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen As our church folk know, we've been on Wednesday nights now studying the life of David, and we are at the point here where King Saul is pursuing after David to kill him. David's done nothing wrong. He's committed no crimes. There was no insurrection. He didn't try to any coup d'etat over King Saul. He's just a faithful soldier and a faithful citizen of Israel. But nevertheless, because of David's success on the battlefield, Saul became incredibly envious of David's um The praise and the honor that was being bestowed upon David, and thus Saul began to pursue him and seek to murder him, really David is fleeing. And that's the context, the overall context of what we have here. Now early in the chapter 25, in fact the first verse, we find that Samuel died, the great prophet When Samuel died, that left a tremendous spiritual vacuum in the nation of Israel. Now, King Saul was anything but spiritual at this point. He was very carnal. He was out of the will of God. God has removed his uh hand and and presence upon the life of Samuel or the life of Saul. And so there's this spiritual vacuum there in the nation. We'll see that here as we get down the uh in the life of Data a little bit later on. After the death of Samuel, we're introduced, I believe verse two or somewhere around there, two three We are introduced to this couple, Abigail and Nabal. Now you want to talk about an odd couple. This is an odd couple. They are mismatched terribly. The Bible says that Nabal was a very prosperous man. Now, those that have been in the Wednesday night services, you've heard this. I'm just reviewing a little bit. But he was incredibly prosperous. He had great herds, he had great possessions. He was a very powerful man. He carried a lot of influence in the community there where he was at Uh he uh uh he uh like I said he had a great influence. Um he had a pedigree. He was the offspring of Caleb, one of the great men of God in the history of Israel And so he had this tremendous heritage, this tremendous pedigree, if you will, of a godly line, a godly family. Now you'd think being prosperous and powerful and having this tremendous pedigree, there would be something to the guy, but there wasn't. He was a very unpleasant man. In fact, the Bible says he was a fool Is name means a fool. Every time I mention that, I feel obligated to question who in the world would name their baby a fool. You know, his name is Nabal, meaning a fool. Now I tend to think, as we've talked about this before, I tend to think that's probably a name he picked up throughout life. Because he was obviously such a fool. So we have Nabal on one hand. He's the husband. He's married to Abigail. Now Abigail is the exact opposite of everything Nabal is. The Bible says Abigail was a very beautiful woman Uh the Bible says she uh had great insight. She was a very intelligent woman. Uh I put it this way, she was a beautiful woman, she was a brainy woman She was very smart, very wise. And uh she was a tremendous blessing. And uh we'll see that here as we go through. So you have this odd couple. You have Nabal on one hand, he's married to Abigail And uh we're introduced to them. Now here's what takes place. Uh Nabal has his great flocks, he has these great herds, his servants are out there in the wilderness watching over these herds David is fleeing from King Saul, and David, as he's hiding out in the wilderness from the king, uh he provides protection for Nabal's herds and his is his uh shepherds he's got out there his servants out there. David provides tremendous protection. The Philistines are uh marauding the area. Uh there's thieves, there's uh uh um folks in the wilderness there would do harm. So David is a wall, we're told here, to Nabal's herds and his servants, taking care of them David has 600 men, he's got to meet the needs. So he sends an embassy down to Nabo and he makes a reasonable request. Can you provide some supplies for us? We have some needs. You could help meet those needs for us. We provided protection and took care of you all and uh a very reasonable request. Nabal, being the fool that he is, attacked David's integrity. He refuses to offer aid. He suggests that David is corrupt in asking for this, that he's some sort of uh vagabond that is just coming around trying to get free handouts And David, that gets under David's skin. And he, to use a New Testament terminology, David gets in the flesh. And he gets his sword and he gets a bunch of his men. He says, I'm going to go down there. I'm going to kill Nabal. I'm going to kill everyone in his household. I'm going to kill all his servants. I'm going to destroy everything. Now that is not a spiritual response. David is responding in anger and in wrath. Abigail gets word about this, being the intelligent woman she is, the wise woman she is. She puts together a kind of a catering service. She puts together some food and supplies very, very quickly. Meets David as he's coming down to kill Nabal. She meets him and stands between David and Nabal. She offers this to him, pleads for mercy. David hearkens to her voice, and he turns back and he doesn't come down and kill Nabal. So Abigail's mission in protecting Nabal and the family is successful. Now that's where we pick it up. Now Abigail comes back in verse number 36. She comes back and she and she attempts, initially, she attempts to tell Nabal what happened Now here's my first thought. I want us to notice, first of all, the death of a fool. The death of a fool. Look with me if you would at verse 36. And Abigail came to Nabal And behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king, and Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunken Wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light, and it came to pass but it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nab, and his wife had told him these things That his heart died within him and he became a stone. Then verse 38, it came to pass ten days after that the Lord smote Abel and he died. The death of a fool. Now I want us to notice first of all, I want to look at Abigail just for a minute. In verse number 36, I see the faithfulness of Abigail. As I study this dear lady's life, I find it is very difficult to overstate the integrity of this woman, Abigail. In spite of being married to a man who is an absolute fool, the Bible says he's churlish, means he's mean and arrogant. In spite of all of that She's faithful to her husband. And uh sh uh in spite of all the options she had, we pointed this out in an earlier lesson She could have just when she found out David was coming down, she could have just packed her bags and said, I'm out of here. Let let David take care of somebody that's been miserable uh all these years and she'd have been out and her husband be dead she'd be free. John knew any of that. She could have um uh she could have uh handed Nabal over, said uh hey David right here he is and could have assisted David in his murder of Naval. She doesn't do any of that. She steps in, she does everything she can to protect her husband, her household And now, after she accomplishes that, she goes right back down to him. Now I don't know. I got thinking that would have been a time where she could have said, all right, I brought peace. Now I'm out of here And she could have hightailed it to some other town and just left them. But she doesn't do that. She remained faithful to her husband in spite of how terrible her husband was. I'll tell you what that is. You know what that is? That's integrity. That's integrity. Doing right in spite of what anybody and everybody else is doing. And I'll tell you, we could use a good dose of integrity in our country. Can I say this? We could use a good dose of integrity in our churches. Doing right regardless of what anybody else is or isn't doing. You say, Well, they're treating me this way. Well, they're churlish. Ah, that person's a fool. I still, integrity says, I'm going to do right. I'm going to do right And so again, it's very, very difficult to overstate the level of integrity that Abigail had, particularly in her interaction with her husband. She remained faithful to her husband. husband. And here's the thing that struck me. She did not allow Nabal's attitude and Nabal's arrogance to corrupt her integrity. She maintained it. Sometimes, if we're not careful, we'll let the attitude and the actions of people around us corrupt our own attempt at integrity, corrupt our own faithfulness, and we become like them And she refused that. So the first thing I notice here is uh Abigail's faithfulness to her husband in the face of a very, very difficult situation, nevertheless She fulfilled her responsibility as a wife, and she left God deal with Nabal. The second thing I notice here, we have the faithfulness of Abigail. Then I notice the feast of Nabal If you would come back to verse 36 there. First part, Abigail came to Nabal. There's her faithfulness, continued faithfulness. And behold, he held a feast in his house like the feast of a king. Man alive, I'll tell you, uh this is a this is a big party. Now, as I studied some commentaries and history about this, apparently it was very common in that context there that when after there was a sheep shearing or after there was a harvest, they would many times have a big feast and they provide a nice meal for all the servants and kind of celebrate God's blessing and kind of share the blessing with everybody. And that's, I believe, perhaps what he was doing here. But he went overboard. This was the feast of a king And again, this hints at the prosperity of this man, the wealth of this man, and he puts on this big um this big party, this big chindig, if you will For all the household, all the stamp, and ah, they're eating and drinking and making merry, they're having a big time. I got thinking about this. You know what this feast was? This was a feast of ingratitude Because if you think about it with me, if David, there's a very real possibility, if David had not provided the protection for his men and his herds up on that hillside, if he had not provided that protection It's very possible Nabal would have had nothing to be celebrating. It's very possible he would have lost he could have lost all his sheep, all his herds, and perhaps even his servants to the Philistines and uh the dangers that are inherent out in the wilderness in that time. And so s Nabal is actually celebrating the results of something David made possible. You know what that's called? That's called ingratitude. When I take what someone else has done for me and nothing in return. If it wasn't for David's protection, he may have not had anything to celebrate. Now we pointed out earlier on in our study of Nabal that he has the characteristics of someone who has an entitlement mentality In other words, he had the mentality that it's all owed to me. This whole world owes me everything. And we see no evidence of any gratitude. In fact, we see the very opposite of it What David had done for him, the service that David had provided for him, and he celebrates right in the face of all of that. Characteristic of an entitlement mentality is no appreciation for what others provide Now again, we could park it there and talk about that in our country, uh perhaps around the world, but in particular in our country, we see a mentality of entitlement A lack of gratitude to what our forefathers have done for us, the price that has been paid by others so that we can have the blessings that we have. We're here in a beautiful church building. We have beautiful uh properties here and and facilities here. And uh we cannot forget and take for granted the fact that there was people back in the sixties and seventies made great sacrifices And in the seventies stood up against denomination that was going liberal and became an independent Baptist uh church. And the great price that was paid for them And we must never take that for granted, and we must never sacrifice what was provided for us. So I see Nabal here, this feast of Nabal, the faithfulness of Abigail The feast of Nabal, and now this is what I want to end with tonight, and we'll pick up the rest of this message next week But I noticed the foolishness of Nabal. The foolishness of Nabal. Look with me again at verse thirty-six. Abigail came to Nabal, and behold he held a he held a feast in his house, like the feast of the king And Mabel's heart was merry within him. Now look at this. For he was very what? Say it in your home there. He was very what? You guys here say it. He was drunken. He was very drunken. We got five people here that just staring at me. But um nevertheless We see the foolishness of Nabal here. The foolishness of Nabal. Now, for some people, this issue of drinking liquor is a controversial issue. I hate to say it, but for some Christians, the issue of drinking liquor is a controversial issue But the Bible is very, very clear. Drinking an alcoholic beverage is one of the most foolish things a person can do. The Bible is very, very clear. Now, if you would, take your Bible and turn with me to Proverbs chapter number 20. Proverbs chapter 20. Nabal's foolishness. God's blessed him. He's had tremendous possessions. He has tremendous influence. He's had a obviously a successful year with his herds. He's having his great feast. And he's drinking in the middle of it. What a fool. What a fool. Look at Proverbs chapter 20, and notice verse number one with me. Now I wish you could communicate back and forth. I wish I could get you involved in this Notice there verse number one, wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging, and whosoever is deceived thereby, look at these last words Is not wise. Now, if a person is not wise, that means they are a what? A fool. Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging, and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise. Nabal was a fool for drinking liquor. For drinking liquor. I want to give you a couple reasons. Why the Bible tells us why drinking liquor, alcohol is foolish. I want to encourage you to jot these down if you've got a pen and paper. Number one, it is deadly It is deadly. It is foolish to drink liquor. It is foolish to drink alcohol of any type, of any sort, because it is deadly. Turn with me over To Proverbs chapter number 23. Now, Proverbs is the book of wisdom. And when Solomon, under the inspiration of God, the wisest man, humanly speaking, to walk the earth The wisest man, when he says something is foolish, under the inspiration of God, when God's word says something is foolish, we better pay attention. And by the way, we better stay a long way away from it. It's foolish to drink alcohol or liquor, number one, because it's deadly. Look with me, Proverbs 23, come to the end of the chapter, and notice with me verse 31 and 32, towards the end of the chapter there. Notice what he says. He says, Look thou not upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth its color in the cup, when it moveth itself aright. Now he says, don't even look at it. Now look what he says in the next verse. At the last, this wine, this alcoholic, this liquor, at the last, look at this, it biteth like a serpent and stingeth like an adder. Now a serpent and an adder, these are types of snakes. Uh I don't know about you, but if I'm out walking in the woods yesterday I had a little time, uh went out walking uh to down to my tree stand and was out a little bit. Uh praise the Lord, it's early enough, the snakes ain't aren't out yet. But if I'm out walking in the woods somewhere and I see some sort of snake or something, I'll know about you, but I I get away from it. We were fishing down years ago we took our men, we go every year down to uh West Virginia, and uh we get a Men's Mountain Getaway. And uh we get down there and one year, we were a little later in the year for some reason, and uh um a couple of the fellows from the church we were fishing this little brook trout stream And uh we're walking down. We had made our way down through the mountain, and we're out in a, there was like a field there, a meadow, and we're walking across there, and all of a sudden one of the guys ahead of me jumps in the air and goes, whoa, rattlesnake And he jumped and we all look gate went on high alert. And we're looking and sure enough in the grass there was a rattlesnake. And uh You know what? We were on red alert. We were aware we were staying away from that thing. We wanted nothing to do with it. You know, that's a good approach to liquor. That's a good approach to any type of alcoholic drink. It is dangerous. It is deadly. I've got to stay away from that. When we see a serpent or a snake, we run from them. If it's me, I shoot them. You know, if I got if I got any kind of weapon, brother, we're shooting that thing. Uh uh at the very least we're gonna contain that thing so it doesn't get out and hurt anybody. And I tell you that's a that's a good approach to liquor. Uh years ago. My son and I when we he was young, um, oldest son, we were hunting. Uh we had some property we leased and we were hunting. We were walking up through the trail to our tree stands And we were just checking and we had a 22 rifle with us, and we happened to glance over, and underneath one of the bushes, somebody had stashed two cases of beer cans. I mean two whole cases stuck up underneath there. Obviously they were trying to hide 'em, and we happened to see 'em there. And we thought, what in the world's this? And the only thing we could think, I mean must be some kid or somebody's hiding it so mom and dad don't see it whatever. So we had target practice and uh we just filled both of those cases full of twenty-two holes and And it all drained out and wonderful. Um uh I say, Amen. Amen. Uh it's deadly. Get away from it. Liquor has never improved any home. There is not a home in the world that says, Oh, we got liquor in here. Our home is so much nicer because we drink liquor. That's never happened Never happened. It's deadly. It's deadly. Uh there's not a marriage in the world that became a better marriage because uh uh the husband or wife are both started drinking Never has. I'm t I can take you to thousands of marriages that were destroyed because of the influence of liquor, the presence of liquor. It is deadly to a marriage. It is deadly to a home Uh it is deadly to uh a young person gets and start drinking and uh it destroys their life. A worker, I don't know anybody uh that ever became a better worker on the job, a safer worker because they drank liquor, they drank uh alcohol. It's deadly, it's deadly. Uh I never knew a Christian. Hey I never knew a Christian that became a better Christian because they started drinking alcohol and whatever kind. Wine, l uh uh uh I don't even know what's out there anymore, little wine coolers and all this type of stuff. I'm saying it is deadly, stay away from it. It it is You are foolish to engage in any of that. It destroys. It is deadly. Number one, why is it foolish to drink alcohol and liquor? One, because it's deadly. Number two, write this down: it is destructive. Alcohol, liquor is destructive. Look with me again, chapter 23, and come down to verse number 29. Actually, back up a little bit. Notice what he says. Notice the wording here. I underline some of these words in my Bible. Who hath woe? Who hath sorrow? Who hath contentions? Who hath babbling? Who hath wounds without cause? Who hath redness of eyes? Look at verse 30. They that tarry long at the wine, they that go to seek mixed wine I'm telling you, liquor, alcohol is destructive. Now let's look at these words. Verse 39. Who hath woe? What does the word woe mean? The word woe there means this grief and despair I'm telling you how many broken hearts are there in this world today because of the influence of liquor, the destruction of liquor. He says, Who has sorrow? The word sorrow there means pain and unhappiness Oh, we go out Saturday night, we have a big time drinking, carrying on. Then Sunday morning comes, realize things that were said and done, the influence, the hurt. And the sorrow that liquor brings. Oh, how many how many folks have stood beside an open grave and wept and wept and wept because of liquor took a loved one in a car wreck, disease, sickness? The sorrow, the the woe of liquor. I'm saying this. It is foolish to drink liquor. It is foolish to drink alcoholic beverages. Nabal was a fool for drinking and getting drunk like that. It's deadly. It's destructive. Look, he says, who hath contentions? Contentions, what does that mean? Strife, arguments, fights. Oh, how many fights break out in a bar room because somebody gets drunk and says something stupid and somebody responds? How many people have been shot and killed in bar rooms? because of liquor and drinking and drunkenness. How foolish. How foolish to drink in liquor. Who hath contentions? Now he uses a word here. He says, who hath babbling? What does the word babbling mean? I got looking it up how it's used and the definition, it means this: complaining. It means anxiety and trouble, stress. You know what liquor will do? You say, oh, I got a oh, I need a drink to calm me down. I tell you what, that drink might calm you down for a brief period of time, but I'll tell you the trouble and the sorrow and the anxiety that follows is not worth it. How foolish. Who hath uh babblings? Who hath wounds? I looked up the word wounds, uh physical injuries, bruises Battered and beaten up. Liquor. Liquor. How foolish it is. There is nothing beneficial said about liquor in the Bible. Not one place Does the Bible say anything good about alcoholic drinks or liquor of any sort? So number one It's foolish to drink liquor because it's deadly. Number two, it's foolish to drink liquor because it's destructive. Number three, let me give you this one. It's foolish to drink liquor because it's dominating. And by that I mean it becomes addictive. Oh, I can handle my drink. How many folks have said that? Next night they're back drinking again. Look with me, if you would, at the last part of verse 23. Come down to verse 33. Notice what it says. Proverbs 23. And verse thirty-three Thine eyes shall behold strange women, thine heart shall utter perverse things. Yet thou shalt be as he that lieth down in the midst of the sea Or is he that lieth upon the top of a mass? You know what he's saying? Oh, you lay down. Oh, I remember back days before I got saved. What a fool I was. What a fool I was And come home drunk out of my head and lay in that bed, and it was like laying on a ship out in the sea, and just spitting and up and down and the misery that goes with it. But look at the next verse. They uh uh uh verse thirty-five, they have stricken me, shalt thou say, and I was not sick. They beaten me, and I felt it not just. Drunk out of the head, doesn't even know what's happening to him. Look at the last statement. When shall I awake? What's it say? I will seek it yet again. You know what that is? That's an addiction That is liquor dominating this person's life. A person gets drunk and they'll look at things they wouldn't normally look at. A person gets drunk and they'll go do things they would never do when they were in their right mind. A person gets drunk and they say things they would never say when they're sober. But liquor takes over and it dominates. I wrote in the margin of my Bible beside verse 35, the slavery of liquor, the slavery of liquor. It'll destroy your life. It is so deadly and dangerous and it dominates our life. Let me give you one more and I'll end with this. It defiles our morals It defiles our morals. Now we won't take time to turn there, but I hope you write this verse down, Hosea chapter 4 and verse number 11. It says that liquor will take away the heart of a man. Take away the heart. The word take away means to carry off, or move to a different position. The whole idea is this is the heart is the seat of my emotions. The heart is the seat of my will where I make my decisions And if I allow liquor into my body, and if I allow liquor to influence me, it will take away my heart. It will move me from the morals and principles and standards I one had One sec and pull me over. And like I said a moment ago, I'll end up doing things I would have never done, saying things I would never say, because uh liquor will defile our morals How many people get up on a Sunday morning or a Monday morning after a night of drinking and drunkenness and they say, What did I do last night? What had happened to me? What have I sacrificed? I'm telling you, Nabal was a fool in a lot of areas. And a big area of his foolishness was drinking liquor and getting drunk. Drinking liquor and getting drunk. My wife, I talked to my wife before the service tonight, and I said, Do you mind me sharing this? And she goes, No And she knows firsthand what it's like to have what liquor does to a daddy. She knows firsthand what liquor will do to a daddy. I can say to you, I know firsthand, and I am not proud of this, I am ashamed of this, out of my mind I'm ashamed of this. But I can tell you firsthand what liquor will do to a young teenage boy That allows it into his body and becomes addicted. And all the things that come along with that. How foolish, how foolish. I've been in the ministry now, good 30, uh going on 35 uh actually coming on 35 years. And I've seen over and over and over in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in Indianapolis, Indiana, in Denver, Colorado, in Garrett County, Maryland, I've seen what liquor does to homes and lives. I've done funerals for teenage young people that were killed because of liquor. I'm telling you, it is foolish, foolish, foolish to drink liquor. Nabal was a fool For allowing that drink into his body and getting drunk. My plea to you this evening is this, don't be a fool. Don't be like Nabal If you've got liquor in your house, I plead with you right now. Go to the refrigerator, wherever it is, pour it down the sink. Smash the bottles. Get it out of there. Better to go down the drink than go down the sink than to go down your throat Destroy your life. If you've never touched liquor, if you've never drank liquor, don't ever do it. Make a commitment to God tonight that I will keep my body away from that. It is foolish and it is deadly Abel was a fool. And we're going to see here, he died a fool. He died a fool. And so I want to urge you tonight. Let's make a decision. I'm going to walk with God. I want to keep my life pure. I want to be wise. Not just in liquor, but every area of my life. I want to be wise. I want to avoid like a snake, like a rattlesnake, like a copperhead. I'm going to avoid these things that are dangerous and harmful to my spiritual life, my physical life. And I tell you, God will help us. God will help us. We have a terrible virus through our our world today. And you know we're we're having to respond to that. But I tell you, there's more out there than just a coronavirus There is a liquor virus and there is a sin virus and we need to turn to the Lord and we need God's mercy and we need to bow our knees and ask God to send revival and stir us and convict us and help us So if you would pray with me. And maybe there at your seat, wherever you're sitting at sofa or whatever it is, maybe just make that an old-fashioned altar. And just say, God have mercy. God deliver us from our sins. Send revival to our land. Heal us. I believe God can. I know He can. I believe He will if we mean business. We'll humble ourselves and pray. Turn from our wicked ways. Confess our sin. He'll forgive us and heal our land. Will you pray with me, Father in heaven? We come to you this evening. We're so grateful for your love for us and your compassion, the great forgiveness we have in the blood of Jesus. I pray you'd help us to be very, very careful in the things we do and what we allow to influence our lives. And so I pray that you'd help us to be wise, not to be like Nabal. And uh bless now I ask in Jesus' name, Amen, Amen. Well I want to thank you for tuning in