Bible Time Harvest Report for summer of 2019. At the end of the summer, all the Bible Time evangelists around the world and across the country enrolled 8,347. uh teenagers and kids, and of that there was 831 recorded professions of faith. So we praise the Lord for that. Not quite a thousand there. And then other decisions, 431, other decisions among the young people. So we're very grateful for that. Keep Bible time in your prayers. Of course, now they're in their fall and winter and then getting ready for next year. The other report we got was from our website. I just got this today actually came in. And off the sermons download off our website for the month of September, 804 sermons downloaded. And uh the number one sermon, oh, there was 43 different states, 34 different countries that downloaded sermons. The number one sermon was by Dr. Smith was on uh Monday night when Jesus is in the house twenty-nine times. The number two sermon was by Dr. Smith, uh a national urgency. Um on two on Tuesday and that was 28 sermons. I hate if these guys show up for a day and get more sermons downloaded than me. And uh then a bunch of others there. So the number one uh state, who wants to guess the number one state that downloaded sermons? Nope, not West Virginia, not California. New Jersey. How about that? They need it over there, I'll tell you that Uh the number two state was West Virginia and all the way down through there. Number one country, who wants to guess? Canada. 38 sermons up in Canada. How about that? United Kingdom, Australia, Myanmar, Myanmar Twelve of them. How about that? That's mostly a Muslim country over there. I was looking at some of these unusual Cameroon We have a couple that's been coming out from Cameroon, so maybe they told their folks back home. I don't know. Kenya, there's some uh unusual ones. Sri Lanka, had several in the Sri Lanka, Congo Um Hong Kong, um, and so Zambia, a lot of different things. So amazing, amazing, amazing to me Alright, 1 Samuel chapter number 22. I want to begin reading. I want to read verses, I'm going to go ahead and read verses 1 through 5. Now we already started this. our previous study, but uh we want to pick up here and I want to want to look at the last few verses of this passage. Verse 1, 1 Samuel 22. David therefore Departed thence, that's where he was in a gat-gath, a city where Goliath was, and acted like he was insane Remember that, and so he left, and God delivered him, I believe. And David therefore departed thence and escaped to the cave of the of Adullah. And when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither to him. And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto him, and he became a captain over them, and there were with him about four hundred men I believe that 400 men is in addition to his family that showed up. I think that's these discontented, in-depth, distressed Baptists, I think, is showed up to him there. And verse 3, David went thence to Mizbah of Moab. Hmm. And he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth and be with you. Till I know what God will do for me. And he brought them before the king of Moab, and they dwelt with him all the while that David was in the hold And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the hold, depart and get thee into the land of Judah. Then David departed and came into the forest of Hareth. Alright, let's pray. I called it a gathering in a cave. But we're going to look at the last couple verses here tonight. Father in heaven, I ask that you would bless our time in your word. I pray that our faith in you would grow. We'd understand a little bit more of your dealings with us and the reason you allow things in our life and how we respond. I pray that you would be our teacher and you would be the preacher. Lord, this is your book. You authored it. You know it of course perfectly And so I yield my will to you, and Father, I present my body to you, and I pray with all my heart that you fill me with your Spirit, and that you teach us, and that you speak to us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We're studying on Sunday nights. We started our study in the book of 1 Peter. I'm really enjoying this. And one of the major subjects in the book of 1 Peter is trials coming into our lives. trials coming into our lives. And we we're going to find as we study 1 Peter, and we're seeing it here, and I've been mentioning this almost every time we open our Bibles here, God We're going to see this in 1 Peter. God allows, God either brings or he allows the trials into our life for a purpose. For a purpose. How many folks here ever went through a dark valley, went through a difficult time, and you came out the other side and you said something like this? I didn't like it, but it was pretty good for me. Anybody know I'm talking about? I didn't like going through that, but boy, it sure helped me. It was sure good for me. And uh we'll we'll see that in Peter, and we're s we're going to start seeing it here. We will a little bit tonight. And we're going to start to see it here in the life of David, how God uses these difficult things to produce something good. In fact, I listed, just before we get looking at these verses here I listed a few things that take place. If we will humble ourselves and if we will submit to the Lord in the midst of our trials, when God allows a difficulty, when God allows uh us to go through a valley, so to speak, if we'll humble ourselves and submit to them, there's several things will happen to us. It'll produce several things in our lives. Now if we harden our heart and we get bitter then we're going to be worse off. But if we humble ourselves and submit, God can do some things. And let me just give this by way of introduction and I encourage you maybe jot these down. They may come in helpful. I put this down. First of all In trials, if we'll humbly submit to the Lord, just trust him, it will develop a closer walk with God. It will develop a closer walk with God. Here's the thing. When I go through a trial, again, if I have a humble attitude, I'm submissive, Lord, I'm trusting you. If I have that attitude, We learn things about the Lord that we would never learn when everything's going well, when everything's going good. We have a tendency, see if you see if you can give me a witness on this We have a tendency when everything's going good and and things are all in place, we have a tendency, just look at all of that and kind of God kind of shifts back to the back burner a little bit. Any can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? We're not quite as desperate in our prayer. We're not quite as earnest in our Bible reading. Sometimes I've seen it, I've seen it, I've seen it. Folks, boy, things are going tough. They're at church, they're praying, they're at the altar, and things settle down and start going good, you start drifting off a little bit. But if I go through a trial, if I humble myself and I let the Lord teach me and I trust Him, I'll learn things about God I would have never learned. And I'll understand the heart of God. I think that's what's happening to David. David's a man after God's own heart. Whether he realizes at this point or not, whether he's aware of that or not, God, he's learning the heart of God. He's learning the love and compassion of God. There's a little song I heard this afternoon actually on the radio. I was visiting Phil Sherman. I was driving back. And the one little phrase goes like this, and man, it just got stuck in my head, and I thought that fits exactly what's going on here. It goes like this. I thank God for the mountains, and I thank him for the valleys. I thank him for the storms he brought me through. Now listen to this. But if I had if but if for if I never had a problem, I would not know that God could solve them. I wouldn't know what faith in God could do. I thought, wow, that is true. And David is learning what God can do when he goes through these valleys. God is teaching him. He's developing a closer walk with God through this. And we'll see that play out. Now it's not perfected yet. He's going to have some ups and downs here a little bit. Not so much But it's happening. The sprout of there, of that walk with God, is beginning to grow. God's revealing things to David about himself that David would have never learned any other way And God will let us go through things that are absolutely heart-wrenching, they're so confusing, we don't understand, but He will reveal things to us that we could never learn any other way. And so number one, these trials bring a closer walk with God. I put this down, the second thing, if I humble myself and trust the Lord in a trial, it will produce a closer walk with God, it will produce a stronger faith in God. It'll produce a stronger faith in God. How many folks would say, you know, sometimes life can be a little complicated? Man, you think, what in the world? When I was younger, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I wish you'd have known me when I was younger. I had it all figured out I had the answers for everything. It didn't matter what it was. I knew what the answer was. You know the the older I got, you know what I found out? I don't have nothing figured out Uh uh it's like man, sometimes life can be so complicated. Uh do you ever get in situations, have you ever found yourself in a situation where you honestly said, I don't even know what's the right and wrong thing to do? I don't know. What do you do? What's the right thing? What's the wrong thing? And God brings us into situations sometime where our own understanding fails us. And our own reasoning fails us. And what's he trying to do? He's trying to get us to what? Trust him. Trust him. Say, God, this doesn't even make any sense. I don't even know what's right or wrong. And God's saying, all right, good. That's where I want you to be. Because then you'll trust me. I used to say, I haven't said this for a long time. I used to say this a lot. We should never do what we think is right. Don't ever do what you think is right. Always do what God says is right. Because sometimes what I think is right is not necessarily the right thing. And God's teaching David, he's learning this out in this wilderness in a cave. It's going to get worse here in a little bit. But David is getting stronger in his faith. His walk with God is getting closer. We're going to see that. And I got thinking about this. He saw here, and I kept bringing out the fact that David's leaning on his own understanding. He's making stupid mistakes. He's lying. He's doing all this crazy stuff. And then I got thinking about that. Why was he doing that? Why was David lying and just panicking and going on? Was it because he had a hard heart against God? No, I don't think so. I don't think David was struggling with his faith in God because his heart was hard. By the way, if a person has a hard heart, that's a bad place to be. I don't trust God. I'm going to do it my way, and I don't care what God says. I don't think that was the case with David. I think David was, he was struggling with his faith in God because his mind was confused. He didn't know what was happening. The people that he should have been able to trust were turning on him. And uh he didn't know whether he was coming or going And so when we get to that place where our own understanding and our own reasoning, our own rationale fails us, that's when we turn and we learn that I can trust God. And the third thing I think that trials will produce, if I'm humble and submit to the Lord and trust Him, it produces a greater concern for others. Some of the most patient and compassionate people I've ever known were folks that have been through some severe trials. Folks that have been treated wrongly, injustly. But if they're humble and gracious and they trust God, they can come out of that thing so compassionate and so tender-hearted for others And that's what God does. Sometimes He breaks us and He overwhelms us with things. If we learn to trust them and just have faith in them, submit to them, and then he come out and he says, all right, now you have a more tender heart for others, a more compassionate heart for others. We see in the news sometimes we In the unsaved world even. Um there was some lady I saw read an article here a week or two ago. I think her daughter was killed out in California. I think it was her daughter uh some illegal alien had killed her daughter and now her heart is going out and she's trying to help others that lost kids and trying to help other parents that had gone through that same thing. And so that trials will produce a greater compassion for others. And I think we see that in our text tonight. That's what I'm getting to. Look with me now. at verse number three and four. Now we looked uh we looked before, we looked at verses one and two, and uh my outline was, let me give you the first couple thoughts of the outline. First of all, I noticed David's continued flight. We saw that in verse one. David departed thence. Alright, he's still on the run. And he goes to this cave of Adullam, and there we noted that he has an increased following. He settles into this cave. And uh no doubt his mind is reeling and racing, he's just had a bad experience in Gath. That didn't work out the way he thought And uh folks start showing up. First of all, his family shows up. We read that in verse number, the last part of verse one. And then all these forlorn people show up, these debt people, people distressed and debt and disconnected. Verse 2, they all show up there. Now in verse 3 and 4, this is my third thought in this passage, is God uh I notice David's concerned foresight Now I'll explain what I mean by that. Look at verse 3. Now his family's here, 400 men, they're all messed up. And David went thence, verse 3, to Mizbah of Moab. And he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth and be with you. How long? Till I know what God will do for me. Hmm. Um I see David here has a little bit of foresight. He's thinking ahead. Now before he was thinking ahead, leaning on his own understanding. Now he's thinking ahead. That last phrase in verse number three, what does that tell us about David's mindset till I know what the Lord will do for me? He's what? He's concerned about God, but he's waiting on God now. He's being patient, waiting on the Lord. Before, man, he's just reacting, doing what he thought. Now he's waiting on God and he's thinking things through And he's using a little bit of foresight in waiting on God. And I notice a couple things here. First thing I notice is that he exercised some common sense Now let me explain what I mean by that. Look back in verse number one, the last part. Look who shows up. And when his who? Verse 1 there, and when his brethren, all right, now his brothers, he's got a he's got a heap of brothers We met them back in chapter 17. They're all older than him. David's married. He's of marriage age. He's already been married and And so that we can safely assume his brothers are married, right? We can safely assume that. And we can perhaps assume that they have some kids, maybe So they're showing up. So David's brothers are showing up here. And they're joining them. This could be, possibly be, a pretty large group. Then notice the next phrase that says how much of his father's household shows up. Look there. All All of his father's house heard it, and they went down thither to him. So I don't know how many people are here. The Bible doesn't tell us how many people are here, but I know back then the families were pretty good size. Um and so all of his father's house, whoever that all included, so we've got his brothers and whoever Ahab have come and his all of his father's house is here. So he's got a good group of people with him. Now something else to notice So a mother, come back to chapter 17. And notice with me verse number 12. We're told a little bit about his father, his father's condition. We can say. First Samuel seventeen, look at verse number twelve. Let me get there. 1 Samuel 17, 12. And David was the son of that Ephraith of Bethlehem, Judah, whose name was Jesse, and he had eight sons. And the man went among men for a what? Old man in the days of Saul. What does that tell us about David's daddy? He's an elderly man. I would assume if his father is an elderly man, we could make assumption that his mother is most likely what? An elderly lady. So they're up in years. They are perhaps dependent upon others more so than they would have been in earlier years. So you get the picture that we're seeing here. David's on the run, he's fleeing for his life. The king of Israel, with the entire army, is out after him He's hiding in a cave. He's got to watch his back constantly. He's got to take care of all of this. He can't go to Walmart and just get supplies. He has to come up with supplies He's got to find food for all of this. He's got to find shelter. And uh and uh is now has to care for his family. I put down this about this. Now he's using some foresight. He's exercising some common sense. He's looking ahead here, and he's got all his family with him. I tell you, it will be difficult to supply this family. Now no doubt the brothers will help out. They're responsible men. They're soldiers themselves. But nevertheless, this is a pretty good group of people that they need supplies for. So David goes from feeding himself and maybe a few associates with him, a handful at the most, now He's got his mom and dad, all of their house, whatever that all includes. He's got his brothers, whatever family they brought with them. He's got to provide supplies for them. There needs to be shelter Um there he's concerned for their safety. Now think about this with me. David's on the run. Uh would you agree with me? It'd be a little tough have an elderly man and an elderly lady running for their lives through the wilderness from a soldier and a whole military out after that So it's tough. David's in I'm I'm no doubt he's glad for their company. I no doubt he's glad for their concern. I am convinced He was incredibly grateful for it. I would imagine there were tears shed and hugs uh abounded. But David's thinking this thing, man. Now I've got to feed these. I've got a supply for this. We need shelter. Saw's on our tail. We can't just set up shop We've got to be on the run. There's another thing about having his elderly parents and this whole big household with him. Not only would it be difficult, but I'm suggesting it would be a distraction It would be a distraction. David's a combat veteran. He knows what it's like to be in battle, to be hand-to-hand conflict with the enemy. He's got a king, he's got an entire army out after them. His situation, kings and the military required 100% of his attention if he's going to live He can't be out here horsing around. They can't be roasting s'mores around the family with grandkids and everybody And so now he understands that listen, I've I've got to be I've got to be on my game I can't be horsing around here. I love my family very much. I thank God for them. But any distraction in his situation will be a tremendous danger to him And as much as he loves them, as much as they love him, they cannot stay with him. One, it's overwhelming difficult to provide. Number two, it's a tremendous distraction. He has got to be on the ball. By the way, that being true for David physically in his situation is true for you and I spiritually. There are distractions in the Christian life that can cost us dearly. Can cost us dearly. Philippians chapter 3, and I wanted to turn to him, but for sake of time we're not going to. Philippians chapter 3, verse 13 and 14, Paul said this, and I'll try and quote it as best I can. He said this, this one thing I do. This One thing I do. He says, I forget those things which are behind, and I press towards the what? Towards the mark that is set before me, I trust towards the prize. What is Paul saying? He's saying, I'm not allowing any distractions in my life I'm not going to get bogged down for what the past was. I'm not going to look around at all the scenery around. I am focused on one thing and one thing only, and that is pleasing God with my life. That is fulfilling the purpose for which God has has saved me and God has created me. Um uh in uh Luke chapter fourteen verse thirty-three Jesus said If you want to be my disciple, he said to his disciples that are following him, and it was a pretty big crowd at that point, he says, You want to be my disciple, then you have to forsake all that you have He that for Let me see if I can quote it correctly. He that forsaketh all that he hath What was the Lord saying? He says, don't get a lot of baggage. I don't want you, you can't follow me if you're going to be all caught up and focused on this and that and the other. In fact, there's one place In that same chapter earlier, I believe, he said uh he says, unless you hate your father, mother, brother, sister, your wife, and your kids, and your own life also, you can't be my disciple. Does he mean we're supposed to hate our family? No. What he's saying is, don't allow these things to distract you. Don't allow these things to distract you. Paul said he never got married. You know why Paul said, I don't marry? Because those that are married care for the things of the family and all that, and I want to just give myself fully to the Lord. Question, is it wrong to marry? No. In fact, if you want to be a beak deacon or a pastor, you've got to be married. I understand the Bible correctly But what was Paul saying? He says, I don't want any distractions. I don't want any distractions. I've seen it. I wish I could say this wasn't true, but I've had to deal with it in my own life, getting distracted. I think getting caught up in this, that, and the other. It's very, very dangerous. Distractions can do great harm to our spiritual well-being. Distractions can do great harm to our spiritual warfare we're in our Christian service. Monday night in Bible Institute, we're talking about the purpose of the church. We're going down through scriptures that says why the church is here. And we pointed out one thing, a church does not exist to overturn governments or Turn around governments. That's not what we're here for. That's not our warfare. Now, as individuals, we're active and we want to do what's best for our country, but the church's purpose isn't to overthrow communism Church's purpose isn't to establish democracies throughout the world. Now I think that's a good thing. We like that. But that's not our battle. It's not our warfare. And I told about a church that was in Indianapolis years ago when I first showed up there in 70 in eighty seven. And this church at one point ran buses, I think twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five buses. They had great soul winning. They had a little Bible college there. I mean they were a powerhouse church The preacher would preach in big conferences around the country, sword conferences all around the country. But he got caught up in fighting the government. And he got caught up and he got distracted with what was going on in Washington and he lost focus of what God had called him to do as a pastor. And by the time I got there, I think they ran one bus. By the time I got there, just a handful of people come out and those the college was closed down. And distraction hurt him. And David knew, listen, as much as he loved his parents, as much as he was concerned for their well-being. He knew he could not take care of them and then also deal with Saul at the same time. And so he's thinking ahead, he's exercising some common sense. And he uses, and that's my third point here in verse number three, he uses some discretion. It's going to be difficult to take care of them. It's going to be a distraction. So he uses discretion. Look at verse 3. This gets interesting. And David went thence to Mizbah of Moab. Now I looked up that little phrase. The word Mizbah means watchtower. It means to watch. So he's going to this place that's called Mizbah, this watchtower, whatever that may or may not be, of Moab. So most Bible commentators I looked up and people that know more about it than I do, they suggested that this was either a big tower that they had built there in Moab to as a military outlook uh watching. Uh they used to have I don't know if they still do up in Friendsville. They used to have a big wa uh fire tower up there. Remember that? Up on the thing and they'd watch the for fires or whatever. Whether that was something not for fires but invading enemies Others suggested that there was some kind of some type of mountain there with an outcropping that you could look and watch uh uh watch enemies coming in, whatever the case may be The fact that it's called Mizbah of Moab, this is a very safe place from invading armies. They can see them coming. They can be prepared. Can anybody think of any invading army that might be associated with David? Israel, King Saul and his military. And so David takes his family, and he goes to Mizbah of Moab, this place called Moab, where they have this tower, and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth and be with you till I know what God will do for me. So, first thing he does, he uses some discretion and he finds a secure location. Now, I don't know how his thinking went. Maybe something like this, you know? The most secure place I can think of is Mizbah of Moab. They've got a watchtower. Nobody can sneak up on that place without them seeing them coming. And so the first thing he does, he considers a secure location, difficult to attack this place, because they'll be ready. And he also finds, he goes to the king of Moab, and I'm suggesting to you that in Moab he found some sympathetic people to him. Now here's the question. What do we know about Moab? Anybody want to offer some suggestions? Yes, they were not God's people at all. But there's a connection to David here in Moab. Um, find the book of Ruth Go to the book of Ruth. Come back. It's back before 1 Samuel. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Come back to Ruth chapter number one. You're in You're in 1 Samuel, just go towards the front of your Bible. The very next book before 1 Samuel is Ruth. And look with me at Ruth chapter 1 and verse number 1. I thought for sure Wilbur Heinball would know this. I'm shocked and amazed. Mo Ruth chapter one, he's going to Moab, the king of Moab. Look at verse one of Ruth chapter one. It came to pass in the days when the judges ruled, this is before King Saul's time, there was a famine in the land, Israel And a certain man of Bethlehem, Judah, went to sojourn in the country of where? Moab. He and his wife and his two sons. And the name of the man was who? Are you familiar with this story? Elimelech takes Naomi. And they go to Moab because there's a famine in the land. They go and live there. He's got two boys. I can relate to that. I had two boys. I still do. And so these two boys get to Moab, which is a wicked people. They're pagan. They do not fear God in the least. And uh his two boys meet two gals. And uh one of them is named Ruth, and the other one is um uh what's her name? No, the daughter, or Orpah. Not Oprah Orph, not uh Oprah Winfrey, but this was Orpah. And lo and behold, the two boys died. And then Alinelech dies. And so you got Naomi's by herself with these two s uh daughter-in-laws. And so Naomi says, I'm going back home. I'm going back to Israel. And she says, you girls stay here. Orpus kisses her and says, All right, I'm staying here. But Ruth refuses to leave her side And she made a phenomenal statement. She goes, your God will be my God. Your people will be my people. There was something about Naomi's faith that Ruth was attracted to and would not let go. So she comes back. And she's gleaning in the field of who? Boaz, a highly respected man. And through a series of ends, she ladies like this, very romantic, they get married. It would make a great Hallmark movie. He's a kinsman view, a perfect picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. So you say, what in the world does that have to do with David? David is an offspring of the marriage of Boaz and Ruth In fact, Ruth, get this, Ruth is Jesse's grandmother Ooh. Do you think Ruth, do you think uh um she might have had some family still living in Moab? Do you think do you think Jesse might have had an aunt or an uncle still living in Moab Do you think they show up in Moab and David says to the king, hey, my father, uh Ruth was my father's grandmother, and uh she's got some king. Could he stay here with you? I can't, and um we know it played out, I don't know if it played out this way, but I can hear the king saying, sure, she's got they've got family, sure, you come on in here, we'll take care of your daddy for you. We'll take care of your mom for you. I'm telling you, David's no dummy. He didn't just happen to pick Moab out of a hat. Well, let's go to Moab. No, he knew exactly what he was doing. This is a place that's very secure. There's no way in the world Saul is going to sneak up on this city. And number two, the people there will be sympathetic. Unlike the folks in Gath. And so he thought this through and he brings them to him. This is the home of Jesse's grandmother. There's no doubt aunts and uncles living here. Now that I had to stop and pause when I was studying this, and I had to pause for a moment, and it grieved my heart. Here you have some pagan unbelievers are kinder And more gracious than the king of Israel, one of God's people. In fact, the whole military. And I've been a Christian long enough now, and I wish this wasn't true. I hate to even think it, let alone say it. But I've met a heap of unsaved people, pretty wicked people, that are kinder and nicer than some folks of God's people. Will you agree with me? That's a tragedy. I've said this many, many times, all the years I've been here, I said it many, many times. The kindest people in Oakland and surrounded area ought to be the members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Ought to be the children of God, ought to be the kindest. And that's not always the case. When I was on hospice I was chaplain hospice for four years, and there was a dear lady on there, she was with the grieving. It was after they passed away. Her responsibility was to come in with the family and help them deal with grief. She was unsaved. I know she was. I talked to her one-on-one, and uh she come to all my funerals I did. She heard the gospel over and over and over. She's very religious, but uh she was not a saved lady. But I'm telling you, she was the nicest woman I believe perhaps I've ever met in my life. She genuinely cared for others. She was so patient that people sometimes in their grief would be unkind. Sometimes that happens. And she wouldn't react and she would not be unkind. She displayed the characteristics of a disciple of Jesus Christ in a tremendous way, but she was unsaved. Isn't that something? And I tell you, I've dealt with some Christians that were so hateful and so unkind and react to everything. And I just, as I was studying this, I thought, what a tragedy that David has to take his parents to the Moabites of ungodly people, and they're kinder to him. than King Saul and the people of Israel. What a indictment for us. And so David's using some common sense. He's thinking things through here. And uh he uses common sense, uh, but he shows uh sincere compassion. Now, he could have reacted to his family, listen, what are you guys doing here? You need to get out of here He could have said, don't you know what you're doing? I can't take care of you. Why are you here? Get! You gotta go! He didn't respond that way at all. He's very compassionate. He couldn't take care of them. He couldn't protect them. He couldn't protect them in himself. He'd be a sitting duck. He couldn't do that. But he's very compassionate. He didn't run them off. He didn't say, hey, listen, get back where you get out of here. He didn't do that at all. He was very concerned. He was very compassionate. He was very concerned for his family And let me throw this out by way of practical application. Having a genuine compassion and concern for our family is Christ-like. I'm telling you, it is unchristian for a person not to care about their family. You know what Jesus did when he was hanging on the cross? I mean he is nailed to a cross, excruciating pain. He's about to go under the eternal judgment of God for your sin and my sin. And he looks off, and who did he see standing off to the side? He saw who? His mother. And he said, John, behold thy mother. And he said to Mary, Mary, behold thy son. Humanly speaking, he couldn't do anything for her now. He's nailed to a cross. But he wanted to make sure, humanly speaking, of course, being God, it was all possible. But humanly speaking, he says, I want to make sure my mother's taken care of. My mother's okay. That's exactly what David's doing. David's being hounded by Saul. He can't do this, but he wants to make sure his family's taken care of. I'm telling you, loving and caring and taking care of our family is Christ-like. In fact, in 2 Timothy, 1 Timothy 5 and verse 8, Paul says to Timothy, if a man doesn't provide for his own household, he's worse than an infidel. Man, that's strong language there. God expects us to care for our families. God expects us to love and protect and do everything we can for our family. Um in Luke chapter 11 verse 9 through 13. Again, I want to look at all these verses. We'd never get through this if we did, but I'll just give you the reference. There, Jesus compares God answering prayer He compares a good father who provides for his children to God. He says, what son comes and asks his father for a fish, and the father gives him a serpent? What son comes to his father and asks for bread and the father gives him a rock? He said, If ye being evil know how to do good things to your children, how much more shall your Father in heaven? And that tells me that providing and taking care of our spouse and our family, our children is Godlike, is Christ-like. It's what God does. And God expects us to do the same. So David uh is uh he uses some common sense here. He has foresight. I put it this way, concern foresight. He's thinking ahead. He knows he can't take all his family with him. He finds a place that's secure. He finds some people who are uh are sympathetic for his towards his family, and he makes sure his family is okay. Then last of all, quickly, I want to give you this last one real quick I notice he receives some clear instructions. I'm telling you, it's getting encouraging now. David's been pretty pretty messed up, but now it's getting encouraging. Look at verse 5. Well, verse 4, he brought them before the king of Moab, and they dwelt with him all the days while David was in the hole. Now, verse 5. And the prophet Gad said unto David, Now I don't know when he showed up. Maybe in that group, that four hundred there, but somehow the prophets out here with David now. And look what he says Abide not in the hold, depart and get thee into the land of Judah Then David departed and came into the forest of Hareth. David's focus, his mind, is moving off of his own understanding, and it's getting back on the Word of God. And the first thing I notice here, he was submissive to the will of God. Now come back up to verse four. There's an important statement here in verse four He says to the king of Moab, keep my father and my mother. Then look at the last part, till I know what God will do for me. He never mentioned that before. His mind is getting back focused on the Lord. He's starting to think about God's will. I think this is, I put down this is a key moment for David. He's now no more panicking, no more self-reliance. He's being very, very patient. I'm going to wait on God this time. I'm going to wait for the Lord. Anybody here ever go through something? You ever do something? You leaned on your own thing and you said, I'm going to, and you went through and you said, boy, I'm never doing that again. Next anybody ever say this? Next time I'm gonna wait on God. I've done that a heap of times. And that's what I think that's what David's saying says, uh I'm going to wait and see what God says. And lo and behold, two verses later, God's prophet shows up. You know what that tells me? If I'm willing to listen to God, God will lead me. My heart's hard and I don't care what God says, I don't care what God says, you're not going to hear anything from God. I'm going to wait until the Lord leads me, the Lord directs me. Then God will start speaking. God will come in. That was my second thought. He was subject to the word of God. Now you need to understand what a prophet was. We'll look at Gad later on. He'll show up again. The prophet Gad. But a prophet was God's spokesman in the Old Testament. A prophet was the equivalent to the Word of God. What that prophet Gad was to David is what this book is to you and I. It's the word of God. The prophet spoke to David. He was God's spokesman. And when David was willing to listen, when he told the king of Moab, just take care of them until I know what God's going to do, until I know what God's going to do, lo and behold. Gad shows up and he says, Alright, I can lead him now. He's listening to me. He's submissive. Now I can do something with him And so he sent Gad and told him. And the interesting thing was, look at the last part of verse 5. Then David departed, did exactly what God told him to do. I'm telling you, that is huge. You say, preacher, what should I do? Do exactly what God says. You'll never go wrong. Never go wrong. And I make a statement: I have never regretted obeying God. I've never regretted waiting on God and obeying God. And David did exactly what God told him to do. Things are changing. Now it's not perfect. He's going to make some dumb mistakes in the future. We'll see it here in a little bit But he did he listened to what God said, and he did what God said. And here's something else, and we don't have time, we'll maybe bring it out later. But notice where God's leading David back to. He's sending them back where? To Judah. What is Judah? That's the people of God. That's Israel. He's sending them back home. I think it was uh J. Vernon McGee said he didn't think David should have ever left Judah in the first place. Now that may or may not be the case. I know he made some dumb decisions But God's sending them back to God's people. You know what that tells me? That suggests to me that when we're in a trial, we're not sure what's going on, we ought to stick with God's people. I've seen it so many times. Many of you have seen it. Something comes up, don't know what, some trial, some trial comes into life, and people bail out on church. That's the worst thing to do. I've had somebody, it's been a number of years ago. They said, I can't go to church, I'm backslidden. I said, Well, that's exactly where you ought to go to church when you're backslidden. I said, join all the others. Come on in. The water's fine. And I just thought it was interesting. God didn't say go to ba go go to Gath, go to Mo. God didn't send them anywhere. Go over the Philistines. God says, No, you go back to Judah. You get back there in Judah. You get back with God's people. I put this down. In a trial, number one, calm down. David had to get alone in this cave for a little bit. He needed to calm down. He was panicking. Number one, calm down. Number two, wait on God. Calm down. Just wait on God. Number three, I put this down. Do whatever God says. Do what God says. And number three, or number four, I'll put this down. Stick with God's people. Stick with God's people. Uh hold spiritually on a place where God wants you. Okay. Um in these types of the words that's all that we call it by two more. Oh that doesn't that's all And it's interesting how many s how many psalms were written when David was in or when he came out of one and the things he learned there. There's a great study. I almost preached a message on it on the caves of the Bible. There's five caves mentioned in the Bible and the lessons you learn from each of them. And so good point. But David's coming back. He's not complete. He's going to make some really bad decisions here in a little bit. But right now we see some hope. I read about, anybody recognize the name Roger Stallback? That there's some kind of team down in Dallas, I forget the what they are. He uh he led the Cowboys to the World Championship in 1971. I'll just read this to you. He said he admitted that his position as quarterback who didn't call his own signals. He didn't call his own plays. Was a source of trial for him. He wanted to call his own plays. But Coach Landry, who I have tremendous respect for, he sent in every play. He told Roger Stallback when to pass, when to run, and only in extreme emergency situation could he, Roger, change the play, and he better be right, because if he was wrong, he's in big trouble. Even though Roger considered Coach Landry to have a genius mind, when it came to football strategy, pri came to football strategy, pride said that he should be able to call his own place. But then he made this statement. He later said, I faced up to the issue of obedience. Once I learned to obey, there was harmony, fulfillment, and victory. And I thought what he said about uh uh Landry, Coach Landry, is so true about you and I as Christians. We want to call our own place. David's been calling his own place, and he ended up scrabbling on the wall, acting like he's insane, the most humiliating thing. He gets alone in this cave and he's he's learning something. I need to learn to listen to God. I need to learn to obey God And that's when I'm going to, everything's going to be okay. What a great lesson. What a great lesson. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us to learn what David's learning. Just to calm down, not get worked up. Help us, Lord, to listen carefully to your voice and your leadership and your word. Help us to do what you say. And then Lord help us just to uh uh trust you and let you lead let you lead in our lives. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, Maybe you've been saved a long time, but like me, you say, preacher, I need to keep learning this over and over and over again. Just to trust God and not lean on my understanding. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Maybe you're in a situation right now, a circumstance right now, so tempting, our own pride, I want to run this, I want to do, I want to handle this my way And maybe what we need to do is just calm down, say, Lord, you lead me, you direct me, I'm going to wait on you until you make it very, very clear from your word what I need to do here, and then I'll trust you and step out. And one thing for sure, don't do, don't abandon God's people. Stay faithful. Father in heaven, bless her invitation, I ask now. In Jesus' name, Amen