Chapter 22, we're starting a new chapter this evening, working through the life of David. And um Uh I'm excited about this. I've enjoyed this study. I hope uh if anybody gets half out of it, what I've gotten out of just preparing these You know, uh usually the um uh the one that's doing the teaching and preaching learns more than the folks that he's teaching and preaching to. How many people know that, Riza? Have you taught Sunday school or anything Uh that's usually the way it goes. I think that's a good thing. Psalm 62. Uh the life of David. Uh 1 Samuel chapter 22. I'm going to read verses 1 through 5. We're not going to get to all these tonight But a few of these and so follow along as I begin to read. 1 Samuel 22, verse number 1. The Bible says, David therefore departed thence. Where was he at? Where is he departing from? Gath! Who was the famous citizen of Gath that lost their head? And David's fleeing from King Date to King Saul. He's fleeing for his life. Saul is eat up with envy Because of David's successes and his popularity, David was no threat to Saul. David was loyal to him, and we'll see that throughout his the next stage of his life. David was incredibly loyal to King Saul. He respected him for the position he held. He supported him. Saul had no reason for that Uh but it eat him up to the point where he's trying to kill David. David's running for his life. He gone that he w got his uh Goliath sword uh through a series of events and um He gets to the the city of Gath where Goliath grew up. These are the Philistines. These are the enemies of God's people. They hate God. They hate God's people. They hate Israel. Uh they they're kind of like um uh what's that group there in the Middle East hates Israel um they're they're trying to Hamas That's kind of the way they were, except uh probably maybe even worse. They hated Israel. They were out to exterminate Israel. So David, fleeing from Saul, goes to the enemies of God, the enemies of God's people That didn't work out so well. And so he acted like he was insane and uh and he escapes out of there. God delivers him. Now that's where we're at. So he leaves Gath And uh he gets to, he says, therefore he departed thence and escaped to the cave of Adullaum. And when his brethren, all his father's house, heard it, they went down thither to him And everyone that was in distress, and everyone that was in debt, and everyone that was discontented, sounded like your average Baptist church right there. gathered themselves unto him, and he became a captain over them, and there were with him about four hundred men And David went thence to Mizpah of Moab, and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth and be with you, till I know what God will do for me. And he brought them before the king of Moab, and they dwelt with him all the while that David was in the hold. And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the hold. Depart and get thee to the land of Judah. Then David departed and came into the forest of Hareth. I've called it this, a gathering in a cave. We're just going to look at the first few verses of this here. I kind of broke this section down. The first thing, I'll just give you my little outline here. We're not going to get to all of it, but the first thing I noticed in the first part of verse number one. David's continued flight. He's running. He's running. He's running. And we're going to see this is going to be true of him for the next A little while. He's going to be running on the run. On the run. Then the next thing I notice in verse number, second part of verse 1 and verse number 2, I notice David's increased following. There's folks are gathering around him. His followers are increasing. And then we're going to notice, and I doubt we'll get to it tonight, but his in his concerned foresight He's concerned for his family in verse 3 and 4. And he looks ahead and he sees how this may play out with the family, so he makes arrangements to take care of them. And then verse number five, he's given clear instructions by God That's a big, big thing. So far he's been leaning on what? His own understanding. He's been lying and uh man he's just kind of making a mess. He's panicked. I think he's panicked And uh he's making uh some bad decisions. Anybody here kind of get spooked or you get panicked a little bit and you do some dumb things? Anybody know or you say some dumb things? I think that's what's happening here. Now he's settling down a little bit And Gad, the preacher, the prophet, shows up and he gives them some clear instructions from God. So a key part of key events in the life of David, let's pray, and we'll look at this here. Father in heaven, I thank you for David. and what you've recorded about him to us here these many thousand years later as we study him and learn from him, I pray you'd help us to um I pray that your Holy Spirit would apply To our hearts, our situations that we find ourselves in, our spiritual condition, you'd apply some of these truths that we see in David's life, apply to our lives. that we can grow and we can learn. We can grow in our faith and and uh we could live the lives you intend for us to do and uh to live and be the people you intend for us to be. So Fill me with your spirit. I pray with all my heart, Lord, I yield my will to you and pray that you would speak through me and be our teacher and preacher tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I have two questions, and I know this one I kind of keep hounding it, but I think it keeps It needs to keep kept before our face. Is um why did God not just anoint David and put him on the throne immediately? Why didn't you do that? I mean later on there's some kings that are seven, eight years old and they get right on the throne. Why didn't he do that with David? Aha, you've been listening. He needed preparation. He was just a young man, teenage boy probably, maybe young teens, when God anointed him to be the next king. And uh he needed preparation I see that throughout Scripture. I got thinking about Abraham. God called Abraham. To go to a city, he didn't know where he was going. He call called Abraham to go somewhere. He says, you just trust me by faith. You pack up and uh you leave your family and you follow me by faith and and you'll find out I'll I'll get you where you need to go And as soon as Abraham got to Canaan, where God was leading him, God was going to establish him, but as soon as he got there, something happened. What happened? Amen. There was a horrible famine hit. And um and uh why would God do that? Wha why would God call Abraham out of Ur Chaldees? And he's doing fairly well. He's a fairly wealthy man. In fact He's a very wealthy man. And he pulls him out of there and he says, I'm going to put you somewhere and I'm going to bless you like you can't even imagine. And I'm going to make a nation out of you. And he and he gives Abraham all these promises. And he shows up and the very first thing God allows him to experience is not prosperity, is not uh oh, and it does not have all these kids and everything. He shows up, his wife is barren, and he faces a famine. What do you think God's trying to teach Abraham? To have faith. I believe Abraham was going to be one of the greatest men of faith, and God was teaching him. This is what I put down. I believe God was teaching Abraham to trust him whether he's in prosperity or in poverty To trust God. Trust God. One of the preachers, I forget, in our conference, and they kind of touched on that, they said, it might have been Dr. Smith. They said sometimes prosperity messes people up more than poverty does. And I believe God was trying to teach Abraham that whether you're prosperous or whether it's a famine, you just need to trust me. How did Abraham do on that first test? Not so hot. He ran to Egypt. Rather than trust God, he went down to Egypt and trusted them to get him through it. And that he paid a price for that, and there was ongoing consequences. But I believe he learned his lesson And he just in a gr and uh God used him in a great way to this day. And so you see this pattern through scripture where God will call someone, God will uh so to speak anoint someone for a a ministry, for a purpose, for a uh uh something to accomplish with their life. God uh sets them apart for that And the very first thing God does, he sends them through a terrible test. I shouldn't say terrible, a difficult test. And he's preparing them. I thought about Moses Moses. Miraculously spared by the little ark they put in the in the river Nile. Remember that? They're killing all the babies. The Egyptians are aborting all the babies And uh they spare him and uh and uh just a miraculous series of events. Uh Pharaoh's uh uh daughter raises him and uh and then he remember what he did? What what happened? Something terrible happened. He killed an Egyptian. Egyptian was giving a j uh Israelite a hard time and he went and killed them. And he thought, we find out later, I think it's in Hebrews, we find out later, Abraham anticipated Israel raising him up to be their deliverer, but it didn't work. See God God was teaching Abraham something. It wasn't his ability, it wasn't his strength, it wasn't his ability to kill somebody that was going to deliver Egypt. It was going to be God's power that or delivers Israel. It was going to be God's power that does it. And so he flees for his life out in the wilderness for how long? 40 years. What's he doing out in that wilderness? He's taking care of what? Sheep. What does God in the Bible compare his people to? Sheep. I think for 40 years he's taken care of sheep and he learns what sheep are like really well. You spend 40 years in the wilderness with a bunch of sheep, you figure them out And then God calls him to lead the uh Israel out of Egypt. And I don't know, the Bible doesn't say this, but I just kind of got a sneaking suspicion there's been some times where Moses looked out at the at the Israelites at following him and thought, you guys are no different than those steak and sheep I had up in the side of that mountain. And he was learning leadership. God preparing him I think Moses is one of the, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, I think Moses is perhaps the greatest leader that ever walked this planet. And he learned that. For 40 years it took to learn that. I thought about, we could look at a bunch of them. I thought about the Apostle Paul. Apostle Paul got saved, and man, he got on fire for God immediately. Now God had a plan. God told him right from the get-go, I'm going to use you, you're going to be a great witness. And God laid out a little bit to him right at the at his salvation the plan God had for him, how God was going to use him. But he didn't put them out on the missionary journey right away. In fact, if you read Galatians chapter 1, I think it's verse 17, right around there. If you read that, Paul said that he went to Arabia for a period of time. It's believed three years. That doesn't tell us what happened there. We believe that there God taught him doctrine. Paul was the greatest doctrine used of God to record some of the greatest doctrine in all scripture. Romans, Galatians, Ephesians, these great doctrinal books of the Bible. And I believe the Lord taught him that there out in that. Arabian desert, out in that Arabian wilderness for three years. It's kind of interesting. How many years did the disciples spend with the Lord Jesus Christ before he sent them out? Three years. So the whole is three and a half, three, three and a half years. It's kind of interesting. That's what we believe Paul spent that time out. And so my point I'm trying to make is this. God has a plan, and God has a purpose for every one of our lives, just as much as He did for David. I am as sure of that Uh if you're a mechanic uh working under a uh uh if you're a grease monkey working under cars and trucks and all that You ought to be as confident that that's God's will for you, for your life, as I am, that it's His will for me to pastor this church. God has a plan and purpose for every single one of us. Now, when God saves us, and by the way, it's not just an occupation, regardless of what our occupation is, God wants all of us to serve Him To be a witness to him and minister to him, everybody. But God prepares us for that. Puts us through things and tests us and tries us. And Timothy, Paul warned Timothy, says not to put someone in the pastorate, I'm putting this in my own words, but not to put someone in the pastorate that is a novice Lest they be filled with pride. They need to learn. They need to be prepared. They need to be go through some experiences. They have to have their will broken They have to learn to live by faith and trust God when things are going right and when things are going wrong. And I believe that is why God didn't anoint David, put him right on the throne, because he had to go through this period. to be trained and prepared for a phenomenal responsibility he had. And um uh this this was my thought here be patient Say, man, I'm going through it. Be patient. Say, man, I'm trying to learn. I don't uh I said, be patient. God is preparing us. God lets us go things to learn and develop and so that we can, quote-unquote, sit on the throne. That God has established for our lives, that we can fulfill those responsibilities that God has for our lives. I'm talking a lot of older folks here, older than me. Uh how many people how many folks have found out uh haven't quite learned it all yet? Yeah, that preparation. You say, all right, I've been preparing for 60 years. Good great. Well, just hang in there. There's more preparation. And that this is what that tells me. If God's still preparing me, that means he still has what? Something he's got for me means he still has something for me. So we keep looking at this, and I keep coming back to this that uh God has a plan for us. God has a purpose for our lives. And that requires preparation. When a young person, young man over the years would come to me and different times and they would say, you know, I think God's called me to preach, one of my first things I say to them is this. The call to preach is a call to prepare. You must prepare for that. And uh God will help you and work through that And so, uh why didn't he ascend to the throne immediately? He needed preparation. Uh, by the way, uh just let me ask you this: did David have great faith in God Absolutely. Just because someone has great faith in God doesn't mean they're prepared for any uh whatever capacity God may have for them yet. He had tremendous faith in God, but he wasn't prepared yet. And that faith needed to be developed. That faith needed to learn to exercise it in varying circumstances. And that's what God does for us. It's easy to sing. It's easy to sing Victor AJ's. It's easy to sing that when the bills are paid and I got a good report from the doctor and uh And uh my wife loves me and uh the weather's beautiful out there, seventy-five degrees, sunshine, and all victory. Uh sometimes it's not so easy when your wife's net mad at you and the bills are stacked up and the doctors said there's Something going on. You know what I'm talking about? And so God teaches us. He helps us to learn to sing victory in all the circumstances. So God's preparing him. Here's another question Well, and I kind of answered that, but here's another one. If that's the case, then why did God anoint David to be king when he's so young? Why didn't he wait till Saul passed away? And then after David, you know, he's older, maybe has some more experience, why didn't he wait till Saul passed away and then anoint him? and put him as king. Why'd he why'd he do it so many several years before Saul died? Catherine has the idea Ah, you guys have been looking at my notes. I think God did that early, so uh just like Catherine said I have in my notes here, I think God anointed him very young, long time before uh King Saul. So he learned he could take God at his word. He could trust God. And that, and this is what I keep coming back to. The fact that God anointed David and assured him, promised him, you will be the next king. carried David through all of this. Now he struggled with it, but we're going to see. This is a turning point here, I think, in David's thinking. And in the back of his mind, that was always there. Now it didn't always control his actions and his thinking like it should, but um that was there. And so he was giving David assurance that during the difficult times of preparation and all these difficult times of development that God's going to see him through. And when it's all said and done, it's going to be alright. It's going to be alright. I'm telling you, God has given you and I as believers some tremendous promises. And when everything's falling apart around us and we fail, David makes David fails some places here terribly. And we gotta remember, even when we fail, and when people turn against us and things say and do things that are unjust and they hurt. We have to remember behind all that we've got to hold on to those promises of God. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. And all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the call according to his purpose. And so we God has given us these promises. I think that's what he's showing David. All right, let's look at this here real quick. I just wanted to emphasize that again. Be patient. God's not done. We've not arrived yet God's working and developing us just as he is David here. Now, first thing I want to notice is David's continued flight. Look at verse number one there. David therefore departed thence, Gath and uh escaped to the cave of Dulam. David is now in the period of his life that we refer to as his fugitive period of his life He is on the run. He is a man on the run. This perhaps. Now I think it's a turning point, but I think as we finish up chapter 21 And we're starting chapter 22. David is at one of the lowest points of his life, I believe. He has absolutely humiliated himself. This is the anointed man of God to be the next king of Israel, and he's scrabbling on the wall, and he's spittles running down, and he's he's scrabbed He's feigning himself. He's acting like he's a madman, and he's run out of there. I mean, you talk about humiliation, you talk about um embarrassment, and he runs to a cave to hide in a cave. Now, God, this is a turning point. If you would, take your Bible, and I want to get inside the head of David right now a little bit. And I think we can go to Psalms 142. And we get a little insight into what's going on in David's mind when he gets to this cave. Now, I'm a little ahead of myself, but he's in this cave for apparently a period of time by himself, maybe a few uh assistance with them there, not much. And he has time to think and God's working in his heart. And Psalms 142 If you notice in the title of the psalm, above verse number one, Psalm 142, look what it says. A mascell of David, a type of musical thing. Notice, a prayer when he was where? In the cave. Huh. So we can read, how many verses is it here? About twelve, uh seven verses here. We can read these seven verses, and it is recorded for us by inspiration and preserved for us so that we can get back and understand a little bit What is going through David's head? What he's thinking. And this is a prayer he's praying to God. Now look at it here. Look. Verse number one. I, what's the next second word there? Cried. You know what that word means? He cried. He's crying. He cried unto the Lord, I cried unto the Lord with my voice. With my voice unto the Lord did I make my supplication. Look at this. I poured out my what? Complaint before him. I showed him my what? He's at a low point, isn't he? It gets worse. Read on. When my spirit was Overwhelmed within me. His spirit. I tell you what, when your spirit gets overwhelmed, that's that's getting down. That's getting down. My spirit was overwhelmed within me. Then thou knewest my path. Oh, God had promised you would be king. And thou knewest my path. In the way wherein I walked have they privily laid a snare for me. Who do you think he's referencing there? It's King Saul. King Saul's out after him. I looked on my right hand and beheld, and there was what? No man would know me. Refuge failed me. I wonder if he's not referencing back on to Gath. He was looking for that city to be a refuge where he could hide out, and it failed him completely. They turned on him. Refuge failed me. But there was refuge failed me. No man cared for my soul. What does that sound like? Sound like he's awfully what? Depressed, awfully lonely. Lonely. His his his wife is he's not his wife, he's no she's gone, and the king's gone. Jonathan, his dear friend, is nowhere around. He's what, the priest there, and he had to flee from that, and he is absolutely alone. And look at verse five. I what? Cried unto thee, O Lord. I said, Thou art my refuge My portion is in the land of the living. When he says to the Lord, Thou art my refuge, it sounds like his thinking is changing a little, doesn't it? Or he's leaning on himself. He's got Goliath's sword. He's got it all figured out. None of that worked. Now the Lord is his refuge and my portion in the land of the living. Attend unto my there it is again what cry for I am brought very low deliver me from my persecutors I think that's a reference to King Saul For they are stronger than I. He was outmanned, he was outgunned. Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name. The righteous shall compass me about, for thou shalt deal bountifully with me. Man, there's a lot of crying in there, in there. David's alone, he's scared. Everything he's tried has failed Um some complaining in here. How many people think how many people say, preacher, it's wrong to complain We were talking out there talking about the weather, and somebody came and said, you better not complain about the weather. God's in and I got convicted and repented But we do that, don't we? Complain about the weather. We'll say, uh, uh and even when we say it's nice out, we'll add this one. Boy, it's beautiful today, but what do we always add on to that? We're gonna pay for it later, I'll tell you Yeah, it's too hot, too cold, something, too windy. Is it wrong to complain? I want to suggest to you there is a time when it's okay to complain. It's who we're complaining to. I can come and complain to God. David poured out his complaint. In fact, numerous times in the Bible, he says, I poured my complaint out to the Lord. I complained to the Lord Why would it be okay to complain to the Lord? I'll tell you why, because he can do something about it. Oh Lord, and uh he understands us. And you read through Psalms, David complained a lot. Oh, my enemies are doing this and that and that. Oh, I'd like to rip their stomachs open and I'd cut their legs off. And uh he said all this horrible stuff But he's not saying it to the people. He's telling it to the Lord. Listen, if you got some, I don't mind people gossiping about me. As long as you're gossiping to the Lord about me. Lord preacher said that. Ah, good. Amen. God will take care of that. You follow what I'm saying? And so he's complaining, but he's complaining to the Lord. He's crying. He's overwhelmed and he's lonely. I noticed something in Psalm 142, though. All the crying, complaining, the overwhelming, he's in this cave. Just picture it, he's in this cave. We'll talk about the cave here in a bit. He's in this cave. Probably completely alone, maybe a couple fellows with him, and he's just praying to God, and he's sobbing And he's pouring out this complaint. But there's something in that psalm that struck me, and that is this. He hasn't lost sight of God. He's looking to the Lord. And I tell you, no matter how bad things may be, and no matter how low we may get, and no matter how alone we may feel, we can always look to the Lord. And that to me is a huge, huge revelation in the heart and mind of David. He's done some dumb stuff, he's made some foolish decisions, he trusted himself. But when he gets down and he gets alone, his eyes and his heart turns to the Lord. And that's a good thing. That's why I say I believe this is a turning point for him. He's still looking to the Lord. He's still hoping in God in spite of all everybody against him. His hope is still in the Lord. There is no hint that David thought that God had abandoned him. I don't see that that David thinks, oh God's the uh the God's anointed turned on me, my wife is gone, my friends, I'm alone. But he never, at this point anyway, he never said, God turned on me, God has abandoned me. And so there's still hope there. So there seems to, and I think, as we're going to go through here, come back here to 1 Samuel, I think we start to see a little bit of change in David's behavior Uh I think from here on we're going to see. Now he has his ups and downs for sure, but he seems to be a little bit more deliberate He's thinking things through a little more carefully, a little more clearly. He seems to be a little bit more cautious. From this point on, I think we'll see that down here. God is beginning to get back in this a little bit. And so I think we have a turning point here. Now he says he came, therefore, departed thence and escaped to the cave of Adullam. This was a place that was near where David killed Goliath It was not far from there, and so it's in this general area, a little ways from Gath, he had travelled a good little ways, but he went there deliberately, I believe, because it was this Adulum was very well known for this complex of caves that were there. I got reading about this and doing a little research on this, and apparently there was quite a um uh quite a uh uh uh a system of caves. It's limestone and they had these caves all through there. And they said some of them were very small and long, went way back in, others were rather large that could house quite a few people. And there was one particular of these multiple caves that were in this area, one particular that was well known and was, I guess you'd say, somewhat popular, but was well known And they called that one the cave of Adolo. There was many of them, but one was referenced the cave There's several lakes in Garrett County. There's a bunch of lakes in Garrett County. But when you say we're going to the lake, you know which one you're talking about, right? Well, that's kind of the way these caves were. The cave at Adola. And apparently David knew about this and he understood what the uh what the layout of this cave was and what the whole situation was. And he goes there deliberately to find this place. Perhaps he knew that it could accommodate a large number of people, though I don't know that he knew there was a large number of people coveted But I think what did appeal to David was this. As I studied this cave, they made this statement. They said this cave was very easily fortified. And you could defend yourself very more you could def it was easily defended, easily fortified, this cave And I think David's thinking now a little bit. He's learning, and he gets here, and he gets to this cave And so he's not going to stay here. God's going to send him. Verse 5, when we get there, we'll see this. God's going to send him on some other place. He's on the run. He's going to be going to different places. I tell you, a good study sometime. I'll just throw this out to you Good study sometime are the different caves in the Bible. There's various caves mentioned and things that happened in them. And so this one is the cave of Dodolum. And so David In his flight, his continued flight, he ends up here in this cave. Now the next thing I notice, and this gets interesting, is the second part of verse 1. In verse number 2, he has an increased following Now for the most part he's by himself. We come back to chapter 21 and we notice that he probably had a few associates with him, some assistants with him. Not a big group, just a handful, a couple fellows that perhaps with them. So we suppose that they were there, but now there's other people showing up. Look at the last part of verse 1. And when his brethren And all his father's house heard it that he was at this cave in the Dolum, somehow word got out. They went down thither to him. Now, it says when they heard that he was there, that implies to me that apparently he was in that cave by himself for a period of time. He had been there a while until word got out and trickled back to his hometown and his family heard about it till they got there. So he's been in this cave for uh uh quite some time And I'm wondering, remember in Psalm 142, we just read a moment ago, he said, I poured out my complaint And he said, no man cared for my soul. I looked on my left hand, left on my right, no man cared for my soul. I wonder if his folks showing up here wasn't God answering that prayer. I'm alone, Lord. Nobody cares for me. I am alone. And God, in his tender compassion Touches his family's heart and makes sure they get word where David is, and he stirs their heart, his brothers, parents, his family, and God stirs them to come and be with David for a little while. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, God cares about us. God knows us and he'll do for us. Sometimes he'll do things for us for no other reason than simply reassure us That he loves us and he cares for us. And I see here God's tender care for a scared, lonely, overwhelmed child of his And he sends his family there, God responding. Now it's interesting if you notice David didn't call for his family. I was reading some commentaries on this, and they said, yeah, David's recruiting this. He ain't recruiting nothing here They're showing up unbeknownst to David, unrecruited by David, unsolicited. He's not sending out SOS's. Help, somebody come. He's not doing that at all. This is God responding to David. This is God taking care of him. Now look at who all shows up here. First of all, his family. We read that there in the last part of verse 1. Says his brethren. When's the last time we read about his brethren? Yeah, right there before uh when he shows up on the battlefield, chapter seventeen, and He looks out and Goliath is out there. And uh what are his what are his what are his uh brethren doing? Their knees are knocking. They're scared to death with the rest of the army. And David says, David comes out and says, What in the world? Why don't somebody go out there and kill that pet squeak? That's in the Hebrew if you study it very carefully Why did somebody go out and deal with this guy? And what do his brothers do? They turn him, especially Eliab, the oldest. They give him a hard time. Eliab his oldest brother, who do you think you are? You come out here, you're naughty, you're trying to, and I mean he lays into them That was a little while ago. A lot of water's going under the bridge since then. I think God's touched those brothers' hearts And their heart goes out, and they say, we need to go out and help our brother. What's that old saying? Blood is thicker than water. Uh how many folks here had a brother? I was abused. I never had a brother. I had two sisters. It was traumatic childhood. But what you can get some siblings, brother and sister, couple sisters, couple brothers, whatever the situation may be. You get those and they'll fight like cats and dogs. I mean they'll beat each other, black their eye, knock them out. Throw them across the room, jump on them, and they'll just go at it. And uh, but you let some outsider come in and say something about my brother and what happens. They gotta pay for that, right? And I think that's what we're seeing now in David's family. Man, they were all over David, you're naughty, you're just out here, you little brat. Get back there to the sheep. Who do you think you are? Now Saul's hounding their brother, hey we're coming out there. Where's where's he at? We're coming. Come on, man. And so God's sending his family out there in response, I believe, to David's cry that the people that were dearest to him, the people that were closest to him. Now I think there's two reasons they showed up. One of them is what I've already touched on, is to uh support him. I think they come out here. Listen, we're family. We're family. We're sticking together. You're not out here alone, David. We're with you. I tell you, it's tough when family turns on you You ever have that? That's hard. And sometimes Christians go through that. Jesus said in the Gospels, I don't have the reference. He said, sometimes the adversaries are those of your own household. And there's been Christians and saints over the years. Trust Christ. God changed their life. And family turns on them. We've seen it with folks getting saved here at Mountain Lake. Man, family turns on them. Hey, that's tough. That's tough. But I tell you, when your family rallies around behind you, when your fat family supports you, that's one of the most encouraging things in the world. Right or wrong Say, we're with you. You're not alone. We've got this with you. Psalm 142, verse 4, David said, No man cared for my soul. No man cared for my soul. David was wrong. He had a family that cared for his soul. He had a dad that loved him dearly. He had some brothers that cared a lot about him. Sometimes we get overwhelmed and we forget That there's still a lot of good stuff still in place. We talked about Elijah. I'm the only one that hasn't been. The Lord said, no, no, no. There's 7,000 others David, you still got folks to care about you. It doesn't look like it. It seems like the whole world's against you. Got folks care about you. And for folks that maybe when their family turns on them, I think our church ought to be family. Amen? Our church ought to be family. I thought about old Mike, Mike Stubbler. And, you know, I don't mean to be unkind, but his family turned on him. Said we didn't I didn't marry no fundamentalist Christian and turned on. And you know what happened? This church, to the glory of God, just took Mike in and we were his family. We're with you, Mike. love you. And I've seen that over and over and over. I think our church ought to be family. When folks are struggling, when folks are going through hardships Uh we ought to be family. So I think his family, his brothers, his that mom his dad and uh his family there, I think they all showed up. One reason was to support him. They loved David, they cared about him, they wanted to be with him and help him. But I think there was a secondary practic another practical reason for safety. Brother, they were not safe as long as King Saul was on the throne. Now we're going to see here in a little bit, Saul had no qualms about killing an entire town full of priests of God. At the end of this chapter, he kills he kills the high priest, he kills them all, has them all killed. You're not going to tell me for one minute, you're not going to convince me that if Saul had no problem killing the high priest of Almighty God he would have any problem killing David's family. In fact, I could see Saul getting his family in. You tell me where he is or or you're going down. I'll start sh They didn't have a gun. I'll start chopping the heads off of the youngest and work our way up until somebody tells me where David is. I have no I I don't I I can see Saul doing that without a problem And so I believe there was an element of safety for their part that uh they needed to get there. Um uh like I said, if Saul had no problem killing a city of priests, he's not gonna have any problem killing David's family. Proverbs 29 and verse number 2, we won't take time to turn there. I'm running out of time. But it says basically, when you have ungodly leadership, people are hurt. And we're going to see here, I think we're going to notice, and I don't know if I'm even going to get time to get to where I wanted to tonight. Um, I think we're going to notice the nation of Israel was hurting bad. under the leadership of King Saul. This is an ungodly man. He has zero faith. He's eat up with himself. And the nation is hurting. In fact, we're going to see here um A bunch of people showed up besides just his family. A bunch of people showed up and he describes what kind of condition they're in. We'll see that here in a minute. And so leadership does matter. Leadership does have an effect. You can have a good church, you can have a good, strong church, and you get the wrong leader in there. And that church will hurt, right? You get a wicked, you get somebody wicked in charge that has a lot of influence. That affects people. And so leadership uh can hurt ungodly leadership can hurt a nation, ungodly leadership can hurt a church, ungodly leadership can hurt a home. And so uh I think they're coming to David. They're coming out to this cave. Uh maybe Jesse got the family together and said, listen, David needs our support. We need to get out there. Maybe the brothers came to Dad and said, Dad, we need to get out there with David. This isn't good. And maybe one of them, maybe Eliab or one of them says, you know, not only that, I'm worried about King Saul, what he might do to us. And so they packed up and they headed out to King David, uh to uh David to to be with him. And so first group that shows up to him, uh his increasing following, his family shows up Wouldn't you love to see David's face when he sees them come up over the hill? David! What in the world? David, are you here? Hey, and there's his family. Wouldn't that be so? I'd love to see that. Oh, do you do you think there was hugging and crying and laughing? What are you guys doing here? You're crazy. No, no, no, David. And then they get in and get settled in, and then people start coming up this trail and some are coming up over this hill. Who in the world? All these people coming from different directions. And uh there's and uh I put it this way, his family showed up and then the forlorn showed up. If somebody's forlorn, what does that mean? That's an unusual word. Downtrodden, I mean they're raggedy, uh maybe in rags. Look at how the Bible describes them here. You have this uh forlorn group shows up to them. Um look at verse number two. So his family, they went down thither to him, verse two, and everyone that was, and he lists three gives three descriptions of these people that show up. Everyone that was what? in distress and everyone that was in and everyone that was discontented. Wow, what a crowd. Yes. Well it's funny. I put in my notes here. This is the last thing that David means I mean he's struggling to stay alive. He's running for his life. And then all these people, they're all stressed out, they're all in debt over the up to their eyeballs, and they're all unhappy And they show up to David. Man, this is not what he needed. What David needed was somebody that could get to King Saul and negotiate peace. Well, Jonathan tried that, and that didn't work. What David needed, humanly speaking, what David needed was some great warriors that could protect him and fight off the armies of King Saul. And God said, no, here, listen to this. God said, no, what you think you need and what you really need are two different things. Man, how many times have we found that to be true in life? I need this God, God, I need this is the last thing I need in my life. And God says, oh no, no, I know what I'm doing. I know what I'm doing And God's putting together something here that we're going to see down the road a little ways that is exactly what David needed. Yes, exactly. Because everything is me, my I, I. And so God sends these folks here. You know what I thought of when I read about this and got looking up, you know, who these people, what these kind of condition these people were in? You know what it reminded me of? Humanly speaking, it reminded me of the five stones in a crick. Where two armies are with a huge champion. They've got swords, they've got shields, they've got spears, they've got bows and arrows. What good is five stones In that setting. It's useless, humanly speaking. But God was in that, and those five stones that look like, this won't do me any good. was exactly what David needed to take Goliath out. Now it isn't five stones, it's 400 depressed, in debt, unhappy people. But they were exactly what God was going to use to get the victory for David. Here's the thing: God uses unusual things to accomplish his will. God uses unusual people. Believe me, I pastor a church of unusual people. Um teasing. God used unusual things. God used unusual people sometimes to accomplish his will. This is a bunch of ragtag desperados. Look at their situation. We got a minute or two. Let me quickly try and look at this. Look at their situation. Number one, they're in distress. I looked up the word distress. It means this: they're stressed out. Uh they're between a rock and a hard place. They're under pressure, anguish. These are people that were whatever situation is, and I believe this was because of the leadership of King Saul, the country is in such dire condition. That these people are absolutely have nowhere to turn. And they say, let's go out to David. They are under stress. They're in debt. They could not pay their bills. They've got creditors coming. Now back in the day Predators showed up, that was bad. You're becoming indentured servant. You're be you're going to prison. You're becoming a slave. And so they're in debt, they're discontented. It simply means this: they were bitter, they were angry, they had been wronged, they're mistreated. And so this is a rough, this is a, you know, this isn't the ideal crowd you would want, especially when you're running for your life. What do they have to offer? What do they have to do for David? Oh, God had something. By the way, and this is total speculation on my part, but I don't believe they were in that condition because of their lack of character I think we'll see that later on as we see them develop. It wasn't their lack of character. They were suffering the consequences of the king's lack of character. And so they show up with David, this forlorn group. So that's their situation. Notice their submission. I'll end with this. Let me give you their size first. First of all, there's 400 of them. It grows to 600 a little later on. Compare to some Compared to King Saul's thousands in his armies, tens of thousands, maybe hundred thousand in his army or more, that's not very many. A lot of times God's people are outnumbered by the world. But uh God can use 300 of Gideon's soldiers and wipe out 20,000 of the Midianites. The numbers aren't God's concern. Here, let me say this. How many there are isn't God's concern, but the condition of their heart. Is God's concern. And that leads me to my last thought here is their submission. Their submission. And this tells you a lot about them. Look at verse 4, and I got to end. It says, everyone that was in debt, everyone that was discontented, gathered themselves, this is voluntary, of their own accord, unto him. Look at that next phrase. And he became a what? Captain over them. They submitted themselves to David. They saw something about David. There was something about David. Listen to this. There was something about David that they had seen, that they had observed. That here is a man we can trust. Here is a man with all our situation and all our difficult circumstances. We can come to him and David, we submit ourselves to you. We trust you. I tell ya, these aren't rebels. These are people who are wanting to be what God wants them to be. These are people who are wanting things to be right and they come after the These are men and women of faith, I believe. These are men and women of character. These are men and women of integrity. These, and I'm getting way ahead of myself, these are the leaders in David's future administration. Some of these are going to be his mighty men. Was it because of the all the money they had? Was it because of their great uh situation? No, no, it was because of their submissive hearts that God was able to take them and use them. Future leaders in David's administration. What God begins with, I wish I had more time. I'm rushing this. Maybe we'll go over it again next time. But I like this statement. God gave this to me. What God begins with is never the same as what he ends up with. If I have a submissive heart. And there's a lot of people who came to the Lord with hard, stiff necks, and they left the same way they came, if not worse. But you find everybody that comes to the Lord with a humble, submissive heart, saying, Lord, I trust you, their lives are changed every single time. And these people showed up. They're in debt. They're in distress. They're discontented. But a few chapters later, they're leaders in David's administration. They're being used of God in tremendous ways. And I believe it's because of their submissive heart. We don't have time. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. God hath not chosen the wise things of this world. but the base things, the foolish things of this world, the weak things of this world, so that he can confound this world and he gets all the glory If a bunch of great soldiers would have showed up there with David and boy they'd have conquered King Saul and delivered David, who would have got the glory? David and the soldiers, the great negotiators, came in and said, Saul, we're going to sit down, we're going to negotiate a peace, we'll settle this, and they worked it all out. They'd have gotten the glory. But you get a bunch of in-depth, un unhappy, uh stressed out people, and they give themselves to the Lord, who gets the glory? God gets all the glory. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that we could learn from this and we just humble ourselves before you and never think that we're nothing But Lord, if we would just be submissive and trust you, you can use us in a great way. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, I wonder how many this evening would say, Preacher, I just want the Lord to have all of me I just want the Lord to be my captain. Where he leads me, I'll follow, and what he instructs me to do, I'll trust him. I just want the Lord to have me. Is there anything like that by the uplift? That would probably be about all of us. I can't imagine a Christian not wanting to be that way. And maybe we just need to come and lay some things on the altar and just Say, I got debt. I'm distressed. I'm discontented. Just bring that to the Lord. Let him be captain over you. And see what God might not do and how he turned that around. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.