Number three, Second Timothy 2. 3. If you have it there, let's read this all together in unison. Ready? Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. I want to speak this morning for a few moments on a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Let's pray together. Father, I ask now you'd bless. Our time in your word. We're grateful for the service. Just a special day today as we recognize and honor these men and women. God, we are grateful. God, we know that behind all the machinery that makes a nation what it is, particularly in our case, I believe, is your hand of blessing. Good, your sovereignty and your your uh power that established our country as the nation uh it is, and God, we want it to be what it ought to be. Our hearts are burdened this morning as we think about the enemy, spiritual enemies we face, not just as a nation, but as a church. And Lord, in our homes and then in our own hearts and lives. And I pray that you would use some of these thoughts here as I share. From your word to strengthen us, that those of us that know Christ as Savior, we would be good soldiers of the cross. Soldiers in the Lord's army. And so I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray you would take my lips and speak through me and challenge each and every one of us to be the men and women. And uh Christians you saved us to be, you intend for us to be. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I was doing a little research the last week or so and I came across uh the fact that the Army has seven what they call values Um it would probably be, we could say, characteristics that it considers to be necessary if a soldier is going to be a good soldier in the U. S. Army Now, I would imagine that each branch of the military has their own version of this. I would assume that they're very, very similar in a lot of ways, but the Army's seven values caught my attention Those seven are the first one is loyalty. And this is how they express it. A good soldier in the U. S. Army is going to be loyal. They mean by that that they uh they're loyal in their allegiance to the U. S. Constitution, to the Army. To their unit and to other soldiers. Now listen to this. A loyal soldier is one who supports the leadership and stands up for his fellow soldiers. By wearing the uniform of the U. S. Army, you are expressing your loyalty. And by doing your share, you show your loyalty to your unit. So one characteristic the U. S. Army considers to be necessary if you're going to be a good soldier is loyalty. The second one they have is duty. And they put it this way. It means to fulfill your obligations. Doing your duty means more than carrying out your assigned tasks. Duty means being able to accomplish those tasks as part of a team. You fulfill your obligations as a part of your unit every time you resist the temptation to take shortcuts. that might undermine the integrity of the mission. I'd say these values are pretty good, huh? They could incorporate them into the Christian life. The third one they list is respect. Again, they put it this way. It means to treat people as they should be treated, to treat others with dignity and respect while expecting others to do the same Respect is what allows us to appreciate the best in other people. Respect is trusting that all people have done their jobs and fulfilled their duty. And uh the Army is one team, and each of us has something to contribute. So respect. The fourth characteristic is selfless service. They put it this way, to put the welfare of our nation, the army, and our subordinates before our own welfare. Selfless service is larger than just one person. In serving your country, you are doing your duty loyally without thought of recognition or gain. The basic building block of selfless service is the commitment of every team member to go a little farther, endure a little longer, and to look a little closer to see how he or she Can add to the effort. Selfless service. The fifth uh value is honor The nation's highest military award is the Medal of Honor. This award goes to soldiers who make honor a matter of daily living. Soldiers who develop the habit of being honorable and solidifying that habit with every choice they make. Honor is a matter of carrying out, acting, and living the values of respect, duty, loyalty, selfless service, integrity, and courage in everything you do. Honor. The sixth value is integrity. To do what is right, both legally and morally. And by the way, let me just inject this. Just because something's legal doesn't mean it's moral. So doing what is right legally and morally. Integrity is a quality you develop by adhering to moral principles It requires that you do and say nothing that deceives others. As your integrity grows, so does the trust that others place in you. The more choices you make based on integrity, the more this highly prized value will affect your relationships with family, friends, and finally the acceptance of yourself. And then the last one they put is courage, personal courage. To face fear, danger, or adversity, both physical and moral. With physical courage, it's a matter of enduring physical duress and at times risking personal safety. Facing moral fear or adversity may be a long, slow process of continuing forward on the right path. Especially if taking those actions is not popular with others. You can build your personal courage by daily standing up for and acting upon the things that are right. and honorable. I don't know about you, but I like those values. I think it would not be difficult to take them and maybe tweak them biblically a little bit and incorporate them into the Christian life. I think if we lived by these values listed by our uh the United States Army, it would uh be excellent in our homes and our places of work uh for military and non-military. And again, I think they fit beautifully into uh Christian discipleship. We're in Timothy, and I notice here in 2 Timothy chapter 2 I see four values, not for a U. S. military, but I see four values that are characteristic of a good soldier of Jesus Christ. A good soldier of Jesus Christ. Now I want to stop here just for a moment and point out that you and I, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we are not involved in a physical warfare. The warfare we face as Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, the warfare that your family faces, the warfare that you and I as individual believers face is not a physical warfare, it is a spiritual warfare. I'll give you some scriptures here in a moment But I want to reassure you, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church does never has, does not now, and at least under my sane leadership, hopefully, uh under my leadership, we will never build an arsenal of weapons to fight a physical warfare as a church You follow what I'm saying? In other words, we're not going to take up arms against a cult or the atheist or any other person, physical arms. Are you with me? Now that's not to say we're pacifists. All right? In fact, um, well, we won't go down that road, but um We are not pacifists. However, the warfare we're engaged in is not like the warfare, the army that these men and women that we honored that they were engaged in The warfare you and I face is a spiritual warfare. It's just as real, just as perhaps even more deadly. than any physical conflict between nations, between people. Listen to what the Bible says in first 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse, chapter 10 and verse 4. Listen to what the Bible says It says the weapons of our warfare as believers, the weapons of our warfare are not carnal. Now you have to know a little bit about biblical lingo, biblical terminology. That word carnal means of the flesh, material, physical. We have weapons That we handle spiritual weapons, not physical, not material. We don't handle guns and missiles and tanks and bombs and hand grenades. We don't deal with that. We deal with spiritual weapons. Alright? Listen to Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 12. For we wrestled not against flesh and blood But against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. I'm here to tell you, you and I, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we have a very real enemy. He is not a physical enemy. He is a spiritual enemy and is none other than the devil himself. Peter cautioned us in 1 Peter 5, verse 8. He says, be sober. In other words, you need to be serious about this. This isn't something we play games with. This isn't something we toy with. Be sober. Be vigilant. Because your adversary, your enemy. The devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour, whom resists steadfast. So the fact of the matter is, we do have an enemy, and we are involved in a spiritual warfare, not physical like our veterans face, but a spiritual warfare against a very real enemy. I'm here to tell you the devil is opposed to everything Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is attempting to do for the Lord. The devil is opposed to you living for God. The devil is opposed to you and I trusting him, living for him, serving him He is opposed to us reaching other people with the gospel and bringing them to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. So we are involved in warfare Of the cross. We are soldiers of the Lord. Whether we like it or not, whether we are aware of it or not, you and I are involved in a spiritual warfare Now the the context here that we're going to look at in chapter 2 here in just a moment, this whole book of 2 Timothy, I just want to give a little background so we understand The context here, it might help us grasp what Paul is telling us here under the inspiration of God. But the book of Timothy was penned by the Apostle Paul. There's no dispute about that. And he was writing this letter. Again, the Holy Spirit was leading him, every word to write down. But he's writing to a young man by the name of Timothy. Paul had led Timothy to the Lord years before. He had introduced Timothy to Jesus Christ. He showed him from the Bible how Timothy was a sinner, how Jesus died for his sins, was buried, rose again, how Timothy needed to put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And Paul led Timothy to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. He didn't just lead them to the Lord, he took them under wing, and Paul invested himself in teaching and training Timothy to live for God, how to live for God, but also how to serve God. Timothy responded tremendously. He believed the gospel. He gave himself to the Lord. He became a great leader in the early church. He was pastor of the church at Ephesus, we believe He was used of God in great, great ways. So that's the person, that's the one that Paul is writing to, this young man, Timothy, who is uh serving God and is proving himself uh to be a great Christian Paul is writing this passage from a Roman prison cell. He had been arrested and he had been bound and arrested for no other reason than for uh preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. Nero, if we understand history correctly, Nero was uh the ruler of Rome at the time, and Nero went insane. And he viewed Christians as a threat to him personally and to his leadership. And by the way, biblical Christianity is a threat to dictatorships. Biblical Christianity is a threat to communism. Because biblical Christianity teaches and incorporates into our thinking Freedom of the individual. Jesus Christ is King of Kings. Period. And so Nero picked up on that, and this became a threat to him. And he unleashed on that early New Testament church the wrath of the Roman authority. They persecuted Christians with an intensity it's hard for us to grasp. Brutal, violent. And Paul was taken captive. He was imprisoned. Paul's just a brief period of time, weeks, maybe months, before the Roman authorities chopped his head off. For no other reason than the fact that he was preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. Paul was no criminal. Paul had not broken any laws. He simply loved God and he wanted other people to get saved. And the spiritual forces, principalities, and high places turned against Paul And Rome and and Nero took his life. If you would, look over here in verse number, uh chapter number four. Paul had knew, I believe, that his time was short. He could see what was happening. If you notice in chapter 4 of 2 Timothy, and notice with me verse number 6. What an attitude. He says, For I am now ready to be offered. In other words, his life taken I am now ready to be offered. Look at this. And the time of my departure is at hand. What departure is he talking about? Talking about death, his departure to heaven. And by the way, let me ask this. How many folks here this morning, you're saved and you know you're saved? Say amen. For you and I, the death of the body is not the end of our existence. It is simply a departure from this physical world into the presence of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Paul understood that. He said the time of my departure, and by the way, he longed for that departure. He told the church at Philippi that I have a desire to depart and be with my Lord and Savior. And so he knew his time was up. Look at his testimony there in the next verse, verse 7. I have fought a good fight. He was a soldier of the Lord. He didn't fight a physical fight. He didn't shoot throw spears and shoot arrows and carry physical shields. He fought a spiritual warfare and he fought a good fight. He said, I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day, and not to me only, but unto all them. also that love is appearing. I don't know about you. I want to be faithful to the Lord unto death. I want to be able to say I've finished my course, I've kept the faith. Let me just say this to our young and old here, those that are trying to live for God, those of us that are trying to please the Lord with our life, don't quit Keep on serving God, keep on being faithful to God, keep on living for the Lord, keep trusting God, just stay at it. You say, well, they're giving me a hard time. Family's giving me a hard time. Employers are giving me a hard time. Society is turning against us. Don't quit. Just stay at it. Stay at it. Stay at it. Stay at it. So Paul was a faithful soldier. And now back in Number chapter 2, he's writing to Timothy, and he's instructing Timothy to be a good soldier, spiritual, good soldier of the Lord. He points out, and again, we don't have time. I'd like to go through the whole book here, where he's showing Timothy that the times are going to get more difficult. In fact, let me just show you one passage here. Look at chapter 3 with me in verse number 1. And we see this on every hand. This know also that in the last days, what's that next word? Perilous time shall come. If something's perilous, what does that mean? It's dangerous. It's a dangerous time. Perilous times shall come. Then he goes down and describes what society is going to be like in the last days. We could take time, if you'll take time sometime and read down through that, you will find a pretty accurate description of society in 2025. Pretty much hits the nail on the head. I'm here to tell you we are living in the last days. We are living in the days preceding the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. And they are described in Scripture as perilous days, spiritually perilous days. We have an enemy. He hates our church He hates your home. He hates your marriage. He hates your children. He hates you and me. And his whole objective is to destroy our testimony, our faith in God, our influence in this world. What I'm trying to say is this: we're in a spiritual warfare. Absolutely. Now, notice here in chapter 2, as I said, we read here a little bit. I see four values or characteristics of a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Now I admire the ones the army has. I think they're very admirable. I think they would be good to incorporate into our lives. But God gives us some for our spiritual warfare. The first one I notice is if I'm going to be a good soldier of Jesus Christ, number one, I have to be strong in grace. Look at verse number one. I'll try and explain what he means by that. Look at verse one. Thou, therefore, my son. Paul writing to Timothy, led him to the Lord. He considers him his son in the faith. Thou, therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. I think there's two key words in that verse. The first one I see is be strong. He's not talking about physical strength. He's talking about strong in character, strong in integrity Strong spiritually, mentally, emotionally. Be strong in his faith. I know a little Greek. Um he had a deli right down the road from us and when I grew up there. Seriously there was there was a Greek deli uh down the road and um so that's the only Greek I know is this guy. He's probably dead by now But the word that that word strong comes from, as I did some research and found out, it has this idea, the word it comes from. It means this: be becoming stronger. It's a progressive thing. When he says be strong, he has the idea of just keep getting stronger and stronger and stronger. Again, not physical But spiritually strong, spiritually strong. So the first word I notice here is that word strong. And then the second word I think that is key to understanding what he's saying is the word grace. Now, grace, our definition of grace that we use is uh it's a little simplified, it's a little bit more than this, but to help us understand, grace If you boil it down, this most simple definition is simply receiving something I don't deserve. God shows me grace when I called on him on May 7, 1979. I called on Lord, come in my life, forgive my sin, and save me from my sin. from hell and give me eternal life. I trusted Jesus, my Savior. I called on him. God gave me something I did not deserve. He gave me forgiveness of my sins. God did not forgive me for my sins because I deserved it. He did it because he loved me. And he showed grace to me when I trusted him. God changed my life. Most of you heard my story. And many of you have very similar testimonies. How God changed our lives, not because we were some great people, we had so much to offer God. No, no, no He took the sins away, the drinking and drugs and garbage, fornication, all that. He took it away, not because I would so much to offer him, but just because of his way. Grace is loving grace. He loved me. While I was yet a sinner, Christ loved me. And he gave himself for me. That's grace to receive something I do not deserve. The grace of God. By the way, God's blessed. I love our country. God has blessed our country. But I'm here to tell you Not because we're some great Americans. I'll tell you why. Because God is so great in his grace that he has shown our country. So Paul is telling Timothy, Timothy, if you're going to be a good soldier of Jesus Christ, you've got to be strong in grace. Now, the grace he's talking about here is not saving grace. It's not the grace that God extends to us the moment we trust Christ as Savior. As great as that is, as important that is The grace he's talking about here is the strength, is the ability that God gives us to live for him, to serve him I put it this way. It's the grace that enables me to live for God Sometimes I'll talk to folks on I try to get out several times a week and just knock on doors and visit folks. I try to talk to people about the Lord Jesus Christ every week. Try and find folks that would be interested in letting me show them how to be saved. And often I'll come across someone and they'll make a statement, something to this effect And I'll ask my little questions, always ask, you know, for sure if you die now you go to heaven. And the typical answer I get is what? I hope so. I think so, boy, I hope so. I don't want to go to hell. I say, well, nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell, and God doesn't want you to go to hell. And so I'll try to show them from the Bible how they can trust Jesus Christ. He'll forgive their sin, give them eternal life. They can know they're going to heaven and not to hell. And often I'll hear this statement. They'll say something like this: Preacher. I'd get saved, but I don't think I could live it if I got saved. If I trust Christ as Savior, I'd never be able to live the Christian life. You know what my answer is to that every time they say it? I put my hand out, I say, join the club. Nobody can live that Christian life. We need the grace of God to enable us to live for God. And Paul is telling Timothy, Timothy, you be strong in that grace that God gives to live for Him, to serve Him, to have victory over sin, to keep bitterness out of my heart and life. To help enable me to love those who are not lovely, enable me to be Christ-like on the job and in the house and in the neighborhood, to serve God accepted me. I need God's grace To enable me to live for him like I should. He will say, Oh, uh uh don't misunderstand what I'm saying, but he'll say, Oh, Brother Leatherman, uh boy, he built a great church there. I think we have a great church here, but I'm telling you, Brother Leatherman didn't build it It was God's grace that did this. I heard a preacher this week, he said, somebody asked me to write a book on how to build a church. He goes, I don't know how to build a church. Jesus builds the church through his grace. And if I'm going to be a good soldier, the Lord Jesus Christ, I've got to be strong in that grace that God gives me. He's saying this: the grace that enables me to conquer sin. The grace that enables me to please God in the way I talk and the things I say and how I say them, the grace of God enables me to speak the truth in love To be kind to those that are unkind. He says, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. The grace that meets my needs. That provides for me. I trust God. And in His grace, He meets my needs. He provides for me. He enables me to be a good witness in how I talk and my attitude towards others and my Boldness in my witness. God's grace enables me to do that. And he says, be strong in that grace. The grace that gives me direction in my life. I don't know what tomorrow holds I don't know what God has in store in the coming days and weeks and months and years, but I know this: if I'll trust Him, He'll lead me in His perfect will day by day. That's the grace he's talking about. Be strong in that grace. Be strong. In other words, have faith in God. Trust him to enable you and lead you and use you and direct you and change you and empower you. The grace of God, the grace of God. One of the great dangers in the spiritual warfare we find ourselves in is trusting in our own abilities, trusting in our own determination. Trusting in our own reasoning and our own thinking, trusting in our own abilities. I tell you, every time we try To live for God and serve Him in our own strength and our own abilities will fail every single time. But when I trust God And I'm strong in his grace, God. I'm looking to you to enable me, to fill me with your spirit, and by your grace use me. To be the person you intend for me to be, that's being strong in grace. The way we beat the devil, the way we win in the spiritual warfare we're in, is to be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. I had a couple come to our church. I led them to the Lord years ago. We're talking 20 plus years ago. And uh got saved, baptized, they were living for God Institute, coming to Institute, going soul winning, but they're having some struggles And there were some besetting sins that they were just getting the best of them. And in that spiritual warfare with sin and the devil, they were struggling. They came in the office, we talked a little bit, and I tried to show them some things from Scripture and give them some principles that I believed would help them. And uh they got stirred up and the wife said to me, uh she was sitting there in the office and She looked at me and she got stirred up and she said, Pastor Leatherman, and she grit her teeth like this, we are gonna whip this. And I thought, uh oh. If she's trusting in her own determination, her own strength to beat the devil, she's gonna lose every single time. What I tried to do is direct them, say, listen, that's a great attitude, great determination, praise the Lord for it, but that's not where our strength is. Our strength is in the grace of God. And trust him and look to him. I wish I could tell you they got a hold of that. And they went on to be victorious Christian lives, but they didn't. They fell by the wayside, trusting in themselves, in their own strength. I love them. I see them every now and then. I try to encourage them But I tell you, not one of us here will ever be the person we ought to be in God's eyes without the grace of God. Without trusting him, letting him empower me. Paul put it this way: I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. That's the grace of God. God enabling me. God giving me that victory. God enabling me to love my wife like I should. For a wife to Love her husband like should. Raise our children. Be a witness. Victory over sin. God enables us as we look to Him and trust Him. So one characteristic, one value says a good soldier of Jesus Christ has is being strong in grace. I like what Psalm 118 verse 8 says. It's better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. That's being strong in grace. Number two, a good soldier of Jesus Christ invests in others. Look at verse 2 And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, look at this, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. He's saying Timothy, the things that God has used, the things God used me to teach you, the things you've learned about God through me, you take that and you invest that in others. Don't you live for yourself. Don't you just think my Christianity is all about me and what I get and how much I can be and how blessed I am. He's saying, Timothy, if you're going to be a good soldier of Jesus Christ, you take the kindness, the compassion, the grace God has shown you, the things God has taught you, and you take that and you invest that in others. You give of yourself to others. A good soldier invests in others. God has given to the church a great commission That great commission is made very clear in the Gospels, particularly in Mark. It says, go ye into all the world and what? Preach the gospel. We have a job. We have a commission. We have a mission from our spiritual military headquarters. is to take what God has done for us, to take that salvation, that gospel that has blessed us so much, that has changed our lives, that has given us purpose and meaning and direction in our lives. and take that and invest it in others. Invest it in others. The most selfish church in the world is a church that won't go out into the community, into the world, and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. A good soldier of Jesus Christ invests themselves in others. Bring others to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ We're to take that which we have received, the gospel and salvation, and pass it on to others. I I believe the Great Commission, go into all the world and preach the gospels, is a declaration of war on the devil and on hell. Jesus says in Matthew, I think, 16, he says, the gates of hell Shall not be able to stand against the church. Why? Because the church is going forth with the gospel of Jesus Christ. We're investing in this whole world. We are in enemy territory. And we're to take the gospel, we're to take what God has done for us and share it to others. A Christian who has been forgiven of God for so much sin. God has forgiven me for so much. And then for me to withhold forgiveness To someone that has sinned against me is a very, very poor soldier of Jesus Christ. For God to be so kind is anybody here, God being kind to anybody here? For God to be so kind to me And then me turn around and be unkind to somebody else for whatever reason is not a good soldier of Jesus Christ. He's saying, Timothy, you've learned from me how to be saved. You learn from me how to be a Christ-like in your attitude. God has used me to teach you how to live for the Lord, to love your enemies, to do good to them that despitefully use you. God has used through me, He's taught you. How to be the kind of person Christ have you be. Now you do that same thing and you go out and show that to others. You go out and show that to others. A good soldier of Jesus Christ, number one, is strong in the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. A good soldier invests in others, in reaching others for the Lord and teaching them God's plan and purpose for their lives. I got thinking when I was uh working over this, I got thinking of one of our veteran missionaries, veteran missionaries, brother Mike Barden Brother Mike Barden's been a missionary out in Utah reaching the Mormon folk out there with the gospel of Jesus Christ. I think it's over 40 years now he's been out there Just going at it, just going at it, teaching those dear folk that Jesus Christ is God. That there is one God and one God only And hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of dear Mormon folk have come to know Jesus Christ as Savior over all those years of his faithful ministry. I want to say to you, Brother Mike Barden's been a good soldier of Jesus Christ. He's invested himself and bringing others and teaching others what God has done for him. I got thinking about another one of our veteran missionaries. He's been in South Dakota, I think, on going on 50 years now, I believe. Brother Gary May. His dear wife Donna. Donna grew up right here in Mount Lake Park. Been out there on that Indian reservation, reaching those dear folk with the gospel of Jesus Christ. They burned his church building down twice. They've threatened him. He has not seen hundreds and thousands of people come to Christ. He has been faithfully investing himself in the lives of others, trying desperately through how he lived his life and through his teaching and preaching for people to come and trust those dear Native Americans, come and trust Jesus as Savior. Oh, he doesn't have a church of 5,000. But I'm here to tell you, Brother Gary May's been a good soldier of Jesus Christ. I remember I'll never forget one of the first times I met him after I became his pastor. He preached here on a Wednesday night. We were set up over here. We didn't have a lot of folk. We were set up over here. His message was this. Why do I keep working with people and we see so few results? Why do I keep doing it? Why do I keep doing it? You know what his answer was? He said, because there's a real place called hell. And every person that dies without Jesus Christ goes to hell for all eternity, a lake of fire. And he says, that's why I keep doing it. Just to get one more saint. Just to get somebody that will trust Christ and be saved from hell. You know what that is? That's a good soldier of Jesus Christ. So Paul says, Timothy, here's what you need to be a good soldier. Now the army, they have, the military, they have their values, and they're wonderful. I'm not against them. That would help us But a good soldier of Jesus Christ is strong in the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. Number two, he invests himself in others. Let me give you the last couple here, real quick. He's steadfast in trials. Look at verse 3. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. The life of a soldier is anything but easy. Right? Who can't? Oh, this is cake. I love it. This is wonderful. The biblical Christian life lived as God intends for it to live. Is anything but easy. We have fightings, Paul said, we have fightings within and without. We fight our own sinful nature that wants to take me down. Anyone here know what I'm talking about? Fighting that old sinful nature? I tell you, there's a part of me that wants to do wrong so bad. That old flesh, that old sinful nature, and it is opposed to everything that is good and right that God has put into my heart, this old sinful flesh. I fight that thing. This whole world is no friend of grace. Oh, they might talk friendly, but I'm telling you, this world hates our Lord Jesus Christ. He said that very plainly. Now we live in a unique situation here in America. We have a lot of freedoms, but that is the exception, not the rule, throughout church history. So we fight our own sinful nature. We fight this world that not physical, spiritual warfare. This world's trying to get us to conform. This world wants us to take its values, its priorities, its pleasures, and wants us to indulge in all of that. That are so detrimental to our well-being. And we have a devil. I'm telling you, if you've tried to serve God any length of time, you know the reality of the devil. And it's anything but easy. And Paul says to Timothy, if you're going to be a good soldier of Jesus Christ, you endure hardships. You just stay at it. I like what the great theologian John Wayne said. He said, Life is tough, and it's even tougher if you're stupid. Life is tough. And I've said this often over the years, but I modified that a little bit. Life is tough, and it's even tougher if you're sinful. When things get tough, a good soldier of Jesus Christ doesn't get bitter. He doesn't get angry. He doesn't quit. A good soldier of Jesus Christ endures. He just keeps trusting God. He just keeps going forward. He keeps doing right. He keeps loving. He keeps forgiving. He keeps preaching. He keeps sharing. Good soldier Jesus Christ, say it's hard. I know it's hard. God never said it wouldn't be hard. But he said if you're going to be a good soldier, you endure that. That word endure means to stand your ground. It means to stand your position, hold your position, remain, hold fast, refuse to quit. No Christian ever succeeded spiritually without enduring. Nobody ever made a difference. No Christian ever made a difference in this old sinful world without enduring hardship. No Christian ever receives a war reward at the judgment seat of Christ without having to endure hardship These preachers on television are lying when they tell us that living the Christian life is easy and it's wealth and prosperity and luxury. It is not. It's a warfare. It is hardship. God says you're going to be a good soldier, you endure. You're in your place, doing your job, easy or not easy. No Christian, no missionary ever reached a more foreign mission field without enduring hardship. No preacher ever built a church without enduring hardship. No teacher ever influenced a class of students without enduring hardship. No bus worker ever reached a community with their bus route without enduring hardship This modern-day soft-soap, self-centered health and wealth, snowflake Christianity would never have survived the persecutions of Nero and Rome. It doesn't work in Nigeria, where over a hundred thousand believers have been executed. Soft soap, easy Christianity doesn't work in Iraq, in Iran, and Pakistan. And it doesn't work in America. Not if we're going to be biblical Christians, good soldiers. Are you with me? A good soldier endures hardness. And then I am with this. A good soldier stays focused. Look at verse 4. No man that in wareth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life. That he may please him who has chosen him to be a what? A soldier. You know what he's saying? He's saying you stay focused. Don't get caught up in the affairs of this life. Don't get caught up in the materialism of this life and building a big house and building a big budget and a big uh uh financial wealth and and don't get caught up in the political drama and the political gossip and everything going on. You stay focused What God has called us to do, and that's to take the gospel into all the world, to be a testimony of the character of the Lord Jesus Christ in this old sinful world. Stay focused, stay focused. I wish if we had time I could illustrate church after church, preacher after preacher, some I've known personally that got so caught up in politics. That they lost focus on what God has called us to do. Now, I'm not against you know we're not against having influence and doing what we can, but that is not our mission in this world. Our mission is to glorify God, to reach the lost, and help people live for Jesus. That's our mission. That's our mission. Stay focused. Stay focused. Entangle means get wrapped up, interweaved with it. Paul said, this one thing I do. This one thing I do. Focused on Christ, serving Him, winning souls, living for God. Many Christians fail because they lose focus. Samson. He had the power of God on him. Like few of any other men in all of history, Samson had the power of God upon him. But he kept getting entangled with the pleasures and gains of this world. And he lost his life. Lost his life. My daddy, most profound influence in my life, I would not be here today if it wasn't for my daddy's faith in God. And you've heard me say this a million times. Apologize. But my daddy, one time, this will give you a little insight on on the influence on me spiritually One time he had an opportunity, he was telling me years later, he said, shortly after he got saved, some point after he got saved, he had an opportunity to buy a cabin up in the Pocono Mountains, up north-central Pennsylvania, up in that area somewhere Nice cabin, they had the money, could have got it. It's there, great opportunity, beautiful area. We loved hunting. We were outdoors a lot. He told me, this is after I got saved, years later, he told me, he said, Dennis, well he called me Denny. Don't do that. He said, Denny. He said, I refuse to buy that. We had the opportunity, we thought about it, he says, I didn't do it. So why not? That'd be great. Because I know what would have happened. Every weekend we'd be up at the cabin. Every weekend we'd be up there hunting, carrying on. And we'd miss church. And I would miss church and I would miss church And he says, my relationship with the Lord is more important than any possession or pleasure I could ever have. You know what that is? That's a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Don't get entangled with the affairs of this Lord. This world is not my home. Just a passing through. Let's be faithful. Father bless now, I ask. Thank you for the men and women who served our country. And God, I pray you'd help us to be faithful soldiers of the cross. And Lord, someday we can stand before your throne and hear you say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant, thou good and faithful soldier. Their heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if some say, Preacher, God dealt with my heart this morning in some capacity. God dealt with my heart. And I want to respond in faith, and I want to be that good soldier. I need to make some adjustments. Any like that, by the uplifted hand, God bless you, hands all around. And maybe an old altar. Just come and re-sign up for the Lord. Just resubmit to our great captain, the Lord Jesus Christ. Let him lead us and let him direct us. There's some this morning say, Preacher, I've been saved, but I've not been baptized. I need to follow the Lord in baptism, come out as a follower of Jesus Christ. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I got to get that settled. Any at all? Other some would say, preacher, there's some sin in my life or something that's out of whack and I need to get that right. God's deal with me. Pray with me. That God will help me with His grace to get that straight. Any like that, preacher, God will help me. God bless you, hands all around. There's some this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me and I have eternal life. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. Any at all Father, bless now our invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together if you would, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.