Acts chapter eight, and I know we said this verse in our memory verse, and Brother Evan just read it a few moments ago, but I want us to read together, if we would, read together in unison, verse number five From Acts chapter 8. It's our monthly memory verse, but I want to preach on this passage this morning. So if you have it there, Acts 8, verse 5, would you read it with me altogether? Here we go Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ unto them I want to talk this morning on a gospel preaching deacon. A gospel preaching deacon. Of course, our theme this year is we preach Christ. Him crucified. Here we have a deacon, Philip. We'll look at him here in a little bit. And he's preaching Christ. He's preaching the gospel. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father in heaven I thank you for the tremendous blessing it is to attend church this morning. You've given us some nice facilities, Lord. We can come in out of the weather, the cold, and sing together and fellowship, laugh and talk and share our lives with each other. I'm grateful for all that. The music's been a blessing. The fellows here sang a moment ago. Choir stirred my heart. And so, Father, we ask now as we have our Bibles open, and Lord, we are wanting, I believe I speak for about everybody. Lord, we are wanting you to speak to our hearts. We're wanting you to confront us and challenge and help us be the people you created us to be. To live the lives you've designed us to live. You've purposed for us to live. You're our creator, or we are the created ones. You are Lord. You are Savior. God, we want our life to count for you. We want you to have your way. And so I yield my will to you, Father. I present my body anew in this hour. I ask Did you please fill me and that you would speak through me? In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Book of Acts is a tremendous book. Of course, all the Bible is given by inspiration of God But the Book of Acts is a dynamic book. The way I describe the Book of Acts in the Bible, it is a Holy Ghost-inspired historical account of the early New Testament church. I see Book of Acts as giving to us a description, a pattern maybe, of the church the way God intends for it to be. This is the very first church. Just started off here, and we have this very accurate account of what the church, who made up the church. How they functioned, what they did, what they didn't do, and very, very accurate We are told in the book of Acts the strengths of that New Testament church, and they were a very strong, powerful church. They had tremendous influence in the world at the time. But they also had some weaknesses And of course the Bible, being an honest book, it's the Word of God, records to us even the weaknesses of the church. And we see several places there where they were weak in some areas and struggle We're told of the successes and the failures of that New Testament church. We have an account of the tremendous powerful influence that the church had on the world. They were not just a group of people who existed in a community. They were a powerful, powerful influence. on the communities where these churches existed. One place, the enemies of the church, described them as turning the world upside down Would you agree with me? That sounds like they had quite an influence on their community. They're turning it upside down. In other words, they're disrupting the status quo. They're confronting people with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so we have this inspired, Holy Ghost-inspired, very accurate, perfect account of the New Testament church We see um uh key people that played a role in the church's development, in the church's expansion, in its influence in the world. And so I like the book of Acts I believe it sets for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I think we can go to the book of Acts, and there we have a pattern for our church to follow We have a template for us to emulate here as we function and how we operate. We go to the book of Acts. We learn from their successes. We learn from their failures We follow their example in their influence in the world. And so the book of Acts is important for us in our day and age, in our church. I appreciate other good churches. I've had the privilege over the years to be a member of the Great Highland Park Baptist Church down in Chattanooga years ago. Powerful, powerful church. uh sending missionaries around the world, starting churches around the world, uh winning souls, just a powerful church. Uh and then to be involved with a number of other churches this past week We had the funeral for our dear friend Dr. Pat Creed, went to be with the Lord. And I was able to be down at the Independent Baptist Church there in Clinton. What a great church. And a missions church, strong church, right there on the outskirts of Washington, D. C. And so I'm grateful for these great churches, but I don't want Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to pattern off of some other church, some other good, even though they're good and they help us. I want us to pattern off the church given to us in the book of Acts. You follow what I'm saying? That's the original. That's the template. That's the model for us to follow after. And we try to do that. And I believe God blesses that. In Acts chapter 1, if you would, come back to chapter 1. Our Lord Jesus is talking here early in the chapter, and he makes a statement in verse number 8 that I want us to consider for a moment. He lays out, in Acts chapter 1, verse 8, we find the Lord Jesus Christ laying out the plan for the church's expansion. He lays out here uh uh uh almost a step by step how the church, through its influence, through the presence and power of the Holy Spirit through the obedience and service of the members, this church is going to expand. And he gives us A step-by-step, a geographical description of how the church is going to expand. Look at chapter 1, verse number 8. Again, this is Jesus speaking. This is before he ascends to heaven. He says But ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost is come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses. Now notice what he says here. Both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria And unto the uttermost part of the earth. Do you see that systematic expansion, the church They're in Jerusalem. That's where the church started. That's where the Lord was crucified. He was buried. He rose again. He ascends. And the church originally, the very first church, there in Jerusalem And what he's saying, in so many words, he's saying, there in Jerusalem, you're going to grow, you're going to expand There's going to be people saved and baptized, added to the church. We see that in chapter 2. Power of God's going to be on that church. Souls are going to be saved. You're going to expand, expand, and you're going to expand out into Judea. Now that's the surrounding area around Jerusalem. Jesus never intended for the church to be stagnant. He never intended for the church to just exist. His intention for the church is to grow, expand in influence, and in outreach. And he says, first, you're going to be a witness in Jerusalem. And then Judea, the surrounding areas. And then Samaria, the outer parts of the Jerusalem area there And then he makes the statement, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. He's saying ahead of time, he's stating very, very clearly, two things are going to happen, two certainties. uh are going to happen in that early New Testament church. Number one, you're going to have the power of God. Ye shall receive power. Doesn't say you might, he doesn't say you can, doesn't say you could, you hopefully will. He says you shall receive power. I'm telling you, a legitimate New Testament church, whether they realize it or not, whether we take advantage of it or not That church has the presence and the power of the Holy Ghost available to that church. He says, you have it. It's there. Ye shall receive power. after the Holy Ghost come upon you. Let me answer this question. How many folks this morning, you're saved and you know it? Say Amen. Amen. Would you agree with me? We should never be ashamed of the fact that we trusted Christ as Savior. Should never be ashamed of that. The moment you and I trust the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, the Bible is very, very clear: the Holy Spirit of God takes up residence in our body. He moves in. We have a divine tenant living in our bodies, the Holy Spirit of God, every one of us that are safe. Jesus said, You're going to receive power after the Holy Ghost comes upon you. When we trust Christ, the Holy Ghost comes upon us. We have the power of God available to every single one of us. We can be a witness. We can make a difference in people's lives. You say, Preacher, I'm not very gifted, I'm not very intelligent I don't I can't do this and I don't have that and I'm not very wealthy and I don't I couldn't be much of an influence. I tell you, you got something, you got the most powerful force in the world living inside you. That's the person of the Holy Spirit Regardless of our economic status, regardless of our social status, regardless of of uh any weaknesses we feel we might have or strengths Regardless of all of that, we can have an influence in people's lives and bringing them to the Lord Jesus Christ through the power of the Holy Spirit. Are you with me? And so here's a certainty: ye shall receive power. So he told the church, you're going to have power. You're going to have power to have an influence. And then the second certainty is: ye shall be witnesses. Notice what he says there. Verse 8, first part, but ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost come upon you. Ye shall. That's a definite And then he says, and ye shall be witnesses unto me. Now notice what he doesn't say. He doesn't say you might be, or you can be or you should be He says, you are going to be a witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. You are. Now here's the question. Every single one of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we are a witness for the Lord. Now, here's the question. What kind of witness am I? Am I a good witness for the Lord Jesus Christ? Am I giving an accurate witness and testimony? as to who Jesus is and what he's done for me and what he can do for others. What kind of witness am I? All of us are a witness. We trusted Christ as Savior. But the question, as I said, is what kind of witness am I? Here's the thing The church that is made up of believers, and each of us is individual believers, we are the representatives of Jesus Christ here on earth Somebody put it this way, I heard this years ago, and you probably heard this maybe. Somebody said, You are the only Bible that some people are ever going to read. How many people have ever heard that before? Your life Your witness, your testimony as a believer, as a Christian, for some people, for many people, may be the only witness they have of who Jesus is and what he's like. He says, you're going to be a witness for me. Now, as I said, the question is, what kind of witness am I? Do people see Christ in me? Am I an effective witness at all? Is my testimony an accurate testimony of the love and the holiness and the goodness and the purpose and power of God in my life? Do people see that? I thank God for our bus ministry. It's a blessing. And we tried it's been tough this winter running the buses and keep being safe And this morning we sent out and said, be careful, just go, you know, be very, very careful. But we want to be able to bring people into church And I always pray with our bus workers, and I pray this for the Sunday school teachers and myself and everybody in the church really, but my prayer is this: fill us with your spirit So that the people we come in contact with would see Christ in us, they would be drawn to Christ, they would understand the love and power uh of Christ when they see Christ in us. You follow what I'm trying to say? So he says, you shall be witnesses unto me. Now the question is, what kind of witness am I And then he lays out this geographical progressive growth of the church, the expansion of the church. Now here's the interesting thing from Acts 1, verse 8. What we have here is actually a brief outline of the book of Acts. What he says here. In other words And we don't have time to go into depth on this, but Acts chapter 1 through ver chapter 7, those first seven chapters of the book of Acts. We have a description of the spirit-filled church there in Jerusalem. We see people getting saved by the thousands. People are getting one day. 3,000 people got saved and baptized in one day. How many people would be amazed if we had 3,000 people saved and baptized one Sunday here? Wouldn't that be something? That'd be a long service. And the church there in Jerusalem, we have this record of how it started growing and people getting saved and lives are being changed there in Jerusalem, and it's the whole thing just explodes. Spirit of God comes upon. That thing just explodes in influence. And then in chapter 8 through 12, we have the churches scattered. Now we're going to look at this a little bit here in a moment, but there in Jerusalem, as the influence of the church expanded, the gospel is being preached, Christ is being preached, souls are being saved, lives are being changed. There immediately raised up opposition. And and uh the religious leaders and many in the in the in the government were very much opposed to what was happening in the church And they began persecuting the church. They began trying to shut it down, silence them. They tried to diminish the influence that those early believers had in the city of Jerusalem. And the persecution pushed the believers out of Jerusalem into the surrounding area of Judea. And chapter 8 through chapter number 12, we have this push of the believers out of the city into the surrounding area of Judea. And so they're going out there and they're preaching and souls are getting saved. Churches are starting as they push out. Then from chapter 13 through the end of chapter 28, you have the church going to the uttermost part of the world. And they just keep expanding and expanding and expanding and expanding. From that first group of believers there in Jerusalem. Power of God comes on them. Boom! They start witnessing and preaching Christ and influencing others. And more and more people get saved. And it expands and it expands and it expands off to the othermost part of the earth. Now another quickly I want to point out in the book of Acts, if if we had time, we could go to chapter 28. And if we notice at the end of the book, it doesn't really close the story out. It's open-ended. In the end of the book of Acts. A lot of the other epistles, other books in the Bible, they'll get to the end and they'll say, May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. And it kind of closes. It has some closing statements. The book of Acts does not have that. It's open-ended. You say, well what does that mean? This is the way I take it. I think God intends for the church to keep expanding and keep expanding and keep reaching the world till every city, every village, every town, every country The gospel of Christ is being preached all around the world. Amen? So what a book, the book of Acts. What a dynamic book. What a pattern for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to seek the power of God, to seek the presence and the filling of the Spirit on every one of us. And then go out and be a witness and influence and see other people come to Christ and grow and expand our influence into all the world. I love the book of Acts. Now, we come to our text in chapter 8. So that's the context of this whole book. We find in Acts chapter 8 this fellow named Philip. And he is preaching Christ in the city of Samaria. Now that's the expansion. The church has outgrown Jerusalem. Persecution pushed them out. They've been in Judea. Now they spread out and Philip, this fellow Philip, now he's going out into Samaria, extending out their influence and their outreach. Now, Philip isn't the most well-known character in the Bible, in the book of Acts We all know, of course, John the Baptist. We've been talking about him in Sunday school here in the auditorium class. We know about John the Baptist. We know Peter, James, and John, come on, talk to me now this morning. I need to wake some of y'all up. We had Peter, James. Oh, we know all about Peter. Oh, James and John. Uh and then you get uh then the Apostle Paul, how many people have ever heard Apostle Paul? Yeah, and uh you God used him right much of the buttons. We know all about these guys, but who in the world is Philip? Just out of nowhere we find this guy, Philip. We don't know a whole lot about him. He's not the most prominent character in the Bible But God used him in a powerful, powerful way. And I'll tell you, there's a lesson there for us. We might not be the most well-known. You might not be up in front. Maybe not everybody knows your name. But I'm here to tell you, God can use you to make a difference in people's lives. God can use you, who you are, where you're at, with the gifts and abilities and unique characteristics that make you you. God can and he will use you to bring glory to Jesus Christ and advance the gospel if we just let him If we'll just let 'em. I got in my head years ago when I first started in the ministry, I got in my head that if I was going to be used of God and and and I want it and I do now, I want God to use me to help people Number one, know Christ as Savior. Number two, determine God's will for their life so they can live for Him. And so I thought if God's going to be able to use me I have to be like these great preachers that influenced my life. And so early in my ministry, I thought I needed to emulate them in some ways. I needed to almost mimic them. And so I worked into my preaching and different things, different idiosyncrasies and characteristics I noticed of them, and I tried to Work that in. One preacher had a profound influence like he used to cough a lot when he was preaching. He'd preach and he'd preach and he'd cough and he preached in just the a condition he had And so I was a young preacher, I was young and dumb. I thought, well, he has the power of God. God's using my life. I need to preach a lot. So I get up and preach and And uh I I thought if he coughed a little, I'll cough a lot. And um, you know what I found out? Didn't work Then work. I finally came to the conclusion, if God's going to use me, he has to use me. You follow what I'm saying? My weakness and my strengths, my uh idiosyncrasies, all of that. Now, it's not to say God doesn't mold us and change us and we need to address some things in our life, but what I'm trying to say is this God gifts each of us who we are and what we are to use for his glory. And whether we're in front or whether we're not. Whether we're out in the the head of the pack or we're we're part of the crowd, whatever the case may be, God can and will use every single one of us for his glory to help other people if we will just let him. And so we have Philip. He's not an apostle. I can't find anywhere that he started any churches. He wasn't a pastor. In fact, at this point, he's a deacon. We'll see here in a moment. He was a deacon in the church. In fact, let's go ahead, if you would, come back to chapter 6 just quickly And in the first several verses of chapter 6, we have the introduction of the office of deacon. We have these seven fellows that are chosen out of the church to serve Now we're given more specifics later on in the Bible, but here we have this first introduction. And look with me, if you would, at verse number five. Well, let's go back up to verse 3. He says, Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you, among the church, seven men. And he says, These are the characteristics of these men. These seven men you're picking out. They need to be honest report. What does that mean? They're not liars. They're honest. You can believe them. You trust them. If they say it, it's so. So, honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. They're going to be deacons, they're going to help the church function. And help the church operate efficiently and correctly. But we will give ourselves, this is the leadership, the apostles, will give ourselves continue to prayer into the ministry of the word. Now look at verse 5. And the saying pleased the whole multitude, the whole church, big church. And they chose Stephen, one of the seven, a man full of faith, a Holy Ghost. Look at this. And who? Philip. Here we're introduced to this fellow Philip. And then they list several others, Procurius and Nike can't Nikar and uh Timon and uh Parmenus and Nicholas, the proselyte. So he describes these other guys. There's seven of them. But Philip is one of these fellas That is chosen by the church to be a, what later we give them the title, deacon. To serve the church, to help it run and function and operate the way it needs to. And so that's his first mention of this fellow Philip. And his character is described there. He's a man of integrity. He's a man of humility. He's filled with the Spirit of God. He walks with God. He has a testimony of a Christian in the true sense of the word. Then if we go to Acts 8, and this is our text, here we find him the second time he's mentioned. He's not prominent in the book of Acts. He doesn't hold big positions, but he has a powerful role to play in the church. In Acts, we have a persecution has broken out. We referenced a little bit ago. And he's going out of the city and he's going up to Samaria and he's preaching Christ. He's preaching Christ. Later on in chapter 8, he's mentioned again, and God leads him to this Ethiopian eunuch, a fellow from Ethiopia, a leader in the government of Ethiopia. He joins up with them. He shows them from scriptures that Jesus is the Savior. And this Ethiopian fellow trusts the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, gets baptized. So it leads them to the Lord. And then if you come to Acts chapter 21, he's mentioned the third time and the last time in the Bible. Acts chapter 21 And verse number 8. Philip, he doesn't hold a big role. He doesn't write any books of the Bible. He doesn't pastor a church. He's not an apostle. He's a fella in the church that's for real, that's honest, that loves God, walks with God. Church chooses him to help be a deacon, to help the church function like it should And he goes out and he's telling people about Jesus Christ. Now look here in chapter 21. We have another little insight into this fellow Philip. Look at verse 8. And the next day, we that were of Paul's company departed. They're traveling there, preaching the gospel. Paul and he has this entourage with them. Next day we that were of Paul's company departed and came to Caesarea, a city outside of Jerusalem, out in the out area, and we entered into the house of who Philip, now notice how he's described here. Philip the what? Evangelist His ministry has expanded now, and now he's out recognizing as someone who preaches Christ, preaches the gospel. And he's given the title of evangelist. That's a biblical title. But notice we're told something about him. Notice the house of Philip, which was one of the seven, those seven original deacons And abode with him. We stayed there in his house. Look at this. And the same man had four daughters, virgins, which did prophesy. In other words, they helped with the ministry. They were involved in serving the Lord and getting others saved. I take from that that Philip not only had a tremendous ministry reaching lost people with the gospel. But he was a very good father. He's a very good father. He loved his wife and he loved his family. He prayed for his children. He was an example to his daughters. And it says they were virgins. What are you saying is they were pure and clean. They weren't living in sin and fornication. They kept themselves pure for their husbands and in line with God. They had the peace of God on them. They had the presence of God on them. And they humbly served the Lord. I tell you, that says a lot about Philip as a daddy. How he raised his family and loved his family and prayed for them and what a testimony he had to his family. So, Philip, we don't know a whole lot about He's not a prominent figure in that New Testament church, but he had a powerful, powerful role. He was a tremendous influence in his family life, but also in the community and in the in and in the surrounding areas A humble, I put this down. He appears to be a humble, godly, spirit-filled, spirit-led servant of God. Now, I want to give you a few observations. Come back from Acts chapter 8. And this is our memory verse, as I said, verse 5. I hope you'll memorize it. Simple little verse, it's easy. And Philip, then Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ unto them. First thing I notice here, I'll give these to you as quickly as I can. Number one, I noticed the persecution of the church. Look up at verse number one. It says, and Saul was consenting unto his death that Stephen was martyred. They stoned him to death for no other reason than he was out telling people about Jesus. And Paul was consenting unto his death. And at that time there was a, look at this next statement, was a what? Great persecution against the church that was at Jerusalem. And they were all scattered abroad throughout all the regions of Judea. And Samaria. Remember our Lord's outline in chapter 1, verse 8. Here it's happening. They're being persecuted, and they're being pushed out of the city into these outlying areas. Except the apostles, they stayed back in the church and provided leadership. Verse 2, and devout men carried Stephen to his burial. Made great lamentation over him. They stoned him to death. I don't know if you know anything about stoning, but it is a very violent, bloody, gruesome death. He killed him because he believed in Jesus and he told others about him. And Saul made havoc, verse 3. As for Saul, he made havoc of the church, entering into every house, hailing men and women. and committed them to prison. Here we have this great persecution. Now what does it mean to persecute? What is that term? He says there's great persecution. What are they talking about? To persecute, the word itself has this idea to hunt something down It has the idea of to pursue with intensity, to chase after I came across this definition, to pursue with the intent to injure and harm. In other words, Paul and the leadership in Jerusalem were out on the hunt for Christians to imprison them and to kill them, just as they did Stephen. They were out, let me put it this way, they were out to shut the church up. No more preaching, Christ. No more souls getting saved. No more drunkards becoming sober. No more prostitutes becoming pure. No more liars. Becoming honest. No more lives being changed. No more preaching Jesus. And if we have to kill you to stop it, we will do just that. So that's what the church is facing. How many people agree with me? We got it pretty good in America right now. We don't deal with that. And of course we get ridiculed. We get Name's called it just about every week of the world I get somebody I got a a message yesterday, somebody through the email saying, uh just saying terrible things. I mean We get insulted and maybe harassed, but I'm telling you, we're not facing what this church here was facing. They were literally, their lives were literally on the line Because of their faith in Christ and their attempt to serve the Lord and share Christ with others. And they got after it. They got after it. They were persecuted The Jews' persecution of the church was designed to silence and eliminate the church. Do you know what effect it had on that New Testament church? This persecution? Do you know how it affected the church? Well, they just shut up and quit preaching and withdrew and were quiet, right or wrong? Wrong. The exact opposite happened. I tell you, the Pharisees, the religious leaders who were threatening and killing these New Testament believers, they uh they read them wrong. And rather than shutting them up, it lit them up. Rather than diminishing the gospel, the preaching of the gospel, it just inflamed it And they preached harder and wider and more and louder than ever before. It had the exact opposite It's interesting, and uh back in Judges, uh. . how many people are familiar with Samson? Anybody familiar with Samson? Yeah Samson is marrying this gal who he should not have married, and on his way to the wedding, a lion comes out and attacks him. Some of you are familiar with the story This lion comes after Samson. Of course, Samson has the power of God on him. He takes a lion, boom, he kills it with his bare hands. I don't know how he did it. Snapped his. I don't know what he did He killed it. It just throws it off on the side. He goes on his way. Later on, he's coming back, and lo and behold. Honeybees had taken up residence in the carcass of Samson of this, not Samson, of the lion. How many people remember reading this? Anybody familiar? And the honey and there's honey there's honey in the carcass of the lion Samson goes by, he gets in, tastes some honey is pretty good, he goes on. He gets down there, he gets in this wager with uh the the the the family and friends of the bride. Now she's a Philistine. He shouldn't be marrying this gal. She's a wicked gal. It's wicked. But he's he does And he gives them a riddle. And this was the riddle. He said, tell me what I'm talking about. And he said, let me quote it for you here. He says, out of the eater Came forth meat. And out of the strong came forth sweetness. And he says, You tell me, what am I talking about? Well, of course he was talking about what? Talking about that lion. The lion's the eater, and he got, rather than being eaten, he was able to get meat or sustenance, got honey out of it. And out of that strong lion, I got sweetness. And uh of course they couldn't figure it out, and finally uh his wife tricked them and or his wife to be, and anyway, it's a whole nother story. But I thought of that When I thought about the the religious, powerful, organized religious leaders persecuting the church And out of that persecution came great preaching of the gospel. Out of that persecution, what they thought they would kill the church, rather, the sweetness of the gospel of Christ was spread all around. The persecution of the church. Somebody put it this way, and I'm not quoting this exactly right, but the church is gross on the blood of its martyrs In other words, the more the world persecutes the church, the stronger the church becomes. The more opposition the church gets, if that church is right with God, the more opposition it gets The stronger it becomes and the greater its outreach. I've come to the conclusion years ago, sometimes the best thing that can possibly happen to a church Is to face persecution. I think persecution does more to help the well-being, the spiritual health and well-being of church than prosperity does. Sometimes prosperity, a church will get rich and fat and sassy, and our soul winning dies off, and our evangelism dies off, and our we become proud and self-reliant We get all caught up in our buildings and our budgets and our programs, and boy, look at us And we lose the power of God, and we lose a vision for reaching the loss. But when persecution comes, a lot of times it'll drive us to Christ, it'll stir stir us to win souls and get after it. I think maybe one of the problems for the church in the United States, why there seems to be so many dead churches, maybe because of all our freedom and our prosperity has lulled us. in to inactivity. You follow me? They say I can't testify firsthand, they say the church In Russia during the the the years of the Cold War and the Iron Curtain persecution, they said the church was strong, strong, strong in Russia. They say the church in China under intense persecution is growing and is strong under the persecution. You look at the statistics in the United States, and the church is dropping off, dropping off, dropping off. In countries where there's persecution, the church is growing stronger and stronger and stronger. As much as I hate it, I don't want to be persecuted. I don't want to be hunted down. I don't want any of God's people to be beaten and abused because of our faith in Christ. But sometimes persecution is what we need to make us wake up and get serious about our walk with God. Amen or not? So we see this persecution, and God used it to stir the church and get serious about heaven and hell, get serious about doing right, get serious about serving God. And they went out And they started reaching out into foreign areas. So we have the persecution there. Number two, let me give you quickly the preaching of Philip. Again, verse number five Says verse 4, they that were scattered abroad because of the persecution went everywhere preaching the word. Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ unto them. Now again, Philip, he's not an apostle, he's not a pastor. At this point, he's not an evangelist. He's a deacon. He loves God. He loves his church. He's trying to serve the Lord and help the church be what it should be. But he got stirred. And because of persecution, he goes up into Samaria and he starts preaching Christ. Now it's interesting, he doesn't say, it doesn't say he preached doctrine. It doesn't say he preached on the political issues of the day. Now, question: Should a church preach doctrine? Yes or no? Yes! There's a place for that. A church ought to teach and preach the doctrines of the Bible. And to not do that is to neglect our responsibility. However, it is the person of Jesus Christ that changes lives. It is the person of Jesus Christ. That saves souls. You can have all the doctrines of the Bible memorized, but if you don't have Jesus Christ, you are lost and still in your sins. He preached Christ. Now there's a place for doctrine. Political issues, yeah, we have to address that sometimes, but that's not our message. Our message is Jesus Christ. We want people in Oakland, Garrick County, surrounding areas, we want people to know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. That is our message. Christ. Now, along with that is doctrine. We've got to teach what the Bible says, how to live for Him, what we know about, what we understand. But Christ Paul put it this way, when he wrote to Timothy, he says, I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him. You know what Paul had? He had a personal relationship with with the person Jesus Christ. And so he preached Christ. Preach Christ. We go out soul winning. We try to every week. Sometimes the weather makes it challenging. But we try to every week get out and talk to people about the Lord Jesus. You know what we do? We try and introduce them to the person Jesus Christ, get them to put their faith in Christ. We don't give them our doctrinal statement. There's a place for that But we introduce them to Jesus. Are you with me? Armada, we preach Christ, Jesus Christ, the only Savior of the world The best friend a man can ever have, the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ. So he preached Christ. Preached Christ. Our primary message is Jesus Christ. The world needs Jesus Christ. United States of America needs Jesus Christ. Garrett County needs Jesus Christ. The homes of our county need Jesus Christ. They need to know Him as Savior. They need to love Him as their Lord. They need to live for Him and please Him and trust Him. Jesus Christ. Number three, I notice the power of his preaching. Again, notice verse number six here. It says, Philip spake. They listened to him. They believed what he was saying, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did. Look at verse 7. For unclean spirits, crying with loud voice, came out of many that were possessed of them. People possessed by the devil heard of Jesus Christ. They believed. God delivered them from that. Would you agree with me? That's pretty powerful. You say, preacher, you believe in devil possession? Absolutely. It is absolutely the Bible, it's all through the Bible. And I'm telling you, it is probably more Is that the word I want? More uh prevalent. Um I need these educated people to help me. Uh it's probably more prevalent in our day than what we even realize Now I'm not out there looking at every person that looks cross-eyed, oh, they're filled with the devil. That's not what we're doing. But I'm saying this, it's just as real. But point I'm trying to make Is that the Jesus Christ is more powerful than any devil that ever came out of hell. And of a personal trust Christ, it doesn't matter what sins, no matter how the devil may have control of their life If they'll trust the person of Jesus Christ as their own Savior, Jesus Christ can deliver them from the worst of all of it. I could tell you stories for I Got Saved. And the rock and roll and and these ungod I don't know what the things are today, I'm sure they're ten thousand times worse. Back then, Black Sabbath and some of these ungodly devil-worshipping rock bands And I'm beginning to those concerts, and I'm telling you, the presence of Satan is so so obvious there. I'm glad when I trusted Christ, God could take all that away. Take all that away The power of Jesus Christ to deliver from even devil possession I'm telling you, he can deliver from liquor, he can deliver from uh fornication, he can deliver, you name the sin. Jesus Christ can deliver you from. You say, Preacher, I am such an awful sinner. Jesus could never help me. That is a lie of the devil himself. Jesus Christ can deliver from even the worst of sins. And so the power of preaching Christ. Best thing Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church can do for our community is to preach Jesus Christ. I believe it's the answer. I believe it's the answer. The people believed. They gave heed. Not everyone will believe our message of Christ, but some will. Not everyone are going to turn to Christ and trust Him, but some will. Some are going to say no, some are going to reject Christ. Some are going to do that, but some will believe. We first came here in 1993, handful of people, some of y'all were here then, handful of people attending, just a handful And uh I didn't know what to do. I just uh I said, well, I'm a new pastor, I'm young, and um, I said, well, I'll just go out and knock on doors, I'll just tell people about Jesus You know what I found out? I told people that Jesus, you know what I learned? Some people believed what I was telling them, what the Bible said, they trusted Christ and God saved. The very first lady I led to Christ as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church lived out on 560 out towards Gorman. She lived on top of the hill there. There's that little um There's that little store there. I think it's Larry Tichnell has it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That little store there? Cross the road across the little thing there. Uh by the other thing up on the thing over there Uh there was a little trailer. A lady, older lady lived in there. I knocked on her door. I'd been knocking on doors all through there and and I wasn't able nobody would believe and they said, Oh no, it's fine. And I knocked on her door. She said, Come on in. She was kind of uh handicapped. I and I introduced myself, we got talking, I sat down, took my Bible, showed her from the Bible, how God Jesus loved her and How she even though she was a sinner and and if she would turn and trust Jesus as her Savior, he died for her, was buried, rose again, he'd come in her life and he'd forgive her sin and give her a new life And I said, would you be willing to pray with me and call on the Lord be your Savior? She said, yes, I would. She's been with the Lord many years now. She moved out to Terra Alda for a while. And uh and uh just go out Not everybody's going to take heed, not everybody's going to receive it, but some will. And the Eastman family and then the uh the uh Eddington family and then others and others and others and s people started coming in. We bought buses and started bringing people in on buses What I'm trying to say is this: there's power in the preaching of the gospel. And it'll save lives, it'll change lives, it'll save souls, people find forgiveness of sin in preaching Christ. Just tell them about Christ. We didn't have any self-help programs. I didn't have any uh self uh ego, uh self-uh esteem type. I just told them about Jesus Christ, what he did, and they believed on him and got saved Power of the preaching, of Philip's preaching. Romans 1:16, for I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. Change lives, purify hearts, transform our nature, seal us a home in heaven. Then last of all, end with this, the product of salvation. Look at verse 8. And there was what? Are you with me? There was what? Great joy in that city. I tell you, the whole city was impacted. The gospel not only changes lives, it brings joy to the heart. Look over at chapter, look at verse 39 of chapter 8. This is this guy from Ethiopia. He calls on the Lord. He trusts Christ. He gets baptized. Notice verse 39. And when they were come up out of the water, that's a deep water immersion baptism. The Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip at the eunuch Saul Memorial. Look at this. And he, this Ethiopian guy, he went on his way. What? He was happy! He trusts in Christ, his sins are forgiven. He's got a home in heaven, he's a new life, and he's happy. He's rejoicing. I tell you, I get out in the world and I look at the world. I look at the faces of people out in the world. And oh, they might laugh and they can tell jokes and they might put on, but I tell you, look in people's eyes. Tell me if I'm wrong. And you see sadness. You see loneliness. You see fear. You see an emptiness. And I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ can take all that away and fill the heart with joy and peace and blessing and purpose and fulfillment. Jesus Christ can do that. It brings joy and re doesn't mean that all my bills are going to be paid and everything's going to go my way. No. Sometimes there's a lot of adversity, a lot of trials But in my heart, in my mind, there's peace of mind. The guilt is gone. The presence of God is there, and the person of the Holy Spirit, and there's a rejoicing, there's a joy. A joy this world can never give us. And a joy this world can never take away. The joy of having Jesus Christ. My heart and life is my Savior. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? There's great rejoicing in that city. Great rejoicing. The gospel not only can change a life, it can change a whole community. The gospel can not only just save your soul, it can impact an entire city. Change the very atmosphere of the city. I believe that. Christ-centered homes are good for our community. Christ-centered churches are good for our community. I tell you what's good for Oakland is churches that preach Christ. That's good for a community. That's good for a neighborhood. Brings joy. I believe the best thing we can do for United States of America is preach Christ to everyone and everywhere we possibly can. I believe the best thing Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church can do for Garrett County is to preach Christ to everyone, everywhere as we possibly can. I was reading about the Welsh Revival. Almost 200 years ago, 100-some years ago. They said people started getting saved. They were preaching Christ. People started getting saved. They said the taverns closed down. Nobody wanted liquor anymore. Nobody wanted to drink whiskey or vodka. The taverns all closed down Those lives were changed, they didn't need that anymore. They didn't need the the the counterfeit Pleasure that liquor brought, now they had something real and true and genuine in their relationship with Jesus Christ The liquors cl the the taverns closed down. Crime was gone. In fact, they had coal mines there in Wales. And uh the coal miners come up out of the coals, uh out of the mines and all black with uh the coal dust and all. And they had these donkeys, and they had been so hateful and so vile That when these old guys got saved, they said they could see the tears where it washed the coal dust from their face where the tears went down, that they were forgiven, they were so happy. And they had to retrain the donkeys Because they were so used to hearing filthy language and being treated so hatefully that when these guys got saved, their language cleaned up and they became kind to their beasts. And they had to retrain the donkeys. They didn't know what they were being told to do because there wasn't cuss words involved. Power of the gospel. The Prophet changed life. Peace, a clean heart. I was reading about John Payton, went to the new Hebrides Island, which is Papua New Guinea. And cannibals, violent. They would war and kill each other and then eat each other. And he came in, he preached Christ. Those dear people trusted Christ and got saved, and their lives were changed. Now the the the tribes that hated each other and would kill each other and eat each other Now they're sitting down together, praising the Lord, rejoicing, and helping one another. The power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm here to tell you our country needs Jesus. Our cities, our world. Preach Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us as a church to commit ourselves to preach the Lord Jesus Christ. To tell this whole world about what Jesus did on the cross when he died, was buried, and rose again, how he can come into life and change it, forgive sins. I wonder our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there'd be some this morning say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I've trusted Christ. And I want to be a good witness for the Lord. And I want God to use me to have other people come to know Christ as Savior. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Oh preacher, I want God to use me to help others. God bless you. Hands all around. He will. You don't have to be in a position, just somebody that says, yes, Lord. I want you to use me. Now, maybe some of us, there's some things in our life we need to address. Maybe there's some adjustments so that our witness is a good witness. I wonder if there's some, say, preacher, you know, God's dealing with my heart. There's some areas in my life I really need to give attention to So I can be a good witness for the Lord. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Pray for me, preacher. God bless you. Hands all around. We want the Lord to help us to be what we ought to be Let me ask this, is there some this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure that I'm saved? I don't know for sure that my sins are forgiven, that when I die I go to heaven. I don't have Christ as my Savior. I'm concerned about that And you'd like for me to pray for you that God will help you get that settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get this matter settled in my own heart and life. Any at all? And you know, Father blessed now our invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen