Man, that was good, Brian and Sandy. Appreciate that. If you would take your Bibles and turn back to First Corinthians chapter twenty-eight. First Chronicles chapter twenty-eighth Ed's back. Well, uh the other day was had my mother-in-law go to the beauty parlor and she was there two and a half hours. Came out and that was just the estimate and so we uh No pork jobs today. Look with me if you would at verse six. And he, David speaking here Referencing the Lord, he said, and he, the Lord, said unto me, Solomon thy son, he shall build my house and my courts, for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be his father. Moreover, I will establish his kingdom forever. if he be constant to do my commandments and my judgments as at this day. Now therefore, in the sight of all Israel uh in sight of all Israel, the congregation of the Lord, and in the audience of our God, keep and seek for all the commandments of the Lord your God, that ye may possess this good land and keep leave it for an inheritance for your children after you forever. Now verse 9 is uh significant. And thou Solomon my son Know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind. For the Lord searcheth all the hearts and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts. If thou seek them, he will be found of thee But if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off forever. I'd like for us to read verse 9 together again. All of us reading it together. Ready? And thou, Solomon, my son, know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind. For the Lord searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts. If thou seek him, he will be found of thee. But if thou forsaken, he will cast thee off forever. I'd like to speak this morning on a godly father's advice. Let's pray. And ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, I just rejoice in your goodness to us. And Father, what a blessing this morning has been already in the Sunday school hour. And Lord, the fellowship around uh your house here and Lord the singing has been a blessing, the choir and Lord the special, the congregation has blessed my heart. Now, Lord, we we're before you with our Bibles open before us, and we ask, God, that you would speak to our hearts. I believe that's why folks are here this morning. That we want you to speak our hearts. We want you to help us. And we're asking, God, that you would open our hearts and minds, that we would be sensitive and have the wisdom to discern your spirit and your voice as the Word of God is preached. I yield myself, dear Father, as best as I'm able. I yield my will to yours. Present my body anew with all my heart. I ask God you'd fill me with your Spirit, that you would be the preacher this hour. And your will would be done in our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This portion of Scripture, we are actually approaching the end of David's life. And we've touched on this on several previous messages. What a life David lived. Extraordinary in so many ways. We talked about his passion. We talked about his successes and his failures. And the thing about David was, when David was high, boy, he was high. And what I mean by that is when he was doing good, he was doing great. But when David was low Boy, he was low. In other words, when David did bad, he did terrible But in spite of all his extremes, the extreme love for God, extreme commitment, the extreme failures, in some instances, extreme selfishness In spite of all of that, I believe, and I'm convinced, and it's pretty obvious in Scripture, that David sincerely loved the Lord. He blew it bad. I was reading through my devotions a week or two ago, and I mentioned to my wife, a lot of people died. Because of David's stupid mistakes, died. A lot of people had incredible heartache over some of the things that David did. Yet multiplied millions are blessed and encouraged through things David read, uh said, and So, in spite of these extremes, we see in David a man after God's own heart. In spite of this. I believe in studying the scriptures that David sincerely wanted to please the Lord Am I talking to anybody this morning that in your heart you sincerely want to please the Lord, but you look back and you see some things and you just think, what in the world was I thinking? Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's not that you didn't love God. It's not that you didn't want to please the Lord. It's just, man, what was wrong with me? We see that in David's life. In spite of these extremes, we see a man, as the Bible says, that had a heart for God. A man after God's own heart. Now don't misunderstand. That is not an excuse for doing wrong Amen. This is not an excuse for doing wrong. But I'll be honest with you. I find great encouragement in the life of David. And here was a man. who sincerely loved God, who sincerely and genuinely wanted to please God with his life, but he made some terrible mistakes. And I can look back and say, you know, I really do want to please God. And I really do want uh I really do love the Lord and uh I just am ashamed of some things in the past. That's the way David was Now we're coming to the end of his life. And we see something else about David. And we picked it up through his life as you read it carefully. But we notice that David not only loved the Lord and sincerely wanted to please God with his life, but we see that David sincerely loved his son. I believe he had a number of children and a number of sons. He loved all of them dearly. There were some tragedies with a number of them, but Some of them died because of tragic decisions and actions. In every case, David grieved. Profusely when he would lose one of his sons. And just by way of advertisement David had a son with Bathsheba out of an adulterous relationship, and that child died as an infant. And tonight we're going to look at scripture. There's a little advertisement in the middle of a message here. $500 for a 30-second advertisement in the middle of a message. But I want to speak tonight from scripture on a, I believe, important message. Now it may not relate to everybody directly, but I think it would help all of us tonight on the death of an infant. What happens when a baby dies to its soul? Where does it go? David had a child die. David Loved God, sincerely wanted to please God, but he loved his children. And he loved Solomon. And he sincerely, I believe for every one of his children, he sincerely wanted God's best for his child. I cannot imagine a father I cannot imagine a father not being concerned for the spiritual well-being of his child. I cannot imagine that. I cannot imagine a father not caring whether his child knows the Lord or not. I cannot fathom in my heart and mind a father not caring whether his child is saved or not, whether they end up in heaven or hell, just not caring. I can't imagine that. It's true, but I can't imagine it. A father not concerned that his child grows up knowing the Lord and being influenced by the Bible and seeing at least an effort of a testimony to his child. I can't imagine that. David, for all his faults David, in spite of his tragic failures, nevertheless, he was concerned for the spiritual well-being, concerned for the salvation of his child. In verse 9, David is giving to Solomon some of the best advice a father could give to a son. In fact, verse number nine I would consider a classic passage of Scripture. I have it underlined in my Bible. I have the Verse number uh circled, I have the whole verse underlined, then I came back with a red pen and re-underlined it again. Because this passage is so powerful. This portion of scripture is so vital. A godly father giving advice to his son. Notice, if you would, the first part of verse number 10. David says, And thou Solomon, my son. Look what he says. Know thou, the God of thy father. He says to Solomon, listen, you know me, and I appreciate your love and respect for me, but more important than anything you think of me is that you know the God that I know. Know the Lord, know the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and a willing mind. That word no, when he says no. He says, Know thou the God of thy father. That word know there is more than just knowing about God. Now, if you're going to know somebody, if you're going to have a relationship with somebody, you've got to know some things about them, right? You can't have a relationship with somebody you know nothing about. Somebody comes to me and says some name, do you know so-and-so? I don't even know anything about them. I don't even know they exist, and I know nothing about them David says, listen, Solomon, it's very, very important that you know the God of your father. Not just know about them. Now you need to know some things about them. And fathers, we have got to, well, all of us really, we have got to teach our children to know about God They will never know God if they don't know about Him. This world has 10,000 different views and theories and philosophies about God, but there's only one true God. And if our children are going to know God, they need to know some things about them. And everything we know about God, we learn from the Word of God. So that tells me we must teach our children the Bible. We've got to get it into their hearts, we've got to get it into their minds. We have to teach it to them. And bringing them to church is one good way of teaching our children the Word of God. But it is not enough. Daddies, today's Father's Day. It's a great privilege to be a father, but it is also a great responsibility. And God has given to the fathers the responsibility of teaching the Word of God to our children. God's given that responsibility to you and I. To teach our children the Word of God. David said to Solomon, Know thou the God of thy fathers. Now they need he needed to know something about God. He needed to know that he was the true God. He needed to know that he was the only God. He needed to know that he was holy, that he had communicated to man through his word. He needed to teach him some basic things about God, but that was not enough. just to know about God. He wants him to know God. And that's where this word know comes in. It means this literally to have a relationship with And we must never be satisfied that our children know the right answers. Now they need to know the right answers. But if that's all it is, if they can just spit back verses to us, they can just repeat like a parrot the things we've taught them And there's no real relationship between them and the living God. There's something wrong with that. We must be certain that our children know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. And by the way I believe, and we may touch on this tonight, I believe that children can be saved at a much younger age than we give them credit for. They can be saved much earlier than twelve years old. And so David said, No, have Solomon, you've got to make sure you have a personal relationship with God. Not just our relationship, but your relationship goes beyond me to my God. And you don't just know about him, but you know him personally. You have a relationship with him. And then look, he says, know him and serve him with a perfect heart. You say, good grief. David didn't serve God with a perfect heart. It's impossible to serve God with a perfect heart Well, if you mean by the word perfect sinless, then I agree with you. That is impossible. None of us can serve God with a sinless heart. Am I right or wrong? You say, well, preacher, I'm sinless, then you're sinning right then. If any man say he's without sin, he is a liar, first John tells us. Don't do that. What does it mean? Serve God with a perfect heart. Perfect? No, the word perfect in the Bible as it applies to man does not mean sinless. It means to the full potential. Bible says other places in Scripture, God said to man, Be thou perfect even as I am perfect. He's not saying be as sinless as I am. He's saying you go to your full potential in your spiritual life, just like God is operating at his full potential, and God always operates perfectly. At complete full potential, God is as holy as it is possible for God to be God is as true as it is possible for God to be. God is as faithful as it is possible for God to be. And that is perfectly faithful, perfectly true, perfectly holy. No room for more potential, no more potential than what he is. Okay? So give me your attention, boys, up here, please. Give me your attention up here, boys. Thank you. So he says, serve God with a perfect heart, Solomon. He said, I want you to live all out for God. You serve God. You know him. You have a relationship with him. And then you serve him and live for him as much as is humanly possible, Solomon. The reason we should do this, he tells Solomon why he should know the Lord God of his father and serve him with a perfect heart, with a willing mind The reason he should do that, look what it says. For the Lord searcheth all the hearts and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts. The Lord searches our hearts. The Lord understands our thinking. Now, I don't know about you, but that's a little bit intimidating to me. That is a little bit fearful. God knows everything we think. How many people are thinking of something right now? Raise your hand. Five people are thinking of something right now. Wow. Great crowd, praise the Lord. That's we're improving. You may not be thinking what I'm talking about, but you're thinking of something. Unless except for those who asleep. But um God knows our every thought. Now, can you imagine? Think with me for a moment. Think with me for a moment. Walking around in everybody around you knowing what's going through your mind. How many people would lock yourself in a closet if that was true? If everybody knew what was going through your mind at any given time, everybody around you knew what it was. That would be a little fair. Anybody with me? Everybody? You know what I'm saying? Alright. God knows everything we think. When's this idiot gonna be done? God knows, eh? Actually, David is giving to Solomon. Now, Solomon's about to be king. He's a grown man. David is about to die. See, at the end of his life, he lives a little bit longer, not much. And he's extending a challenge to his son, which is profound. Son, you've got to know God. Whether your success as a king or not is secondary to knowing God Whether you become wealthy in life or not is not important. What is important is that you know God. And if we raise our children up to be successful business people, if we raise our children up to simply have happy homes and large bank accounts, and good jobs and great vacations and that's all we invest into their lives and they never know God and they die and go to hell. We have failed as fathers Know the Lord. He doesn't say, Solomon, become wealthy. He doesn't say, Solomon, you succeed in whatever endeavor you seek in life. He doesn't say that. He says, know the Lord. Serve wholeheartedly with a perfect heart. Solomon, you serve God with all your heart. Whether the people appreciate it or not, you serve God. Whether the people follow you or not, you serve God. Whether it makes you money or not, you serve God. And then he gives a profound warning because God knows everything about you. He knows what you do. He knows what you say. He knows where you go. He knows what you hide. from your children. He knows what you hide from your spouse. He knows everything about you, even what you think Solomon, this is not something to play around with. This is not something that is unimportant or trivial. God knows everything about you, and the implication in him saying that to him. Is that someday, Solomon, you will be held in account for what you think? God doesn't know it just out of curiosity. God knows what he thinks because He will be held accountable for it. Hey, here is a message we're not hearing in a lot of churches in America today, and that is this. Every person will stand before God at some point and give an account for our lives, be judged for our lives. The judgment of God is just as true in 2009 as it was a thousand years ago. And he's not saying this to Solomon, well, God knows what you think. No, he's giving him a profound warning. Solomon, a judgment is coming, and that judgment is so thorough. It's even going to include your thoughts Sin has so stained our society. We live in a society that is deeply stained with sin Does anybody see it? We live in a world that has absolutely been baptized in sin. It has permeated every level of society. It has affected every area of entertainment It has affected every area of our education. It has affected every area of our economy. And I hate to say this. It has affected our churches. We have a world that has been baptized and stained with sin Our youth, our young people are being confronted with depths of sin never before in the history of our nation. There are children in our church downstairs right now, in children's church who have seen More lewdness and ungodliness and perversity than a grown man a hundred years ago would see in an entire lifetime. They are exposed on a weekly basis. Children in our church right now are exposed on a weekly basis to things that could only be found in some back alley, perverse backstore uh in some slum in the cities, and yet now it's being pumped into their homes on television and computers and radio. And sa David says to Solomon, my son, you must know God. Serve him with your whole heart because he knows everything about you, and someday you're going to have to give an account. We live in an ungodly world. We live in an ungodly society. And I'll be very honest with you, shallow preaching will not conquer the sin of our society. Getting up and telling a few little feel-good stories and think good about yourself and having your best life now, that is not going to cut it. Somebody needs to stand up and say, thus saith the Lord Jesus is coming again. There's judgment on the horizon. Shallow faith is not going to overcome this world's sin. Faith that gets offended over every little thing or any little thing. That's not faith in God. We live in an ungodly world, shallow preaching, shallow faith, shallow commitment. Man-centered preaching and man-self-centered living is not going to be victorious over the sinful world we live in. And David says to Solomon, Solomon, you must invest your life in something greater than yourself. You've got to live above the ungodliness of this world. And the way to do that is to have a personal relationship with God. Serve him with your whole heart because Solomon, God knows everything about you. You're going to give an account of yourself someday to God. This is an ungodly world. So the first part of verse 10 is a very profound warning, challenge to David's son Solomon And what a challenge. Would to God we had some fathers today that would challenge their sons as David did Solomon Not just in words, but in lifestyle. Amen? Hey, there is no time and there is no room, and it just ain't gonna cut it, excuse me. With this mentality, you do as I say, not as I do. That is not gonna work. That is hypocrisy through and through, and every child's gonna see it, and they are gonna rebel against that. Dad's Don't even try that. Somebody say amen on that one. So David issued a challenge. But then The rapture. Oh no. I thought it was the trump of God. Look with you would at if you would at the second half of verse ten. For the Lord searcheth the hearts and understandeth the imaginations of the thoughts. Now look. He makes a profound statement, a promise, if you will. If thou seek him He will be found of thee. If thou seek the Lord, he will be found of thee. This is a great truth repeated all through Scripture. And what God what David is saying to his son Solomon is true for all men and women of all ages. If you sincerely seek for God, you will find Him. If you in your heart say, I want to know the God of my fathers I want to serve him with a perfect heart, with all my heart. That's what I want. David says that will be accomplished. If you seek God with all your heart, you'll find him. You'll find him. I had a guy tell me in Indianapolis years ago, he says, I tried God and he didn't work. Hey, that's baloney. That's not seeking God. Thou seek God with all your heart. It's true for rich people, it's true for poor people It's true for the people who are very popular in the community, and it is true for the outcasts of the community. The sad thing is to a lot of unbelievers, and even sometimes folks who are in the church, and by the way, that doesn't necessarily mean because they're in church that they're not an unbeliever. But for a lot of folks, the things of God are very mysterious. They're unknowable. We knock on doors every week. And a lot of times someone will come to the door and we'll talk to them, do you know for sure if you die right now you go to heaven? And they'll say something like this, oh nobody can know that. Oh that's a mystery. Nobody can know that. Oh, that's unknowable. And they'll say things like, in not these exact words, but in so many words, they'll say things like, you know, the things of God are just so mysterious. They'll say things like, you know, I tried reading the Bible, it just didn't make any sense. And those are too deep for me. And some people will say when questioned about moral issues, well that's above my pay scale. Some people wa watch the news, I guess. But the fact of the matter is the things of God for the The important things of God, for the most part, are very basic. Are very simple. Truth is basically simple Salvation is not something very complex and mysterious and difficult. God's word makes it clear. Who God is and what his characteristics are are not mysterious. are not difficult to understand. If you open your Bible with a seeking heart and read with a believing mind, it becomes pretty obvious who God is and what he's like And he says, if you will seek God with your heart, you'll find him. He's not difficult to find. It's not some mysterious thing that you have to have some A level of education before you understand it. But because of our condition as sinners, we've been alienated from this God And so we don't see him. And therefore, he is in a sense hidden from us. But he says, if we seek him, we'll find him. If we seek him, he'll find him. We'll find him. Jesus came to earth. How many people believe that? Say amen. Jesus came to earth as a babe, lived, grew up, become a man, 33 and a half years, he walked this planet. Why did Jesus come to earth? To find out what man is like? He came down here and say, all right, what is this? What kind of mess are we dealing with here? No, no, no. He didn't come down to get information about us. He came down to give us information about him. He says, I came to reveal the Father. He that's seen me has seen the Father. He's saying, I have come. That you might have life, that you might know me, you can get the information that that can be accomplished so that you can know me That you can finally have a relationship with God again. Jesus didn't come down here to find out about us, He came down here to tell us about Him. And he says, if we seek him, we can find him. It may be on a mourn at a mourner's bench that somebody comes broken over sin. Maybe they've realized how badly they failed God and broken his law. And they come to a mourner's bench or an altar, an old-fashioned altar. And they say, God, I need you to save me. I need you to come in my life and forgive me. And Jesus said, He that comes to me will I know why I cast out. If you seek me with all my heart, you'll find me And at this altar right here, hundreds and hundreds, perhaps thousands, have fast sought the Lord and found him. In the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. It may be in a jail cell. Christian newspaper, a gospel tracker, a Bible is left. They read that, and a hunger in the heart is developed to know God. They call out to Christ seeking him. And they Find them. They find salvation. It may be in a Sunday school class, and thank God for good Sunday school teachers who are faithful to God and Give out the Word of God and share the gospel of Christ with their Sunday school children. Maybe in a Sunday school class. It may be on a deathbed. Someone seeks Christ with all their heart and they're found. I was thinking as I was preparing this, a fellow, it's been a number of years ago. I was chaplain with hospice for four years. And I got to, I really enjoyed that, and we got to visit with a lot of people who we would not have had access to. And there was a fella in a town not far from here that was diagnosed with cancer and was dying. He had no affiliation with church. In fact, when I first was given his name, uh the folks that were working with him said to me, they said, This man, do you know him? I said, No, I I don't think I've ever met him, but I know him They said he is a very hard man. He's a hard-drinking man. He's a hard-fighting man. His whole life he was an older man. And they said he's going to be a tough cookie. So I went and visited him. My wife went with me a couple times and we visited over a period of time and established a little bit of a relationship, a friendship. And one night I can still see it. He lived in a trailer and I was sitting at the table, the the dinner table there, and uh the rest of the family was over in the other part watching TV. We were sitting there in uh in his mobile home and he was across from me and I had read scripture to him and shared various things with him and I finally said to him, I said, Mr. And I said his name I said, I have my Bible here. Will you let me show you how you can know your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? And he goes, I would like that. Opened the Bible, shared the gospel with them. And there in that mobile home, on that little table, beside the wall, beside the kitchen. With the Bible open across from me, he bowed his head and he called on Jesus Christ, sought the Lord, I believe, with all his heart, and he found salvation in Jesus Christ. The next day I got the phone call. Daddy died last night. Went out into eternity. He was on his deathbed. When he went to bed that night, he did not know that was the last time he would go to bed. But he had sought the Lord and he found him. He found him. What a profound promise. If you seek the Lord, even on your deathbed, in a jail cell, a Sunday school room, a doorstep, a bedroom, a revival meeting. An old-fashioned church altar. If you seek God with all your heart, believing on Jesus Christ, trusting what He's done for you, He will forgive you and save you, give you new life. You can know you're going to heaven. There, it by the way, the Bible teaches, clearly teaches the reality of hell. You agree with me on that? It's clear. No doubt about it. There is a real place called hell. And there's not one single soul in hell. Who will be able to honestly say to God at the great way-through judgment, I sought you, Lord, with all my heart, and you were not found of me. Not one person in hell will be able to say that. Not one person in hell will be able to say, I came to Christ and he turned me out. Not one person in hell will be able to say, I believed on Jesus Christ sincerely as my Savior and I died and went to hell. Not one person can say that. Because the promise of God is true. You seek me with all your heart. You'll find me. You'll find me. Now, how do I seek the Lord? First, I take God at His word concerning Jesus Christ. Jesus is who God says he is. I remember before I was saved, I was reading my Bible for about five months under severe conviction. And I would read and I would realize, hey, Jesus really is who he says he is. I remember one night in particular, just days before I was saved, I was on our front porch and there was a storm going through, a heavy big, dark clouds, and and lightning and just this powerful storm moving in. Kind of like every day in Garrett County here. And uh this thing's moving in and just uh I was under conviction of my sin and I was Uh God was dealing my heart and I saw this storm coming. I thought, man, the incredible power behind that storm. Then I remembered reading about two that morning when I'd gotten home About where Jesus stood in a boat and said, Peace be still, and the storm calm. And I stood there and I visualized Jesus doing that. And I thought, what a mighty God we serve. God was revealing to me that Jesus is who he says he is. And that's the way we seek God. I take God at His Word. Jesus claimed to be God, then He is God. The Bible declares Jesus to be the only Savior of man's sin. Then that's what he is. And I take God at His Word concerning Jesus Christ. I take God at His Word concerning the Word of God. Seeking God with all your heart is not trying to explain away portions of this book. Seeking God with all my heart is not trying, it's not just simply ignoring Certain parts of Scripture that don't match my lifestyle, so I'll just ignore them. It's not seeking God with all our heart, it's saying this is God's word, it is the final authority, I submit to it. Seeking God with all my heart, I seek the Lord, means I go to I take God at His Word concerning salvation. That first of all, every person needs to be saved. Second of all, every person is only saved, not through the church, not through good works, not through baptism saved, through trusting Jesus Christ as personal. Savior. The word seek there, we don't have time for this, means to investigate. Desire to know. You want to know God? Do you want to know the truth about heaven and hell, about who God is and what he's like, and what my responsibility is to this God? Do you want to know that? Then God says you can. So I'd like to have a relationship with the creator of all this. Says if that's what you want, you can. Take me at my word. Concerning Jesus, concerning the Bible, concerning salvation. You'll find him. Again, a number of years ago, it's been quite a few years ago, there's a fella, and I think Jerry and Connie brought their kids in on the bus, I think, is how we initially met him. Again, I was while I was chaplain with hospice and got word to go down and visit. I said, I think I know that family. I think their kids ride our Sunday school bus. I went and knocked on the door again. It was a trailer. The boy son came, he was in his mid-30s probably early 30s. I told him who I was. He says, Pastor Leatherman, you knew me. He said, Pastor Leatherman, I don't think daddy's gonna want to see you. I said, well go ask him. So he said, the preacher's here. He said, like anybody. He said, I don't think Danny wants to see it I said, I don't think he does either. So I went. A few days later I went home. I said I told my wife, I said, bake some cookies. Really good ones. She made about three, four dozen. So I drove down there, had them in a bag. By the time I got to the door there was about a dozen left. I knocked on the door and Rusty came and I said, Don't tell him the preacher is here. Tell him a hospice volunteer is here. Hey, I was a hospice volunteer. I was. I said, and tell him he's got cookies. Went back, Daddy wants to see ya. I went back and we talked a little bit and gave him the cookies and joked around a little bit. I said actually I'm I'm a hospice volunteer. I'm the volunteer chaplain for a hospice. I'm the preacher. He's in bed I said, listen, can I just have a word of prayer with you? He said that'd be all right. So I prayed. Make a long story short, I was able to develop a relationship with him over a period of time He'd cuss. He wanted nothing to do with God. He lay dying in his bed. He had a bottle of whiskey sitting right by his bed the whole time They rushed him up to the hospital. This was after several months trying to win him the Lord. I could not. But God was breaking them down. God where he let me read verses. God read, actually I think Enjoyed me coming by, especially when I had cookies. I got a call. They said, Daddy's in the hospital. The doctor said he's not going to live through the night. I said he's unconscious. They know all knew he needed to be saved. Preacher, can you come up? He's unconscious and he's not going to live through the night. I jumped in the car, of course, it's not far the hospital. I was praying the whole way, God, please wake him up. God, just please. Please let me give the gospel one more time to him. Pulled in, came running up, got up the elevator, I'm walking down the hall, and they were kind of looking out, watching for me. They said, Preacher over here, he just woke up about three minutes ago. Preacher, come on in. I come in there and they all backed up and they're out and they're all crying. I said, Mr. Lyons, said you this is one last shot at this thing. Can I show you how to be saved again? He said, yes. Show him through that. I said, will you pray with me sincerely, calling on God, trusting me as your Savior He goes, yes, I will. He prayed with me that night. I believe sincerely. Called on the Lord. Everybody's crying and laughing and going on all around. Half of them weren't even saved, but they knew Daddy needed to be saved. And he called Lord, prayed with him a little bit, and I left. That night he went back into a coma. I was waiting the next morning. Daddy's dead, daddy's dead, daddy's dead. About noon or the afternoon, they called and said, guess what? Doctor's sending daddy home. He's fine. He went home. He lived another three, four months. And you know the funny thing is, he was drinker, cuss, no fear of God. But you know what happened after he sought the Lord? Rossity came to me a day or two later, he says, you know what? He said, I heard Daddy last night before he went and fell asleep. I heard him talking, I listened in, and this is what he was saying. Now I lay me down to sleep. I pray the Lord, my soul to keep. If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul today. He said he never prayed before. This is a silly little poem prayer, but I tell you, for that man, that was a massive change of life. He said to me, I came a few days later, he says, Boy the other day got daddy said a bad word. He said as soon as he said it, he looked up and said, I'm sorry God, I'm sorry, God, I'm sorry. So he never did that before. You know why? He sought the Lord, and he was found of him. And God in his mercy eventually passed away. I did his funeral. I believe he's with the Lord today. Let's pray. Father in heaven, please bless us. Help us, Lord, to know you. Help us, Lord, to serve you with our whole heart. God help us to seek you. And help us to teach our children Through example, through our lips and through our lives, the importance of knowing Christ. With our heads bound and with our eyes closed, I wonder how we would say, Preacher, there's areas of my life that I need to take more seriously concerning my walk with God, concerning my spiritual life, there's some areas I really need to give attention to. There's some areas I really need to work on. You need to say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me in my Christian life to be what God wants me to be.