Proverbs 22, 1 says, A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor rather than silver and gold. A good name, let's pray. I'll try and share some thoughts with you. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the Bible. I thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank you for family. And I pray you'd bless. And Lord, I pray that you would get the glory tonight. I know that's what Dad would want. He would want our thoughts to be to the Savior. He would want our focus and our praise to be on the Lord Jesus Christ. And Lord, without you we're nothing. And so please bless tonight and please speak to our hearts and challenge and help us, I pray. In Jesus' name I ask. Amen. Now looking at this verse, thinking about my dad, and I looked up that phrase a good name is rather to be chosen. It c actually comes from one word And it has this idea to have a good reputation or to have a good testimony, to have a good name, a good testimony, a good reputation. It's used sometimes to refer to a memorial. They put up a memorial for somebody to have a good name, a good memory, a good testimony. In fact, one of the definitions included the idea of a statue for somebody. A good name. They put a statue of somebody that was respected and honored and um somebody that uh maybe was a hero. And so God says having a good name is uh uh is uh is better than Having a statue in your name. That phrase good name means that which identifies a person's character. There are certain people you say their name and you think of certain characteristics. You say their name. God says a good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. We don't have a tombstone at my dad's grave yet. we're get one just with everything, the shutdowns and all of that. We'd it just weren't able to get it yet. Um and and you know we want to put a nice one. But I'll tell ya Dad left uh dad's name is a greater memorial to his life than any tombstone we can put there is what I'm trying to say. We can put the biggest, fanciest tombstone in the world. He left something far greater And has a good name. When I would go back, I left in 1981. I moved out, went off to college, and never m never lived back there more than just a little brief period of time And uh sometimes I'd come back on vacation or visit the family, I'd be out and meet someone, we'd get talking. It's kinda they played the Garrett County game up there, it's kind of the Mennonite game, but it was the Garrett County game So who are you related to? And so then that would start the whole thing. And I'd say Leatherman. They'd say, Leatherman, Leatherman, uh, what Leatherman's? I'd say, well, my dad was Clyde Leatherman, and they'd say this. He's a good man. Your daddy was a good man. That's what this verse is talking about. Good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. That phrase, rather to be chosen, has this idea of a higher value. A greater desirability. A good name is of higher value, is more desirable than great riches. Man's a pretty poor, mankind is pretty poor at judging the value of things, particularly eternal things and spiritual things. What this world thinks is so important, what this world thinks is so valuable, having the latest car, having a certain style of car or having popularity or having a big house or having this. Oh, that's so valuable to the world. The world's a poor judge of what's valuable You think about eternity in a thousand years from now, what good that car and that budget and that bank account, what good is all that going to be? I tell you what'll last is a good name Good name, character, integrity, honesty, humility. That's where the value is. I read years ago about some young fellas broke into a hardware store and they didn't steal a thing. They were just being naughty. Um now my boys never were, but boys sometimes will be naughty. And they broke in there and they didn't steal anything and they didn't break anything and to vandalize anything. They just went in Snuck in there after hours and switched all the price tags on everything in the store. And then slipped out. Next morning they opened up for shop and people were coming in and some guys over there in the chainsaw department. Woo! What a deal! Five dollars for a chainsaw! Some guys over in the uh where the nails and nuts and bolts are. God grace, this is ridiculous. A hundred dollars for a box of nails And what they did was they simply mixed up the value of things that were on sale. And I'll tell you, that's exactly what the devil's done in the world today. The things that are of eternal value, the things that are that will last, that are important, our spiritual well-being, our standing before our God, honesty, faith, godliness. Are of such value, and yet the world puts a small price tag on it. The things that are so temporal. A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. Might not leave a lot of money to your family, but if you leave a good name, you've left something that's even more valuable than money. You know, there's a lot of things that are more valuable than gold. There's a lot of things that'll help us in life a whole lot more than gold. Well, if I just had more money, then well if I just had if I just had this, if I just had that. Good name is rather be chosen than great riches. They said to me, your father's a good man. He's a good man. I thought, what is a good name? What does dad having a good name, what does that mean to me? What is it about dad that in my mind, that's a good man, that's a good name? I believe my dad had a good name with his heavenly father. He sincerely wanted to please God. He had a good name with his earthly family. I think my family my family respects my father. I told my wife when he was sick and I think it was the night before he passed away we were in bed and talking And I said, I told my wife, I said, I've tried to honor my father. Tried to honor him. And this world needs to learn how to honor their parents. Killing us. It's killing our country, it's killing our churches, it's killing our families. My dad, I believe his family honored him. I know my sisters do. I know his family love. So he had a good name with his heavenly father. He had a good name with his earthly family. He had a good name with his church family. Really did. Every church he went to, I'd talk to the pastor. Back when he was going to Faith Baptist, I'd talk to the pastor. They'd say, your dad is a great Christian. I remember Young, I was ten years old when he got saved, and I wasn't saved until years later. He got saved in 1970. And it went long, we were in another church, and he worked with a fellow that was going to the Baptist church there, and Dad got baptized at Faith Baptist and got involved, and he drove the Sunday school bus for years And he'd get me up, a little t eleven-year-old boy, twelve-year-old boy, get me up. Come on, we're going to drive that Sunday school bus. We'd have been at the church like six in the morning. And uh these bus workers now sissies don't show up till eight Man, we drove that bus all over, packed it out full of kids. Now he he just drove the bus. That's what he wanted to do for Jesus And did that for years. And um go out on visitation. Then for years he drove the shuttle bus. It was a big church. Faith Baptist was huge And they didn't have a room parking, so they built a parking lot up on top of the hill, and he would drive the shuttle bus back and forth to bring people, and he just wanted to serve God. So what does it mean that dad had a good name? What gives a man a good name? What gives a person a good name? I just jobbed a few and I just want to share these. First of all, being a Christian. Being a Christian. Dad was going through a tough time in 1970 and he began praying. He told me, he said, I prayed and asked God to help me. And he says, I learned that in all that what I really needed was I needed to get saved. He was religious, but he was lost. He told me down in the basement of our house, it was a little den fixed up down there, and he's he said he knelt by that old sofa. He said, I called on Jesus Christ to be my Savior and God saved me. I tell you what, every daddy ought to be a Christian. Every daddy ought to get saved. You're not saved, you ought to get saved. Dad often said, he says, I think if God hadn't saved me, he wouldn't have saved you. I think that's probably true. Probably true. He told me not before he long before he died, and and thank you for bearing with me tonight, but he said He said, um, he would say this, and it bothered me, but he said, he said, son, I don't deserve what God's doing. I don't deserve this And uh he said, I was telling God, God I don't deserve all you're doing. And then God says, well, you didn't deserve to get saved either, but I saved you. I said, now we don't deserve any of this. We're sinners. But he got saved, and I thank God for it. If I hadn't gotten saved, son, you might not have gotten saved either. He loved his family. I talked about that dearly. The three great loves of my dad's life: first of all, was the Lord, second of all was his family. And third of all was his church. He loved his church. Prayer. Dad was a man of prayer. I have his prayer list. I got his Bible here. And uh he's got missionary cards in there. He's got a prayer list, he's got his family. Uh Just pray, pray, pray. And he'd have that list he'd go down. He was a very regimented man, very disciplined. He had certain things he does. I can tell you what he had for lunch on Tuesday, every Tuesday for the last ten years. He had the same thing every Tuesday. Something else Thursday. And prayed, he would go down and pray. Names, a lot of y'all's names are in that prayer list, he'd pray. A good name is a Means a man that prays, a man that loves his family and his Lord, a Christian. Faithful. Dad was faithful to his family. He was faithful to his Lord. He was faithful to his job. Man, he was in this place. He was there. He was on the job on time until it got done. Faith in God. He started saying this the last six, eight months. And I hope we're learning God's applying this to our lives, but he started saying this. He'd say, son, I'm learning, you've got to just put it in God's hands. You've got to just put it in God's hands I don't know what to do sometimes. I don't know what the answer is. I don't know what the solution is. So I learned I got to just put it in God's hands. That's good advice. Faith in God. He loved his Bible. He loved his Bible. Patty and I gave this to him, got his little name on there years ago, and I mean to tell you it is war out. He would read and read. He kept journals. I found when I was going through his stuff uh since he passed away, we're going through the estate and all that. And there is literally, I don't know what, ten Boxes of these comp composition journals. I mean boxes and boxes. There must be I don't know, 75, 80 of these books in there, and it's every single day of his life. Now I trace them so far I've got back to 1980 Every single day, back to nineteen eighty, uh the date, what the weather was that day, um, few things he did, um And then he had a Bible verse out of his portion of scripture that he read that stood out to him. And this was Tuesday, the night you guys were bowling. He would sit down at night and write in here and uh 310-20 Tuesday he said um This morning I did my walk, ran some errands. This after this evening went bowling. And he wrote this. Listen to this. Matthew 1, I think it's 21. She shall bring forth a son, and that shall call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. As far as I know, it's the last verse a doubt ever read before he went home to see Jesus. That's something. Greatest Bible. Wonder how many of us, our last day on earth, our family be able to find our Bible and say, oh, there's what they read that day. It's so important we read our Bible every day. A good name. He loved his Bible. Psalms 1 says this Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. That's a good name. Every daddy ought to be a Bible-reading daddy Humility. Just a sitter saved by grace. I tell you, when these guys were singing, I sat there, Dad would be sitting there and he would be sobbing. I guarantee you, he would be crying every time we sang that song. says he tell me afterward he says I'm sorry for crying Denny he called me Denny um I'm sorry for crying Denny but it just gets me right here Humility, simplicity. I learned this from my dad. I tell you, we we just have to have so much of everything. He had valve open he had valve surgery, valve replacement surgery about Ten years ago. Ten, twelve years ago, 2008 I think it was. And uh we went up spent he was in the hospital for a week, so Kathy and I went up and we stayed in his apartment. He never owned he didn't own a house for years State apartment. And so we s we thought, well, we'll sleep there. We'll go to the hospital. So we came back that evening. Hadn't been there yet. Got in. I said, Well, I'm hungry. Let's get something to eat. So Kathy rooted around, found something We went to get the silverware out, and uh he had one plate, one bowl, one spoon, one fork, one knife, and one cup. Right or wrong. It's literally that's Well, we'll share the spoon. And after he got out, I said, and Dad, I said, you only got one spoon and one fork and one knife and one coffee cup You know what he said? It's all I need. So he moved down and my sister Donna bought him a whole stack of plates and dishes and silverware. Simplicity. Gratitude. Here's a statement. I'm ending. Here's a statement. God's been so good to me. God's been so good to me. God's been so good to me. We need to learn to be grateful. I tell you, our country would be a different country if we learn to be grateful, huh? We've got it pretty good here, and we're burning the thing down. Don't even realize how good we've got it. Dad didn't leave us a lot of money, but he did leave us a good name. That's greater value. All the money in the world. I'd rather have a dad that was maybe a bit of an introvert. But loved God and had faith in God and was genuine and sincere and loved me. I'd rather have a daddy that loves me and left me nothing. And have a dad with a million dollars and didn't know Christ and die and never see him again. Good name. Good name. He used to say there'd be an avert advertisements irritated him to death. And s and people calling, salespeople calling, oh brother Don't even get started about that. But there'd be an advertisement. There'd be a little advertisement and he would say, you know? He'd say, you know, Danny? Said if that product was half as good as what they advertise it is, they wouldn't have to advertise it You know, if half the Christians were as good as we try and put on that we are, we wouldn't have to go around bragging how great a Christian we are. I'd never bragged about how great a Christian he was. Always say, I'm just a sinner, saved by grace. Just an old sinner, saved by God's grace. You know the truth is? That's all you are. That's all I am. If you're not saved, you know what you are? You're just an old sinner. You're lost. But Jesus came to save sinners. You'll put your faith in the Savior that my daddy put his faith in. God will save you too. Amen or not? Will. Racher, how can I honor your dad? I'll tell you the best way I think we can honor my daddy now is let's live for the God he knew. Let's live for the Lord. Let's preach the gospel. Let's share the the gospel with other people. I bring that would bring I believe that would honor my dad because it would honor his Lord. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, I don't know. I just shared my heart tonight what my dad means to me, and I know my sisters love him and meant the world to them, his family. God, whatever dad had, I pray you'd put in our hearts. I pray that any don't know Jesus as Savior. Pray that tonight be the night Just humble themselves and call out on Jesus Christ. Come in their heart. Be their Savior and give them new life. Take away their sin. Give them eternal life. I pray that would happen, Lord. Those of us that know you Savior, I pray you'd just help us just humble ourselves. Just get off our high whores. Just realize how good you've been to us and how simple things can be. Help us to live by faith Help us, Lord, I pray. Heads bowed eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I need God to work in my heart? I want to be a good Christian. I want God to be glorified and honored in my life. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand God will help us if that's what we want, if we really do, if we hunger and thirst after righteousness, the Bible says we'll be filled. God will give that. You're not saved. I hope you come tonight. We'll show you how to be saved. Just the old-fashioned way. Same way. Middle-aged man in the basement of a house knelt by a sofa and call on the Lord. You can do that same thing. God will save you. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Gameplay of the invitation.