Chapter number three. It's been a good day, hasn't it? Good day. I just praise the Lord. I love Sundays. I just love it. I was glad when they said unto me I can go into the house of the Lord. And uh I like Sundays. Our hero of the week. Who wants to know who our hero of the week is? Andy Clemens. No, seriously, our uh the heater went out in the fellowship hall and I guarantee the nursery workers noticed that last week. There was no heat back there. We went about all week without heat And uh Andy came through and fixed that thing Wednesday night, wasn't it, Andy? And uh praise the Lord, I love Andy so much Watch it, no conniving over there. And uh anybody that does something to get the ladies off my back, it uh I love them, I thank God for 'em. They're my hero. Alright, what did I say? Ecclesiastes chapter 3. We're working our way through the book Ecclesiastes, and I want us to look tonight at verses 12 and 13. Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verse 12 and 13. The Bible says this: I know that there is no good in them. And the them there is referring to the folks he's about to reference. I know that there is no good in them, but for a man to rejoice and to do good in his life And also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor, it is the gift of God. Boy, that seems like a strange statement in the midst of the think of the context of what Solomon's been saying. And now he injects this statement in here. And so I looked at this and I came up with this. I notice here three good things for a man to do. Three good things for a man to do. Very simple thought tonight. But uh I think it might be helpful. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to your word. Again, this book of Ecclesiastes, Father. We've been working our way through. I believe you've been teaching us about life and um and about your role in our lives and uh the great uh gap that is in our heart and soul when you're absent, when you're not a part of our life. So I ask you to challenge us again tonight And Lord, these three simple thoughts have challenged me as I prepared this, and I pray that that same uh uh impact that it's had on me would be carried out through to each of our lives. So fill me again, I pray tonight with your Holy Spirit. And speak through me, Lord. Have your way. And I pray that we would be able to go into this coming week with our hearts attuned and your hand upon us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, in the book of Ecclesiastes, as we understand, we've been looking at this, is Solomon. He's addressing life as it really is, under the sun. He's not sugarcoating anything. There's no fake news in here. This is uh if you're gonna live life without God under the sun push God out, this is how it's gonna be. And he's shooting it straight and he's speaking, not just under the inspiration of God But uh he's speaking also as uh um uh by experience. And he did all this. I don't know if I am am I on here, Dave? I don't there we go. Uh He doesn't introduce any imaginary friends here. There's no fantasy worlds a long time ago, far, far away. There's none of that. There's really not much creativity through the book. It's just pretty much raw truth. That uh if you want to live without God, you want to push God out of your life, he's saying, let me tell you how it is. And uh he does. He shoots it straight. He shoots straight. He tried to find meaning in his life without God. Didn't work. Tried to find purpose. And he pursued every avenue as we looked. He pursued every avenue available to man. And he was in a position where he could do that. He had the resources And he comes to the conclusion, it's vain. It's empty. It's not working. He tried to find fulfillment. No fulfillment. Emptiness. Vexation of spirit. But I've been noticing as we got to the end of chapter 2, now we're into chapter 3 a little ways, and this is a sermon at Solomon's preaching in Jerusalem. It's kind of him, I think, him giving a record of his downfall and the thinking that led to his complete spiritual failure in many ways. And so I notice we got the end of chapter two, into chapter three, he's referencing God more and more and more. God's showing up. And um I think he's relaying the fact that he could not escape the fact that as much as he tried to push God out of his life, God was still alive and still active in the world. And I've noticed that with uh people today. You know, atheists have to work very, very hard at closing their eyes to the evidence of God around. And they'll come up with the most elaborate theories and uh the most elaborate and by the way they're all theories And uh, I mean they work very, very hard at not seeing God's hand everywhere around us. I was mentioning before, to me, it's a denial of the obvious. And so they work very hard at closing their eyes to the obvious evidence of God's work in our world. They work very hard at closing their ears to God's voice. I was thinking when I was up in Connecticut this past fall preaching for Brother Steve, Mark, and uh we went out door to door, we came across this guy, uh, and he was a vowed atheist. I mean, as soon as we introduced ourselves, man, attitude was in our face. And the more we tried to relay God's word to him, he would just talk over top of us. He would do everything he can to keep from hearing the word of God. And um they work very hard. They crank their music up loud so God they don't hear God's voice. They uh play their TV loud, they talk loud everything, just trying to keep God out So as I said, Ecclesiastes, God keeps showing up. Solomon's trying to live his life under the sun, nothing beyond that. And here he sees God's hand, and here he sees God's sovereignty, and here he runs into God's sovereignty. And in the sermon, as he's preaching, as I said at the beginning, he makes this unusual statement. That seems almost out of place. Notice he says there, verse 12, he says, I know. I know that. And then come down to verse 14. We'll look at this again in the future message, but he says, I know that. I've got to look it up that phrase, I know. And kind of has this idea here. He's saying, listen, this is something I will acknowledge. I've been trying to push God, I've been living under the sun, wealth, wild living, work, uh, wisdom, all of this. But I know, I I acknowledge something, I confess something to be true. It's kind of like he's saying, I've come to understand what he's about to say here Solomon's been through a lot. I mean, he's been at the pinnacle of God's blessings. There are very few people in history that have experienced the blessings of God on their life like Solomon did. Jesus praised him highly, but he's also been, at this point in his life, he is in the absolute depths of depravity And so he's been through a lot. He sees both ends of a man's relationship with God. As close and as blessed as he can almost possibly be, and as far away and as dark. And as depraved as a man could possibly be. So he says, I know this. I acknowledge this. I have to confess this. I come to understand this. And he makes this statement. I know that there is no good in them. And the men, I believe, being the men uh the the them being the men that he references in the rest of the verse in verse thirteen And so when he says, I know there's no good in them, he's I think what he's referencing there is the fact he's acknowledging that we have no inherent goodness in and of ourselves. Oh Romans tells us there is none good, no not one. There is none righteous. You and I have no quote-unquote goodness of ourselves, righteousness of ourselves that we can present to God to make us acceptable to God. We have none of that. Our only acceptability to God is in Lord Jesus Christ. So he says there's no good in them. There's no inherent righteousness. But then he goes on and he says, references three things that is good for a man to do, understanding that I don't have any inherent righteousness to present to God. But here's some good things for a man to do that he's learned and observed. Very simple. I just share them with you. I encourage you to jot these down. It was so simple it challenged me. Number one, I put this down. It is good for a man to rejoice. It is good for a man to rejoice. And I get that from verse 12. I know that there is no good in them. We don't have any inherent righteousness abroad, but It is good for a man to rejoice. To rejoice. The phrase rejoice there has this idea, a conscious. Now get this, this is important. A conscious decision to be glad. A conscious, deliberate decision to be joyful. I think, and I'm saying us, I'm including myself in this statement, I think generally we are glad and rejoice when circumstances Make it easy to do that. Would you agree with me on that? For the most part, our gladness, our joy, our happiness, our rejoicing Is when things are going well and things are pleasant, when it is easy to do that. That's not what he's talking about here. He's talking about it is good for a man to choose, deliberately make a conscious decision that I am going to rejoice. God has given to us an awesome gift. Of course, salvation is unspeakable gift. But we have a gift, just as human beings, that God has given to us that is an amazing, amazing gift. You know what it is? It is the gift of life. I preached on that a little bit this morning. It's been stirring my heart. The gift of being alive. Think about that I didn't do anything for this. God in his love and sovereignty on May 6th, mark that down, May 6th. 1960, God brought me, God gave me this gift of life. What a tremendous thing. Some people say, and I've had people say this to me. I wish I'd never been born. I wish I'd never been born. Now, I'm not trying to belittle. I know, I know I know there are dark, dark days in life. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that made that statement? I wish I'd never been born. Job. Said, I wish I'd have died from my mother's womb. I wish I'd never seen the sun. Now listen, he was in the pits. Now you get to the end of the book, he changes his tune. He's glad he's alive. Life is a tremendous gift that God has given to you and I. It is valuable. It lasts forever. Even unsaved people do not cease to exist at death. They continue on. Life is incredibly valuable. Life is incredibly important. And life is an incredible gift of God. And to be able to rejoice in the fact that I am alive. And I can experience life. And I can experience this world that God has created for you and I to live in. This world was made for us. to inhabit and dwell. And I was, and God has given me life and the opportunity to know my creator creator and interact with him. Now listen again, I'm not trying to downplay Dark times and difficult times. Listen, I've been through, as many of you have, I've been through some incredibly deep valleys where you know you think, man. But I'm telling you, God has given us tremendous gift. And the very fact that we are alive can give us reason to rejoice. And be glad. I'm alive. And then, of course, on top of that, God, as believers, God has given to us eternal life And be in spite of its ups and downs, besides in spite of the good times and bad times, we can rejoice in the fact that God has given to us life. Remember verses 1 through 8 here in chapter 3? Time to be born, time to die, time to laugh, time to cry, time to uh sorrow, time to rejoice. You know, he's saying the ups and downs in life, the ups and downs of life, and in spite of all of that It's a good thing for a man to rejoice. It's a good thing for a man to rejoice. I liked our message the other week from verse number 11. He hath made everything beautiful in his time. That one truth, that God can take the events of life, the ups and downs, the good and bad, the sunshine and shadow. And he can take all that and in his time and put it in a proper place, a proper perspective, that it comes out beautifully and it comes out good. I can rejoice in that I've got a God in heaven that is in control and he can take the issues I go through and work them out for his glory and for good. I can rejoice in that. I can rejoice in that. So we choose to rejoice. You say, preacher, if you're going through what I was going, what I'm going through, if you knew the loneliness that I'm facing, if you knew the the struggles, the mountain I'm having to deal with. If you knew the storms I was going through, preacher, you would say with me that uh uh I can't rejoice, I can't rejoice. And I don't I'm I don't know what you're going through. And And no doubt it it's terrible, but I'm here to tell you by faith we can rejoice in the fact that God is in control. God can take the worst issues we face and turn them around and bring them out for good So what's a good thing for a man to do? One is to deliberately choose, I'm going to rejoice. I'm just going to deliberately make a decision. I'm going to be glad and joyful. regardless of the circumstances. I just thought uh we had these books John or Rice I heard years ago uh John Arce was preaching and then afterward he would c afterward folks would come out and talk to him and different things, sign their Bible and stuff like that And a guy came up to him, an old friend came up to him and they hadn't seen each other a while, and John O'Rice says, Hey, brother so-and-so, how are you doing? He says, Well, I guess not too bad under the circumstances John Rice said to him, Well what are you doing under the circumstances? And he rebuked him and said, You ought to rejoice. Get on top of that thing. God's in charge. Actually Solomon touches on this in several places here. Look at chapter 2 and verse 2. We looked at this a month or a couple months ago. There is nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw that it was from the hand of God. Look at chapter 3, verse 22, at the end of the chapter here, chapter 3. Therefore I perceive that there is nothing better. than that a man should rejoice in his own works, for that is his portion for those who should for who shall bring him to see what shall be after him. It's good for a man to rejoice. Look at chapter 5. Turn over there. Chapter 5. Look at verse 18 Again, Solomon makes a statement, behold, that which I have seen, it is good and comely for one to eat and to drink and to enjoy. The good of all his labor that he taketh under the sun, there's that statement, all the days of his life which God giveth him. There's that gift of life. For it is his portion. Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and hath given him power to eat thereof, and to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labor. This is the gift of God For he shall not much remember the days of his life, because God answereth him in the joy of his heart. And so he's referenced this idea of rejoicing, rejoicing, rejoicing. All through Scripture, God calls us to rejoice in him. Philippians 4, 4. What's that say, Stu? Rejoice in the Lord always, and then the Lord doesn't stop there and he reiterates it. And what's he say? Again, I say, rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord this week when you're having a good day. No, that's not what it says. Rejoice when the bills are paid. Rejoice when everything's going your way. Rejoice when there's not twelve inches of snow on the ground on Tuesday. Doesn't say that. Says what? Rejoice in the Lord always. I think that's what Psalm is saying, hey, it's a good thing. Rejoice. Just make a decision. I'm going to rejoice. I got a bill. Oh, I got to I owe taxes. Oh, good heavens. I thought I was getting money. I need to owe I owe money. Well, I'm going to deliberately, by faith, rejoice in the Lord. Follow what I'm saying? That's a good thing. That's a good thing. Let me ask you a question. How many problems are ever solved by not rejoicing? How many headaches are taken away? How's it going? Oh, it's terrible. Let me ask you a question. How has that ever made something better? Never has? Has that ever been a blessing? Do you ever have someone you ask them how they're doing and they tell you? Well praise the Lord. That's a blessing. And uh just say, you know, it's terrible, everything's falling apart, I have no idea what's gonna happen tomorrow. But right now I'm alive. I have a God in heaven that's in control, and I'm going to make a conscious decision. I'm just going to rejoice in the Lord. That's a good thing to do. You know what this whole sinful world needs? Some Christians that are rejoicing and not complaining. Christians that are rejoicing and not griping and moping. You say, oh, how can you do that when everything's wrong? Ask Paul and Silas sitting in a Philippian jail in the middle of the night. Miserable, and they're doing what? They're praying and singing praises. They're praising the Lord, rejoicing. And they deliberately decided to do that. So here's my challenge. This is what I got challenged. This week, March 12th through the 19th. I want to make, I want to put every effort in, and this is going to be a challenge, I want to put every effort in that every day throughout the day I'm going to deliberately decide to rejoice. How many people are on board with me on that? How many people believe that'd be a good thing? Sure. I think it would help our homes. I think it would help the workplace and everything. So here's one good thing to do is rejoice. Even Solomon in his darkest frame of mind recognizes that it's good for a man to rejoice. Take your Bible, keep your place here, just turn over to Proverbs, just a few pages here before Ecclesiastes. Come to Proverbs chapter 15. Alright? Come over there and look at this. Proverbs chapter fifteen and verse fifteen. This is a neat verse. Proverbs 15:15. Are you there? Do you find it? Look what it says. All the days of the afflicted are evil. But He that is of a merry heart hath a what? Continual feast. You know where I view that phrase, continual feast? A constant party. It is just a hoot. And a man that, what's he say? He says, a man that uh uh uh he that is of a merry heart. This guy, uh, yeah, it's evil out there, the days the afflicted, oh, it's terrible. But I'm gonna decide that I'm gonna keep my heart merry, and even in these uh terrible times, these uh These evil days and our affliction, he still has a continual feast. Look over at chapter 17 and verse 22 He touches on the same subject. Look, verse 22, Proverbs 17. A merry heart doeth good like a what? Medicine. But a broken spirit drieth the bones. A merry heart doeth good like a medicine. I heard now this is what the illustration I'm going to give is kind of superficial, but it it It touches on what I think he's addressing here. I heard years ago some guy had terr some ter terrible sickness and it was very painful and just uh uh ongoing and um what do you call it when you have continual pain? Um Chronic. He had this chronic pain, this chronic sickness, and it was very discouraging, very depressing. And he came across this verse. A merry heart doeth good like what? Medicine. So he got his wife, they got a whole bunch of of videos of just slapstick humor. Um Just the old time uh three stooges, John. And uh uh just these old things. And she said he would sit there in the living room, chronic pain, couldn't work, he was uh he was disabled and in this terrible pain and she would play this and after a while he'd get laughing and cracking up and tickled and lo and behold over a period of time guess what happened That pain dissipated. And I don't think I think the end of the story wasn't totally healed, but he was able to function again. Now that's very superficial, and I'm not suggesting home and watch three stooges all day long But I am saying this. If you and I would decide, I'm going to rejoice. I'm going to learn to laugh again. I'm going to learn to in Enjoy things. I'm just going to deliberate make a deliberate conscious decision to rejoice in the Lord. I think we'd be better off mentally, spiritually, and physically. It would help us a lot. It would help us a lot. So did you write that one down? Rejoice. By the way, believers of all people ought to be rejoicing Of everybody in Oakland, it ought to be the people that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we ought to be rejoicing. And by the way, let me encourage you to do this. This is this can actually be fun When somebody says something uh good, something good happens, you go to Walmart and say, Oh, here's your change. Uh try say this. Oh, praise the Lord. Just say that. Anywhere, everywhere to everybody. Praise the Lord. What a blessing. And you know what you find? Sometimes they'll look at you like, okay, weirdo. But you know a lot of you know what I'm finding people saying? Amen. Praise the Lord. And it's contagious. And it spreads a little bit. So, what's the first one? First good thing for a man to do is what? Rejoice. Number two, write this one down. Number one, rejoice. Number two, do good. Do good. Again, we're back at Ecclesiastes chapter 3. And the same verse there, he says, I know that there is no good in them, there will be no inherent righteousness, but For a man to rejoice and to do good in life. Now I broke that down and got looking at it. The word do, do good, Has this idea to carry out, perform, produce. And the word good there is interesting. It has this idea: that which is pleasant. Carry out, produce, perform that which is pleasant, or that which is kind, that which is right. I like this definition that which promotes happiness. Carry out, perform things that promote happiness, that is kind. How many people agree with me? This world could use a little bit of kindness. Good heavens. What a harsh world we live in. And he's saying, you know what would be a good thing is if people, particularly God's people, would do good Just go out and promote and produce that which is pleasant. That which is right That which promotes happiness. This is Dennis Leatherman definition. I was looking at all the definition. I looked how it's used in other places, and I came up with this, and using in context here That which promotes emotional and spiritual well-being. Do that which is good You know, we're back at Walmart. We end up there a lot. Um we go in and the lady doesn't give you the change. She gives or let's back up. Uh you get in the number 10 item line And they've got twelve items, you've counted them. That's more than ten. Right? Heads on it. You know what I'm talking about. And I have a I have a whole I have an old whole process how to eliminate that and how to deal with it. See me afterward, I'll explain it. Nobody's falling for it, but it would be ingenious if they would do this. But how about if we just say, so what? You know? Alright, whatever. And just go and do good. And be kind. Well, praise the Lord. Maybe they can't read. Their glasses are bad, you know, or something. But what I'm trying to say is this, and I believe what he's telling us here, it'd be good for people just to go around doing good. What does it say about the Lord Jesus? He went about doing good. Doing good. That would be pretty good if we do it. I put this down. Let's do good on the job. Let's work hard. Let's produce. Let's do what's right. We're not going to compromise or dimmix. I'm going to do it right. But we're going to be pleasant. And we're going to be kind. And we're going to try and promote happiness there on the job as much as I possibly can, and try and do everything I can to make this a pleasant place. My wife was working, uh she was working uh the one place uh there's uh uh a bunch of ladies, and I'm using the term ladies very loosely. And uh they were there and she said, you would not believe you'd think they were sailors from World War II the way these ladies talk. And the language they use and just horrendous. And she got in there, and you know, Kathy's just a bundle of happiness. And uh she goes in there and these ladies are rah rah, you know, this horrible language and she's uh so she established in her office there, she threw properly, but she established a no-cussing zone. All around her area. And she did it in such a pleasant way. And everybody that would come into that zone. She had it all marked out. I don't know. She had flags up or something. You cross that line, you can't cuss anymore But she did it in a nice way and it became fun and the ladies would come over, oh I'm in the no-cussing zone, and just became, she was telling me, it just became a very pleasant haven and a place of unpleasantness. And I think that's what he's talking about there. Just do good. Just make the place on the job just a little pleasant. Do good on the job. I put this down. Do good at home. You know what's tragic? So many times we treat the people that we say we love the most so unkindly, and we treat people we don't even know. Nicer than we treat the people we say we love with all our hearts. Why do we do that? That's not good. So let's do good at home. Let's do good on the job. Let's do good in the community. I'm saying the world desperately needs some people who do good. Amen or not? Just people go out and do good. Do good. I found that doing good is always better than doing bad. Number three, write this one down. Number one, rejoice. Number two, what? Do good. Number three, write this down. Be grateful. Be grateful. Look there again at verse number 13. Now he doesn't say it exactly, but I think the implication is here. And also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor. It is the gift of God. Now that word joy in joy there has this idea. To look at, this is interesting, to look at with a clear perspective, to consider with discernment. So taking the context, the literal meaning of the word, and then the context, how it's used, I came up with this definition. To see all that God has done for me with a grateful attitude. From a perspective of gratitude, all that God has done for me. We can complain all we want, and we're pretty good at it. Later on, we perfected the ability to complain. But we can complain all we want, but the fact of the matter is, God's been awfully good to us. God's been awfully good to us. And we can mope and fuss all we want, but the truth is God has been very, very good for us. And over and over through Scripture, God calls us to give thanks. Over and over through Scripture, God calls us to be grateful. And uh I'm mentioning the young people, but it's not exclusive to young people. It's tr it's it's characteristic through all ages. But I see so many young people that God in his grace and goodness and mercy has placed them in some wonderful homes And they absolutely fail to see how good God has been to them. My wife and I often talk about different folks, and I again I'm I'm not picking on young people, I'm just using this as illustration. But my and I have often said over the years we see different situations, different young people, and they're never happy and nothing's right and it's never good enough. We've often said, I wonder if they even remotely comprehend. How good God has really been to them. And the opportunities God has given them. And if how many horrible, horrible situations They could have been in. But God in His grace and mercy has placed them in a nice place. I I saw this early on in Indianapolis when I was a youth pastor out there. Some of the kids that were in good godly Christian homes, not perfect. There's no perfect home. Godly Christian homes and they were fairly wealthy and fairly prosperous and the kids had nice everything. Those kids were absolutely gripe and complain and unhappy. And we had a bus kid, Charles. In fact I talked to him on the computer, Facebook and stuff quite a bit. He drives truck out there. He came from a home that was absolutely horrendous. Alcoholic father, his mother took her life. Just tragic. And he came, he was 13 years old, I guess, when he started riding the bus, and we kind of took him under wing. Whatever grade you are in 13, what is that, eighth grade, somewhere around there? He had been to school two days out of the entire year. 180 days school year. Is that correct? 180 days school year. He had been to school two days. Nobody's ever home. He's by himself. He just didn't go. He's on the records. He brought his he brought his final um report card home at the end of the year. Attendance, F F F F F F F attendance, two days out of the whole year, stamped past on the ninth grade. How many people agree with me? That's a sad, sad situation. So we took him in. He moved in the house with us. And uh we had a room there and he stayed there and we got him decent clothes and fixed him up and you know what and he lived with us for about, I don't know, five, six months, maybe ten. We got his hair cut, cleaned him up, looked nice. We got him enrolled. I got folks in the church. I said, we want to get this boy in a Christian school. There's a little Christian school south of town. I said there It's not working where he's at. And so folks in the church gave generously. We paid his tuition and got him in the school there. And old Charles got saved and baptized. And to this day, he's living for God. Now he's not a preacher, he's not a Bible college student. But old Charles, in that horrible situation, he would come and he'd say, I am so grateful what God has done for me. How good God has been to me. And it almost brought us to tears to think about these other kids that had it so good and were unhappy and miserable and ungrateful. And here's a boy that had nothing. And he had a clearer perspective of what God was doing for him than his other kids. You follow what I'm trying to say? What I'm trying to say is this, it's good to rejoice, it's good to be do good, it's good to be thankful. What God has done for us. Now, let's apply it to you and I as adults. Let's make America the kids home. They got a good home and fairly wealthy and lots of opportunities. And God has allowed you and I to live in an amazing country. We have the Word of God all around us. We've got churches we can go to. And what do we do? We gripe, we complain, this isn't right, that isn't good, this and we fuss. I tell you, you can go with me to some countries next week, next Sunday this time. I don't know what I'm going to be in. Maybe cartel prison. I don't know. I hope not. But um And we'll see, I'll tell you, Dominican, we were down there in Dominican family, those people are singing and rejoicing and happy. They don't have nothing. It's a good thing for a man to rejoice. It's a good thing for a man to do good. And it's a good thing for a man to be ungrateful. I put this down. To be ungrateful is to be ungodly. To be ungrateful is to be miserable. How many people here ever met someone that was absolutely ungrateful and happy as can be? They don't go together. You will never find a unthankful person happy. Never I can tell you a lot of people that are very, very grateful for whatever they God does for them, they're very grateful, and those are the happiest people on planet Earth Grateful people. And it's a decision. It's a decision I have to make. I'm gonna be grateful. I'm gonna thank God for that. Uh Brian, do you recognize the name William Sangster? Recognize that name? He was a Methodist preacher out of London years ago. He's born in 1900 He fought in World War I, survived. That was a horrendous war. He survived that. He was converted. Worked in the Methodist Church. That's why I thought maybe you might have heard of him. He worked in the Methodist church over there and became fairly uh blessed preacher over in England. He pastored, he preached to, they say, crowds of three thousand people on a regular basis. He got a new position of responsibility. This was in the within the Methodist denomination. He said he was traveling a good bit, continuously traveling and preaching a new bed, a new sermon every night He prayed and pled with God for revival within his denomination, for revival, a great awakening. After about three years, he was about 58 years old. Became conscious of an uneasiness in his throat. And he noticed that his one leg would drag a little bit when he walked. And he tried to ignore it and he just thought it was just whatever. But after a while it got so bad he had to see a doctor. They did some tests. This is 1958, I think. They did some tests, and they diagnosed him with an incurable muscular atrophy. I looked that up, and that's the deterioration of your muscles. It's no cure. They just deteriorate till they don't function anymore. The muscles would gradually waste away, the voice would go, the throat would get to the point where he would be unable to swallow. He thought maybe he'd have a few years of life ahead of him. His daughter wrote this: From dark despair he battled through the triumphant ascent. He could still write, and now he would have more time for prayer. Let me stay in the struggle, Lord, he pleaded. I don't mind if I can no longer be a general, but just let me be a regiment. Just give me a regiment to lead. His limitations became greater. He forced himself to work. He made this statement When people would tell him they're sorry for what's happening to them, he'd say, Oh, I'm only in the kindergarten of suffering. Gradually his legs became useless. His voice, the great voice that had thrilled thousands, finally went out completely. Speechless and helpless, he could still hold a pen. He was radiant. On and on he would write His delight in his wife never faltered. She, in her great courage, she never faltered. He would say, You are wonderful, he would write to her with a shaky hand. His pen now is only means of communication. On Easter Sunday, he wrote to his daughter, said this, it is terrible to wake up on Easter morning and have no voice with which to shout, He is risen. But it would be still more terrible to wake up on Easter morning and have a voice, but not want to shout, He is risen. He died in May of 1959. His right hand had completely failed, but he was still in the fight of his faith. He said, Men and women were made for God. All parts of our personality are drawn to health when he is resident within. But this is what I wanted to get to. Before he died. He made four resolutions. When he found out that he was sick, he made four resolutions. And this is what it ties into our verse. He said, number one, I resolve never to complain. Number two, I resolve to keep my home bright and pleasant. Three, I resolve that I will every day count my blessings. And number four, I were resolved to take this horrible disease and turn it to gain somehow. You know what I think about that guy? Here's a man that knew how to rejoice. He did good and he was thankful. And that challenges me. So this week, three simple thoughts. Boy, how challenging they are. Let's determine this week we're going to rejoice. We're going to deliberately decide I'm going to rejoice every day, whatever. Number two, we're going to do good. Every situation, every circumstance, I'm going to do good. And number three, we're going to be grateful. We're going to thank God for what He's done for us. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take these three simple thoughts. Challenge us, Lord. Provoke us. Even Solomon in the darkness of his mind and life at this point saw these three things that are good to do. I pray you'd help us to see this and grasp this. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, say, preacher, at least one of those three thoughts has struck my heart. At least one of those three challenges has stirred me. And God spoke to my heart about it. You say, preacher, by God's grace, I want at least the next seven days. To practice these three things that are good for me to do. Is there anybody like that? Preacher, these have struck my heart, and I want to implement these at least for a week. And with every effort I have, God helping me. God bless you, many hands all around. Now let's take it to the altar and say, Lord, here it is. You've challenged me. I want to commit myself to this. Help me, Lord. Don't let me fail in this. Help me, Lord, to stay at this and incorporate these three good things. Would there happen to be someone tonight that's here and you say, preacher, I'm not saved. I don't know, I'm going to heaven. It's the most wonderful thing in the world to know that I have the opportunity to be saved. Or ain't like that by the uplifted hand. We want to pray for you. Anybody at all? Now, Father, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. Challenge us. Help us in this matter. In Jesus' name. Amen.