Second Kings chapter six and uh I had a unique I had a unique day today. Um I wanna take my wife out for dinner last night. I figured she'd been traveling and She wouldn't want to cook and um so I thought I'd take her out there and she goes, No, I'd rather just stay home. So she stayed home and cooked us a four course meal and worked No, not really. And um so she didn't want to go out last night. So this morning I said, Mother's Day, I'll take you out for lunch. She goes, No, I don't want to go out for lunch. And so I said, What do you want for lunch? She goes, I want pizza and Kool Aid So she had pizza and Kool-Aid and slept all day. And so I said, Praise the Lord. And she made the pizza on top of it. So That was interesting. And so we praise the Lord for it. 2 Kings chapter 6, verse 24. Way through the life of Elisha. And we come to 2 Kings chapter 6, verse 24. It came to pass after this. that Ben Hadad, king of Syria, gathered all his host and went up and besieged Samaria. And there was a great famine in Samaria, and behold, they besieged it until an ass's head was sold for fourscore pieces of silver. And the fourth part of a cap of dove stung for five pieces of silver. And as the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, there cried a woman unto him, saying, Help, my lord, O king! Now listen to the uh question he gives. And he said, Now this is his answer to this lady crying for help, If the Lord do not help thee, whence shall I help thee? Now I think that's a pretty good question. And I think the answer is if God doesn't help us, man's not going to help us, right? I think it's a good question. I think there's an obvious answer there. But let's read on Out of the bar, how shall I help thee? Out of the barn floor or out of the wine press? In other words, he's saying there's nothing I can do for you If anything's going to happen, it's going to have to be God. And the king said unto her, What aileth thee? She answered, This woman said unto me, Give me thy son, that we may eat him today. And we will eat my son tomorrow. So we boiled my son and did eat him. And I said unto her on the next day, Give thy son that we may eat him. And she hath hid her son. And it came to pass when the king heard the words of the woman that he rent his clothes. And passed by upon the wall, and the people looked, and behold, he had sackcloth within upon his flesh. Now, to be honest with you, I wish this passage ended right there. I would have a whole different view of the king if the passage ended there, but it doesn't. Look at verse 31. Then he, the king, said, God do so and more also to me, if the head of Elisha, the son of Shaphat, shall stand on him this day. Boy, that last statement changes your whole view of King Jehorah. A good question and an obvious answer. Let's pray and look at this now. Father, please bless our study of your word. I yield myself to you again, Lord. Present my body anew. Lord, we Lord, if you don't teach us, how can I teach anyone? So I ask you tonight to fill me with your spirit. Take my body and my will and use it, Lord, to build your church, I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen. I'll be very honest with you. This is a difficult passage of Scripture. It's I don't know about you, it's difficult to read. I don't mean it's hard to read, but it's difficult. Um it's uh let me put it this way, this is an unpleasant passage of scripture. You know, there's some things in life and there's some places you have to go sometime that are just unpleasant. You know what I mean? There's parts of cities that are unpleasant. There's parts of aspects of life growing that you have to deal with that are unpleasant. And there's There's portions of God's word that are very, very unpleasant, very difficult To comprehend. Very difficult to imagine in my mind these things happening. Now, last week we looked, we kind of set the stage for this. Ben Hadad had been conquered, so to speak, by Elisha when God he prayed and God blinded his armies. You remember that that part? He led them twenty miles down to Samaria. The king, Jehoram, is a knucklehead, to be honest with you. He says, Shall I smite him? Shall I smite him? And Elisha says, No, don't smite him Give them food. Give them drinks. Send them on their way. Let's try and befriend them. Let's conquer them with kindness. And of course we know that kindness doesn't always generate kindness in return And here we are, Ben Hadad turns right around and attacks Jehoram at Samaria. And by the way, this is the way it's always going to be. The world is always going to be at war with God's people. It's never going to be any other way. The enmity between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent is always going to be there. No matter how hard we as God's people try to live at peace with the world. The world is always going to be at enmity with God's people. The world is not our friend. The world is not our ally in the Christian life. The world is at enmity with us, just as Syria, no matter what Syria did, no matter how kind they were. No matter how merciful they were, the world all Syria always turned around and come right back at them. That's the way it is with us. It is useless to attempt to compromise with the world. It's foolish. To try and compromise with the world. Anytime God's people compromise with the people of the world, guess who the one is that ends up giving up their principles? It's not the world. It's always the child of God. Years ago we had we've had hundreds and hundreds, maybe thousands, I don't know, hundreds of Young people come through our church and ministry here through the bus ministry. And I thank God for the bus ministry, and I'll say this very frankly, we desperately need helpers in the bus ministry We could be doing so much more. But be that as it may, we've had many, many young people come through to our church in Busmane. And I'm thinking of uh one family of children that came for a good long time. They came through their teen years and they moved to another area and the young people in our area, but another community in our area And the uh two of the young people made new friends, which was disaster. Went long, they dropped out of church and went. So the one daughter What's coming back? I guess this may have been right around the time. But she began, she liked this boy that went to a very worldly church. Liberal, not gospel preaching, not Bible believing. And I noticed she started missing Sunday nights. She can't they came Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday nights. And she began missing Sunday nights. And it wasn't like her. I think Kathy knows perhaps remember who I'm talking about. And um anyway, we talked to her about it. We said, we noticed you're missing church. Oh, Sunday night's a good bit And she said this. She goes, I'm going to so-and-so, this boy she was tied in with. We got an agreement. He'll come to our church Sunday mornings And then we'll go to his church Sunday nights. Now the unique thing about that was his church didn't have church Sunday nights. So guess who the one was giving up their church service? It was her. He wasn't giving anything up. And I remember correctly, he hardly ever came with her Sunday morning. Anytime God's people compromise with the world, it's always God's people compromising. It's never the world compromising. The world is not going to set aside the desires of their flesh to get along with God's people. They're always going to ask God's people to give in to the desires of their flesh. And so that's the way it is. If the church compromises with the world, the church loses every single time. Appreciate something Brian brought out about uh the fellow the the songwriter uh tonight. He was a man of, and this is something you don't hear a whole lot, a man of principle. Principle. In other words, there were some convictions he had, there were some teachings in Scripture that he held on to, and he was not going to compromise them. And because of that, we're at enmity with the world. I put this down. I wrote this down. There's only one way to be at peace with the world. And that is to be unfaithful with the Lord. To the Lord. Let me say it again. There's only one way to be at peace with the world, and that is to be unfaithful to our Lord. I cannot be faithful to the Lord and be at peace with the world. Now, how many folks brought your Bibles tonight? You got your Bibles? All right. Did you bring them to use them or did you bring them just set there beside you? Well to use them, right? That's what I figure. Uh let's turn if you would. Let's use them then. Let's go to the Gospel of John. And chapter number 15. Gospel of John and chapter fifteen. Now you're not going to hear this on TV preachers too much. John chapter 15 and look at with me if you would at verse number 18. John fifteen and verse eighteen. Well, this is strong stuff. This is what Jesus is saying. This is coming off the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ. If the world hate you. You know that it hated me before it hated you. Jesus uses the word hated three times in one short sentence. In speaking of the world and God's people. The world hates you. Don't be surprised. You know that it hated me before it hated you. Look at verse 19. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own. But because you are not of the world, but I have chosen you, what's that next word? Out of the world, therefore, the world hateth you And by the way, the world hasn't gotten more spiritual that all of a sudden now it loves God's people. If anything, it's the other way around. Turn with me, if you would, to 1 John. 1 John, back quite not the Gospel John, same human writer, penman, same author also, but a different book. 1 John chapter number 2 Page 1322, your old Schofield Bible, 1 John chapter 2, look with me at verse 15. I have this underlined in my Bible, and I have it bracketed and the verses circled Verse 15, love not the world. Now I wrote decision in my Bible beside it. You've got to decide. If you just let things go, you're going to fall in love with the world every time. So you've got to decide to obey this. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Why? If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. So it's always going to be this way. In fact, I got thinking about it. Well, the thought came to my mind, well, maybe in the millennial reign, there's an exception to this rule. But even in the millennial perfect environment, as perfect as it can be with fallen human beings living in it At the end, God looses Satan for a season. And what is the first thing that happens when Satan is loose for a season? There is what? War. Right? He raises up an insurrection against the Lord Jesus Christ. Of course, Jesus calls some fire, burns the thing up instantly. But as soon as the world is loose, the devil is loosed in the world, war. So there's war. There is an eternal and persistent enmity. Between the people of God and the world. Now, Israel was right in being kind to Syria. They were right. We talked about that last week. But they were wrong if they expected Syria to return the kindness. You compromise with the world. You give up something. You give up a principle of God to cooperate with the world and you lose every time. World doesn't have anything to lose. Uh I don't like it, but it's a powerful illustration Dr. D'Obernd gave many, many years ago, and boy, it just burned in my mind. He spoke, and he said this is a true story. He speaks a lot of high school when he was with the college. He spoke in a lot of high school, Christian school chapels. He said there was a school, fairly large Christian school, in the state of Maryland, that was pretty worldly, though, the school body was very worldly In other words, they loved the world. They want to look like the world, they want to enjoy the pleasures of the world, but they want to be Christians In that student body, and I've used this illustration before many have heard them say it, but in that student body there was a young lady who did not love the world. She wanted to please God. She wanted to live for the Lord Jesus Christ. And all the other young women would give her a hard time. She didn't dress. sensual like they did. She didn't do all and they gave her this hard time. They had all lost their purity. They were all loose with uh uh other boys And this girl maintained her purity and maintained her integrity, maintained her testimony, they gave her a hard time till finally she could not take anymore And she responded and she said very loudly, very clearly to them, she says, I can become what you are But you will never be able to be what I still am. They had compromised with the world, and they lost. Anytime God's people, anytime God's church compromises with the world, tries to appease the world, the church loses out every time. So there's enmity between God's people and the world. Syria comes upon Samaria with a full force like a flood. They were kind. And Seri responds with vengeance. Um, it looks to me like Israel was unprepared for this attack. I got reading this and reading this. Previously they would go out to the garrisons, they would go out to the passes in the mountains and they would and you know, they were finding out where Siri was, they'd send uh uh wha wha you military guys, what would you send out? A platoon or A bunch of soldiers out there from what? Ed, you've never been in the military, you don't know. Oh, that's good. Oh, okay, thank you Whatever I say, you're for it. Man. Uh but anyway, this time they don't send anyone out. It looks I get the impression studying this that Israel was totally unprepared for this. This was totally unexpected. I'm wondering if Jehoram, the king of Israel, wasn't thinking, well We let them go, they'll be nice to us and completely unprepared. And Ben Habad sends the entire army in All he's got, they come pouring into Samaria, and the Bible says they besieged the city. Now, I want to very quickly, and this is going to go quicker than what you think. Uh I want us uh to look at the hopelessness of the situation. Verse 25. And there was a great famine in Samaria, and behold, they besieged it. The end of verse 24 it says, They besieged Samaria. It appeared that all hope of survival had been taken away. The city is besieged. Now I thought, what does it mean that a city is besieged? I looked it up. It means to be enclosed on something. It means to secure it. In fact, the word is used other places in a little different setting where if a person has a very valuable possession, like a valuable jewelry or a very valuable coin, and they secure it. Nobody can get to it, and it cannot get out of that secure location. That's the idea of what they did, Samaria. They sealed this place in They shut it in. And Syria, we know from history and previous experience with them, they were brutal, they were violent, they were merciless. Now apparently they could not get into the city. The city was walled. Apparently, they had enough defenses that they could keep them out. So the Syrian army just settles in. And they said, all right, no supplies are getting in, and nobody's coming out. Now that may not be bad for a day or two, but the impression here is, as I said, They were unprepared for this. This was unexpected. So there was no opportunity to stock up stores and supplies. There's no opportunity to prepare for this siege. And day after day after day, this thing went on apparently for weeks and months. And the city is consuming up all their supplies. The Bible describes it as a famine. Now, I do not believe this was a famine as a result of drought. This was a famine as a result of the siege on their city. Soon the refrigerators, if they would have had them, were empty. The freezer's empty, the dry goods are the stores, the shelves are getting less and less and less. They've got to have something to heat themselves at night, they've got to have something to cook their food The wood is running out for fuel. I imagine they're tearing wood out of houses and carts. They're breaking them down so they have something to burn to cook their food. And fuel and food is getting more scarce and more scarce and more scarce till it comes to the point. Where if someone had the head of a donkey, which by the way for a Jew was an unclean beast They had people bidding on that thing. I'll give you a piece of silver for the head of that donkey you just killed and slaughtered. What are you going to do with a head? What do you do with a donkey head? I'll take it. I'll give hey, I'll give you two pieces of silver. And they start, they are so hungry. They're going to eat the head meat off of a donkey. It gets to the point Where dove dung is sold, is being bid on. Now, my assumption was that they would use the dove dung for fuel. Other places they used dung of cattle for fuel. And as I pr a couple of weeks ago, whatever, was looking over this in the study, I've read it all these years, always assumed the dove dung was for the fuel. They could burn that a little bit and cook whatever meat they had. edible they could pull off a donkey's head. But I got looking at the commentaries and looking this up and I found that the consensus is for the most part a little disagreement, but the consensus is they were looking at this for nourishment. Now put yourself, imagine yourself in a situation where you would be willing To consume these types of things. You talk about hopeless. They were on the edge of insanity, hopeless, hopeless So not only was the city besieged, but something even worse, or I shouldn't say even worse, but a factor in all this was the fact that their king was ungodly. Now, I don't know about you, but as a young person, before I knew the Lord, I was a mess. And I'm not proud of that. I'm very ashamed of it. But you know what I always counted on? The fact that my daddy was godly. In the back of my mind, I could mess up really bad. But because my daddy was godly, that would somehow protect me. Anybody know what I'm talking about? So uh uh, you know, a church. You can have a church member. And they'll be as carnal, as worldly, as be, as unfaithful to churches can be, but they sure expect that preacher to be right Right or wrong. Somehow there's a sense of security. Somehow there's a sense of assurance that it's going to be alright. God's going to be merciful to us because the person in charge is right with God. And because of that, I can be loose, I can mess up a little bit, everything's going to be fine. But here you have the children of Israel in Samaria, the Israelites, and their king isn't right with God. And they cannot expect any security, any assurance that God's going to be merciful to them because of the godliness of their leader. They do not have a godly leader. So, it appears hopeless. Now I want to inject this. I am certain there were some godly people in the city of Samaria. I'm certain there were some people that fear God. Remember what God told Elijah? Elijah says, I'm the only one that fears you. What did God say? Oh no, I've got what? I've still got 7,000 people, haven't bowed the knee. I'm telling you, there are some godly people there. And thank God in our country, as horrendous as things are getting spiritually in our country, thank God, scattered across this country, there are still godly churches. There's still godly homes. There's still people that love and fear God. We complain about young people a lot, but thank God there's still some young people in church on a Sunday night. Amen. Now some are came kicking and screaming drug here, but they're in church. Praise the Lord for that. But God has his people. So here you have these dear people who have been faithful to the Lord Who love God, who have principles in their life. They want to do right. They haven't found the need to the false gods. And yet they're suffering. Because of the ungodliness of the nation and the chastisement God is bringing on us. Listen, I trust you're here in church on a s on a Mother's Day evening, I trust you have some Scriptural principles in your life, you have some things you live by, some things you believe, and you're trying to live for God. I trust that's true for us. But listen, let's not think just because we're trying to do right that we're not going to have the suffer the consequences of a nation that is not doing right. Huh? There was people in that city who were suffering because of the ungodliness of the leadership and the nation. And it's always that way. So the situation looks hopeless. Next I noticed the unholiness of the situation. The hopelessness and the unholyess. By the way, this is the last point. Look at verse 26 And as the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, there cried a woman unto him, saying, Help me, my lord, O King And here he says the statement I highlighted. And he said, If the Lord do not help thee, when shall I help thee? Out of the barn floor, out of the wine press? First thing I notice here in the unholiness of the situation, I see there's a denunciation of God. In other words, this statement is true, and it's a good statement that the king makes. But you know what he's doing? He is blaming God for the situation. The king's not speaking from a repentant heart. This is a bitter heart. He's saying God brought this on us. God's the one going to have to get us out of it. I can't do anything for you. This is all God's doing. Blaming God for the consequences of his own disobedience. God was chastening Israel And it was a result of a king who had been ungodly. And this is what we do. Listen, this is what we do We make stupid decisions. We disobey God. We disregard his words. We throw out his warnings, and we go on in our own stubborn selfish way. And then when we find ourselves in the hog pit, we find ourselves, we've made a mess out of ourselves. We say, look what God did to me God didn't do it to us. We brought it on ourselves. I tell you, it just Aggravates me to death. I'm visiting. And somebody says, Yeah, God did, ah, yeah, God did this. God didn't do any of that. We brought it on ourselves. Blaming God for the consequences of our decisions. So The unholiness of the situation, there was denunciation. Then I noticed there was debauchery or abandonment of moral restraints. Look with me if you would at verse 28. And the king sent her, he he says this, he blames God in this question, but then he says to her, So, by the way, what ails you anyway? It's kind of what the way he looks at it. And she answered And here we have this ugly event. This woman said, Give me thy son that we may eat him today, and we will eat my son tomorrow. Now just just the fact that they came up with that solution is horrendous. Huh? And then I gotta think about it, and just the fact that she would be willing to tell someone that they came up with that idea is even more horrendous. But here's the thing about it. She's not saying it that I'm embarrassed or ashamed of this. She's indignant that they didn't get to eat the other woman's daughter. How low can mankind go that they would eat their own offspring? Then be indignant and feel uh feel ripped off because they didn't get to eat another one The abandonment of all moral restraints. Day after day the situation had deteriorated. There was no food. There was no fuel fuel And God is put in it is a God given instinct, I believe, to survive God has created us in such a way that the strongest drive in our being is the drive to survive. Do you agree with me? The survival, I hate to use the word instinct, but that's the best I know to use to convey what I'm saying. But the the survival instinct And man's heart is so depraved that sometimes the drive to survive will become so desperate that it overrides any sense of right and wrong. An unsaved person can sink to incomprehensible depths of depravity. The shocking thing about this incident is not just that they had eaten a child. She had eaten her own child. But that she would complain to the king that they could not eat the other woman's. There's no moral sense of guilt. And we have in our country people who will go In the mall in Washington by the tens of thousands, and demand the right to abort their own offspring. You tell me what the difference is morally. Not only the fact that a woman would be willing even think about killing a child in their woo. But that they would go in public and on television and demand the right to do it. I heard years ago. And I would say the woman's name, but but I I'm not positive I have the correct woman. I'm I'm 99% positive. It's a woman on television, very popular. If I said her name just about everybody here An interview, if it's if I'm remembering correctly, the woman who it was. I believe it was Larry King. They were talking about abortion. And she very boldly and bragged Braggedly said, I have had seven abortions in my life Just the fact that somebody would consider doing that is outlandish. But then to boast of it To go on TV to be elected to office and demand that this is some sort of right we have The depths of depravity that rests in the heart of sinful man. It's hard to imagine. Hard to imagine. And by the way, nobody listen, we'll be very gracious. Listen, if somebody makes a mistake in the past and they've done some horrendous things, thank God the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. Amen? Thank God. Now I want to back up here a little bit and say, listen, if it's happened in the past and I don't know, thank God God is a merciful and forgiving God. But we are not going to give one inch to the abortion crowd. We are not going to apologize for it. We're not going to, under any circumstances, justify it. You say, well what if she was raped? Don't kill the baby, kill the guy that did it. Huh? This situation appeared hopeless. The king was denouncing God In any situation, anybody ought to be bowing before God, have mercy on us. But he's not, he's blaming God. The depravity of the people in the streets. And then you have the dishonesty. And this is, I think in this whole study, this is all so difficult, but these last two verses almost bothered me as much as anything. It came to pass when the king heard the words of the woman that he rent his clothes. I mean, praise the Lord, at least he was shocked by this. He rent his clothes on the wall, and the people looked, and behold, he had sackcloth within upon his flesh. Now, what does sackcloth imply? That would imply what? He's very repentant. The Bible speaks of repenting in sackcloth in ashes. So on the surface, verse number 30, verse 30, it looks like he's very repentant. He's like, man, he's trying to get right with God. See verse 4, it looks like he's blaming God now. But then I got looking at that and read study verse 31, and I thought, well, if he's so repentant Why is he making sure everybody sees the sackcloth? If a person is truly repentant of their sin, they don't go around bragging everybody about how repentant they are. Huh? You fall on your face before God. But he tears his clothes, and at first I thought, boy, he's just tore up about this thing. And then the Bible says, everybody saw the sackcloth he had. And I thought that bothers me a little. Why would he do that? And then I read verse 31. And I realized what? And then he said, God do so, and more to me, also to me, if the head of Elisha, the son of Shaphath, shall stand on him this day. Now who's he blaming? Elisha. Not Elisha, he brought this all on us. You know what you have? You have a classic case of hypocrisy. He puts on some kind of show that he's so religious. He puts on all these garments and makes it appear to everybody, oh, I'm so repentant over this. When in reality, in his heart, there's bitter and hatred towards the man of God. He blamed God. God's the one that brought on this. He's gonna have to get you out of here. And if I ever get my hands on Elisha, I'm taking his head off. He wasn't repentant. That sackcloth and ashes was a hypocritical show he put on to try and impress the people, and down in his heart, he was as rebellious against God as he'd ever been. God is not impressed with our religious show. He wants our hearts to be right. Outward religion without inward repentance is helpless in the spiritual warfare. And I'll tell you what the great light of Christianity is, modern Christianity, is outward piety and inward impurity. Praise God, we hold to the King James Bible. I thought I'd get a great chorus of amen there. And we have, and we're going to continue to do that as long as I've got my mind and I'm the pastor. But listen, you can carry the biggest, blackest King James Bible you can find under your arms. If your heart's not right with God, it's not going to do you a bit of good. Amen? You can come and sing the song. You can go through all the show. But if our heart's not right with God, it doesn't do us a bit of good. You can have all the sackcloth on you want. If you've got bitterness and rebellion in your heart against God, does not do you one bit of good. Now here's the interesting thing Verse thirty one is an identical quote of his mother Against Elijah. Who was Jehoram's mother? Jezebel And when Elijah slew the false prophets when they did the when he but when the fire fell Jezebel said, God do so to me and more also if the head of Elijah is upon him tomorrow at this time. And Elijah turned tail and ran. And he went into a state of depression. You remember the story with that. Jehoram learned well from Mama. Jehoram learned not to take responsibility for his own actions, but to blame the person in authority. Hey, can I can I p meddle a little bit? I don't care if you I can or not, I'm going to. Teachers will appreciate this, I believe. When you find out from the school that your child did wrong, don't you turn on the teacher You hold your child accountable for what they did wrong. Huh? Get it all My child would never do that. We were just talking about that. Something. No matter what the kid does, the child's always right and the authority's always wrong. You know what you're doing You are teaching, teaching, teaching, teaching that child to rebel against authority. And when Jezebel said, Oh, take care of Elijah, that spiritual authority, whoa, he's not going to have his way, her child grew up. And guess what he's doing? The same thing. If you and I, as a parent, are rebelling against God, don't get mad at your kids when they rebel against you. Huh? Jezebel, he learned well. He learned well. The dishonesty in his heart, the only hope of Israel, was the presence of Elisha. Which leads us into chapter seven, where God was merciful to Israel for the sake of Elisha. Thank God for Elisha's. Thank God this whole world is such a mess. There's so much rebellion. Hollywood, rock and roll, country and western, country and western. Country and Western? Well, I knew that would fade out. I'm telling you, that stuff's just as ungodly as rock and roll. Now just say smile and say amen even though you don't agree with me. Just do it, you'll look better. I'm telling you that the the country in Western today was the rock and roll when I grew up. You say, yeah, it's worse. You say, I thought you were finishing. I am. Listen. Let's do right. Let's be right. Let's just be for real. Don't put on a show. Let's just get right with God. Let's trust him. Obey Him. And God will bring us through. I don't know how to land it. I feel like a plane circling. I don't know how to bring this thing down and land it. But let's just ask God to have his way. Okay? Amen? Let's pray. Father, please help us. Lord, this is such an ugly part of Scripture. Lord, this is such a difficult to imagine. But nevertheless, we live in a fallen world. We live in a world that is opposed to everything you are and everything you have for us. Lord, help us to trust you and stay true to you and not compromise with this world. We can have your joy and blessing and fulfillment. We wouldn't have that spiritual famine in our heart. Find ourselves doing things we never imagined we would have done. Saying things we never dreamed we would say. Going places we never dreamed we would go to. God help us. Our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, God's dealt with my heart? Of course, nothing as drastic as this subject, the the the passage we Looked at, but God's dealt with my heart, preacher. And I want God to help me do right. I want God to help