Acts chapter 2. I want two verses I want to notice. Verse number 41 and verse number 47 from Acts chapter 2. Notice what verse 41 says. Then they declared to receive this word were baptized. And the same day there were, what's that next word, added unto them about 3,000 souls. Come down to verse 47. Praising God and having favor with all the people, and the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. Read that. Those two words, that one word repeated, caught my attention. The Lord added to the church. There was added to the church. What's happening? Church is growing. The church is growing. And so I want to speak this morning about a growing church. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you for the Word of God. And thank you for the book of Acts. And what a testimony of how you began the church and energized it in such an exciting way. And for all these hundreds, 2,000 years now. This church has been going forth and Lord teaching and preaching the Word of God around the world. And I pray that we could learn something from this book here about what a growing church is like. And Lord, I pray that our church, we would be able to pattern ourselves after the principles giving Given in the book of Acts here. Help us now. Speak to our hearts. Lord, I ask especially this morning that you would bless every person that made the effort to be in the house of God in a very special way. Challenge us. Help us to grow. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The Book of Acts is a fascinating book I always get when I'm reading uh I I like to read through my Bible in a year. I like to start in January and read through the Bible by December. And uh whenever I get to the book of Acts, I always get excited Because I really enjoy reading through Acts and watching and seeing what God did through this book. It is a fascinating book. As you read through the Acts, you see that the power of God was upon that young church way back then. God's hand was upon them in amazing ways. You read through the book of Acts, you read about souls being saved. In some cases, by the thousands at a time, people coming to know Jesus Christ as Savior, their lives are being changed. Sin is being conquered. People who were were uh wretched sinners in some cases, uh hearing the gospel, receiving Jesus as their personal Savior, and then going off to live pure, godly lives for the glory of God. What an amazing book. How people got saved in that early church were added to the church and that church went forward. I was uh working around under the sink this week and um uh cleaning up and getting some things for bird feeding and all that I keep down uh there. And I went through and I uh I found something under our sink I found a little canister. I don't know if you can see what that says. I'll pull it out and see if you can figure out what that there is. What is it? It's fly paper, fly catcher paper. What do I do with it now? But um hang it up. There might be a fly in here. That'd be nice. Folks come visit our church and fly paper hanging up around. But uh I I got looking at this fly paper. It's a very simple concept. Fly paper is. It basically consists of two things. One is some sort of paper. uh kind of acts as the platform, and then you have sticky stuff on the paper. Right, Raymond? You have the paper and then you have sticky stuff. There's something unique about the sticky stuff. It is, for the most part, at least in a fly's culinary taste, it's sweet. In fact I was reading, you can make your own fly paper very simple. Just get maybe some cardboard or something, get some s uh sweet stuff that's very sticky that holds, you can put it on there and it'll work uh maybe not quite as effective as what you buy, but it works the same So it is, it has sweetness on it to attract the flies, but it has a sticky character to it to keep the flies. I noticed that when a fly comes to the fly paper, it's attracted to it, and once it gets there, it stays. Anybody notice that? And stay there. Uh now, um I'll put that there. I was stuck to it. Um That reminded me, in a sense, of the New Testament church as I read through the Gospel, the book of Acts. People were attracted to the church in multi in multitudes, uh, huge crowds. were attracted to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. But they didn't just come and show up and hear about Jesus and walk away. The thing I noticed, they stuck. They came to the New Testament church. There was something there for them. There was a need that was met. There was a truth that they got a hold of. There was a Savior who they fell in love with and they would not leave. They were attracted to the church and they stayed. And God added to the church. And God added to the church. And God added to the church. I take fly paper and I put them out on the back deck behind the house and hang them around there during the summertime I don't do it now because there's not too many flies out when there's a foot of snow on the ground or whatever. But uh I put that out. And uh notice as time goes by that fly paper gets more and more and more bugs on it And I read through the church, through the book of Acts, and I noticed how people are attracted by the tens of thousands. To the church of Jesus Christ in the book of Acts. And as I said, the church kept them. In fact, the people in the book of Acts that came to Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, were baptized into the church, those people were so committed to the church. For the most part, there's some exceptions But for the most part, they were so committed to the church even to the point that when persecution came From the government and from religious leaders at the time. Even when persecution came, they would not forsake the Lord. They would not forsake the church. They stuck Even to the point, and we noticed this in Sunday school this morning, even to the point where people gave their lives Rather than forsake the Lord Jesus Christ, rather than forsake the body of Christ. So the church in the book of Acts is an amazing Amazing organism. How people were attracted and they stuck and they would not forsake the Lord, even to the point of intense persecution and martyrdom. Now, it's important to understand this morning that the book of Acts is a transitional book. In other words, not everything that God does in the book of Acts is intended to take place throughout church history. There is a transition taking place here. This is a unique time in the history of the church It's very on, um very early on. There is a transition taking place here, in a sense, from the Old Testament dispensation of Israel or the law to the New Testament dispensation of the church. Now you say, I don't know what you're talking about, dispensation. Come to Bible Institute, and uh you'll learn about dispensation. But it's an economy, it's a way of God dealing. In the Old Testament, he dealt primarily through the nation of Israel When we come to the New Testament, God sets Israel aside, and now He is establishing the church. And now in this dispensation, in this age that we live, God works through the New Testament local church. And so the book of Acts is in this transition stage where God has now put Israel aside. He's not done with them. Someday. Uh the millennial, he'll raise Israel back up after the tribulation period, and he'll deal with Israel again, and they will be God's people. But for this age Israel is set aside, and God is working through the church. So you have this transition. And always in times of transitions, There are things that take place that are just for that specific period of time. The church here is in the very early stages of his existence. It's in the beginning stages. I like to view, sometimes people ask me, and other and preachers like to debate this, but people will ask me sometimes, when did the church begin? Some people say, well, it began with John the Baptist And they have an argument for that. Some people say it began at Pentecost. Acts chapter 2 here. Spirit of God came down and the church, sorry. They have an argument for that, and there's varying views of those My take is I believe there was a it was in a specific moment when the New Testament church began. I believe it was in the stages, so to speak For instance, in the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, I see the church. Now bear with me, we'll get this a little more practical here in a moment, but I see in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John the church in a very embryotic form In other words, it's not completely developed. Jesus is laying the foundation. He's introducing, he references the church several times in future tense. He'll reference the church. So it's an embryotic form. The Lord is putting things in place. He's preparing to die on the cross and shed his blood for the church, for all mankind, and be buried and rose again, uh send the Holy Spirit. So it's very embryotic. If you didn't follow what I'm saying. Then you get to the book of Acts, and uh the church is what I like to refer to as being energized. Acts chapter 2, the Holy Spirit comes down, and boy, things start taking place. Souls are getting saved. People are now being baptized into the church, into its membership. People are being added to the church as we reference It is growing, it's developing. You're starting to have other New Testament churches established outside of Jerusalem. And this thing is really, there's an energy about that New Testament church. And they are beginning to take the gospel first in Jerusalem, then Judea, and then Samaria, and then into the othermost parts of the world, and the church is energized and it's taking off and it's growing. But in the book of Acts, there's not a lot of organization to that church. They're having to deal with separate different instant issues and different things. The apostles are the ones in authority at this point. They are part of the foundation that the Lord is saying. And so in the book of Acts, I see the Lord laying the foundation for the church. Gospels, it's embryotic. He's introducing it, putting things in place, getting things ready. The book of Acts, he's laying a foundation. He's starting this building, quote unquote, we refer to as the church, the New Testament church. Then you get to the epistles. And there in the epistles, Paul writes to Peter and Titus and various ones, Ephesians, the Ephesian church, and he gives instructions on how the church is to be organized. the structure within the church and and uh uh the pastors are introduced and the qualifications given there. Then deacons are introduced and their qualifications are given And so you have a much more organized local church with the epistles. Then, of course, the book of Revelation finishes out the New Testament, finishes out the Bible. The canon of Scripture is finished. And so the Book of Acts is a unique book, and we need to understand its place in history and what it is recording. The Lord is laying the foundation for his church. Again, the Bible's not complete at this point. I've got to be careful, I don't step on that thing there. I'll be dragging that around all day. The Bible's not complete at this point. So when Paul shows up or the apostles show up and they preach a sermon introducing Jesus Christ and preaching the gospel Uh they'll reference the Old Testament often, but the Jews are like, well, how do we know that this is of God? The Bible's not complete. He can't go to Ephesians where it gives teaching on the church or Timothy where it gives teaching on the church. So God would send signs and wonders And the signs and wonders were given to verify the message that the apostles were given, that it was actually of God. Old Testament basis to what they were saying, and they would have these signs and wonders that would verify that their message was actually of God Now, once the Bible was completed, once the foundation of the church was laid, the apostles were off the scene, the Bible is completed, then those need for signs and wonders was no longer there. Uh it was the Bible was verified. I could go to chapter and verse and say, right here it says, I don't need a sign to verify that what God is saying here is so. I have it right in the Word of God. Does that make sense You follow what I'm saying? Amen. Everybody with me, alright? And so anyway, the book of Acts is unique. You had the apostles with the apostolic gifts. And they were doing, exercising this gifts that God had given them as apostles to lay the foundation. Of course, Jesus is the chief cornerstone. And so you have all that taking place. So the book of Acts is very, very unique. I like to look at the apostles and the signs and wonders taking place. I like to view that like the scaffolding on a new building. For instance, you're going to build a new building, you lay the foundation, the groundwork, and you have scaffolding there that you put up around it that enables the masonry to be done and and the different work and you can work your way up. Then when the the foundation is laid and the building is done, what do you do with the scaffolding? What do you do with it? You take it down. You're done with it. It accomplished its purpose. It put things in place. You take it down, and you don't leave the scaffolding up there and you And when you're done, you're done. And so that is how it takes place. So I think it's important to understand when we come to the Book of Acts, the unique role that the Book of Acts has and the events taking place here why they're there and what their purpose is. Now, when we look in the book of Acts, we see that the church in the book of Acts is growing very rapidly. Verse number 41. Look at this. And they declared and received his word were baptized. And the same day, out of them about 3,000 souls. Can you imagine? If you come to church next Sunday, 3,000 people get saved and baptized, join the church. You know what we would do? We would start a building program very quickly. And uh we'd have to do something to accommodate 3,000 people. And so the church, uh I mean, it is just exploding In its membership, in its growth. Look with me if you would at chapter 4. Come over to chapter 4 of Acts. I mean, you think that's big Uh Comagine. All right, next Sunday we kick off our spring revival. Brother Caldwell's here. He preaches. 3,000 people plus show up. I mean, besides our members. And we're packed, the windows are open, people are sitting outside, I don't know how we're out in the barn, we go outside, and the place is packed, and he preaches, 3,000 people come forward, trust Christ, we baptize for hours. 3,000 people And um, all right, that's amazing. Look at chapter 4 and verse number 4. Howbeit many of them, how be it, many of them which heard the word believed. And the number of a man was about What? 5,000. So the church is going on. A little bit later, now 5,000, just men. Get saved. Who knows how many women are along with them trusting Christ? Who knows how many children along with them trusting Christ? So next Sunday, 3,000 people plus show up, 3,000 people get saved and baptized. We go home. Good night. We've never seen anything like this The following Sunday, 5,000 plus more people show up and get saved and baptized for hours till midnight or whatever we're baptizing And then it goes on, and it goes on. And throughout the book of Acts, it says more people out of this. And the number that believed were multiplied. Multiplied. Multiplied. So we've got 3,000 x2. We've got 5,000 plus in x4. Then that number is multiplied. So if you multiply let's say 8,000. If you multiply 8,000 by 1 You have 8,000. So it's not really multiplied. So it has to be at least by two. So we go from 8,000 to what? 16,000. Minimum. You get my point? This church is exploding. The growth is absolutely off the charts Now, the church grew rapidly. We can see that very clearly. But here's something else interesting as I looked at the book of Acts. Not only did the church grow very rapidly, but it grew in varying increments. By that I mean, here in chapter 3, we notice 3,000 get saved in one day. Chapter 4, 5,000 men, plus women and children get saved. But there's also records throughout the book of Acts of individuals getting saved. It wasn't always huge crowds at a time. Sometimes it was a woman at a ladies' prayer meeting beside a river named Lydia. She trusts Christ. It might be a jailer and his wife and kids get saved. Sometimes it's thousands of people at a shot coming to Christ. Other times, it's an individual in their house, maybe in the marketplace, or maybe a family coming and trusting Christ as Savior. This is my point The church is growing. Sometimes huge numbers at a time. Others, one or two, added to here and there. People getting saved, baptized into the church, individuals, families. But here's another thing I notice in the book of Acts. Not only did they grow rapidly, not only and did they grow in bearing increments, small groups at a time, large groups, but they grew in substance. In other words, it wasn't just numbers. These people are accepting Jesus Christ as Savior, but they're not just showing up, count as a number, and then never being seen from again. They are growing in their substance. There is a fundamental change taking place in their hearts and lives when they accept Jesus Christ as their Savior. They are new people with new priorities, with new values. With our God's values, God's priorities, and God is changing the very nature Of the people who are trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says this. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. You know what that verse is telling us? That verse is telling us when a person accepts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, not only are their sins completely forgiven. Not only do they escape going to hell and have a home guaranteed in heaven, but God changes their very nature God gives them a new nature, Peter tells us, a divine nature, a nature that is holy and pure and good and wants to live for God. And so you have a substance. They are growing in substance. This church is different. The people that make up the church in the book of Acts are different than the general population. They have different loyalties, they have different values, they have a different affection, they have different convictions than the people around them. There was a stark contrast. Between the New Testament believers in the church and the rest of the world, you did not confuse the one with the other They were growing in substance. They were growing in who and what they were. Now, here's my question this morning. I want to give this very quickly. What was it about the church? That made all of this take place? What was it that caused people to be so attracted to the church? And to be so transformed by the message of the church. Let me give you a few thoughts real quick. Number one, I believe one of the things that attracted people to the church in the book of Acts is that they were very public about their faith. The people that made up the church were very public about their faith. In other words, the folks that were part of the church in the book of Acts, they did not try and hide the fact that they were believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. They were very public about that. They were unashamed of the fact that I am a believer and a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. You read through the book of Acts and you find they did not hide their faith. They were very outspoken. They were very public. They were very uh it was very obvious that these people were followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. There were no secret agents. In the church, in the book of Acts. They were all very public. I have people tell me sometimes, I'm out visiting and witnessing people. They say something like this. Now, preacher, I appreciate you coming by my house Pastor Leatherman, they'll say, Reverend Leatherman, I appreciate you coming by my house. I appreciate what you're doing and all that. But to be very honest with you, my faith is a very personal thing My relationship with God is a very personal and very private thing. And you know, I agree with them. Salvation, accepting Jesus Christ your Savior, is accepting Jesus Christ as your personal Savior There is a very personal aspect of knowing Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. There is a very private aspect of knowing Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. My salvation is between Jesus Christ and me personally. Amen? It's a personal thing. And so I agree with them to an extent. This is a very personal. This is a very private. Let me illustrate. My relationship with my wife, my marriage to my wife is a very personal thing. It's between Kathy and I. It's a very private thing. It's a very intimate relationship that I have with my wife, Kathy and I. It's very private. But it is also very public. I make no bones about the fact that I'm married to Kathy Leatherman. We are very public about that. In fact, we both wear wing w wear wings. My angelic wings keep getting in the way. But uh we wear rings. And that ring simply identifies the fact that I'm a married man. I'm not ashamed of that. I don't try and hide that fact. Very public. We go somewhere and we meet folks or many times visitors will be here and I'll grab my wife and say, hey, I want you to meet my wife. This is my wife Kathy. This is my wife Kathy. And uh not ashamed of that. We have a very private, very personal relationship. Yes! But it's very public also. Can you imagine what kind of shape I would be in if I would hide the fact I was married to Kathy? These eyes would be swollen shut. My ears would be like cauliflowers. Um, no, not really. But would you agree with me? Would you agree with me that if I would try to hide the fact that I'm married to Kathy, that would hurt her feelings? If I would somehow communicate to others that I was ashamed, that Kathy is my wife and I didn't want that to be known and I would try and hide that, would you agree with me? That would hurt her feelings. What if I would take my and you don't have to have a wedding band to be married. My grandparents didn't. They love didn't have wedding bands. They loved each other dearly. Very you know, they weren't ashamed of it all. But can you imagine if I would somehow work this wedding band off my finger. And I would I would stop wearing the wedding band. And suppose my wife would say, why don't you wear the wedding band anymore? And I would say, well, I just don't think it's necessary. Uh I can still be married to you and not broadcast it, not advertise it. I can we can still be married Can you see that might hurt her feelings? Can you see where she might get suspicious? Why are you hiding that Now, let's back up. The New Testament Church was very unashamed of the fact that they knew Jesus Christ as Savior. They were very public about that. They didn't hide it. They didn't try and keep it. Well, it's just personal, just between me and God. No, no, no. They were completely open. Can you see where we may be hurting the Lord Jesus Christ? When we are ashamed or silent about the fact that He's our personal Savior? How does the Lord feel? Think about this. He died on that cross naked Bearing my sins and being ridiculed and reviled for my sins, unashamed that he was doing that for me. And I accept that price that he paid for my sins. I accept that gift that he paid for with his own blood And then I say, you know, I just don't think it's necessary for me to make a big deal about the fact I'm saved. I don't know but not everybody has to know that I'm a Christian. They were very public. Now I'm not going saying going around blowing a trumpet. Look how great a Christian I am. It's not what we're talking about. The Bible condemns that. But we are talking about I'm not ashamed of Jesus Christ my Savior. I'm not ashamed that Jesus Christ saved me from sin and hell, gave me eternal life. I'm not ashamed that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world, the only hope of mankind. They were very public about that. And uh that attracted people. That attracted people. Look with me if you well, let me just read to you Romans chapter 10, verse 9 and 10. Listen very carefully Says this, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thy heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. If thou shalt confess with thy mouth, then he goes on and says, For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, but with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. What does the Lord say? I think the Lord is saying he expects those who are genuinely saved to let people know about that. Confess that with thy mouth. Look with me. Now here's where I would like you to turn with me. Everybody doing all right? Everybody alright there? Alright, good. I since so the sun came out, the snow's melting. We get out, there'll be flowers and birds and it's going to be wonderful If we stay long enough, it will be wonderful. So with that in mind, Acts chapter 4, look with me at verse 13. Acts chapter 4, verse 13. I'm going to read down through here. Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men. Well, I can relate to that, I'll tell you. They marveled that and they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. And beholding the man that was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it. But when they had commanded them to go aside, out of the council, they conferred among themselves. Now, this is the Pharisees, this is the authorities And they're all worked up that Peter and John are out there preaching the gospel, telling other people about the Lord Jesus Christ. They look at them and they say, these guys don't have any education. What's the deal with them? They've been with Jesus. You guys get out of here. They push them out now. We're getting together. We're having this council. And when they had commanded them, verse 15, to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves, saying, What shall we do to these men? For that indeed a great notable miracle hath been done by them is manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. But that it spread no further among the people, let us straightway threaten them. That they speak henceforth to no man in this name. What do they tell him to do? Tell them to shut up. We don't want to hear any more of this. Now look what happens Verse 18, and they called them, look at this, and commanded them not to speak at all, nor teach in the name of Jesus. I put in the margin of my Bible, Satan's Great Commission. That is what Satan wants us to do. Don't you mention Jesus. Don't you reference it? Don't you share the gospel? You be quiet about that. Look how they responded. But Peter and John answered and sent unto them. Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye. Look at verse 20. For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. What are they saying? We can't be quiet about this. We can't keep this a secret. God has done amazing things for us. He has saved our sins from hell. He has given us new life. We cannot be quiet about the gospel. We cannot be quiet about the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. They were very, very public about their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 29. Same chapter. Now look now Lord now this is the church after they've been persecuted and told to shut up. Look what the church says in verse 29. And now Lord behold their threatenings. The church is praying, and grant unto thy servants that withal what Boldness they may speak thy word by stretching forth a hand to heal that signs and wonders may be done by the name of thy holy child Jesus. Now look at verse 31. And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost. And what did they do? They spake the word of God with boldness. What was it about that New Testament church? What was it about the church in Acts that it grew so rapidly and grew in such substance and such strong Christians? One of the reasons was they were public about their faith. That word boldness is interesting. It means this, without reserve. They spake the word of God without reserve. It means to be without concealment. I like this definition. Fearlessly, with total assurance. They went out from the church and they told everybody everybody everywhere, Jesus Christ can save you from sin. Jesus Christ can give you a new life. He can save you from hell. The gospel is able to save you to the uttermost. And the authorities could not shut them up. And the more they tried, the bolder they were The more the world and society resisted them, the louder and more confident those believers came, and they said, the gospel will save They were very public about their faith in Jesus Christ. They didn't hide it. They weren't ashamed of it. They didn't conceal it. They had absolutely no concern as to what the world thought about their faith. Absolutely no concern. You say, preacher, if I go tell people about the Lord Jesus Christ, if I tell people how He saved me, if I tell people that He can save them, they'll make fun of me They'll think I'm some kind of nut. It may cost me friends. Preacher, if I do what they did there, the world will think I'm crazy. I tell you what, the book of Acts, they could care less what the world thought about them. They were concerned about the Lord Jesus Christ being glorified. They were concerned about pleasing God with their life. And they were very public about their faith. Very public. Listen, it's very real. Fear is a very real real issue that we have to deal with. Um, you know, sometimes it can be intimidating. Everybody's giving you a hard time. Uh I was reading this week uh a commissioner in Carroll County, Maryland. Did you read about that gal? She's a member of Brother Norris Belcher, a friend of ours. She's a member of his church. She's a commissioner. She prayed. They opened the service, and her and I think another commissioner would pray, open the s in their commissioner meetings, they would open with prayer And she prayed in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. There was an atheist group heard her in one of the meetings, and they filed suit to say she could not pray in Jesus' name. Went to court, the judge ruled that she could not pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Now let me stop there. I thought we lived in a country that had a First Amendment that said the freedom of religion should not be imposed upon. So they came back to their next commissioner meeting. And they were going to open in prayer as they always did. And she prayed, and she prayed in the name of Jesus. And she said, I will go to jail. Before I will be ashamed of the name of Jesus Christ. I say, praise the Lord for that. And that is the frame of mind, that is the mentality that the New Testament believers had. There was a boldness, there was a confidence, there was assurance that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. The gospel is the power of God unto salvation, and I will not be ashamed of that. And that attracted people. And that fostered great faith in those that came to Christ. They were very public about their faith in Jesus Christ. Number two, and I don't have time for the whole message, but number two, let me give you this one. They were passionate about their faith. They were passionate about their faith. The church in the book of Acts did not exist solely for membership. In other words, they weren't just out after numbers. I don't see anywhere in the book of Acts that when they reach 3,000, they baptized 3,000, they sent out all this, oh boy, we have 3,000, 3,000, 3,000, 3 Thousand, three thousand. That wasn't the point. The point was getting the gospel to everybody Whether it was 3,000 in a crowd or it was three members of a family. The object was to get the gospel out. They were not just after numbers. Now, every preacher worth his salt wants the church house to be filled. Amen? Every preacher worth his salt wants to reach more people with the gospel, number-wise, but it's not just numbers, it is faith in Jesus Christ that we want Man, if we wanted to fill this building up, we could bring in some rock band or some country something thing or whatever that has nothing to do with the Bible, nothing to do with the uh things of God, nothing to do with the gospel We packed this place out. We're not after numbers. We want people to trust Christ as Savior. And we want as many as possible. And that's the way they were. They were passionate about their faith. They were passionate to see souls saved. They were passionate to lift up the name of Jesus. They were passionate to get the gospel into all the world. I like Acts chapter 5, verse 28. Turn over there real quickly with me. This is uh the coolest, one of the coolest verses in the Bible in my mind. And I love to use the word cool. When I was young, cool, the word cool was cool. You know, if you were used cool, you were cool. This is dumb. Let's go on. Look at Acts chapter 5, verse 28. This just stirs my heart. This is the authorities again giving the church a hard time for getting the gospel out to everybody, saying, did we not straightly co straight straight uh straightly command you that ye should not teach in this name and behold look at this ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine They're stirred up. Uh they were passionate about Their faith about getting the gospel everywhere and the authorities said listen we told you guys to quit giving those gospel tracts out. We told you guys to quit witnessing to people. We told you guys to quit Preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ, and you've gone and filled the whole city with your doctrine. You filled my dream. When I came here as pastor in 93, I read that passage shortly after I came as pastor, and my heart was stirred. And I said, God, will you please use me to get the gospel of Jesus Christ? into every home in Garrett County and all surrounding areas. I want to fill this place with the doctrine of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's the way they were. They were passionate about it. Every little alleyway in Jerusalem, they had been down there with the gospel. Every apartment complex. Such as they were, uh, every apartment, they had they were filled with the gospel. Uh snob snob, where all the rich people lived and the big fancy houses, they had gotten the gospel up there. You follow what I'm saying? They were stirred up about this. They were passionate. We want everybody to know about Jesus Christ. We want everybody to have an opportunity to accept Jesus as their personal Savior. They were passionate about this. Their passion, I put this down, their passion was directed. It was love for the Lord Jesus Christ that stirred them. You know, occasionally I'll meet some folks that I have a hard time loving. You ever meet anyone like that? It's like, okay. But you know what I found out? If I love the Lord Jesus Christ like I'm supposed to, I'll be able to share the gospel with that person. I'll be able to share the message of Christ with that person. Even though personally there's nothing about them that appeals to me But Lord, I love you, and you love this person enough to die and suffer hell for them. Surely I can love you enough to share the gospel with them and tell them of Christ. And uh that's the way they were. They were passionate, but their passion was for the Lord, and their passion for the Lord drove them to take the gospel to everybody. Uh, their passion was directed, it was disciplined. Their passion was not wildfire. Their passion was within the principles of Scripture. Sometimes we can get so stirred up for Christ, we can get so stirred up for the gospel that we We end up being outside principles of scripture and violating the very word that we're trying to preach. I heard this is I hesitate to use this, but there was a church in Indianapolis when when I was a youth pastor there, another church, they had a big bus ministry. They were very aggressive. I'm all for aggressive bus ministry. Don't misunderstand But they got a bit carried away. And they made flyers and they said we're going to have a topless on our bus this Sunday. And good night, that caused a stir. And what they have was a little baby without a shirt on Now I'm telling you, their motives may be right, but that was unprincipled. That was unscriptural. That was inappropriate in every sense of the word. Do you agree with me? That is not what we're talking about. And that is not the way the church was in the New Testament. They were stirred up, they were fired up, they were passionate about this, but they were disciplined, they operated within the principles of Scripture. Bob Jones Sr. put it this way, it is never right to do wrong to get a chance to do right. You follow what I'm saying? I had a roommate in Bible college. He got stirred up about winning souls, and he's and what he started doing, now this was after we had moved out and he was no longer on campus, but he started he would go into a bar And he would sit down beside someone, he'd have a beer with them. I'll buy you a beer. You let me tell you the gospel. Now listen, his motives may have been right. That's not biblical passion. It was not right to disobey God in order to a chance to do right. And so when I read the book of Acts, I see them stirred up. I see them passionate. Are they willing to break the laws of the authorities to get the gospel? Yes. But would they break God's law? Never We ought to obey God rather than man. You follow what I'm saying? So they're stirred up, they're fired up, we're going to get the gospel. But they do it. Number one, their passion is directed to the Lord, it's disciplined, but it's determined. They were unrelenting. Nothing could stop them. Nothing was going to keep them from getting the gospel to every person they possibly could. They were very public about their faith. They were very passionate about their faith. Listen to Acts 21, verse 13. Then Paul answered, What mean ye to weep and to break my heart? Listen to this. For I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus. Paul said, I'll die before I lose my passion. I am when if me sharing the gospel with others costs me my life, so be it. I'll die for the Lord Jesus Christ. You talk about passion. Passion. They're stirred up. They're very public. They're very passionate. I don't have time for this. They were pure in their faith. They're pure in their faith. The world is not reached by a worldly crowd. The world's not going to be attracted to a church that's just like they are. There's nothing to offer. But a pure godly, pure in our doctrine, pure in our daily living. Pure. A preacher met a drunk on the streets late one night. Drunk came up to him. Said, hey Reverend, I'm one of your converts. You know what the preacher said? He said, you might be one of my converts, but you're not one of the Lord Jesus' converts. Good answer. Good answer. Faith in Jesus Christ will make a person pure. It'll change their life. It'll give them new direction, as we already said. They were public, they were passionate, they were pure. Put this down. They were plural. By that I mean they all worked together. There was no Lone Rangers. Paul had Barnabas. If Barnabas wasn't with him, he had Silas. They were out in groups. They worked together. The church doesn't function by one person. The church functions as a body. And the church needs every single member to be active and faithful and passionate and public in our faith if we're going to be a growing church. It's never just one person. It's never just one man. It's never just one person. It is uh they loved each other, they prayed with each other, they prayed for each other, they served together. They were very plural. And then the last one I had down, I don't I wish I had time to elaborate on these, but they had power in their faith. No doubt many of these men and women in the act the church in the book of Acts were very talented. No doubt many of them were very educated. Paul was a very educated man. They were very gifted naturally and many natural abilities, no doubt. But their natural abilities were not what produced growth in the church. It was the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit And I wish we had more time, and maybe we'll take another message. But you go through the book of Acts and you find this statement repeated over and over and over They were filled with the Holy Spirit. They were filled with the Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost. And we cannot serve God effectively and acceptably, except it be in the power of the Holy Spirit of God. How many people here would like for your pastor to be filled with the Holy Spirit of God? How many people say the preacher ought to be filled with the Holy Spirit of God? Amen. Both my hands are raised. The Holy Spirit of God, the filling of the Holy Spirit of God, is never exclusively for the pastor. It's for every single individual Christian. Should be filled and empowered by the Holy Spirit. I've often said there's no reason an 11-year-old boy or girl can't be filled with the Holy Spirit, just like the preacher behind the pulpit's filled with the Holy Spirit. Say, what does it mean to be filled with the Holy Spirit? It simply means that nothing spooky about it. It simply means that my will is yielded over to God, and God is speaking His word through me. And he is using me to influence other people for the gospel of Jesus Christ. I knew that was going to happen I'm telling you, it's sticky. The New Testament church attracted people and they stuck. And they stuck. I think there's a lot of churches in our country, around the world, no doubt. The Holy Spirit was completely removed. You never see a difference. They'd go right on. Their music might be loud. There may be hooping and hollering and carrying on amazing things, but you removed the Holy Spirit from them. Nothing would change. I wonder how many of our homes. If the Holy Spirit was removed, nothing would change. We're operating in the power of our own abilities. We're the kind of Christians that we can produce. We're living the Christianity that we can work up of our own, and we do not have the presence and power of God on our lives. And thus we don't see people saved. We don't see lives changed. We don't see an impact on the lives of others by the gospel of Jesus Christ. Acts 1. 8. And ye shall be witnesses unto me. And ye shall receive the power of the Holy Ghost, ye shall be witnesses unto me Both in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the world. When I'm filled with the Holy Spirit of God, the number one characteristic of my life will be sharing the gospel with other people. In a powerful, effective way. The church. People stuck, they are attracted to it, and they stuck. Let me ask, I ask myself this question. Is there anything about my life that attracts people to Jesus Christ? Is there anything about my commitment to Christ that attracts other people and say, you know, I'd like to be committed to Christ too? God challenged me. God challenged me. God will use us if we are serious about our faith in him If we are serious about our Christian life, God will use us. You say, preacher, I'm kind of old. I don't see any age limits on God using people who are serious about their Christian life. You say, preacher, I'm just a kid in school. I see no limitations in the Word of God on people whom God will use if they get serious about their Christian life. We're a track month. I can't think of hardly, I can think of just a few other things that are as biblical As what we're doing in track month. Taking the gospel to every single person we possibly can. Now we need God's hand on us. We need to take seriously our walk with God. And God will use us. If we're serious, let me ask you this. Do you know for sure? Think about this. Do you know for sure that when you die Your sins are completely forgiven, and that you will go to heaven and not to hell. If you don't know that for sure, if that's not settled, you really, really need to settle that. The Bible says that the reason God gave us the word is so that we can know that we have eternal life. So my question to some this morning is this, do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven and you're on the way to heaven? If not, you need to settle that. And God will help you. Let me ask you this. Now, those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, are you public about your faith? Or do you try and cover it up in high? We're just a little worried. Tell you what, God wants you to be public about it. God says, wear the ring. God says, introduce Jesus to others. Don't be ashamed of me. Are you passionate about it? Does your faith in Christ mean anything? Does it stir your heart to think that God might use me to bring other people to Christ? Is your faith in Christ, is it purifying your life? Or are we getting more and more worldly all the time? Or am I getting more like Christ? These were the characteristics of the New Testament church that attracted people to Christ and they stuck. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to take seriously. The message in the book of Acts and what the church was then and the folks that made it up and what the characteristics were of them. I pray you'd help us. In 2014 at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, help us to take our faith in you very seriously. I pray your Holy Spirit would stir our hearts to live for God, to witness for Christ. And to be strong and passionate about our Christianity. With heads bound and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved? There's no doubt about it. This morning God has stirred my heart and I want to be passionate about my faith in Christ. I want to be passionate about my Christianity. I want God to stir me and make me the kind of Give me the faith that those New Testament believers had. I can be public and see God working through me and using me to influence others. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. God has stirred my heart To be that kind of Christian, God bless you, hands all around. Now God wants to work in and through us more than we want to And if we'll put ourselves on the altar and say, here I am, God, I take my hands off, you take me and use me and fill me and lead me and direct me how you see fit, God will do great things. I'm convinced of that. Is there some this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I'm going to heaven? I can't honestly say that in my heart I'm confident that I have a home in heaven, I'm not going to hell when I die, but you are concerned about that And you'd say, Preacher, I'd appreciate when you pray for those other folks, pray for me also. That God will help me settle that in my heart, that I can know That my sins are forgiven, I'm going to heaven when I die. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't know I'm going to heaven when I die. I want to know that. I want to be sure. Any at all by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I am concerned. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven when I die. Pray for me that God will help me settle that. How about it? Any others? Any others? Father in heaven, you know our hearts God, you know where we're at spiritually. You know what our needs are, and we look to you now to help us to trust you and make those right decisions that we can be the people you intend for us to be, that our that our faith can be what you intend for us to be to be in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together heads up