I've used for the title of my message a little phrase from that verse, A Great Gulf. And so let's pray. Let's ask the Lord to uh speak to our hearts and ask the Lord to help us understand this here. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we come now to you this morning. We're very, very grateful for your blessings on us. We just had a week of thanksgiving And Lord, we've tried to deliberately and in an extra special way be express our gratitude to you and others for the goodness you've shown us. I pray now, as we look into your word, that this portion of Scripture would grip our hearts. I pray that you would open our minds and reveal to us the reality of this terrible truth. And how we should respond to it and uh what our what we need to do in our walk with you and our relationship with you. Father, I can't In and of myself, Lord, I have no ability to affect anybody spiritually. So I plead with you this morning that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would speak through me I present my body anew. I yield my will. And again I ask, Lord, with all my heart, that you'd fill me with your spirit and speak our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Some time ago I came across a study that was done, I believe it was the Economist magazine. I'm not real familiar with that. It's a business magazine. But uh they had one of their editors did a study, did some research, and they came up with the 80 worst countries to die in. The 80 worst countries to die in. They boiled it down. And the worst country in the world, they put it this way, the worst place to die in the world, the worst place to die in the world, according to this, and I think this was like 2015, somewhere around there, within recent years. The worst place in the die, oh, by the way, the way they determined this was the quality of health care, the quality of end-of-life care. We're familiar with hospice and their end-of-life care, um, the types of medications that are available to deal with pain and and the end-of-life issues. And they said their conclusion was of the 80 countries they had listed, the worst place to die in the world is was Iraq. I said Iraq was the worst place to die. Second place, worst place in the world was Bangladesh. The third, and this one surprised me a little bit, was the Philippines. according to them, uh Nigeria and Burma. They said the best place to die is England Because of they have such quality and advanced hospice care. In fact, I think hospice came out of England. I think that's where it originated. The worst place to die, Iraq. As soon as I read that. I determined they're wrong. There is a place worse than Iraq that a person can die. If you would turn with me to John, the Gospel of John. We're going to come back to Luke here, so keep your place, and we're going to go to a number of verses here this morning. But if you would turn to John chapter 8, And Jesus tells us where the worst place to die is. It's not Iraq, it's not Bangladesh, it's not the Philippines, it's not Burma, it's not Nigeria. John chapter 8, and if you would notice with me verse number 21. John 8, 21. Then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and ye shall see This next statement and shall die in your sins. Whither I go, you cannot come. Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? Because he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come? He said unto them, Ye are from beneath, I am from above. Ye are of this world. I am not of this world. I said therefore unto you that ye shall die in your sins. For if ye believe not that I am He, ye shall die in your sins. I want to suggest to you the worst place a person can die is to die in their sins. I put in the margin of my Bible there in John chapter 8, I put the worst thing in the world that can happen to a person is to die in my sins. Now, what does Jesus mean? When he says you will die in your sins. What was he talking about? What he meant, it's very simple. He simply meant that you're going to die with your sins unforgiven. To die with your sins unforgiven is the worst place in the world to die. It is the worst possible thing that can happen to a person is to die in their sins. Unforgiven. Unforgiven. For a little over thir twenty-three years now, I have tried very diligently, I've given myself to preach what I believe is what we call the whole counsel of God. I try very diligently, I've applied myself very diligently, I believe To try and preach everything that this Bible teaches about life and life hereafter. I've sought very hard, and I think folks here would testify, and I'm no doubt there others could do much better job than I could, and I'm I don't deny that at all. But as far as sincerity is concerned, as far as diligence is concerned, I've not shied away from any truth the Bible teaches because of how people may or may not receive it. I've tried very diligently to not preach something so that people would think highly of me. I've tried not to avoid subjects that are taught in the Bible because of how people may react. Um, I've tried to be very, very faithful. We've dealt with what the Bible teaches about issues in the area of uh abortion. And uh area of dishonesty and the issues of homosexuality. I don't even like using that word from the pulpit. But we've dealt with these things. Some are popular, some are not popular. When we first came, and occasionally I still do, take a little bit of heat, because I believe the Bible teaches very clearly that God has preserved his word. And I think it can be documented very clearly that God has preserved his word for the English people in the King James Bible. We've not shied away from that. And when I first came, I took a bit of heat for that from folks not so much in the church, but outside the church. But I believe it's true. I think it's pretty clear in Scripture We've preached that once a person is saved, they can never lose their salvation. It's called the eternal security of the believer. We've taken heat for that. I've been ridiculed out in the community a bit and uh got into issues with people, but uh the to me it is extremely clear in the scripture. What I'm trying to say is this I've tried not to, and I don't believe any preacher should shy away from Bible teaching because of what people may or may not say or do. We need to preach the whole counsel of God. If it's in the Word of God, it's true. It needs to be preached. We've tried to do that. Now, having said that, There's one truth that is given throughout the Word of God that is not a pleasant truth. It is not something that if I could choose, I would not choose to preach this subject because it's hard. Because it's unpleasant. And that is this the fact that there is a coming judgment. There is a coming judgment. Every man, woman, and child at some point in the future is going to stand before God, and we will have to give an account of ourselves to God. Now, if a person dies in their sins, as Jesus said, if they die without their sins forgiven, they will stand before God at what's called the great white throne judgment. That is not to determine whether they spend eternity in heaven or hell. That is to carry out the sentence and be cast in the lake of fire If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that Jesus Christ is your personal Savior, if you don't have the matter of your soul salvation settled. And you die in that condition, you will one day, the Bible's very, very clear, you will one day stand before the creator of all this universe, God Almighty, and give an account individually to God. For your rejection of Jesus Christ while you died in your sins. Those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, if you've been saved, you have the assurance that your sins are forgiven. You'll not stand at the great white throne judgment of God, but you and I will stand at the judgment seat of Christ. And that's for believers, not to determine whether we spend eternity in heaven or hell But determine our rewards, how we live for God, and the type of Christian life I lived. And though we end up in heaven and fine, nevertheless, it will be a time of judgment. So the Bible very clearly teaches that there's a coming in judgment, and along with that, the Bible very clearly teaches that there is a very real place called hell. Now that is the subject that disturbs me. That is the Bible teaching that I wish was not true. I wish there was no place called hell. But there is. The Bible makes it abundantly clear. And a person that dies in their sins is separated from God for all eternity in a very terrible place called hell. A very real place. Again, I wish it wasn't true. I wish I could somehow finagle around the Bible like some people try and come to the conclusion, no, that's not real. It's not an issue, you don't have to worry about it. But I can't do that. It's there. It's very, very clear. Some people, well, I'm going to go to the writings of man. I'm going to see what man says about the afterlife in heaven or hell. Listen, you can do that if you want, but I've found that man more often than not is wrong. Well, I'm going to go to my denomination's writings. I'm going to look at the writings of this denomination or that, whatever religious. I'm going to go to the religious world. I'm gonna look and see what the religious world says. You can do that if you want. You can listen to man and you can listen to man's religion. You can base your understanding of eternity, heaven, and hell on some documentary on TV You want. I mentioned recently and I have on occasion over the years a young man, one time I was talking to him about the Lord and about his soul and about where he's going to spend eternity. He says, and I referenced the Bible and And you've heard me say this a number of times, but I referenced the Bible. He says, I don't believe the Bible. I said, How do you come to that conclusion? What makes you think the Bible can't be believed? What are you basing your rejection of the Word of God on? What facts do you have? What knowledge do you have that suggests the Bible's not true? He goes, I saw a documentary on TV one time. I said, seriously? You're going to base your soul's destiny on a documentary on TV. I saw a documentary on TV that aliens live in New York City. Come on. Listen, you can listen to Hollywood if you want. You can base your eternal destiny on some Hollywood production. You can base it on some man's writing. You can base it on man's religion. You can go on the internet and Google it up and go by what Google says. You've got that right. You have that freedom to do that. I tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to go by God's word. The Bible, the preserved, perfect, inerrant word of God. The Bible tells us that hell is very real, and that it's a terrible, horrible place. Say, preacher, why would anybody want to preach on the hell? Why do we preach on hell? I'll tell you one, it's in the Bible. It's true, it's there, it's truth. Millions of people have been brought to salvation by the clear, bold preaching on the reality of hell. Millions of people revivals have come to churches and entire communities because a preacher stood up under the power of the God and of the being filled with the Holy Spirit and preached the reality of hell and God's Spirit would move on hearts and people would receive what God's Word says, and souls will be saved and lives will be changed and entire communities experience revival. Because of the spirit-filled preaching on hell, the reality of God's judgment. I'm of the opinion that America needs in this day and hour more than ever before. the preaching of the judgment, coming judgment of God. America needs to be warned of the reality of hell. I believe we live in a generation that needs to be reminded and pointed back to the Word of God that there is a place called hell and that Every single person that dies in their sins is separated from God for all eternity in a real terrible place called hell. Called hell. We have in the church here some smoke detectors. We have a security alarm and it picks up smoke detection over in the mission house and in our house we have smoke detectors I hate it when that thing goes off. That is the most annoying, irritating, unpleasant sound than I have ever heard in my life. Can I get a witness? Anybody here drives you nuts? You say, yeah, I know when my wife is cooking, the uh I would never say that, but I've heard other fellows say that. That detec that smoke detector drives you nuts and absolutely most irritating, I hate to hear that. I don't want to hear it. But how many folks are glad when that thing goes off and saves your family and your life and your family's lives from fire hits that place? Say what, we don't like it. We don't enjoy it at all, but we're very, very grateful that we know that it's there and that the warning comes. That's kind of the way I view preaching on hell. It's not pleasant. Nobody ever says, oh, that's a wonderful truth. Nobody thinks that. But I tell you, when a soul gets saved, it's thank God. I was warned about the reality of hell. I was warned about the reality of hell. Um, God's warnings on hell. When God warns us about hell, We must not ignore that warning. We must not neglect the statements all through Scripture that tell us of a very, very real place called hell. If hell is real and the Bible's clear it is, one of the worst things we can do is ignore that. Ignore that. Patient goes to the doctor. I was talking to Ms. Mongold. She saw the doctor this week. And suppose a patient goes to a doctor. The doctor sees maybe on the brain or somewhere a tumor. And he sees that that tumor is cancerous and he knows that. What if he knows it's there? It's going to kill this person unless some action is taken. He knows where this is going to end up. But he's afraid of how that person will react if he tells them. So he makes a conscious decision I will not tell them about their condition because it will upset them. How many people would have zero respect for that doctor? I would. I would if I'm not well, I want to know that I want the doctor, I want the doctor to tell me the truth. And you and I as Human beings, we need God to tell us the truth. Is there a hell? Is there any chance in the world? that I will end up in hell? And if so, what do I need to do to correct that so I do not go to hell? So what I'm saying is this, one of the worst things a person can do is to neglect or ignore the Bible's teaching about hell. And pay attention to that and respond to it. And as Christians, how many folks here this morning? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. Amen. I trust that's true. I hope that you genuinely know Jesus Christ as Savior. If we know Jesus Christ, our personal Savior, one of the worst things we can do as Christians is fail to tell others about the reality of that place, is to neglect warning others To just let people go on in unbelief, just let people go on and live and die and end up in hell and never speak a word of warning, never say a word to them about what needs to be done to escape hell. One of the worst things we can do is make a, as Christians, is to make a half-hearted effort to win the lost. Or worse yet, make no effort. To try and win the lost and tell them of Christ. We read here in the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and here in Luke, we find Jesus. Jesus Christ is God's love personified. Jesus Christ is the greatest expression of love for mankind that there ever has been. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Listen, there's no doubt God loves us. He said in Jeremiah he says, I have loved thee with an everlasting love. God loves us dearly. Jesus Christ came to earth because of God's love for us so that He could save us from hell. God loves us dearly. So here we have Jesus Christ, the love of God personified. And yet we find coming from his lips some of the strongest warnings about hell in all of Scripture. In fact, I'll suggest to you, there's no one else in Scripture that preached as hard about hell as Jesus Christ himself did He said, oh, Jesus is love. Jesus is all. Love your brother. Love, love, love. Yes, he is. Absolutely. He loves us dearly. And because he loves us He gives very very clear very very strong warnings about hell. lips of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Jesus preached some of the most terrifying messages on hell. Let's look at a few of them just quickly, if you would Turn with me to Matthew chapter number 13, and these are just a sprinkling. I'm just going to give a few of the places where Jesus Christ preached preached uh hard on the reality of hell, warning people with all his ability humanly speaking, warning them of hell. Notice Matthew chapter 13, and again we're just going to look at a couple of these. First book of the New Testament, Matthew chapter 13. Look at it with me if you would at verse number 41. Matthew 13, verse 41. The Son of Man, Jesus Christ, shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom All things that offend, and them which do iniquity, look at this, and shall cast them into a furnace of fire. And there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. He says, those who are in their sins at the judgment, those who are unsafe. are going to end up in what he calls a furnace of fire with wailing and gnashing of teeth. Come over to verse number 49 with me, if you would. Same chapter. Just down a few verses. Again, Jesus speaking, and he says, So shall it be at the end of the world. The angels shall come forth and sever the wicked from among the just. That would be the unsaved from the saved. And shall cast them in a furnace of fire, and there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Jesus saith unto them, Have you understood all these things? And they said unto me, yea, Lord. And uh uh uh he says, Do you understand what I'm saying? Do you understand the gravity of this situation? Do you grasp how serious this is? If you die in your sins, You're going to end up in this place. Come with me, if you would, over to the book of Mark, Matthew Mark, chapter number nine. And again, these statements are repeated throughout the Gospels. Mark chapter nine and verse number forty three Again, this is from the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 43, and if thy hand offend thee, cut it off. It is better for thee to enter into life maimed than having two hands to go into hell, into the fire that is never the fire that shall That never shall be quenched, where the worm dieth not, the fire is not quenched. And as thy foot offend thee, cut it off. It is better for thee to enter halt into life than having two feet to be cast into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched. Where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. And if thy eye offend thee, pluck it out. It is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye. than having two eyes to be cast into hellfire, where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. Wow. Would you agree with me? Jesus takes this reality of hell very, very seriously. This is not a joke to him. Hell to Jesus Christ was not just a cuss word. It was not something that we just flippantly tell people to go to. It's not just a word to use as an expression, just a surprise, or just as some sort of uh cuss word. To Jesus Christ, this place called hell was a ve is a very, very real place. That Jesus, in the strongest of terms, warned people that they need to do whatever is necessary to make sure they do not end up in hell. Now, I always try to point out whenever we reference this passage here that when Jesus says if your right hand offend thee, cut it off, it's better to go to heaven with one arm than to hell with two, and he says about the front in your right eye He's not saying, it's obvious that that probably doesn't need to be said, but the Lord is not saying that we need to chop our arm off or our foot or pull our eye out. in order to get to heaven. That's not what he's saying. The intent is very clear. What he is saying is this is that whatever it takes to avoid going to hell, you and I ought to be willing to do it. Even if it means losing limbs. If hell is what Jesus and the Bible says it is, then he is absolutely right. It is better to go to heaven with one arm than to hell with two. It's better to go to heaven with one foot than it is to hell with two. It's better to go to heaven with one eye than it is to end up in hell with two. He's not saying pull your eye out, cut your hand off, cut your foot off. He's saying hell is so horrible, it is so terrible, it is so horrific, whatever it takes to avoid it, you must be willing to do that. Hell. This is Jesus Christ, the love of God personified, warning us of this. If hell is real, and it is, exactly as the Bible says, it would have been the opposite of love for the Lord not to warn us of hell. So hell. I see you say, well, does God send people to hell? I was Down in when I was in Bible college, and I've referenced this a number of times over the years, my good friend Randy Miller and I, he was driving, he was loaded, I was broke, so he was driving, I was riding his car We pulled up to a stoplight and um this lady comes up and she's knocking. I'm in the passenger side, he's here, she's knocking on the passenger side door, and her hair is all disheveled and Uh it looked like what we would call a homeless person now. And uh she's banging, banging on the window, and so I rolled the window down. She goes, Can you help me? Can you help me? I need to ride up here really, really quick. Can you please help me And we're like, uh yeah, whatever. So I crawled between the seats into the back seat and she jumped up in the front seat and we're driving And Randy starts witnessing to her and talked about that we're sinners and she seemed to be agree with that and went on. And anyway, he got to the point where if we die in our sins, if we don't find forgiveness of our sins, we spend eternity in hell And this gal went ballistic. And she started hollering at him and looking back at me. I said, I'm just sitting here, I don't know. And I mean she's going nuts, and she's saying, God would never send anybody to hell. God would never send anybody to hell. God is too good. God is love. God would never send anybody to When she calmed down, we both assured her, you're right. God does not send people to hell. God does everything he possibly can to keep people out of hell. I only find two people in the Bible that God sends to hell. One is the fallen angels. 2 Peter, the Bible says that God casts them down into hell. And the other is the devil himself. In Isaiah 14, the Bible says God sent the devil to hell. In fact, Matthew tells us that hell was created for the devil and his angels. It wasn't made for you and I. When Satan deceived Adam and Eve, and they disobeyed God and introduced sin into the world, we brought the judgment of God upon ourselves. And the result of that is hell. And from that very moment, the very first thing God did when man sinned against God, the very first thing God did He stepped in to restore that relationship so that man could escape ending up in hell, did not have to end up there. So, does God send people to hell? No, He doesn't send people to hell. He does everything He can to keep us out. The only people, as I said, that I find in the Bible that God sends to hell are the fallen angels. And Satan himself. Now, if you would come back to Luke chapter 16. I was reading this some time ago in that phrase, a great golf. Kind of caught my attention. A great gulf. Verse 26, and besides all this, this is the rich man is in hell. And he's addressing Father Abraham in the Lazarus in paradise in Abraham's bosom. Now he's in heaven. He says, besides all this, between us and you there is this there is a great gulf fixed, so that they which would pass from thence to you cannot. In other words, the people that are here on this side Cannot go down to where you are, rich man, in hell. And those that are in hell, they cannot pass from where you are up to here. There is a great gulf fixed. Now I want to give you real quickly, I just have a few minutes, but I want to give you real quickly just a few observations about hell. I wish this was not true. I enjoy preaching messages that are that kind of uplift and are encouraging and all of that type of thing, but this is a very real fact. And needs to be addressed. Four observations. Number one, this is my first observation. Again, I'll try and do this very quickly. Number one, there is only one reason people go to hell. There is only one reason people go to hell, and that is this, by not trusting Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. The only people, human beings, that end up in hell are those that do not trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. I want to suggest this to you: nobody goes to hell because they're a sinner. If if people went to hell because they were sinners, then everybody would end up in hell For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There's none righteous, no not good not one. So if you're here and you say, you know, if I don't sin, if I can somehow end up not sinning Then I won't go to hell. No, no, no. Uh uh that's not that's not it at all. Sin is not the factor on whether a person goes to hell or not, because we're all sinners. In fact, Jesus says he came to save sinners You're here this morning and you've ever broken God's law. If you're here this morning and you've ever told a lie, you've ever had a lustful thought, you've ever been covetous, you've ever taken the Lord's name in vain If you've ever stolen something, if you've not loved God with all your heart, if you are a sinner, you're a candidate for salvation from hell. They didn't come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. So nobody goes to hell because they're a sinner. People go to hell because they do not accept the salvation from their sins, the person, the Lord Jesus Christ. If you would, keep your place here. Come over to John I've got a couple verses I'd like for you to see. John chapter 3. Now this is the famous passage where Nicodemus comes the Lord Jesus Christ by night. And he kind of makes some statements. He obviously respects the Lord Jesus. He may not fully grasp who all he is. He says, uh He says, thou art obviously come from God. No man can do the things thou doest except God be with him. And so he recognizes something unique about Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ cuts to the chase and he says, Nicodemus, you must be born again. You've been born physically, you have physical life, but spiritually you are dead. Spiritually, you are in your sins. You need your sins forgiven. You need spiritual life given to you. Then he comes down to verse 16, John 3. 16. He says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, whosoever believeth in him should not perish. Die and go to hell But of everlasting life. He is introducing the fact that a person is saved from hell, avoids perishing in hell by putting their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Now, look at verse number 18, is what I'm getting to. John chapter 3 and verse number 18, look what he says. He that believeth on him is not condemned, not condemned to hell. But he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. The moment I make the decision to accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, God's condemnation, God's judgment, my uh being doomed to hell is removed. And I'm no longer condemned, I'm forgiven. But notice what he says, but he that believeth not is condemned already. Because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. If you're under the sound of my voice, if you're here, you hear me preaching. And you have never personally accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, the Bible is very, very clear. You are right now. Under the condemnation of God, under the judgment of God. It's not that someday I'm going to be condemned and sent to hell. No, you're already under it. Look at verse 36. He reiterates that John 3. 36, he that believeth on the Son hath what? Everlasting life. That's eternity in the presence of God in heaven. And he that believeth not the Son of God shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. The determining factor on whether a person has everlasting life and goes to heaven or whether that person is under the judgment of God and spends eternity in hell, the determining factor is believing on the Lord Jesus Christ. That is not simply just acknowledging that Jesus exists, not just having head fats. But the word believe there means to put my trust in, to be relying on, depending upon Jesus Christ to forgive my sins and take me to heaven. I'm trusting him. I'm resting him. I'm depending on him. I've put it into his hands. The forgiveness of my sins and my soul's destiny. That's what the word believe means. And so there's one reason and one reason alone. Why a person ends up in hell, it's not it's because they do not trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Second observation about hell, I put down, I put this. And this is back in Luke chapter 16 again. Not only is there one reason and one reason only why people go to hell by not trusting Jesus Christ Savior, number two, the lost go to hell, an unsaved person goes to hell the moment they die. Immediately upon death. If you notice here, it says verse 22, it came to pass that the beggar died. And was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. That's Lazarus. He dies. He goes immediately into what's called Abraham's bosom. He's in heaven today. And look at the next statement. And the rich man also died and was buried. Look at the verse 23. And in hell, he lifted up his eyes. The Catholic Church, and I'm not trying to be disrespectful, I'm not trying to ridicule or or do anything, I'm just trying to be true and honest. The Catholic Church teaches that a person dies in certain circumstances, they go to a place called purgatory. I've read that book through, going on 37 times. At the end of this year, be the 37th time I've read the Bible from Genesis to Revelation. I'm telling you, there is not one place in that book that talks about purgatory. It is not implied, it is not taught, in fact, the very opposite of it is taught, that is an invention of man, it is not the truth. There is no purgatory. There is no second chance, this idea that you go into this temporary place where you pay for your sins and suffering, then after several thousand years you eventually get out if your family gives enough. To me this t listen, I'm not trying to be disrespectful, but let's just be honest. That sounds like the biggest scam that's ever been played If you give enough money, then your grandfather will get out of purgatory and go to heaven. Listen, our God is not a scam artist. Our God doesn't play games with souls. It's not dollars and nickels. Uh have nothing to do with a man's eternal destiny. There's no purgatory. Um there is no soul sleep. Some churches teach that when you die you go into what they call soul sleep and your soul just kind of goes into a spiritual comatose state and stays inside your body and until the resurrection it's brought up and then one or the other. I've read that like I said, I've read this thing through thirty-seven times. It ain't in there. Doesn't teach that. The moment a believer dies, absent from the body, present with the Lord. And the moment an unbeliever dies in their sin, unforgiven That moment they die, they wake up with their eyes in hell. In hell. Immediately. By the way, there is no reincarnation. You ever talk to these folks that believe in reincarnation? They'll say, Oh, in a past life I was a great Egyptian queen. You know, it's always some amazing thing. How come they were not a goat? You know, in Egypt somewhere. They're always some amazing thing. You know what that is? It's a figment of the imagination. It's not truth. It's not truth. There are a lot of people in hell that believe that Jesus died for their sins. They believe that fact. They knew that was true. There's a lot of people who end up in hell that knew they needed to be saved. There's a lot of people in hell that were going to get saved someday. That day never came. And they died before they ever made that decision. One of the worst things an unsaved person can do is to put off their salvation to another day. That you are playing Russian roulette with your eternal soul. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, God said. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Today is the day of salvation. It's no promise of tomorrow. There's no promise that we had the rest of the day. Somebody said the best time to get saved was 20 years ago. The second best time to get saved is today. Don't delay. Don't delay. If you're here this morning, you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior. The best thing you can do, you and I can do, is make sure that and trust Jesus Christ today. Don't put it off. Don't put it off A person that dies in their sins goes immediately to hell upon death. So there's one reason and one reason only, people go to hell. It's by not trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. Number two, the lost go to hell immediately upon death. Immediately upon death, the worst thing a person can do is put off that salvation. I was asked shortly after I was here as pastor, I may have been here two or three years at the most. And one of the folks in the church said, I got a family member that had a severe heart attack. They are very, very ill. They're not sure they're going to make it They're down in the ICU unit, down in um um uh what was the hospital in Kaiser? I don't think it's there anymore. It used to be right on the main road. Potomac Potomac Hospital was called. And uh just a little hospital, if any of you been there, just and they said they're in the ICU unit. Would you please go down? They're unsaved. Preacher, they gotta get saved. Preacher, you gotta win them to the Lord. I said, Well, I'll do what I can. And I went rushing down there and went in and the Ice Union, it was just a little small thing almost right when you go in the door. And um uh and so I went in there and I told them and they said, well there's not really visitors allowed in. I said, I'm there past I'm a pastor, and say I'm their pastor. I said, I'm a pastor. I was asked the visum, is there any way? They said, We'll get you in there. So a few minutes they came and then they brought me back. And the guy was alert, he was awake Came up and introduced myself. He says, I know who you are. And I told him the family beverage. He says, yes, yes, that's my family. And I said, they asked me to come by and visit. And I said, sir, I would like to show you from the Bible how you can be saved. And know for sure you go to heaven and not to hell. He said that'd be fine. Tubes, everything all over them. So I got my little Bible out. I went through what the Bible says, how to be saved, that we're all sinners. The wages of our sin is death, separation from God in hell, and I spoke to him pretty frankly and bluntly about hell. I told him that God loved him so much, so dearly, God did not want him to go to hell That Jesus Christ suffered hell for him and took the condemnation and judgment for his sins on himself, and Jesus suffered that and died, was buried, and rose again, paid for all his sin for him. That God would not save him against his will. It was up to him. He could accept what Christ did for him. He could reject it. And I said, sir, won't you pray with me now and call on the Lord and trust Jesus as your Savior? And he made this statement. He says, No, I'll not do that yet. I said, um, you don't understand. And I went briefly through it again. He goes, I understand, I understand all that. I know that's true. And he said this with tubes You know, with his heart, just a massive heart, and I'm not expecting to live. He made this statement. I'm just not ready yet And I didn't say exactly these words. I was trying to be a little more tactful, but I said, basically, you've got to be kidding me What more has to happen for you to be ready to escape hell? And trust Christ. And you know, I never could win that man to Christ. He's passed away many, many years ago. Now, I hope and pray that something I said, something other family may have witnessed to him, the prayers of God's people, I hope and pray that he made the decision to trust Christ. before his heart quit beating that last time. But if he did not, the horrific truth is that man is now in hell. And he did not have to be. He did not have to be. It's only one reason people go to hell, it's not trusting Christ as Savior. Bible's clear. People go to hell the moment they die. If they're unsaved, if they're still in their sins, the moment that heart quits beating, they wake up in hell. Here's my third observation real quickly. And this is what I get here from Luke chapter 16, especially. But you and uh a person in hell is the same person they were here on earth. The exact same person. Now we don't have time, I wish I had more time to develop this, but you look here, this rich man is the same rich man in hell he was on earth. You if you die, if you're here this morning, you're not saved, and you don't get saved, and you end up hell, you will be the same person in hell you were here. Same identity. You'll have the same name. You have the same characteristics about yourself you do here. In fact, those that go to heaven, we carry the same characteristics. When Peter was on the Mount of Transfiguration, he saw He saw Moses and them. They were identified as the person they were. Person in hell has the same identity in hell they do here. I noticed here that he was able to remember. Abraham said, Remember. Now in my lifetime had good things. That tells me that a person in hell is the same person on earth. They have the same identity. They have the same memories. This guy in hell could remember Lazarus outside his gates. He could remember the people that would come by and bid him. He could remember the luxury he lived in. I suggest to you, by implication here, that a person in hell remembers their opportunities to be saved. I believe a person in hell will remember every time that church member from Mountain Lake knocked on their door and said, We'd just like to take a minute and show you how to be saved. And they said, No! And in hell remembering there was my chance. I think it's pretty clear a person Unsaved person comes to a church like ours and hears a salvation message on the importance, the urgency of being saved, and walk out and say, No, I'll not trust Christ And for all eternity in hell, remembering that opportunity I had not to be here. The gospel tracts that were handed, the billboards that were seen The radio station spun by. Person in hell is the same person they were on earth, same identity, same memory, same desires. I thought this was interesting. I just I never noticed this before until preparing this message. But he said in verse 24, this rich man in hell says Father Abraham Have mercy on me, send Lazarus, they may dip the tip of his finger. Why is he saying send Lazarus? Why does he just say is there some way I can get some more? He says, Send Lazarus to come, send Lazarus to come and serve me. I want Lazarus to do stuff for me. I think this rich guy was so used to being served by other people. That in hell, that desire, that selfish desire to have other people do stuff for me was still there, but it was unfulfilled. He had that mentality of other people doing things for me that I could do myself, and in hell. He still has that mentality, but it's unfulfilled. Unfulfilled. Revelation suggests that even our wicked desires are carried into hell. He that is unjust, the Bible says In other words, the sinful desires that we had here, a person in hell still has them. That craving, that That wicked, base desires of our sinful nature are still there, but never fulfilled. The drunkards longing for liquor The perverts longing for perverse sensual pleasures, all that still there, but unfulfilled, the frustration Of eternity of unfulfilled desires. I see, one observation I make is the person in hell is the same person they were here on earth. And then last of all, I am with this, and this is where I got my message title from. There are no visitors to hell, and there are no escapees from hell. Lord says, I can't send Lazarus down there. There's a great gulf. And nobody from here can go down there, and nobody from there can come up here. No visitors, no escape. That term great gulf, I got looking it up, and it has this idea: an immeasurable, an impassable, immense chasm. There is such an expanse that it is impossible to pass across. Now, mankind is pretty ingenious And we've learned how to span gulfs pretty good. Early on in our history, we figured out how to build bridges to get from one side of a river to the other. You know, that was an issue years ago. To get across a river, that often happen well, you never notice the boundaries of countries and the boundaries of states are rivers? Why? Because they're many times impassable But man figured out how to build a bridge. And we can pass that. Then you have these big canyons. And I tell you, some of the bridges across canyons that man has built are amazing. And we're able to get from one side of a canyon to another. The new river gorge down. Anybody ever go across that bridge? What an amazing expanse that is. What a work of engineering and technology to build that thing. It's incredible. We've learned how to cross not just rivers and canyons. We figured out early on how to cross oceans. In 1492, Columbus sailed the ocean blue. He came across here. Now we I mean it's nothing. We fly planes across it. We've even learned, we've even figured out how to cross the k the gulf between Earth and the Moon We've got a guy up on the moon. Not right now, but he's been there. We've got robots on Mars. But I'm telling you this: there's one gulf that man never has and never will cross. That is the cross between heaven and hell. That gulf, that chasm. Person ends up in hell. Nobody comes visiting from the church to give them another chance to be saved. A young person rejects the gospel that their mommy and daddy tried so hard to instill in them and get them to receive, and they harden their neck and they say, No! And that young person ends up in hell. Mama never shows up with a little Bible and a prayer and says, here, let me show you how to be saved. We'll get you out of here. That never happens. The preacher never comes by to the lost man in hell and says, Listen, let me show you again how to be saved so we can get you out of here. It never happens. No saints show up in hell and trying to win the loss of Christ No passage out of hell. This is the thing that bothers me the most about hell. This is the thing that really, really bothers me. Fire, and we didn't even talk about that. The darkness, the torments of hell, of an absence of God, absence of everything good, and all that goes along with that. Somebody said, is that literal fire? I see no reason Jesus presented as literal fire. There's no reason to suggest it's anything other than that. And the fire and the darkness and the worm and the torment, all that I can see. But this is what bothers me. It never stops. Person ends up in hell. It is forever. Ever. It never ends. The torment and the darkness, it never ends. That is the person's existence for eternity. Man, how can that even be? I think the worst thing about hell is this the hopelessness of it. The hopelessness, never getting out. The fire and torment, if it's a thousand years, ten thousand years, as horrific as that is, but there's a little bit of hope that someday I'm getting out of this But hell, there's no hope. There's no hope. I don't like I don't like hell. I wish it wasn't true. But it is. It is. I think the closest thing to hell on earth is hopelessness. Hopelessness. Fact of the matter is, as long as we're still on earth, it's not hopeless. You're here this morning and you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, you're in dire straits. You are existing on the very mercy and grace of God that your heart's still beating. And with all my heart and every Ability I have, I plead with you, trust Jesus Christ as your Savior today. Settle that. Don't neglect it. Don't delay it. Trust Christ today. If you and I are saved, what in the world else would we give ourselves to other than trying to get as many people to Christ as we possibly can? If this is true, what else matters? If this is true, what's more important in the world than getting the gospel to every lost person? I was up in Elk Garden, not this past track month, not this past April, but the April before. I was up there, just took an afternoon. I was just giving out gospel tracts. I really wasn't even in engaging people too much with the gospel. I was just kind of giving out as many tracts as I could and I'd talk to them if the opportunity was there. And what's com well kind of winding down, I I came up to a little kind of a trailer house and there was stuff laying around, beer cans and different things around and the guy came out and I said, Hey, I'm Pastor Leatherman down in Oakland, so I'm giving out these little gospel tracts and I handed him one and we got talking a little bit. I said you go to church anywhere. When I was a kid, I went somewhere, I don't remember where. We got talking. I said, uh I said, well church is important, but I said more important than that is knowing for sure that when you die you go to heaven, not to hell I said, you ever think about that? He goes, yeah, I think about that sometime. And I think he said I'm 78, 79 years old. He was kind of a scraggly. He looked like Pa Kettle, kind of Except very old. And um anyway, I got talking to him and I said, let me show you from the Bible how to be saved. I got my Bible out, and he stood there on his porch, and I went through the plan of salvation. And he agreed with me that he needed to be saved. You know what he said? Now, I know I need to be saved, but I don't want to do it. I said, come on, man. You know, I could not win that man to Christ. And I made this statement to him. I said, sir, you don't have much time left. Understand the dire situation you're in. Because I know, I know, but I'm not going to do it. And that old bird never, as far as I know, didn't trust Christ. Knowing what he knew and saying no. That to me, and I don't want to be unkind, but that to me is the definition of a fool Fool. Fool. There is nothing in this world, and there is no person in this world that is worth going to hell for. Nothing Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, you made this very clear. The reality of hell and heaven, the importance of our soul's salvation. Lord, I feel so inadequate to try and effectively warn people and teach this, but your Holy Spirit can make up, Lord, for where I fall short. I pray that every one of us would give a sober evaluation of our spiritual well-being and where we're at. I pray that every person in the sound of my voice that's not saved, my prayer is that today they would trust Christ as Savior and get that settled. And those of us that know you, I pray you'd help us to give ourselves anew, to win as many people to Christ as we possibly can. Make that a high priority. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I'm saved? There's no doubt about it. I know that that's settled. I know God has forgiven my sins. I've trusted Christ as my personal Savior. But you'd say this, Preacher By God's grace, I want to give myself anew to witness to as many people as I possibly can and share the gospel as clearly and as effectively as I possibly can. I want to make that a high priority in my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher As a Christian, a saved man, a saved woman, I want to give myself to win others to salvation, win others Christ. God bless you, hands all around. How many would say, preacher, there's someone as you're preaching this, there is an individual person heavy, heavy on my heart. And as you're preaching, I'm thinking of them and they're on my heart. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that this dear person would be saved, that I could do what I can. Anything like that. Maybe it's a family member, a friend, a co-worker, a neighbor, somebody heavy on your heart, they're unsaved. God bless you, hands all around. Let me ask this, is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved? I can't say that I know for sure that God has forgiven my sins. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me, that I can get that settled. That I can know for sure that my sins are forgiven. When I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure about where I spend eternity. I want to settle that. Any at all? Just lift it up. Preacher, pray for me. This is important. I'm concerned about it. Any at all? Any at all? Now Father in heaven, you know our hearts. I've seen hands, you know our hearts. So please bless our invitation. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation.