Eleven. How many people have ever been to our baby day service here at Mountain Lake? Anybody ever been to our baby day, our little baby pray? We always have a uh time prayer dedication. We're really not dedicating the babies to the Lord, you know. What we do is dedicate the parents in the home to raise the children for the Lord. But um a family was at church and they had a baby dedication, so to speak. They were driving home and the boy, the one boy, was just sobbing uncontrollably And they said, son, what in the world is wrong? Why are you so upset? He goes, that preacher, he prayed that we would have a Christian family, and I want to stay here with you. Ouch. So I hope you have a Christian family. Matthew chapter 11. I would like for us to read verse 25. I'm sorry, verse 28, 29, and 30, together in unison. I'd like for all of us to read that together. So if you have it there I'd like for you to read it with me. Does everybody have it? Let's begin reading in verse number 28, altogether. Here we go. Ready? Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. I want to speak this morning a great promise for a new year and beyond. Let's pray together. Father, I ask your blessing now on our time in your word, that you would challenge us and help us, encourage and direct us. Lord, maybe some of us need some conviction. We need you just to confront some issues in our lives. Lord, I have no doubt that some folks just need some encouragement this morning. I pray you'd use your word to remind us again, dear Lord, of your great love for us, your plan for our lives, and the resources that we have available as Christians for our heart and soul. Lord, I yield my will to you as best I know how. I present my body anew this hour. I ask you with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit And that you would speak through me and be our preacher this morning. Give us open hearts and minds. Help us to respond in faith to what your word teaches us. And we'll give you the glory for all you do in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. How many people here ever heard of Tattoo, the Bassett Hound? Over here, Tattoo the Bassett Hound. He was down in Tampa, Florida, or I'm sorry, Tacoma, Washington. And um Tattoo the Bassett Hound went, I'll just I'll just give you the account. He went for an unplanned ride. When his owners inadvertently shut one end of his leash into the car door Tattoo, the Basset Hound, was on the other end of the leash outside the car door. They inadvertently did it. They hopped in the car, began driving down the road. Just so happened. This is a true story. There's a newspaper account, and if it's in the newspaper, it has to be true Anyway, the they pulled out the driveway, and they're driving down the road. Tattoo on one end of the leash, the other end in the car. They don't know it. A policeman happened to be going by on his motorcycle, police motorcycle, and he saw something Behind this car, dragging behind this car. And he sped up to get there to see what was going on. And he saw what it was, and he put the lights on and pulled the car over. He finally stopped him And um he says, hey, you've got a dog dragging out the backside, the back of your uh uh car here And of course the owners went crazy. Oh no, tattoo! They jumped out and went running back and uh lo and behold tattoo was just fine. A little wore out, his legs running as fast as they could But Tattoo was fine. The reason I reference Tattoo the Bassett Hound is, I don't know about you, but sometimes I feel like I'm on the end of a leash behind a car driving down the road and I'm doing everything I possibly can just to keep up with life. Anyone know what I'm talking about? It's like you lose control And it's just I'm being drugged around. That's the way tattoo was. The Lord tells us here in this passage, he says, if you'll come to me If you labor in a heavy laden, you feel like life is overwhelming, you're being dragged around by life, you'll come to me, I'll give you rest. I'll give you rest. So I was looking at this passage, I thought about Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve made that fateful decision. To disobey God. By the way, Adam and Eve in Genesis chapter 2 and 3 there, that's not a story. That's a historical account of an actual event. Adam and Eve made the terrible, terrible decision to disobey God. They had no doubt tens, maybe hundreds of thousands of trees and fruit that they could freely enjoy And of all of those, God said, one, do not eat. And we know what happened, right? They ate of that one. And as a result of that, the moment Adam and Eve, and I like to try and picture in my mind how this played out, and of course we weren't there, and the Bible doesn't give us a lot of details. But I picture in the moment that Adam and Eve pulled that fruit from the tree, which was not an apple, pulled that fruit from the tree, the moment They bit into that thing, and the moment they disobeyed God, that split second, they died spiritually. They died spiritually Would they feel that? Did they sense a sudden emptiness Did they did they and all and sense a spiritual death within them? I don't know I know it took place. And there was a fundamental change took place in their very nature God had told them, the day you eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. Now that death included physical death, which eventually came about, but what God was referencing was spiritual death. Their connection with God died. Their spiritual life, which is found in the Lord, was severed. And they died. And a consequence of that spiritual death, that consequence of sin that has now entered human experience was guilt. I don't know about you, and we all know what it means to feel guilty, right? Can I get a witness? We all know what that is. Guilt is one of the heaviest burdens a person can carry. Even the world recognizes that. Guilt. Shame. Ow, which once they were innocent, they were pure, they were connected to God. They had spiritual life. Now that's gone. Now there's this guilt. I've disobeyed my God. Now there's shame. I'm telling you, shame is a heavy, heavy burden to bear. Shame. So they have guilt, they have shame. Now they're experiencing fear. I'm telling you, fear will destroy a life Guilt, shame, fear. And we find Adam and Eve trying to deal with this Burden that they now have. Deal with this situation they find themselves in. Deal with this uh uh uh uh condition they're in. They're trying to deal with it and they're grabbing for straws and they're scared of God now And they're ashamed of their condition, and guilt is weighing heavy on them. The only thing Adam can come up with, the only thing Adam can Solution he can find to his situation is to get some leaves and make some aprons and try and cover our shame and we'll hide from God And man's efforts to cover up shame, and man's efforts to eliminate guilt always come short. And their aprons didn't accomplish the goal. Their aprons did not, let me fit it into our context of our message, their aprons did not bring them rest. There was turmoil there, there was fear there, there was guilt, this burden. They were heavy laden with their condition. Well, we know what happened. God shows up, he comes through the garden. Adam and Eve, where are you? Adam's, and I'm not quoting this verbatim, but Adam says basically we're hiding. Why are you hiding? We're ashamed. Why are you ashamed? Did you eat of the fruit? Adam does what all guys do. The woman you gave me, it's her fault. And I can relate to that. But um My wife's not in here, praise the Lord. So So Adam he responds and says, She did, and Eve says, the serpent God says, I'll take care of this. I think it's fascinating, and this dawned on me this summer when we were going through our look, last summer we were going through our series on knowing God. Remember that? And it dawned on me as we were studying through there, God loved Adam so much, and Eve so much, that the very first thing God did When they disobey God and that relationship was severed, and now Adam is in the spiritual dead, he's spiritually dead, he's in spiritual darkness, he's heavy laden with his guilt. and shame. The very first thing God does is comes down and does, puts everything in place to restore that relationship. Isn't that an amazing thing? God didn't push them aside. God didn't say, well, you're just going to have to deal with it for a little while. Well, I just want you to sit in a corner and think about what you've done. God doesn't do any of that. God immediately comes down, puts things in place to restore his relationship with Adam and Eve. Why? Because he loved them. He didn't want them to be heavy laden. And one day they weren't designed to carry guilt. They weren't designed mentally. He didn't create us. Mentally and spiritually and psychologically and physically, we're not created to be heavy laden with guilt and shame and fear and worry. And it destroys us. And when we have that load in our hearts and minds, and our soul is so weighed down with these things, it takes its toll on us. Mentally and even physically, it affects us. We're not created to be that way. And so God comes down and And in so many words, and I'm saying this to fit it in perhaps with the context of our text, but in so many words, the Lord God Jehovah says to Adam and Eve, Come unto me. You're laboring, trying to deal with your situation, your condition, you're heavy laden. Come unto me. I'll give you rest. God, of course, we know the events, what took place. God killed the Bible doesn't say what the animal was. I'm convinced in my mind it was a lamb. God killed a lamb or lambs. They died because Adam and Eve sinned, took their skins, and he made coats for them. As I said before, all our efforts, all man's efforts to try and deal with guilt and shame and fear Emptiness, spiritual death, all our efforts to deal with that always come up short. They're just aprons. God wants to give us coats God wants us to have rest. God says we'll deal with the very heart of the matter. The ways of sin is death. The lambs will die as a covering. So ultimately the Lamb of God comes and dies, and I'll give you rest. Jesus says, come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. I mentioned that we are not designed to carry that load of guilt, heavy laden. The phrase heavy laden, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but the phrase heavy laden actually has this idea to be overloaded. Do I have any sailors here? Anybody here, sailors? On a boat, there is, I'm told, I don't know this from experience, but I'm told that on a boat they have what's called a water line. Anybody familiar with what I'm talking about? A water line. It's designed, it's put there by the folks that designed the ship. And that water line is an indicator. Are you listening, young people? That water line is an indicator. As to how much load that ship can carry before it becomes overloaded and it becomes at risk of capsizing. And uh and failing in a storm. So you look at the water line. If it's too high, then the li ship is in danger. If it's too low, then the ship is overloaded. I'm telling you, God has given us a water line, and that water line tells us we're not designed to carry guilt. and shame and uh fear and all of that to be heavy laden. The word heavy laden has the idea of the water line is down too low. We're overloaded Adam and Eve designed aprons to try and solve their problem, but they were ineffective. They were overloaded. Their water line was down. And we find that only coming to the Lord in faith relieved their burden. Notice, if you would, here, verse 28, here's a promise of God. This is a promise of God. You could rate in the margin of your Bible, a promise of God. Now, the Lord does not make promises lightly. God doesn't toy around with promises. Um, I think I think we're too concerned consumed with politics. Somebody I read somebody this week, a preacher friend of mine, Brother Beale. put a little quote on the computer. It said this, I'm not a CN, I don't want to be a CNN or a Fox Christian. I want to be a Bible Christian. I like that statement But we heard this past year or two politicians making all kinds of promises, did we not? I mean a promise the moon And perhaps some of us, we know people that are always promising stuff, promising stuff, promising stuff, promising stuff. And sometimes people take promises very lightly. They just toy with them and they just run the mouth promises. Have no intention, don't take it seriously whatsoever. What I'm trying to say is this When our Lord makes a promise, he doesn't take it lightly. He's not just running his mouth. When God says, I will do this, You and I can be very, very certain God will do it. If I came to you after the service here, one of you, and I came up and shook your hand and said, Ethan, man, hey, listen, Ethan Tell you what, you come to church next week, I promise you I'll give you a hundred dollar bill. Pretty good, huh? Yeah? Would you believe me? If I promised you. Says no. Wow. Come on, humor me at least. No, seriously. How many folks, if you heard me promise and Ethan, I promise you I'll give you a hundred bucks next week. How many people believe that I would do that? You guys aren't helping me at all. But s but if I did that, seriously, I would promise them that man, I'm telling you, I'm I promise, I will Give you $100 next week. How many people believe when he showed up next week, he'd find me and hold me to that promise? Preacher, you promised me right? How many how many of you uh you work at your employer? If your pr if your employer said, listen, you get this job done uh early, a day early, I give you a $200 bonus. How many of you all would hold that employer to that promise? Sure we would. Now why don't we do that to God? If God promises us something, can we not hold God to that promise? Sure. God doesn't make promises lightly. And what I'm trying to suggest is this: we ought not to take God's promises lightly. Oh, God just said that. Oh, the preacher ain't giving me a hundred bucks. He just said that. My boss isn't giving me a $200 bonus. He just said that. But isn't that exactly how we treat God's word? We'll read it, the preacher will preach it, and we'll walk off as if it meant nothing. God just said that. God doesn't work that way. When God makes a promise, God isn't playing around, and when God makes a promise, you and I can hold on to that promise. Let me illustrate. I know for sure, there is no doubt in my mind that when I die, if it's this afternoon, if it's five years from now, if it's twenty-five years from now. Whenever I die, I know for sure there is no doubt in my mind that I will go to heaven and not to hell. You say, who in the world do you think you are? I'll tell you who I think I am. I think I'm a rotten, hell-deserving sinner. I've done nothing worthy to go to heaven. I've done nothing to make me acceptable to God, but God has promised me. And anyone that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That is not God just talking. That is a promise of God. And you and I can base our eternal destiny on the promises of God So if he says, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, and we say, yes, I believe that promise, I'm claiming that, I'm basing my eternal destiny on that, then I'm suggesting you, we can take this promise here just as certainly. God has promised that if I come to him, he would give me rest. If I come to him, I am laboring and I'm heavy laden. He would give me rest. This is a promise of rest. What does he mean by rest? Peace of mind. Peace of mind. You may have never said that, but I bet some of us have thought this. I would just like to have some peace of mind. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I would just like to have some peace in my heart. You know, even Christians We can get to the point where we don't have peace of mind through lack of faith, disobedience. Interpersonal relationships can be devastating. And as a child of God, we can just say, oh God, I just wish I had some rest. I wish I had some peace of mind. I wish I had peace in my heart. Everything is so worked up. He says in Psalms, fret not thyself. And this is a promise of rest. This is, God says, I can give you peace of mind. He doesn't say, Come unto me all ye that labour and heavy laden and I'll change your situation and promise that He doesn't say, come into me all ye that labor in heavy laden, and I'll work circumstances out so they're not stressful anymore. He doesn't promise us that But he does promise that regardless of the circumstances, regardless of the situation, regardless of my condition, I can still have rest. I can still have peace of mind. I can still have peace in my heart. I can be at rest. Wouldn't that be a wonderful thing? Be at rest. What a difference it would make in our homes Well the difference it would make in our churches, in our nation. You agree with me? Our nation could use some peace of mind. It's a mess. Our nation could use some peace of heart. The Lord promises here, come unto me. It's not flippant, he's not being just saying words You and I can claim this and hold it just as we do, his promise of salvation, say, Lord, you promise me if I come to you in my labor when I'm heavy laden. You will give me rest. Now, I want to break this down a little bit. Notice with me, first of all, in verse 28, notice the invitation of this promise. The invitation of this promise. Verse number 28. First three words. Come unto me. It's an invitation. Now, in my mind, this is a very clear invitation. There's no question as to what he's inviting me to do. It's not unclear. It's not complicated. It's not confusing. Down in the teen Sunday school, Brother Yates gave a mathematical equation that was very confusing 4 plus 4 equals 8. I had to work on that for a little while. 4 plus. Now he gave some Pegagarian Pelegomerieth theory. Exactly. What she said. Come to me. You're over there. You're away from me. Come here to me. Come unto me. The word dumb there, I looked it up. The word there has the idea to move from a distance to a closer location. You're far from me, change that. And come close to me. You're away from me, change that, and come near me. I Perhaps, I want to say probably. I'm speaking to some Christians this morning. You're saved, you know you trusted Christ. In your heart and soul, you know you're away from God. You're not where you should be as a Christian. You're not close to the Lord. You might look back some point earlier in your Christian life and you say, you know, I was so much closer to God then. My relationship with the Lord was I I like this term. My relationship with the Lord was much tighter back then. You know what I'm talking about? Here I am, I'm so far away from God. So far away from God. I want to suggest to you, it is when we are away from our Lord and Savior, when we're out of fellowship, we're at a distance from Him. That's when the labor and the heavy lading comes in. Remember Peter when the Lord was before Pilate? And as he's going up there, what does the Bible say about Peter? He followed the Lord. Away off. He was away from the Lord. And what happened to Peter? He ended up denying the Lord three times. Would you agree with me? Peter was laboring and heavy laden when he sobbed and sobbed and sobbed. We heard that crow, that uh crow, not the crow, uh rooster. Crowed. I don't think there was any crows involved in that story. But all of a sudden now he's sobbing. Will you agree with me? Turmoil. Guilt. Shame. Heavy laden. The Lord says, come to me. You're not walking with the Lord. You're not close to the Lord. You're out of fellowship with God. Come to me. It's exactly what the Lord did with Peter later on. He's by the sea. And the Lord says, Fellows, have you any meat? Oh, we didn't catch anything. Come and die. It's the Lord. Peter jumps in, swims, comes back. Lord, what does the Lord do? Lifts that burden. Go feed my lambs. Peter's restored and he goes on and serves God. What I'm trying to say to you this morning, if you're saved and you're out of fellowship with God, if you're what the world uses, what we use, the term we use sometimes is you're backslidden. The Lord says, come to me. I can give you peace in your heart and mind. I can give you peace in your soul. Come to me. Get back. Has the idea of repentance turn from the way you're living as a Christian, turn from your neglect of God's word, turn from your neglect of church, turn from your neglect of godliness, turn from all of that and come to me It's a very simple, clear invitation. So I notice it's a very clear invitation, moving to the Lord, restoring a fellowship with the Lord. But it's also a comprehensive invitation. Look again with me at verse 28. Come unto me. What's that next word? The fourth word. All ye. We were down in Chattanooga, Tennessee, it'd be all y'all come to me. All ye that are labor and heavy laden. That word, that little phrase there, all ye has the idea of very it's a very comprehensive statement, a very wide statement. All If I said this, all the people in the service this morning can get a bulletin, how many people would be excluded? Nobody. The word all is comprehensive. It's all inclusive. There's not one person that cannot come to Jesus Christ. Whether it's for salvation or for its restoration of my, as a Christian, getting restored in my fellowship with the Lord. Nobody's excluded. I'm telling you, that's one of the most wonderful things about our God and our Savior. He excludes nobody The hardest heart, the most wicked sinner, the most ungodly atheist, the most hardened unbeliever. God says, you come to me. You'll find rest. You'll find rest. The most distorted and perverse mind, twisted. Come to Jesus Christ and find cleansing and forgiveness and rest and peace. Isn't that a wonderful thing? I like John 3. 16, don't you? For God so loved the world. And he gave his only begotten son. Here it is. Whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. Whosoever Isn't that an amazing thing? I like uh Romans 10:13. We referenced it a little bit ago. That whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Shall be said. If by chance you're here this morning and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, if you don't have perfect confidence, absolute 100% confidence that your sins are forgiven, that when you die you go to heaven and not to hell My Lord says to you, you can come to me. Doesn't matter what your past is, it doesn't matter how what you've done, how good you are, how bad you are, it doesn't matter what your financial status is Doesn't matter whether you're popular or unpopular, you can come to me and find salvation. Anybody can come to Christ and be saved. Over and over and over through the Bible, whosoever, whosoever, whosoever, whosoever We're out trying to make some visits yesterday. It's a little rough to knock on doors when it's 40 below zero, 100 mile an hour winds and snow blowing everywhere, but But hey, we'll try to talk to some people. You know there's not one person that we visited with that God would not save them if they would trust him as their savior, if they would come to him. It's not one Christian so backslidden. You say, Preacher, I know I'm saved, and years ago I trusted Christ and this, but if you knew how far I am, if you knew how bad I am, if you knew how much I messed up, the Lord would never take me back. That is a lie of the devil. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden. Everybody That's a wonderful thing. You can't preach the gospel to the wrong person. There's not one Christian that's a way out of fellowship with God that can't come back. And find full restoration of fellowship with the Lord. Find rest and peace for their soul. No one can ever say, God did not invite me No one's ever going to stand before, no unsaved person is ever going to stand before God at the great white throne judgment and say, God, you never invited me, I never had a chance to be saved. That is not true Every single person is able to come to Christ. No Christian at the judgment seat of Christ after the rapture stand before Jesus Christ. And say, Lord, I would have lived for you. I messed up, but you wouldn't take me back. You wouldn't accept me. You wouldn't No, no, no. Nobody can say that. We had a fellow through here years ago, and I've referenced this off and on over the years. But he's given his testimony. And he traveled the world a little bit and he was unsaved. He was talking about before he was saved. I I don't think he meant this. In fact I know he did because I talked to him about it later, but uh he didn't mean it the way he said it. But he said he was in one country and he was coming uh uh into the town coming off a ship he was on, he was walking down, and there was a gal, and she was standing where the folks are coming in through customs or whatever it was, and she had a handful of gospel tracts, and as they Came in there through that door. She was handing them gospel tracts. I guess it was out in the public area. Everybody went by, got a gospel track. Keith came by and he got the gospel tract He looked at it, read it, he says. And are you listening, young people? He read it. And he says, I didn't get saved then. And he made this thing. He says, you know why I didn't get saved? Because God wasn't calling me yet. And something, when I was sitting there and he said that, I said the same thing in my mind. No, no, no, no, no. That's not correct. And so after we were out and we were talking, I said, by the way, we were talking and he said about God wasn't calling you yet. And he goes, Yeah, he says it wasn't God just wasn't calling me. I said, I believe you're mistaken. I said the very fact that the lady standing there was giving you a gospel tract was God calling you The problem isn't that God isn't willing to take us back. The problem isn't that God isn't willing to accept us. as a backslidden Christian and restore our fellowship, or as an unsaved coming to Christ to find salvation, it isn't that God is unic not accepting us. Our problem is we're not willing to come The invitation is comprehensive. All y'all come. I'll give you peace. I'll give you rest. In fact, I want to suggest to you: every time that sun comes up, it's God calling you to himself. Every breath we take is God's goodness to us and calling us to come to Him. Thing is, God loves you. God loves me And he doesn't want us going around laboring and heavy laden. How many folks, how many adults here, you have kids, and you want your kids to have peace of mind? How many here, it breaks your heart when your kids are upset and things are going on? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Can I suggest to you that is part of us being in the image of God? God put that in us to feel that way because that's the way God is. Just coming to me. Come into me. So I notice this invitation here. This is a fantastic invitation. It's very clear, very simple. It's not complicated. Just come on. It's comprehensive. Whosoever will. Whosoever will. He doesn't say, come unto me, all ye that are rich. He doesn't say, come unto me, all ye that are poor. Don't say, come into me all ye that are popular. Don't say, come into me all ye that are misfits. Then say, come into me all ye that are intelligent. And say, Come into me, all you that are not so intelligent, or whatever. He doesn't put any qualifications on it. He says, Come into me. You're laboring heavily late. You'll come on to me. Come on. I'll give you rest. Leave wherever you're at. Get out of the way in. Just come to me. Just turn, come to me. So I notice here the invitation of this promise. Second of all, I notice the condition of this promise. Now, this is important Come unto, why does it say? Come unto me, all ye that labor and heavy laden. Who's speaking here? It's the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the source of this rest. He is the one that I have to come unto. I don't know if you notice this. There's a lot of crackpots in the world. Anybody notice that? I mean on every hand. There's a lot of false teachers in this world. That are making ridiculous promises. I told you before a number of times over the years. I have eleven illustrations, so I just mix them up and usually there's only eleven I have. Not really. But uh years ago I've told this illustration number times, but shortly after I got saved and I'd gone off to Bible college, a little school there in Philly for a year, and I was home and It was summertime. I was out back. I lived with my dad. We lived in town at the time. And I was washing my car, my Toyota Selica. I mean, it was nice. I'm washing that thing down. This guy comes walking up the alleyway and I thought, I'm I'm you know, I'm about a year and a half old in the Lord, something like that. And I thought I'm gonna witness to this guy. And so I reached in the car, got a gospel track. He's walking up and said, hey uh I want to give you a little gospel track here. He goes, oh, thank you. And so that tells how you can know for sure you're going to heaven and and uh be saved and uh not go to hell. The guy's looking and he's listening, he says, You're a Baptist, aren't you? I said, well yeah, but that's not what I'm talking about. So we engaged him a little bit. We talked a little bit. He goes, Let me tell you how it is. He's a Jewish fella. He said, Let me tell you how it is. He said, All right. Because going to heaven is kind of like going to Philadelphia. You can take Route 309, you can take the School Kill Expressway, you can take Some other route. He listed about four or five different roads. They all get down you get you down to Philadelphia. And I don't remember exactly what I said. I I'm the kind that always thinks of great answers about an hour or two after the conversation I'm like, oh man, I should have said this. An hour or two later, I should have said this to him. I told him, you know, I quoted a couple verses and I countered what he said, but afterward I thought, man, I wish I'd have said this Problem is heaven isn't in Philly. And there's scores of ways to get to Philly, but there's only one way to get to heaven. And that's through the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, come unto me. That's the only source of rest. That's the only source of peace. It's the only place we can find forgiveness. He's the only one that can restore our soul. He's the only one that can relieve the burden. He's the only one that can give us peace of mind. Oprah Winfrey. Anybody recognize that name? Oprah Winfrey made this statement. She said, Jesus can't possibly be the only way to God. This is a direct quote. Jesus can't possibly be the only way to God. One of the big mistakes that human beings make is that there's only one way to God. There are many paths to what you call God. Now, Oprah Winfrey knows a lot about talk shows. And Oprah Winfrey knows a lot about making money. She is very good at both of those. But I'm suggesting to you, Oprah Winfrey knows nothing about how to get to God. Because she's wrong. There is only one source of peace. There is only one source of rest. There is only one source of salvation. That is in Jesus Christ. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Says Jesus Christ. What he says here, come unto me, all ye that labor in heavy laden. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. It's at the name of Jesus Christ that every knee is going to bow and every tongue is going to go fast. And it is in Jesus Christ the only place we can find rest and peace for our souls. Now I love Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I love this church. This is my family. Kathy and I have been talking about this week. This is our family. But Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot give you peace in your heart and soul. We cannot Connect you to God. We can't save your soul. Only Jesus can do that. Only Jesus can make that which is wrong and make it right. Come unto me. That's the condition of this promise. I've got to come to Christ. He doesn't say come unto church. Now I think everybody ought to go I think everybody ought to go to church. Let me call for that. I think everybody ought to go to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Well, do you think I should go to Mount Lake or this other church? You want my opinion? Come on. But he doesn't say, Come into church and you'll find rest. He doesn't say, Come into church, all ye that labor and heavy laden will give you rest. Now, if you're laboring heavy laden, you come to church, I'm going to do everything I possibly can to point you to Jesus. Oh, we can't give you rest. I got thinking this morning, I was getting ready. September 19, 1993, I preached my very first sermon as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Thank you, Rob. This very pulpit, this right here, Sunday morning, September 19, 1993. You know what my message was? You must be born again. That was my message. I did that on purpose. And I thought this morning, I thought for all these 20 plus years, 23 plus years, almost 24 years. We've been trying to do everything we can in our Sunday school, in our children's church, in our bus ministries, in our radio station. We've been trying to do everything we can, not to point people to Mountain Lake, but point people to Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ. Because He is the source of rest. He is the source of salvation. He is where we find peace for our safe. He doesn't say, come unto church. All ye that labor heavy laden and I will give you rest. He doesn't say come to baptism. Baptism is important. If you're saved and you've not been baptized, you ought to get baptized. I believe it's the first step in the Christian life. Come out and out for Christ. But that's not going to give you rest for your soul. He doesn't say come into me. He doesn't say come unto good works, every Christian. We're saved unto good works. We ought to do good things. We ought to live for God. It doesn't say come unto doctrine. Doctrine is incredibly important. We don't understand Christ. We don't know who and what he's like if we don't have the right doctrine We're teaching doctrine in a Bible institute. We take four years, eight semesters preaching doctrine. But doctrine can't give you rest for your soul. Only Jesus can. It's a personal relationship with a living Savior coming to Christ. Doesn't say coming to prayer. Prayer is powerful. Prayer is important. But just repeating some ritualistic prayer I've said this prayer over 400 times. I still don't have peace. It's not the prayer. It's the Savior. It's Jesus that gives peace, that saves the soul. Am I making sense? Are you with me? So I see the invitation of this promise, I see the condition of this promise, and last of all I see the affirmation of this promise. What do you mean by that? The word affirmation simply means this, to confirm something is true. To maintain that something is true. Uh if you ever traveled, if you ever fly in somewhere, particularly if they're going overseas or something. before a little bit ahead of time you want to call the airport or you want to go online and you want to check and you want to confirm That your flight is good, right? You want to affirm that. You want to confirm that. You want to be sure. You want to make sure. Well, I'm suggesting you that this promise here, Christ has affirmed, confirmed this promise. Look what he says. I will give you rest. I underscored those two words. I will. I noticed. And please don't misunderstand. I'm not disparaging anybody. I think I'm complimenting. But I've noticed sometimes if a person has a difficult time reading Sometimes people just have a hard time reading for whatever reason. I notice sometimes that they actually understand what's being said and get what's being said more. And the person that can speed read. But sometimes the person that's a very good reader and a speed reader, this is come to me all heavy laden, I'll give you rest. That's wonderful. But you get somebody that maybe struggles a little bit, and this is how they read it. Come unto me. Now again, I'm not disparaging, I'm complimenting. All ye that labor And are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. I think sometimes it's good for us just to stop, slow down, pay attention to what God's saying. I like to read my Bible through in a year. I like to start in Genesis, get the Revelation, I try to read Psalms twice, I try to read New Testament twice, don't always get that, and I try to read Proverbs once a month. But there's a danger in that. Know I'm saying? Now I I'm not against that and I'm doing it, but I want to be very, very careful. I recognize there's a danger in that. I think sometimes we just need to stop and read it deliberately. Would you read with me the last one? Six words of verse 28. And we're going to read it very deliberately. We're going to put a period after each word. Alright, you got it there? Let's read it with me. Starting with and. Ready? And I will give you rest That's good. Deli I will give you rest. I think I read that this week as I was preparing this. And I thought, man, that's exactly what he's saying. God will give me rest. You say, how do you know God will do this? How can we be so sure? How can we affirm this that God will actually give me rest? Well, and I've just got a minute. Let me uh give you a few thoughts. First is God's capabilities. Confirm to me that he can give me rest. Matthew 19, verse 26, and Mark 10, verse 27 says that with God, all things are possible. You say there is no way in the world it is humanly impossible to have peace of mind in my situation. You're right. Humanly it's impossible. But I'm saying to you, with God, all things are possible. Your world may be falling apart all around you, but if I'll come to Christ, he can and will give me rest in the midst of the storm. Because with God all things are possible. I can't work up this peace My spouse can't give me peace. My family, my church can't give me that, but God can give me what man cannot give me Rest to my soul. So God's capabilities confirm to me that He is able to do this. Luke chapter 1, verse 36, he says, nothing shall be impossible with God. God can take the most miserable life, God can take the most restless soul and bring peace to it and bring rest and bring hope into that life. Well, just come to Him. So God's capabilities confirm to me this promise, and God's character confirms to me this promise. Hebrews 6, 18. It is impossible for God to lie. Our God is a God of perfect integrity. And when He says something is so, it is so. Confirmed. Revelation 3. 14, Revelation 19. 11. Jesus is faithful and true. Faithful and true. You agree with me? Pretty good promise for a new year, huh? How do people feel like tattoo? Remember tattoo? God says, You come to me, I'll give you some rest. Cut that leash. It's a fella that's hitchhiking down the road. He's got a big sack of potatoes. I don't recommend hitchhiking. He's got a big sack of potatoes. This guy drives by in a pickup truck. Sees the man that poor guy backs up. Hey man, you did it right? Yeah, I gotta go five miles over here to tear all the cut these stack of potatoes Well hop in. He said, I'll just hop in the back. So he jumps in the back of the pickup truck and the guy drives off down the road. He happens to look in the mirror, and the guy's sitting back there with that sack of potatoes on his shoulder. He stops, he pulls the window. Dude! He says, What's with tearing the potatoes? Lay the potatoes down for Pete's sake. You don't have to carry them. He goes, nah. You were nice enough to give me a ride, I'm not gonna make you carry these potatoes too. That sounds like West Virginia to me. We laugh at that because it's silly. But I'm talking to some Christians doing the exact same thing. You trusted Christ to save your soul. You're going around carrying this big burden of weight of guilt and shame around. You don't have to. Come to me. I'll give you rest. I don't know what your specific situation is. I don't know what your specific burdens are. I don't know what your specific circumstances are that is tearing you up inside. And I'm here to tell you we have a Savior that loves us. We can come to Him and He will give us peace. Now he goes on, obviously we don't have time, he talks about taking his yoke, getting our yoke off, taking his yoke. It's light, it's easy We have to come to him. So here's my invitation this morning. If you don't know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, you don't have that settled in your heart and soul, I plead with you with everything in me, please don't leave here today. without trusting Christ, getting that settled. Please don't risk hell. If you know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, and you've got a weight in your heart, and you know, right now you're thinking about, I know you are I want to say, why don't you come to an old-fashioned order? Come to Christ, say, Christ, I want you to do for me what you promised in this word. God will begin showing us and what changes maybe need to be made or what he'll show us, but we've got to come to him He'll give us the peace. Does that make sense? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us, young and old. Lord, I know some young people that have heavy burdens. I know senior citizens, heavy burdens, all points in between. I pray this morning, this promise of yours would grip our hearts and we'd see the truth of it. We respond in faith. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed to say, preacher, you're right. That peace is not there. That burden is there. I'm dealing with it. I want this rest that God promises. I want this peace of mind that He promises. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. But I would have the faith to just come and trust God with it. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, it's there. I know it is. Maybe very personal. But between you and the Lord, it's there. Our God does not lie. He doesn't toy with promises. This is for real. Let's in faith come and trust him. Is there some of you this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I don't want to go to hell. God doesn't want you to go to hell. Say, preacher, pray for me that I could have it settled in my heart, that my sins are forgiven. And I'm going to heaven, not to hell when I dies, or any like that, preacher, that's a concern of mine I need the Lord to help me settle that. Is there any at all? Just uplifted hand. I'll pray that God will bless you and help you settle that. Any at all? Any at all? Young or old? Now, Father in heaven, you know where we're at. You know our hearts better than we do. I pray you'd help us to take advantage of an old-fashioned altar. We can just humble ourselves before you and come to you and let you lead and direct in our life. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Lord spoke to your heart this morning. This promise touched a nerve. As Jennifer plays the piano.