Psalms 33. And uh there's actually another Bible time evangelist, Mr. Tony. He's out with the teens, you'll meet him this evening. And um uh doing a great job. Both the men have traveled um uh two years, so we have a couple veteran evangelists, and that's always a blessing. Uh there just came back, they had a big rally down in Baltimore at the Granite Baptist Church in Glen Burney with Brother Lou Rossi. And I think he said they had ninety teenagers in the evenings and just a great crowd. I think six, seven hundred kids registered and so um they're coming up here on the mountains in our our church and uh we're excited the Lord. Of course we've never had never had numbers like that probably, but Uh nevertheless we can reach boys and girls for Christ and uh and eventually, Lord will, and see some moms and dads come to Christ. and get involved in the church. And so you be much in prayer for Bible time and and um that would mean the world. Psalms 33, I just want us to look at If you would look at uh verse number 12 with me. In fact, tell you what, let's read this verse together. Psalms 33 and verse number 12. Ready? Read it with me. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. This is our All American Sunday, of course, the 4th of July this week And I want to consider a message I've entitled, A Great Nation is a Good Nation. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I do ask that you would challenge us here this morning. God, we are concerned about the spiritual state of our land. Lord, we're concerned about the spiritual state of our churches and our homes. And Lord, we ask that this morning you would challenge us in our individual, personal, spiritual condition. That we as individuals would know you and be yielded to you, and that you could work through us in a way and maybe bring revival to this land here that we live in Fill me with your Holy Spirit is my prayer. I present my body anew to you. I yield my will to yours. I pray your Holy Spirit would speak through me. Challenge all of us. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Fellow by the name of Alex Torquille, I think I'm saying his name correctly. He is a French political philosopher. He was also a historian. He was born in 1805. He died in eighteen fifty-nine. He visited the United States in eighteen thirty-one. And after his tour of s of visiting America and and seeing our land and meeting our people and getting into various communities. He is attributed for writing this statement He said, I sought for the greatness and genius of America in her commodious harbors and her amber rivers, and it was not there. I sought for the greatness and genius of America in her fertile fields and her boundless forests, and it was not there. I sought for the greatness and genius of America in her rich minds and her vast world commerce, and it was not there. I sought for the greatness and genius of America in her Democratic Congress and her matchless constitution, and it was not there. He said, not until I went into the churches of America and heard her pulpits aflame with righteousness. Then did I understand the secret of America's genius and America's greatness? And then he concluded with this statement: America is great. Because America is good. And if America ever ceases to be good, America will cease to be great. I believe he hit the nail on the head. And my question this morning, is America good? Is our country good? Because we cannot be great if we are not good. In Psalms chapter 33 and verse 12, the Bible says, Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. I notice first of all in this passage that we have a national promise of blessing. Blessed is the nation. Whose God is the Lord. This is a national promise to a nation. Now, this promise to the nation of Israel Is given in such a way that the principle behind that promise applies to the United States of America, though we are not Israel We are not God's chosen nation, people, as Israel was, a very unique sense that they were. But nevertheless, there's a principle behind this promise, and that is this, that God blesses The nation, the people who make him their God. Now that also applies to the individual Person. You could say we're not changing scripture, we're just trying to apply it here. Blessed is the individual whose God is the Lord. Blessed is that home. Whose God is the Lord. So there's a promise here of blessing. Now what does it mean to be blessed of God? What does it mean when God says, blessed is that nation's God? What does he mean by that term, blessed? Well, the word itself, in its simplest forms, means happy. Genuine, sincere happiness. Along with that, it has the idea of prosperity. Included in the word blessed is the idea of protection. I thought one as I was studying this in different Hebrew dictionaries, one of the definitions I came across included this: to be placed in a position to be envied. Isn't that interesting? Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. The idea is the nation whose God is the Lord, other nations will envy that nation. They will want to have the blessings that that nation has. And that's something. It has the idea of being secured or established I don't know about you, but I want God to bless United States of America. I want our nation to be happy. I want our people to be prosperous. I want us to be protected from our enemies. I want our nation, my nation, to be secure and established. I want God's blessing on America. I want God's blessings on my home. I want my home to be happy. Don't you? I don't mean, hey, listen, there's a lot of laughter out in the world, but there's very little genuine happiness. I want my home to be happy. I want my home to be safe and secure. I want my home to be established. Blessed. Is that nation whose God is the Lord. Another definition I came across is this: to experience the favor of God upon a life or a nation. God's favor. Hey, I don't want to be out of favor with God. That'd be bad. Do you agree with me on that? I don't want my nation to be out of favor with God. God says I no longer favor you. And I find so often in our lives we end up rather than having God's favor, we end up resisting God We end up hardening our hearts against God's working in our life and God wanting to get us into a position where He can bless us. And we harden our hearts against God, and we refuse to believe him, refuse to trust them, refuse to obey them. And we no longer have God's favor, but we find that we're in chastisement with God. We find that God is holding back and resisting blessing us because of our lack of faith Turn with me if you would. Now keep your place here. I found uh the best definition for what God means by blessing someone I found is in Psalms chapter 1. Would you turn over there with me, Psalms chapter 1 And the first several verses here, he gives a contrast. And he gives what I believe is a good definition of God blessing someone Now listen, you can have a monstrous bank account and not have the blessings of God. You can drive the latest model, BMW, or whatever. I shouldn't have said that. No every time I say something like that, somebody has a BMW in a go in a bargain. But uh you can drive the nicest car available and not necessarily have the blessings of God. Just because you have those things doesn't necessarily mean you're blessed of God, and those things don't keep God's blessing from us. But look at look at Psalms chapter 1 here. Blessed, there it is, blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. In other words, he stays away from bad advice. Walketh not in the counsel of God, nor standeth in the way of sinners. He stays away from bad associates People that would influence him in a negative way. He stays away from that. Nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. He stays away from those who are have bad attitudes. A scornful person can't find anything right with anything. It's a bad attitude. He says the man that is blessed avoids those things. He stays away from those things. Then in verse 2 he says what the uh the positive side of it, but his delight, this blessed man, his delight is in the law of the Lord. That's the word of God And in his law doth he meditate day and night. What's he do? He reads his Bible. He thinks on the Word of God. He sees what it has to say, and he incorporates and ingests it into his life. And he doesn't just read the words, he lives the truth. And he takes it into his life. Now here in verse 3, he explains, I believe, what he means by being blessed. Look at verse 3. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water. Secure Needs are met? Well, there's nothing a tree likes more than the Mbaya River, where you can get that moisture when it's dry or whatnot And that tree loves it. I was interviewing trees this week and they all said, Yeah, we like it by rivers. So I have first hand knowledge of this But he says he shall be like a tree, planted by the rivers. You see a desert, you're out there in a desert, and you find an oasis, and what's all around that little little patch of water, what's growing all around it? Trees and vegetation And so to be blessed of God is to be like a tree that's planted by rivers of water. My needs are met. I have provision. Then he goes on. And bringeth forth his fruit in his season. That's prosperous. He's producing, he's productive. The blessings of God on a light Make that life productive. The blessings of God on a nation make that nation productive. This is a little aside, I just thought of it, but it it gets under my skin, and since I'm preaching, I'm going to say it. Um anybody here ever hear people criticize the United States because we use uh like uh a huge amount of the world's resources. Anybody see that? Oh America uses 25% of the world's resources and they just hogging up all the resources. Anybody here ever hear that? You know that irks me. You know why? Because we're producing a hundred uh uh fifty percent of the world's products Follow what I'm saying, of course we use up more because we're producing more. And so that has nothing to do with the message. That's free. Compliments of the house. So look what it says. And he shall be like a tree, planted by the rivers of water, bringeth forth his fruit in a season, his leaf also shall not wither. He's established. It's going to last long. And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Boy, isn't that a good definition of God's blessing? I would like for our nation, the United States, hey, uh, I love America. Amen. Tonight I'm going to preach on patriotism. Should a Christian be patriotic? In this day and age, with our nation, the way it is And the decisions our nation is making, should a Christian be patriotic? I'm going to talk about it from the Bible tonight. I love our country. I want God to bless our land. I want America to be safe. I want my grandkids to be able to grow up in a land that is safe and blessed of God, that has God's favor upon it. And this is what God's blessings mean. This is the result of God's blessing. A secure, prosperous, productive, established land. Hey, I want that to be true for this church. We are living in spiritual drought. Would you agree with me? There is nothing that I'm aware of. I take this back. There's very little coming out of Washington, D. C. , that is of any spiritual benefit to our land. And I'll say this, there is nothing coming out of Hollywood or the rock and roll world that is of spiritual benefit to our land. But I would like to see Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in this desert of spirituality to be an oasis where God's favor and God's hand is upon us. I want God's blessing. I want us to be productive. I want to see soul safe. I'm praying, we're praying this week that God will save little kids And teenagers, and that when it's all said and done, moms and dads will be brought to Christ, and their lives will be changed, and their homes will be happy, and God's blessings will be on them. Amen or not? And so, there's a promise here of God's blessing. And so we want to know what does it mean to be blessed of God? It's to have God's favor on us. It's to have God's protection. I appreciate our military. Amen? And I tell you, I'm tempted to preach against a lot of junk in our country. But I'm telling you, our uh I appreciate our military, I appreciate our men and women. When I'm traveling, if I see somebody in uniform, I try to make an effort, go over, express my appreciation to them for their service to our country You and I are here appreciate the men and women overseas fighting and putting their life on the line and dying for our liberties and our freedom. We thank God for that. But listen, our nation isn't safe because of our jets and bombs and tanks. Our nation is safe because God keeps us safe. Brother Pat read a little bit ago in this portion of Scripture where it's not the strength of horses and all that that brings safety. It is God's blessing that keeps us safe. And that's not to denigrate our military, not to denigrate our men and women in service. We're grateful for them, but it's God. And if we have God's blessings on our nation, Al-Qaeda wouldn't be able to touch us. Amen? God's protecting us. And so I want God's blessing. So the first thing I notice in this Psalms 33 and verse 12, blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. I notice that promise there. But the second thing I notice, there is a prerequisite for this promise, for this blessing. Um, God doesn't just arbitrarily say, Oh yeah, I'm gonna bless you and take care of you and keep you safe and make you productive and do all that without any responsibility on the nation's part. He says, Blessed is that nation whose what? God is the Lord. There's a prerequisite here. Now, the context of this passage, this verse in this whole chapter. Is addressing the nation of Israel. The nation of Israel was God's chosen people in a very unique way. America is not chosen of God in the sense that Israel was chosen of God. They were his people, they were his witnesses for the world during that period of time, that dispensation. So it's addressing Israel And a lot unlike all the other nations surrounding Israel, Israel worshipped the one true God. All the other nations around them were what we would call polytheistic In other words, they worshiped many gods, false gods. They were pagan. The nations surrounding Israel were ungodly in every sense of the word. They had little or no moral standards. Their religions, their pagan religions, did not teach in, did not require them integrity or purity or humility. They were violent. They were perverse. They were false, based upon imaginations of men, and in the midst of all of those nations, here was Israel. And Israel was chosen of the true and living God to be his people. They were unique from all the nations around them. They worship the one and true God. And God is making a statement here. The nation that will reject paganism, that will reject false gods, that will reject false religion. and will make the Lord their God, as opposed to Baal and Asharoth and all these other false gods around Israel, the w the nation that will make The Lord, Jehovah, the true and living God, the nation that will make the Lord their God, that is the nation that God will bless. Israel was distinct. They were unique. They stand out. In the annals of history, Israel stands out as a unique nation that worshiped a monotheistic True and living God, the Lord Jehovah. Now, as long as their God was Jehovah, they were blessed. As long as their God was the Lord, the only true God, the creator of heaven and earth, they were blessed. But The more Israel became like the nations around them, the less they experienced of God's blessings. As they would incorporate into their worship of the Lord the practices of the pagans around them, God's blessings would be removed. And as they progressed, as Israel progressed, became very proud, became very perverse, and they abandoned the worship of the true and living God, the Lord Jehovah, and began to practice the worships of the nations around them, God removed his blessings. God removed his favor. And suddenly, before you know it, the nation is completely carried away as captives, and they no longer exist. They're gone. And as long as Israel had the Lord God to be their God, God blessed them. God took care of them. Listen, the more we become like the world, the more we adopt the world's principles, the world's values. The more we adopt the world's way of thinking about things, the less we will experience the blessings of God. We must remain unique. We must remain distinct. We must remain devoted to the Lord and the Lord alone. Listen, Christianity is not simply the idea of adopting a religion. It is establishing a relationship with the true God. And the farther we get from that God, the less we experience that God's blessing. We had a fellow years ago, I just thought of him His wife was dying of cancer. He called me up. They didn't weren't part of the church. He called me up. He said, My wife is uh actually his wife called, said, uh, told me her situation. She goes, I I'm just concerned about eternity and uh my spiritual condition. Could I I said sure. We my wife and I went and visit and um uh the the girl got saved. She trusted Christ as Savior. And she was married to an Indian fellow, full-blooded American Indian. I mean a big old guy. He was nice and as respectful to me as I could ever ask. She came and got baptized, attended church for a little while before she passed away. And he would come with her. And uh one day, I I forget if he came forward at the invitation or we were talking afterward, I don't remember the circumstance exactly, but we sat down here in the front row, it was after the service And uh talking to him about his salvation. And I had my Bible out, and I went through the plan of salvation. And he agreed with me that we're all sinners. He agreed with me and agreed with the Word of God that he was a sinner, that he had broken God's law, and he was under the judgment of God, he was guilty. He as we went through the scripture, he agreed with the Bible that Jesus Christ had died for him personally And suffered the judgment of God in his place on the cross and paid his penalty, uh, his uh his uh uh uh the wages of his sin against God, and that Jesus had paid it for. He agreed with the Word of God on that. That Jesus Christ had risen again. And finally it came to Romans 10, 13, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I got to that and I explained that to him, and he agreed with that. And for some reason, I'm convinced looking back now as the Holy Spirit of God, I asked him about what he believes to be true. And he said, Well, I believe everything you're saying here is true, but I also believe the religion of my forefathers. I said, What is that? He said, Spiritism. We believe that nature is part of God and and uh uh have all these different uh gods of the clouds and gods of the s of the uh uh gods of the trees And gods of the sky, and gods of the crawfish, and the crick And he and his name and all and I said, Well what does it mean to you to call on the Lord? What uh if you if you still believe in all that? He goes, Well I just want to be safe. I just want to make everything's good. He said, I still believe those other things But basically what he said was, I'm just tapping Jesus onto all these other things. I said, You misunderstand, it doesn't work that way. I said, you need to repent and turn from that false religion and trust Christ and Him alone. You know what he told me? He said, I can't do that. I can't do that. Now there there there would I was intended to do this, but there would be a temptation to say, well, all right, well just call on the Lord anyway. But that would be meaningless. Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and life. No man cometh from other but by me. The Thessalonians, he said, they turn from their false gods, they turn from their false religion to believe in the living and true God. And if we want God's blessings on our nation, if we want God's blessings on our church, if we want God's blessings on our homes and our lives, we must Recognize God, Jehovah, as the only true and living God. That's the prerequisite to God's blessings. As Israel became more like the other nations and adopted their religions, they lost God's blessings. How many people here recognize the name Peter Marshall? Say the old folks here old enough been around long enough, let me put it that way. Uh recognized name Peter Marshall Peter Marshall was a Presbyterian preacher. He was chaplain of the U. S. House of Representatives from 1940-something, 1947 to 1949. And uh he was a pretty meat guy in a lot of ways. Listen to what he said. He prayed this prayer before the U. S. Senate back in, I think it was in 1947. Now think about this. Put this in today's context. He prayed this prayer: Lord Jesus, Thou art the way, the truth, and the life. Hear us as we pray for the truth that shall make all men free. Teach us that liberty is not only to be loved, but also to be lived. Now listen to this. Jesus, help us to see that our liberty is not the right to do as we please, but our liberty is the opportunity to do what is right. Isn't that a great prayer? You know what he's saying? He's saying, Lord God, you are the true and living God, and you, through Christ, have made us free. To do right as a nation and as individuals. Tell you what, God will bless that way of thinking God will bless that mentality. And when we as individuals and as homes and as a church and as a nation get to the point that the true and living Lord God, He is our God. And we submit to him and we will do right by his standards of righteousness, then we can understand and experience the blessings of God. And so there's a prerequisite here. Blessed is that nation whose God, the one we live for, the one we submit to. By the way, all men have a God. All men have a god. Either ourselves. Some folks park their gods in their garage. Huh? Some men, some folks had their gods in a bank somewhere. Nice and secure in the bank. Um, some folks, their God, they look bow down and worship it every morning when they look in the mirror. Right? Some of those are better looking than the others, but um What I'm trying to say is we all live for something. We all adore and live for there's something we're living for that is our God. He says, God will bless the nation whose the Lord Jehovah is their God. So, number one, there's a there's a promise of blessing Number two, there's a prerequisite. And last of all, I notice there's a posture for blessing. Now are you here in Psalm 33? Look with me. Verse 12, Blessed is that nation whose God is the Lord, the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. Now he's addressing Israel, the principles here. Now come over, if you would, to verse 18 We read this a little bit ago. Behold, the eye of the Lord. Ah, what does that mean? The eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him. In other words, those that fear God, those whose God is the Lord, they have God's attention. The eye of the Lord is upon that. Um how many folks ever gr raised kids? And you went somewhere and you said, I'm watching you, to the kids. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know what they they don't say that today. You know what the modern way of expressing that is? Right? My eye is on you. In other words, that kid has dad's full attention Dad's watching them. Now that can be applied in various ways. One is watching him make sure he behaves, but also watching them to make sure they're safe. You ever have kids out swinging on the swing set and mom's in the kitchen? She's looking out the window constantly. Anybody know what I'm talking about? She's got her eye on them She's making sure they're okay. When I was uh I I was really a good kid. And uh this one exception one time Uh my m mom would do that all the time. We had a big swing set, and my mom r would react to everything. She was great. And um So I got this great idea that I was going to act like I was really hurt. So I laid down on the ground and I put my leg up on the swing and wrapped the chain around my leg and I laid there with my arms all bent up And um I was just a few seconds and all of a sudden I heard this Ah Mom comes flying out, I guess okay, and um her eye was on me and I got beat up for that one, but uh So back to our passage. It's none of your business what happened to me when I was a kid. Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him. Look at this. Upon them that hope in his mercy. Now, like I said, it's very easy. I don't have to tell you the awful spiritual condition our nation is in. Just read the newspaper. You know, I I could we could spend all day talking about sodomites and abortion and You know, when you have politicians that boo the idea of putting God's name in a document, it says a lot about the spiritual state of a nation. This is what I'm trying to say. What America needs is God's mercy. Mercy. And when we recognize that we need God's mercy, then we can get ourselves postured or in a in a position of having God's blessing. And until we recognize that we need mercy, we're never going to have blessing. Upon them that hope in his mercy. The word hope there means to expect, to anticipate, to look for, to trust in. He said when a nation or an individual or a church or a people get to the place and they're saying, I need God to be merciful to me. That per that nation has God's eye, and then they can experience God's blessing. Now what does it mean for what does it mean to get mercy from God Well, we have a very simple definition we give around here. Mercy, very simplistic definition, is not getting what I do deserve. Listen, I love America as much as anyone else, so please understand what I'm saying. What I'm about to say comes from a broken heart But America deserves the judgment of God. Am I right or wrong? When those that promote sodomy are glorified, and those that say that is a sin against God, just like adultery and fornication and any other sin. Are denigrated and mocked and attacked. When that is the case in this nation or any nation, that nation Deserves the judgment of God. When a nation kills its unborn children at the rate of 3,000 a day, That nation deserves the judgment of God. I did a study in Scripture. I found that not one nation that shed innocent blood. Let me put it this way: every nation in Scripture that I found that shed innocent blood was violently overthrown. Violently overthrown. If abortion is not the shedding of innocent blood, you tell me what is it. We deserve the judgment of God. Hey, until America recognizes that we are sinning against the holy God We're never going to realize we need mercy. And mercy is saying, God, please do not put upon me that which I deserve. God withhold from me the judgment that I deserve God says, those that hope in his mercy, his eye will be upon them. His first closest he'll bless that nation. He'll bless that people. We need God's mercy in our homes. Can I meddle a little bit? There's things that are said and done in Christian homes. That is horrendous. Language that is used. Stuff that is watched. In our Christian homes that God expressly forbids. And we wonder why our nation is in the condition it's in. There are things that are said and done in churches in America today that I used to pay big bucks and get stoned and go to rock concerts to hear. The type of music and theatrics. We need God's mercy. We need some Christians in our country that take seriously the principles of Scripture. And say, I want my life, God, my life and my home has to be right. A few weeks ago the Supreme Court ruled that You can't forbid, you can't the step the government cannot define marriage as one man and one woman. They open the door for the most abominable things. And you know what my first thought was? Christians need to get right with God. It's not going to do much good. We're not going to get the sodomites out of Washington until we get the pornography out of our homes. So we get the adultery and the and the filth and the and the garbage in our homes, just the old-fashioned shit We're not going to change America until we humble ourselves before God and say, God, we need your mercy. The way family members talk to each other. So hateful. People we claim to love We need mercy. We need mercy. We need mercy. I I believe our July 4th, 2013, the state of our nation is a state where we need to humble ourselves before God and confess our sin, our sin. Turn from our wicked ways and seek God. On January Uh on january twenty third, nineteen ninety-six, a preacher by the name of Joe Wright. Had been asked by the Kansas City House of Representatives, I believe it was, uh Yeah, Kansas City, State House of Representatives, he was asked to come in and open their session for 1996 in prayer. The prayer he prayed has been called the prayer that was heard around the world. It was a powerful confession of sin. It was a powerful call to humility and repentance before our holy God. As he prayed that prayer, some legislators got up and walked out. Later, others stood up at the podium during their times of debate and speech, and they condemned him for this prayer and called him hateful and extreme. Let me read to you the prayer that was heard around the world. Oh, by the way, Paul Harvey, not our Paul Harvey, but the one on the radio. He aired it on his radio station in February of that year after it had blown up. Here's the prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you today to ask your forgiveness. And to seek your direction and guidance. We know your word says, woe to those who call evil good. But that is exactly what we have done. We have lost our spiritual equilibrium and inverted our values. We confess that we have ridiculed the absolute truth of your word in the name of moral pluralism. We have worshipped other gods and called it multiculturalism. We've endorsed perversion and called it alternative lifestyle. We have exploited the poor and called it lottery. We have neglected the needy and called it self-preservation. We have rewarded laziness and called it welfare. In the name of choice, we have killed our unborn. In the name of right to life, we have killed abortionists. We've neglected to discipline our children and called it building self-esteem. We have abused power and called it political savvy. We have coveted our neighbors' possessions and called it taxes. We've polluted the air with profanity and pornography and called it freedom of expression. We've ridiculed the time-honored values of our forefathers and called it enlightenment. Search us, oh God Know our hearts today. Try us and show us the wickedness in us. Cleanse us from every sin and set us free. Died and blessed these men and women who have been sent here by the people of Kansas, who have been ordained by you to govern this great state Grant them your wisdom to rule, and may their decisions direct us to the center of your will. I ask in the name of your Son, the living Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. Wow. What a prayer. And here we are. Sixteen years later I submit to you, we need that prayer today more than ever. I want God to bless our nation. I love America. I want God to bless our church. This church has been the love of my life. I want God's blessing on it. I want God's blessing on my home, my family. But we can't ignore God's word and violate his principles And expect him to bless us. I had a friend all through high school. My best friend. He was born with a heart defect. He was when he was born, he was a serious problem with his heart, and they had to do surgery. It's just a little infant on his heart. It was an issue his whole life. He and I, I am ashamed to say this, but he and I got involved in drugs together. I tell you, once you stepped across that first line, it was a rapid descent into horrendous drug use and debauchery. And the whole time everyone kept saying to him, and myself included, man, you can't do that. You've got a bad heart condition. You can't live this lifestyle. You know what he always said? It's gonna be alright. Everything will be alright. I got saved at the age of 19 and our paths went separate ways. I witnessed to them. I'd go and visit them He became the manager of a rock band that played all up and down the New Jersey coast and up in New York. They were pretty successful. And lived the whole lifestyle. I went and visited him one time, and I've told this before. I went and visited him one time, and after I was in Bible college, I was home on break. I looked him up and found him. I sat down, I wanted so bad to go through the gospel with him, and he would not let me He said, listen, God and I got our thing. Everything's alright. Everything's alright. I left him a little Gideon New Testament. That's all he could get. About a half a year later, I got a letter from my dad, and it was obituary. He had died, his heart had failed, twenty-some years old. Here's the point. He had in his head that he could just do what he wanted, and it wouldn't matter. That he could just ignore the situation. And that somehow everything would work out alright. And he was dead wrong. As far as I know, he died without Christ. Now listen, we can't ignore the principles of Scripture as a nation, as a church, as individuals. There's consequences. God does not violate his own word. And so we can go on our merry way and ignore the principles of Scripture and just do our thing and disregard what God says. And hope everything's gonna work out. And I'll tell you, six thousand years of man's existence hadn't worked out yet Or we can confess our sin, humble ourselves, and say, God, we need your mercy. God will forgive us. We confess and forsake it. God will forgive The blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. But we have to confess it. Here's my invitation this morning. As Americans, as members of this church, as individual members of a household. Will you pray with me on this All-American Sunday that God will have mercy on us? Will you pray with me that God will search our hearts in the areas in our own lives? That are not in line with Scripture will correct that and get it in line with Scripture. And maybe God will be merciful to our land. And maybe God will change things, and our grandkids and great-grandkids can grow up in a land blessed of God. Or you just go right on and oh well everything will be all right. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, I want it to be. Lord, we want your blessings. We need your blessings, God. The more I see the wickedness of our land, the more I search my own heart and just see how short I fall. And I pray you'd bring revival and let it begin in me, dear Lord. Whatever happens to our country, I pray, God, that my heart and life would be in line with your will. Your favor be upon me in our church. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I share your burden? I want revival in our land.