Chapter four, second Kings chapter four. Again, it was a beautiful day today. We praise the Lord for a good service this morning. And a w day, you'll never guess what I had for lunch today. Pork chops. Praise the Lord. I took my wife out to dinner last night and got pork chops today. It Second Kings chapter 4, we're going to begin reading in verse 8. I'm going to read down through verse 17. We've been looking at the life of Elisha. Verse 8 says, And it fell on a day that Elisha passed to Shunam. Where was a great woman, and she constrained him to eat bread. And it was so that as oft as he passed by, he turned in hither to eat bread. And she said unto her husband, Behold now, I perceive that this is a holy man of God, which passeth by us continually Let us make a little chamber, I pray thee, on the wall, and let us set for him there a bed, and a table, and a stool, and a candlestick, and it shall be when he cometh to us that he shall turn in thither. And it fell on a day that he came thither, and he turned into the chamber and lay there. And he said to Gehazi his servant, Call this Shunammite And when he had called her, she stood before him, and he said unto him, Say now unto her, Behold, thou hast been careful for us with all this care. What is to be done for thee? Wouldest thou be spoken to for to a king or to the captain of the host? And she answered, I dwell among mine own people. And he said, What then is to be done for her Gehazi answered, Verily she hath no child, and her husband is old. And he said, Call her. And when he called her, he stood in the door, and he said, About this season According to the time of life, thou shalt embrace a son. And she said, Nay, my lord, thou man of God, do not lie unto thy handmaid. And the woman conceived and bare a son that season that Elisha had said unto her, according to the time of life. What's the notice here in verse number eight? This woman is described as a great woman I want us to consider this woman for a few moments tonight. Let's pray together. Father, bless our study of your word. I thank you for the life of Elijah, and you've preserved these His uh activities here and your word for us we can learn from. I pray you'd apply some of these principles to our lives tonight as you know we have need. I yield myself, my will again tonight to your will I surrender myself, I present my body anew. Fill me with your spirit, I ask. Speak through me. Help us to learn from this great woman, I pray. In Jesus' name I ask. Amen For remember, we pointed out in a previous message that prophets really in the nation of Israel were unusual. There was no established office set up for the prophet like there was for the priests. The priest was a continual thing. When one died, another was appointed. There was many other priests, and they all had their office established by God. But there was no office, uh a position, so to speak, for the prophet. They just kind of showed up. Um there was no there was nothing in place to provide for the prophets. Now the priests, they got a certain percentage of the sacrifices that were brought in and they had a system set up so the priests would be provided for, but nothing like that for the prophets They would simply, as I said, they were unusual, and they would simply show up and arrive in times of apostasy or if the if the nation was in a special spiritual need Well, Israel is in a time of great spiritual need. We notice that with Elijah And things really did change. In spite of Elijah's powerful ministry, the nation was on a continual downward slide. And now with Elisha, that slide continues. They're deteriorating uh terribly. And as nearly always The apostasy, the unbelief began with the leadership. Now there's an important thought here that I think we need to keep in mind It is usually the leadership of an organization or a nation. It is usually the leadership where they begin to go astray. Um, for instance, it was the kings of Israel that would stray from the true worship of Jehovah, and they would influence the nation to go astray. uh years ago back in the early 1900s the seminaries the bible preaching seminaries the fundamental seminaries began teaching uh evolution, began questioning the Word of God, higher criticism, and they were cranking out preacher boys Men who would pastor churches, provide leadership to Christians throughout the nation who were doubting the Word of God, who were questioning Genesis and various of the miracles, and because of that, they would influence entire denominations to go astray from the Word of God. Now we need to be very, very careful. Leadership is a powerful position a person can hold, and they must remain true to God's word. Now I said that to say this. Israel's leadership had gone severely astray. We've noticed that in previous messages. But Within the among the ordinary people of everyday life, there were many wonderful, God-fearing people Though the kings and many of the religious leaders had blasphemed God, had gotten into apostasy and rejected the Word of God, there was people throughout the nation of Israel, ordinary people, people like you and I. Just everyday folks who were good people. They feared Jehovah. They held to the worship of Jehovah as given to them in the Word of God and by the men of God. And they remain true. Keep your place here. I'd like for you to come back, and I just want to illustrate this to 1 Kings chapter 19. 1 Kings 19. You'll remember this story. This is after Elijah had confronted the false prophets of Baal, Mount Carmel, and uh he beheaded them. He fled from uh Jezebel and um he went out into the wilderness and he went into a state of depression His eyes began to grow to focus inward and he got focused on himself and he got depressed as always happens when we do that And he makes a statement to God. He gets he completely gets out of whack and he gets his complete thinking out of whack and he fails to see clearly. And he says to God I'm the only one who's standing for you. I'm the only one who's remaining true to the fundamentals of the faith, so to speak I'm the only one who's separated from the world. I'm the only one who's committed to the Word of God. And God challenges Elijah. Now, as far as the leadership of the nation was concerned, Elijah was right. The king wasn't faithful to God. Jezebel wasn't faithful to God. The high priests weren't faithful to God. But God challenges Elijah and he says, wait a minute. And look with me, if you will, at verse number 18. God speaking to Elijah after Elijah says, I'm the only one. Yet I have left me seven thousand in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which has not kissed hath not kissed him. You know what God was saying? He's saying, I've got a lot of good people throughout the nation who still fear me, who still love me, who are still committed to me. You're not the only woman. And so Elisha is traveling down the road. Apparently, oh, by the way, let me back up and say: America is in a spiritual mess You agree with me? We're in a political mess, we're in an economic mess, we're in a social mess, and we're in a spiritual mess. But I want to encourage you, don't give up hope on America. Because I am convinced that there are people, maybe not in the public eye. There are people maybe not in positions writing policy and representing our country in other nations, but I'm telling you There are people throughout the United States of America, all 50 states, who love God, who are committed to the Word of God. Who have not bowed the knee to atheism or evolution or worldliness or modernism that have remained true to the Word of God I traveled in evangelism for years with Bible time and did some uh uh traveling around. I got into a lot of states and into a lot of churches. You know what I found I found in Montana, Wyoming, Nebraska, Colorado, New Mexico, Utah, Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, West Virginia, New York, Pennsylvania, Delaware Maryland, Tennessee, Alabama, Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia. I've found people who love God and are faithful to His Word. We're not the only ones There are people we have people visit here from all around the eastern part, northeast part of the United States that come to church here and believe the same old book we do. Preach the same old-time gospel we preach. Hold to the same Bible standards we hold to. So Elijah's in the nation of Israel. And by our external appearances, it looked like this country is shot. The nation of Israel is gone. We saw that with Jehoram and that whole mess. But as he's traveling to Mount Carmel, and by the way, if you study this carefully, it seems like Though Elisha didn't have any home base, so to speak, he would retreat out to Mount Carmel. It was a ways out, it was kind of a wilderness area. And um any place that's named after a type of suite, I like it. Uh Mount Carmel and um Anyway, he would frequent this place. And it appears from studying scriptures that this was a type of retreat for him. It was a time when he would get away. And he'd get alone with God. And a time where he would recharge his battery, so to speak. And you know, if Elisha needed to get alone with God on a regular basis, how much more do you and I Need to get alone with God on a regular basis. Let me repeat this. I say it so often, but it is vitally important that every believer spend some time alone with God every single day. You've gotta do that. I have to do that. And by the way, when we don't, we feel it, right or wrong. Elisha needed his Mount Carmel. He had to get away from the spiritual warfare going on. He had to get alone with God. He had to hear what God had to say to him. He had to pour his heart out to God for his needs and burdens. And you and I need to do that every single day. I want to challenge you this week Take some time. Every single day. Five minutes, ten minutes, a half hour if you can. And get alone with God. Open the Bible. Pray. Pour your heart out to the Lord. He wants to hear you. We need that to recharge us. Man, we've got Christians today that are so high strung, so wound out, man, they're just ready to snap. Man, we need to get along with God. To get out to our Mount Carmel. Maybe it's beside a bed, uh maybe it's in a back room, maybe it's out behind the house by a tree or on a stump, but something we've got to get along with God So, Elisha does this. As he's traveling back and forth to Mount Carmel, he would pass a little town by the name of Shunem. The name of the town is actually like two towns together, kind of like Oakland and Mountain Lake Park, the way I understand it. And it means literally the resting place. That's the name of the town. Shunnah, the resting place. And it was the Bible history books and and customs and lands of Bible time books tell us That the place of Shunham was a very fertile area. Boy, crops would grow. The trees were full of fruit. It's a beautiful place. It was sparsely populated, but it's beautiful, a quiet, uh serene, very fertile, flourishing village. As he would go through the town of Shunam, there was a woman who lived there with her family. The Bible describes this woman as a great woman. Now I thought, well that's an interesting, a great woman. I wonder what God means by the word green. So I got one of my favorite reference books, The Strongest Concordance. And I looked up great to see what did God mean that this woman was great. And the word great means literally large. I thought, hmm, this is a large woman. And I got studying, I thought, wait a minute, there's more meaning to it than that. So I don't think God is saying that this was a physically large woman, although she may have been. I think what God is describing here is referring to this woman as a woman of great character. That is not a reference to her physical appearance, it is a reference to her integrity. And as I studied what Bible scholars said about this woman, I come to the conclusion, and I got this picture of the woman in my mind. I see her, and I believe the Bible describes her as such, as a hardworking, very promised, prosperous woman I see her as a woman who is very wealthy and has become very successful in what she has endeavored to do. Some suggested she may have been a type of businesswoman Others have even suggested that she may have uh her husband may have acquired their wealth through her endeavors. A great woman. It implies that she was a woman of quite a bit of influence, highly respected by the people of Shunam. It's interesting. There is a world of difference between being respected by people and having people's attention. A lot of women who are not very respectable get a lot of attention. I mean we live in a world today, all you gotta do is dress a certain way, and brother, you'll get all kinds of attention. Am I right or wrong? Come on, talk to me. Do not confuse attention with respect. It's a world of difference. In fact, I would suggest to you that most of the women on TV get a lot of attention, but I have very little respect for them. Uh sad to say, we live in a society. Hey, sad to say, now you live in churches. If you show a little skin, brother, you get all kinds of attention Huh? That's why I wear high socks so you can't see my skin. Do not confuse attention with respect. This woman was a woman of great respect. possibly even brought wealth to her husband because of her integrity. Now what was it about this woman, watch it Mike, what was it About this woman that uh that com that would prompt God to call her a great woman Um, I would venture, I don't know about you ladies, but uh I would love to have God think of me as a great man. Would that be an honor? I would imagine a lady would be honored, humbled to think that God would consider me as a great woman. And yet that's what God says of this woman God says she was a great woman. It's not quoting Elisha. This isn't Elisha's opinion. This is God's statement. Now, what was it about this woman that made her great? That's what caught my attention. So I want to give you some suggestions. And quickly, our time's running away. Let me quickly give this to you. Number one I believe God considered her to be a great woman because she was kind and hospitable. She was kind. And she was hospitable. Look at verse 8. And it fell in a day, and Elisha passed to Shun, that there was a great woman, and she constrained him to eat bread. Come down to verse 10. She says to her husband, Let us make a little chamber, I pray thee, on the wall. Let us set for him there a bed and a table and a stool and a candlestick. It'll be when he cometh to us that he shall turn in hither. Now, at this point, unless I'm reading this wrong, at this point, she didn't know anything about this man. In verse number 8, she doesn't know that he's a great prophet of God. Verse 8, she doesn't know that he has the ear of kings. She doesn't know that he could call armies to come to her. We find that out later on. But at this point, he's just some stranger she sees gone by And she says, hey, why don't you come on and have a little food? She was nice. She was kind. She generously and graciously provided for Elijah. She willingly opened her home for Elijah. She was kind. God considers kind people to be great. People who are hospitable and concerned and nice to other people. God says those are great people. Hey Unkind people are small. Unkind people, people who have nothing nice to say to anybody or about anything, are immature people. They are not great people. They're not highly respected. They are not thought well of and wanting to be emulated when people are just hateful. This woman was kind. She was hospitable. And God said she's a great woman One of the primary indicators of spiritual maturity is just old-fashioned kindness. Ephesians chapter 4. And verse number thirty and thirty-two, let me read that for you here real quickly, uh Ephesians. We've been looking at this verse often in the last uh several years. Look at this. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby he are sealed unto the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. Can I summarize that? All unkindness Huh? Just hateful? Put that away from you. And be ye what? Kind one to another Tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. Unkindness grieves the Holy Spirit of God. I believe God's people should be the kindest people in town. I believe people who know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, whose sins have been forgiven, who've been given a new chance on life a new hope in life, a new lease on life through being born again, through Jesus Christ ought to be the kindest people in the town where they live. Can I bring it home? The members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be the kindest people in Oakland and surrounding areas. People think Mountain Lake Independent Bachelor, yeah, I know some people from there. They're kind. Boy, they're hospitable. They're just friendly. Is that how people would describe you? Is that how your neighbors? People you work with in town? She don't like anybody. You don't get along with no one. God says this woman was a great woman. And we look at her and the first thing we see, she was kind. She was friendly. She was nice. Second thing we notice that made this woman a great woman is she had discernment. Elisha's passing by, apparently on a regular basis. He starts eating there and invite him in. He's eating bread with them and they say uh they she starts picking up something Notice in verse 9. Well, look at verse 8. It says, so it was that as oft as he passed by, he turned in thither to eat bread. So he's stopping in here pretty regularly. Now look at verse 9. And she said unto her husband, Behold now. You know what she's saying? She's saying, hey, think about this. Sugar bear, whatever her name was for her husband. I don't know what your name is. I'm not gonna tell you what my wife's name is for me. She says, Behold now, I perceive that this is not just some ordinary stranger This husband is a holy man of God. Now it's interesting, she picks that up, not her husband. She discerns this. The word perceive means to distinguish something. Boy, it means to uh recognize, to understand by experience. She sees this guy coming by. Now granted, I am sure that on Elisha's part, there was something about his demeanor There was something about the way he conducted himself. Maybe the way he spoke and the things he said. Perhaps uh uh there were there was just something about Elisha That communicated that he was a man of God. And by the way, I believe there ought to be something about a Christian that communicates to others that we are not of this world. We are children of God. But she picks this up. Others fail to see it, perhaps. But this woman, she's sensitive. She has a spiritual discernment And she picked up something about Elisha. Now, how did she do that? How did she determine that Elisha was a man of God? Well, you say he told her. I don't think so because it doesn't say, behold now, he told me he's a man of God. Doesn't say that. She says, I perceived I'm picking up something here. There's something different about this guy. He's not like all the other strangers. The way he talks, the way he looks, his countenance. His attitude, the words he says and the way he says them. He's a holy man of God. Now, how did she perceive that? Here's how I believe. I believe this woman knew the true God. And she knew what the true God was like. And he was God is holy and He is pure. And he's good, and he's loving, and he's just and he's fair, and he's kind. And she looked at Elisha And she says, I perceive the same characteristics I know to be true of God. I see them in Elijah. This is a holy man of God Number three, she is a great woman. First because she was kind and hospitable. Second of all, because she had a keen discernment. Number three, I believe she was a great woman because she conducted herself properly Now I was really tempted to go into this and uh dwell on a number of things. But though It appears to me, I think we can look at how she set up the little chamber for Elisha. It was actually outside the house, so things were appropriate. Hey, listen, we've got to be appropriate. Amen? I told somebody recently, propriety is more important than convenience. Think about that. Doing right, looking right, making sure everything is right is more important than convenience. Hey, it would have been real convenient to let him stay in the house with them, huh? But husband down on the farm. And here's Elisha at home with a wife. Not can not proper. So it required a little more work, a little more investment to build this profits chamber out here, but propriety is more important than convenience. And so I see this woman, she conducts herself properly. She is concerned about her testimony. She is concerned about her future. She is not going to allow situations to develop where would put cloud over her testimony that would put her in a position, a compromising position. No We'll build us a little chamber. We'll put a bed there and a table and a and uh a cot and we can take care of him. I believe as I study this, she appears to me to be stronger in character and spirit than her husband. Do you agree with me? She's the one that initiates it. She's the one picking up the fact that this is a holy man of God. She's the one coming up with a solution I think she is stronger in character, perhaps stronger in spirit, perhaps stronger mentally than her husband. But she is still gentle and respectful to her husband Now here's where the world likes to get us in trouble. She understood her role as the wife. I use my words very carefully. Her role as the wife. The husband is not better than the wife. And the wife is not better than the husband. The husband is not more important than the wife And the wife is not more important than the husband. But God has given the husband a certain role to play as the head of the home. And God has given the wife the role to play as the submissive help and support to the husband. Not more important than one another, different roles And though I believe she was stronger in character, stronger in spirit, perhaps stronger in mentally than her husband yet. She recognized her role as the supporting wife. And I give you scripture to support that if you come down and look at verse 22. This is later on, and we'll look at this in another message, but notice, and she her she has a baby, and the baby gets the boy gets sick, it's years later, the boy gets sick, and she's concerned for it, and she needs to take care of it. But look at verse 22 And she called unto her husband and said, Send me, I pray thee. She's saying, I'm asking permission. Send thee, I pray thee. Word pray means to ask. One of the young men and one of the asses, and I may run to the man of God and come again. She goes to her husband as the head of the home and sought his permission. I know what some folks may think, you said are you saying I gotta ask my husband permission to everything I do? I'm not saying you have to, but I'm saying you ought to be willing to. Amen? Don't be don't it be that attitude? See the hut look if you back up here, look at this. Uh um the verse 19, the lad set the boy says unto his father, My head, my head. I mean this guy's really sick, he's dying. And look what dad says. Carry him to his mother. Well, typical husband, huh? Uh you sick, go to your mother. I don't want you throwing up all over my shop. She comes up with a solution. But she asks her husband, then look at verse 23. And he said the husband, Wherefore wilt thou go to him today? It's neither new moon nor Sabbath He's saying, why are you going to see the prophet? It's no special day. It's not a holy day. He doesn't put two and two together. The baby's dead. The child's deathly ill. I need to get the prophet to make them well. He doesn't catch it at all. He goes, why are you going to go do that? And look what she says. You idiot, the kid's sick. We need help. Is that what it says? No, that's what you would have said. What kind of moron are you? The baby's dying. What does she say? It'll be well You know what she says? Okay, everything will be alright. Everything will be alright. She doesn't fuss with him. He's being a bonehead. I'll give it to you. Husbands do that sometimes. Rare occasions husbands do that. She doesn't fuss with him. She doesn't say, you stupid idiot and start nagging on him This woman conducted herself properly. And God said she's a great woman. Last thing I noticed quickly, and this is real quickly, is she was completely content. Look at verse 13. Go back earlier in the story. Verse 12, he says to Gehazi his servant Elisha, call the Shunammite. And when he had called her, she stood before him. And he said unto her, Say now unto her Behold, thou hast been careful for us with all this care. He says you've done so much for us. What is to be done for thee? What can we do for you? You've been such a blessing. Let me do something for you. Wouldest thou be spoken to for uh spoken for to the king? You want me to go tell the king something you want? Well I'd like to have somebody tell the president some things I like to say You want me to go tell the king something? Get something from the king. You want me to get the captain of the army something you want with? I can get you whatever you want. Look what she says. And she answered, I dwell among mine own people. I thought, what kind of answer is that? What does that mean? Do you want me to get a king? Want me to talk to a king to you? When we get an army? I dwell among my own people. Huh? You know what she's saying? She's saying, I got everything I want. I've got my family here, what more could I want? I'm satisfied I want exactly what I have. There's nothing the king could give me that I want any more than what I already have. An army! Could not conquer and provide for me anything more than what God has already given me. I'm satisfied. I'm content with what I have. In maturity, always once and once and once and once. What's one of the first things a child learns? Gimme. Gimme. I drive, I go up to Walmart, Christians walking down the hill. Never enough. There always has to be more. This woman said, I dwell with my own people. I have everything I want right here There's nothing more. I'm happy. I'm content. Susannah Wesley. Anybody recognize the name Susanna Wesley? She was the mother of two great men. Who were they? John and Charles Wesley. We sing their hymns. Methodist Church, the result of John Wesley's ministry in England. She made this statement. I am content to fill a little space if God be glorified. I'm content just with what I have, if what I have can bring glory to my God. What a way to live. What an attitude. What a testimony for the goodness of God when God's people say, I'm happy. What a testimony to the goodness of our Savior when God's people say, I'm satisfied with all that God's given me. If He never gave me another thing, He's been better to me than I deserve. I'm content with what I have. What a great woman. Elisha could have spoken to the king on her behalf. He could have commanded an army on her behalf. And she goes, I'm satisfied with my family. I live with my people. That's all I want. And now the last great thing, and we're not going to, this will be the next message in the series. She was a woman of uncommon faith. And we see that in verses 18 through 30. She trusted God to heal her son, and God honored her faith And I'm telling you this evening, I'm telling you, based on the authority of God's word and experience in my life, God always honors faith. If we will trust God, if we will obey God, God will honor them in ways that He knows best. What a great woman! I want to incorporate some of these characteristics into my life. What I learned from her. Let's pray. Father in heaven, bless us, Lord. Help us, Father, to be kind. God, help us. Give us discernment. Help us to conduct ourselves properly. Lord, help us to be content. And Lord help us to have faith in you. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, I don't know how God made