A fella grew up in the backwoods hills of West Virginia and uh didn't get back where uh My wife's from. And uh he never got out to the big cities like Oakland and stuff before I like what the one guy said this is another j joke. Uh I like what the one guy said. He says, I like going to dollar store and family dollar. He says you don't have to get dressed up like you do those fancy places like Walmart And um but uh uh he grew up and uh he got a job in the big city of Oakland. He was taking uh mining classes to be a coal miner and uh they're having lunch and the guy beside him pulls out a thermos and uh fellow from backwoods wirginia is looking at that thermos and uh he goes what in the world is that thing he the guy said it's a A thermos. He goes, a thermos? He said, I I never heard of it. I never saw one of those before. What what is it? He goes, it's very simple. It keeps it's for food. You put food in it. He says it keeps hot food hot and keeps cold food cold. He said, really? He says, yeah. He says, where do you get them? He says Walmart's got 'em. He goes, okay. So the next The next day he shows up at coal mining underground training class and uh he's got his thermos there too. And the guy says, Hey, you got you one of them thermos He goes, Yeah. He goes, What do you got in it? Soup and ice cream? Some folks you just gotta explain a little bit more. So that's what we're gonna try and do in this verse here this morning, try and explain things A little bit more. That joke had nothing to do with John Ringer. Whatsoever. Had nothing to do with John Ringer. Look at verse number seven of Psalms 124, if you would, with me. The Bible says, our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowler. And the snare is broken, and we are escaped. I'm entitled The Message this morning, A Great Escape. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you for the Word of God. I ask you to bless now our time as we uh study and look at the I pray that your Holy Spirit would take the truths and the principles here in this scripture and others we'll look at. Pray your Holy Spirit would take these and apply them to our hearts and lives as you God, I ask that uh you would open our hearts and minds to your word, that we would be willing to hear what you have to say to us Lord, I pray that myself included all of us we would be willing to make the adjustments in our life uh that need to be made to bring your blessing and your pleasure upon us. Lord, we ask that uh you would help us to understand uh reality of this world as you declare it to be as it actually is. I yield my I present my body anew, and I ask that this morning, this hour, you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And as we already prayed, Lord, speak through me is my request. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Psalm 124, if you notice right at the beginning of the chapter, right under the chapter number where it says 124. Your Bible says a song of degrees. This eight verses here is actually a song that was sung back in the day of Israel. It was sung by the Israelites, of course, on a very specific occasion, primarily it was the designed for that phrase a song of degrees. It's on a number of our psalms here. In fact the ones around before and after this it says the same thing We probably don't give a whole lot of thought to what that means, but the idea behind uh uh song of degrees How's that, Dave? Is that okay, thank you. The thought behind this phrase, a song of degrees, is designating what this song was to be sung for. This song was sung as uh it was one of a series of songs, as we mentioned before and after, listed here in other places in the book of Psalms. They were sung as the Israelites would approach the temple on special days. They're going to have maybe a special sacrifice or of a Sabbath or whatever. And as the Israelites would approach the temple, as they would come up the hill to the temple, they would sing these songs of degrees. As they come up. It might be just an individual person coming before a group of Israelites, and he would sing it as the others follow behind, or sometimes they would sing it as a congregational type thing And so a psalm of degrees was a song that was part of the, you could say the worship service of the Israelites as they approached the temple on very significant days. Now, as far as the context of this psalm here, this song is concerned, we don't have a lot of detailed information We do not know the immediate context of this psalm. We don't know what the situation was that is being referred to when it was initially written. We don't know any specific time frame as to when this was written, other than the fact, if you'll notice again, right there above verse 1, it says a psalm of degrees by who? Of David. And so obviously, if it was David that wrote this under the inspiration of God, it would have been during David's lifetime. We assume it was after he was king. We don't know that. There's just not a lot of information given about this psalm. What we do know about this psalm is that, as stated, it was written by David. Now I always feel like it's important to qualify or clarify what we mean when we say an individual human being wrote a passage of Scripture That is not to say it's not inspired. All of the scriptures are given by inspiration of God. In other words, what we mean by that is this This entire Bible, from Genesis to Revelation, is the Word of God. God gave it to us. Now, He gave it to us through human instruments. I like to refer to it this way. And we'll say, you know, in a message like this, we'll say, well, David wrote this psalm. And that's true to the extent that David was the penman. Of this song. This is God's word. These are the exact words that God wanted recorded and preserved for you and I today. Now God used David to record them. So we know that David is the penman. He's written this. It comes from the pen of David. The second thing that we know about this psalm and reading it and studying, it becomes obvious here that there is a basic idea. behind this psalm. There's a overall general message being communicated through that psalm, and that is this. And it's very simple. The message of this eight verses are that God can and will deliver us from trouble and danger if we but trust him. That's the overall idea. And that is a good thing to be reminded of. God will take care of us. God will help us. God will protect us. If we will trust him, do what he says. God will take care of us We had a powerful illustration of that in the Sunday school hour from one of our missionaries to Inter Mongolia, brother Jacques Van Royen. The young couple was with us for our missions conference last year. They went a little uh just under a year ago. They moved over there. They're in language school, they're doing well Well there was ethnic uprisings in the country there, uh which becomes immediately very dangerous for foreigners, particularly Americans And God protected them during a period of time, a brief period of time when it was extremely dangerous for them to be there. And they acknowledge that God had protected them. So that's the idea behind the Psalm. You can see that in verse 1. If it had not been the Lord who is on our side, now may Israel say If it had not been the Lord who was on our side when men rose up against us, then they had swallowed us up quick when their wrath was kindled against us. He said, Listen, if God wasn't for us, if God wasn't helping us, we'd have been destroyed. We'd have been swallowed up. And so our safety, our security, our help, our confidence is not in our own abilities, is not in our own determination. It is in the Lord. And that's the idea of the psalm. Now, I noticed in my daily Bible reading some time ago, I came across, as I was reading this, verse 7 caught my attention. I read it a moment ago. Let me read it again. Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowler. The snare is broken, and we are escaped. I like that. I think that is a neat way of saying a of communicating a powerful scriptural truth. Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowler. Just a poetic way. Now I want to zero in on this verse and notice a few things real quickly this morning. First thing I want us to notice is he uses, and by the way, let me say this. The words that are put in the Bible, God put there deliberately. They're there for a reason. In fact, Jesus suggested, not didn't didn't suggest, he said very clearly, that even the jots and the tittles in Scripture are there at God's instruction. Now a jot and a title is the dot on an I or the cross on a T Now the question comes up, why would a jot or a tittle be significant? Who cares about a little dot on an I or a cross on a T? If you make a T and you forget to cross it, you end up with what? An L are a completely different letter. And so the little markings that signify what letter is to be used We're significant. And if the letters themselves are significant, then the words would be significant. Here's a profound statement. Get your pens ready. You're going to want to write this in your Bible. You can't have words without letters. How many people knew that? How many people say, Praise the Lord, I learned something new at church today? You can't have words without letters. And uh you can't have thoughts, you can't accurate communicate truth and statements and ideas without words. And so God used these words specifically. Now here's my first thought. The first thing I notice, and I want us to notice, is that he addresses the soul. Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the fowler. That's interesting. He doesn't say our body He's not saying our nation, he says our soul This, in this verse here, verse number seven, is a soul issue being addressed, not a physical deliverance In verse number seven. He's not dealing with the deliverance of the body. Now The overall passage, the eight verses taken together as a whole, the theme, is physical deliverance. He's talking about Israel being delivered physically from their enemies. He's talking about Israel being delivered from we again we don't know the details, Philistines maybe, uh Ammonites, Amalekites, the Mennonites, we don't know. We don't know what, but the overall context of the passage is physical deliverance for the nation of Israel. But It's like he's taking that idea and taking the opportunity in verse number seven to address, to take that thought and apply it in a spiritual fashion. And he says, our soul is delivered as a fat as a delivered as a bird out of the snare as a fowl. Our soul This is a spiritual deliverance. This is a spiritual rescue, so to speak. Now, I say this so often I would hope that the folks that regularly attend here, you have this and understand it very, very clear in your mind. Hopefully you'd be able to communicate this with others. But I feel that it's so important that we understand it needs to be repeated over and over and over. And I like to word it this way: you and I do not have a soul. We don't have a soul. You and I are a soul. That's what we are. And we have a body. What we are is our soul. That's what Dennis Leatherman is. He is a soul that inhabits a body. We do not have a soul, we are a soul, and we have a body. Now keep your place here because we're going to look at some other words in this passage, but I want to show you something. If you would come back to the very first book of the Bible, Genesis. And chapter 2. It's amazing when you study the Bible, if you get studying in depth, how often you end up back in the early chapters of Genesis It is the foundation passages portion of the Bible for the rest of the Bible. And in Genesis chapter 2, go to Genesis chapter 2. First book of the Bible, second chapter of the first book of the Bible, and verse 7. Here we have God giving to some in some detail how he created man Verse number seven, and the Bible says, and the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground. All right, stop right there. At this point in time What is man? At this point in time. He's a dirt, but he's a body. At this point in time, all he is is a body. Now, we're not told. We know that God used dirt to assemble, to Make the body. Now, at this time that this statement is made, at this given point in time The body, I tend to think at this point it is flesh and blood. That God has taken the dirt, and at this point in time it's flesh and blood. There's a liver in there, there's lungs, there's a heart, flesh and blood is all in place. Now he used dirt to to produce that flesh and blood. You say that's ridiculous. How can you make flesh and blood out of dirt? Hey Every time you put a dead body in the ground proves it comes it's made out of dirt because it when it decays it goes right back to its first uh What's the word I want, Sandy? First state. It's first materials. So that's not hard to say. Yeah. Flesh and blood. So at this point in time, man consists of nothing more than flesh and blood. Are you with me? I hope you agree with me, but whether you do or not, I'm still right. But uh if I agreed with you, then we'd both be wrong. So But anyway, at this point in time, man is simply flesh and blood. Can I say this? At this point in time, man is nothing more than modern man says he is. Just body. Just flesh and blood. But he's not alive. It's just a inanimate body. At this point in time, no different than rocks, no different than what? Rocks But look, read on. And the Lord God formed man out of the dust of the ground. Now, look, something takes place. And breathed into his nostrils. Now there's support for my theory that the body is in flesh and blood at this point. He's got nostrils And breathe into his nostrils the breath of life. Ah, man becomes alive. And look what he becomes. Look at that last phrase. And man became a living Do you notice God does not say man became a living body That's not what man is. I am not a body. You are not a body. You and I are a soul. And we have a body. And so when we come back to Psalms 124 and verse number 7, he says, our soul. He's talking about what man really is, not what we have, not the building that our soul inhabits, but he's talking about man. I'll tell you what is a tragedy. A tremendous tragedy. The overwhelming majority of mankind. All they see themselves as is simply a body. Completely miss. The fact that a body is just a temporary dwelling place for what they really are. But all that man sees, for the most part, all that man sees. All that man is aware of of his own self is that he is a body, and that's all he is. That's why when you witness to folks, you knock on their door You say, if you die now, do you know for sure you go go to heaven? Do you know where you go when you die? And I say something like this, Oh yeah, I'd go to the grave and rotten and decay, and that's it You know what his mistake is? He does not see himself for what he really is. All he sees is the temporal external. Isn't that a tragedy? That man doesn't even see himself for what he is, all he sees is the building. All attention is given to the body of the individual. All the focus and concern and care is given for the physical aspect of their life and not for what and who they really are. We have failed our young people. Let me say, let me start that again. We have failed our young people. When we have focused exclusively on the physical aspects of their life and completely neglected the spiritual aspects of their life. When our child's physic the body and the pleasures of the body and the And uh everything his body is all the focus is, and we put no time, no effort, no importance, no effort on their spiritual well-being, we are failing our children Because they are not a body. They are a spiritual soul. And if all we deal with, and don't misunderstand, I'm not saying neglect the body, bodily exercise profiteth little. And the idea there is, yes, it's important. It has its place. But your body is not what you are. Your body is not going to exist forever. You are going to out-exist your body. The soul, the soul. There is a spiritual aspect to life. That is just as real as the physical world around us. And we fail to see that. There are spiritual realities unseen to the human physical eye that are just as real. As the physical aspects of life around us. Let me try to illustrate what I'm trying to get across here. I'm trying to go back in time far enough that this would be true. Let's say 300 years. Now some of you smart allies are going to come up with an exp exception and figure out why this illustration isn't right. So Just put a sock in it, would you? Let's say three hundred years ago And I'm not, there's no one in particular, Dr. Browning. But anyway, I'm teasing. Let's say 300 years ago, did you know 300 years ago, there was radio waves in the air all around every human being. There was I don't know what you call it. Television waves? Are they the same as radio waves? Are they the same? Alright. What other kind of waves are out there? Microwaves? There actually is a microwave. I know more about it than you do, so quit laughing at me. Microwaves out there going around. There was radio waves out there going around. What other? Gamma. Gamma waves waves. What else? X-rays. So all these things were out there just as real, just in existence as the sunshine, the water, and the wind blowing in people's face. But man was not aware of it. Man was not able to experience it. Man was not able to take advantage of it. But as time went by, we discovered. Man learned and studied, and he found out there's radio waves out there. So we could send out these radio waves. uh found out about gamma rays. And now we have video gammas and uh with gamma rays And so they learned all these things. And but here's the point I'm trying to make. These were just as real the whole time, but man was completely ignorant of their existence. We live in a day when man is completely ignorant of the fact that we live in a spiritual world. There is a spiritual aspect of life. And there is a spiritual aspect to you and I that the tragedy is most people are completely unaware of. All they see is my body. Oh, they see it is inaccurate to say when you're looking in the mirror, I'm looking at myself in the mirror. That's inaccurate to say. You're looking at your body in the mirror You are inside the body. The eyes are the window to what? The soul. That statement in itself tells me that my eyes are not me. My body is not me. I inhabit. I indwell. So he says, our soul is escaped. As a bird from the snare of the fowler. There is, you and I are spiritual beings. We are making a tragic mistake when all we focus on, all we worry about, all we think about is our physical well-being. I'm telling you, some Christians would be powerful Christians if you spent as much time on the health of you or yourself, your soul, as you do on the health of your body. Some people spend twenty minutes on a treadmill, won't spend two minutes in God's Word. Now I don't spend twenty minutes on a treadmill. And everybody said that's obvious. Some people spend half hour in the in front of the mirror. You say, preacher, y you think it's wrong for a woman to wear makeup? Nah, an old barn needs a coat of paint every now and then But I'm telling you, if we would work as hard on our spiritual aspect as we do on our physical aspect, we'd probably be a lot stronger Christians than what we are Your body's not you. Now I'm not saying neglected, it's not important. The body's the temple of the Holy Spirit. God has given to us. We're instructed to care for the body. It takes a lot of work to keep this physique that I have, and we're supposed to work on that. But there's a spiritual aspect to us. Let me ask you a question. Do you give any thought at all to yourself as a soul? Do you see yourself as I am a what I am as a soul, and I'm just temporarily inhabiting this body. You know that that there's several truths there. One is that means if you don't have the body of some supermodel, it doesn't matter Huh? Means if you're not tall, dark, and handsome as the world thinks you should be, it doesn't matter. That's not you We've sold our young people, the world has sold our young people a bill of goods that if they don't look like some fantastic movie star, then they're not important and their value, their life is of little or no value. That is ridiculous. It's not what you are. That's not what we are. It's something we inhabit. Do you give any thought to yourself as a soul? Inhabiting a body. Let me ask you this. Do you really think, come on, do you really think that you are just flesh and blood? And that someday you're just going to die like a dog. You're just going to die like an old horse. Just some pig that dies. I don't believe he really think that I don't believe when I knock on a man's door or a person's door and they come to the door and I go through the gospel with them and they say, you know, I'm just going to die and write, and that's all it's going to be. I don't think for one minute they really believe that. Because down inside the heart of man, somewhere, there has to be an awareness of the fact that I am something more than just flesh and blood. So that word in verse number seven, our soul is escaped. We are immortal beings. The body will die, eventually decay. By the way, there's promise in Scripture that God will one day raise up our bodies, a glorified body. But it's not us. Our bodies will die, and we as individuals will spend eternity in either heaven or in hell. That's where we'll spend eternity. We don't go to the grave. Our body does. I do funerals all the time. And uh that's not the person in the casket there. That person has gone to either heaven or to hell. Dr. Bob Jones Sr. , years ago, great evangelist of years gone by, he made this statement. He said the most profound thought I ever had is that I will live forever somewhere in either heaven or hell. Now, I don't call going to hell living But we will exist forever in one of two places. And if we spend our whole life focused on our body, on the temporal, on the facade, And we neglect our soul, and we die and go to hell. What a tragedy. What a tragedy. So he says our soul, he's addressing the spiritual aspect of man. He's addressing what we really are. He's not Talking the passage is about Israel as a nation's physical deliverance, but he verse 7 he says, all right, let's apply this to our who and what we really are. Then he says, our soul is escaped as a bird. I thought that's interesting. So first thing I noticed was the soul is addressed. Second thing I noticed is the symbolism here. Our soul is escaped as a bird. Keyword there, as. He says, I'm trying to illustrate something. This little bird is a symbol. Represents a truth that's being conveyed. And so he says, you and I, what we really are, in this text, he says, we're like a bird. Now I got thinking and studying and I thought, I wonder what that word bird there, what the significance of that word bird there. So I got my stuff out and started looking up words and history of words and meanings and whatnot, how it's used different places And my thought was it probably means something like a great eagle, uh a falcon. We are like some strong, fierce, independent Majestic bird. And that's what I was thinking because, you know, it's really hard to fly with the For it was a joke I was trying to use there, but forget it. So I thought maybe it might be some type of bird like that. It's hard to fly with the turkeys when you're a bird, something like that. It's hard to fly with eagles when you're a turkey. That's not exactly the way I was thinking of it, but anyway. But I got thinking, oh surely, you know, he's describing me as a bird. Surely it's an eagle or a falcon or one of those They have over in Kazakhstan, they have these birds, their wingspan is like seven, eight feet. They're a type of falcon. And they can capture, I have it on video, they can capture and kill a deer Isn't that something? And um I thought, surely that's what he's comparing me to. And I got looking up, and you know what the word bird there It's translated two other times in our Bible as the word sparrow. It is used to describe a defenseless, powerless, ignorant little tweety bird. I thought, hmm, this little bird here is not referring to a great eagle or a majestic falcon. It's talking about a little bird of no value to the world. It is described as being powerless, defenseless, very ignorant, easy to be snared. And here's one thing I found interesting. This sparrow, this type of bird we referred to back in Jesus' day at least was considered to be a little or no value. They were sold. You could buy two of them for a farthing. A farthing was equivalent to basically our penny. So you get two of these little birds for a farthing. And if you bought five of them. Give me two farthings, and you can buy five. In other words, they were so valueless, they'd throw a third one in just for whatever, just to get rid of it. And he says, you and I, what we really are, is like a little sparrow. Defenseless, powerless. of no value to the world. Say, preacher, I don't think the world doesn't value life. Why is there over 73 million babies aborted in their mother's womb since 1973? Why does Hollywood glorify the slaughtering of human beings? Why is it the more video you can have of somebody actually being injured It's something fascinating when if you have a little bug in a movie, they'll put a little thing up. No bugs were injured in the making of this movie. Don't tell me this world values life. This, I believe, is an accurate symbol of our natural spiritual state A person may be very strong physically. They may be big and bulked and Just strong have one of uh one percent body fat But they may be spiritually just a little worthless bird. Follow what I'm saying? It's been in the news Big mista uh big Mr. Muscular movie star, politician, strong And here we find out he's nothing more than just a common adulterer. Just a whormoner. Unfaithful, liar. Just a little sparrow. We can put on this facade that we are something And then when we stand before God as we really are, we find out we weren't nearly what we like to put on. In fact, the Bible says that we're nothing more than sinners. That our righteousness, all the things we think so highly of, that we think really make us something. God says it's just a bunch of filthy rags. In our natural state, we're nothing but a little powerless, defenseless sparrow You say, preacher, that doesn't help the kids' self-esteem. You know what's getting our kids in trouble? They've got too much self-esteem. Our problem isn't we don't think high uh highly of our enough of ourselves. Our problem is we think too highly of ourselves. We've got to quit thinking so high. We've got to quit maximizing man and minimizing God, and we've got to start maximizing God and minimizing man. And then we get our heads on straight. John the Baptist said, he must increase, but I must what? I gotta see myself as I really am. For I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. Now life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the the Son of God who gave loved me and gave himself for me. You know what Paul's saying? Paul's saying, I'm nothing. Christ is everything. And our soul is like a sparrow. We are defenseless. In our natural state, we are powerless against the wiles of the devil. Now the fowler here, we could uh uh take time and say that that is a reference, uh symbolic of the devil. And like a little sparrow with a very skilled, wise fowler, we are defenseless against him. We are ignorant of his devices. We fall for his tricks all the time. We're powerless against the wiles of the devil. Too often we're ignorant and defenseless against the snares of the devil. I don't think there's hardly a week, I maybe put it this way, I doubt there's hardly a month or two that goes by where I don't get an email or a text or a phone call from some preacher friend or some evangelist friend that says something to this effect. Oh, preacher so-and-so, he fell into sin. Ah, so-and-so had to resign from his position. Ah, so-and-so, that preacher, his wife left him for another man. And down the line it goes. And it and to me it's like, man, we're nothing but a bunch of little sparrows just falling for the devil's snares, left and right, left and right, left and right The devil puts a snare up there, and he puts a snare up here, and he puts a snare up there, and we just fall for him The symbolism is very accurate. We're just like a little ignorant bird. Now the notice the other thing word here in this passage, our soul is escaped as a bird. That's a symbolism. Out of the snare of the devil. Now we could do a series of messages on the snares, out of the snare of the fowler. What is it about a snare? Now, when I was young, we used to trap, which is a form of a snare I used to catch trap um muskrats when I was a kid. Anybody here when you were a kid trap muskrats? Anybody at all? Couple. I loved it. I made a lot of money doing that And uh we would catch muskrats. We'd have 50, 60 traps, we'd put them out, and uh catch muskrats and raccoons and possums and the neighbors' cats and stuff like that And what you would do, one of the techniques of snaring one of these critters, trapping them, is you would put something there to attract them. Get their attention. Draw them to come over. Check it out. Particularly raccoons. One of the ways we like to catch raccoons is we get a little stream and you get a part where the water is moving rapidly through there. A little not not a big river, just a little stream, a couple inches. uh deep at the most and it's going over uh little stones and gravel and there's just the the surface of the water is restless going down over there And you wait until there's going to be a full moon, a clear night. And what you do is get about a number two trap or whatever, I forget the numbers, you get one of those, and you take a uh a can, like a green uh a baked bean can or something like that, take the lid, get the shiny side, and you paperclip it to the the uh That round part of the trap, what's it called? The trigger. You paper clip that shiny tin can lid to that and you'd set that out in the water. And the moon On the clear night, it would shine down and through that water that paper clan paper that um tin can lid would sparkle from the light of the moon with the water flowing over it. Of course she had it chained to a tree nearby And what would happen was, little raccoon is going by, digging up um crawl dads, and then it's going around And also he looks over there and that moon's shining down, and all of a sudden there's something shiny and sparkly. Mm-hmm. And raccoons are very curious. And so they go over, and what's he start doing? He starts reaching down in there for it. There's some attraction. And so the little raccoon, I want that. Ooh, that's pretty. Gimme me. I want it. Ooh. Snap. And a lot of times both their paws would be down in that trap. And they're and they are doomed. That's exactly what the devil does. The devil doesn't want to do that. The devil knows he can't destroy your life if he puts out front what the results of a destroyed life is going to be. Right? Nobody would fall for it. Well, your life is going to be empty, you're going to have regret. You're going to have uh guilt for years. Your influence is going to be new. It's going to hurt other people if you do what I say. I don't want to do that. Are you crazy? So the devil's not stupid. He's a fowler. And so he puts something there. And so he puts pleasure in sin But it's only for what? A season, till And so the snares of the devil are unseen. Reality is not seen. There's usually some attraction there. And the results are horrendous. And so, I know what the Bible says, but good grief. I'm a young person. I want to enjoy my life. Sparkle, sparkle, sparkle. I don't see anything wrong with this kind of music, huh? I don't see anything wrong with it. I don't see anything wrong with That little sparkly thing in the water I know my mama raccoon said, Don't you grab sparkly things in the water. That's how I only got one leg The snare or the fouler. First Peter 5. 8 says, Be sober, be vigilant. Because your adversary, like a roaring lion. Your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a roaring lion. I think I'm not quoting That directly. But the key words there are be sober and be vigilant. You know what he's saying? There is a very real spiritual world out there. You and I are spiritual beings. This isn't what you see is not all there is There's a spiritual aspect to that sin. There is a darkness, a spiritual darkness involved in that disobedience to God's word. And the devil puts up a facade. He is a trapper. He is a fouler. He has snares set. He wants to destroy your life. He wants to steal the glory of God from a life that's lived in obedience to him. So he puts all these sparkly snares up and he draws people away. So you have the soul, you and I are a spiritual being, there's a spiritual reality. We are told in this passage that we in and of ourselves are like a little sparrow, little bird. We're just powerless in and of ourselves, we're ignorant And he says there's a devil out there that puts snares up, and he is out to destroy us. And if we are careless, we will be destroyed. If we are careless, our testimonies will be ruined, our ministries will be destroyed, and if we don't get saved and die and go to hell, we suffer for all eternity. Don't be careless. I enjoy deer hunting and bow hunting. Many of you guys do also. Everybody gives me a hard time because I because of the deer I shoot Little pawns and does and stuff like that. I'm just not greedy like some of you guys. Fact of the matters, there's two reasons I shoot those deers dear. One is they taste very good. They taste great. There's actually three reasons. Two is it's fun I'll give you a little deer hunting philosoph- my I'll give you a little my deer hunting philosophy. I figure if I'm deer hunting and that's a deer, shoot it. That makes sense I mean all could care less what I think about that. But there's a third reason I shoot those is because generally they're dumb They'll just come strap it in. I smell corn. I smell a human being too. And there's a guy standing up in that tree, but I think it'll be alright. I was shooting one uh one time uh in Swan I was hunting and there was a mama and she had the two little ones and the little button bucks are the stupidest of them all They think they know everything. I had some corn out, it's legal. I had some corn out and uh I'm sitting there with my arrow and the mama's coming in. The two little ones are coming down, and I'm gonna shoot 'em I'm gonna shoot him. And then Mama starts going, ah, ah, ah. And I got my little deer dictionary translator out. And you know what she was saying? She was saying, get away from there. Just don't you go down and listen to your mother. And the little one, little deer went, And I got my little dictionary out, and the little one said, Mama, you're dummy. You're old-fashioned. Everybody's eating corn nowadays. And uh it's fun. Guess what we had for lunch that Sunday? Little buttonbuck roast Lisa is very angry at me right now. So in other words, the whole idea is this. We can't be stupid. We can't be stupid. Listen, this is what I'm trying to say. We better listen to the Bible. We better listen to what God says or we're going to end up destroying our lives. Young people, God gives you good, godly Christian parents who love you so they can help you make smart decisions and not end up in the snare of the fowler. Come on, talk to me. God gives us godly Christian, uh uh mature Christian believers in our church and pastors and evangelists come by and study the Bible and say, you know The Bible says this. We better and we say, ah, he's just old fashioned. Those independent Baptists are just. The Bible says, be sober, be vigilant. And the last thing, and I got to end with this, is the escape. I like several things. Boy, you can talk about this. He says, our soul is escaped. We are escaped. There's a certainty about that. He doesn't say, boy, we hope we'll escape. Boy, we hope we don't end up in hell. Boy, I hope my life isn't destroyed. He goes, no, we trust in Christ. He's forgiven us. He's given us new life. I want to live by the word of God. Hey, I don't have to worry about that. You know what the best way? You know what? You know the surest way to avoid teenage pregnancies? Abstinence. You don't have to worry about it. You know what the surest way to escape the negative consequences of sin? Do what God says. Obey the Bible. And I don't have to worry about what liquor's gonna do to me. I don't have to worry about how rock and roll is gonna mess me up. I don't have to worry about having uh illicit affairs if I just do what the Bible says. There's a certainty. Christianity, there is a certainty about Christianity. There is an absolute about Christianity. I can know that my sins are forgiven. When I die, I'm going to heaven. I can know that if I'll trust Christ. I can live a life that is pure and clean and godly and holy that pleases God. I can have that. I don't have to just hope so. I don't have to just Think so? I can know I'm right with God. I can know my sins are forgiven. I can know that my life will count for God. I can know that Well, I just hope I just hope everything's okay. Trust God, obey Him. You don't have to hope. You can know The escape, there's a certainty here. If someone says to you, well, no one can know for sure that they're saved, they don't know their Bible. And then there's a divinity of the scape. Verse 1 and 2. The Lord, if it had not been for the Lord, if it had not been for the Lord, if it had not been for the Lord. The Lord's the only one that can save us from hell. The Lord's the only one that can give us a new life. The Lord's the only one that can help us keep us give us victory over sin. It's the Lord does it all. So we trust him and we obey him. God can and will deliver anyone and everyone from hell who will trust Christ. God can and will deliver anyone and every believer from the bondage of sin. Read Romans 6 You can have victory over that sin. You say, Preacher, I just got saved. I've got a couple sins I'm fighting with. I just don't see how I can have victory. Read Romans chapter 6. You can have victory. Racher, I just can't lick these cigarettes. Yes, you can. Through the Lord. We got people in this church all over here could stand up and testify. God delivered them from liquor. From sa from cigarettes, from uh pornography, from lying. People all across here could say God uh I'm here to tell you the blood of Jesus, there's not a sin the devil can come up with that can stand against the blood of Jesus Christ. You can have victory. You can escape the snare of the fowler. You can keep yourself pure and clean and godly and good. It's through the Lord. God can and will lead us and guide us safely through life if we'll just trust Him and obey Him. How many people recognize the name John Payton? Anybody recognize that name, John Payton? He was a missionary to the New Hebrides Islands. He left America. It used to take about three months by ship to get over the South Pacific. He left America as a congregationalist. He had been sprinkled with water. He'd not been baptized, he'd been sprinkled with water. On the three-month trip to the New Harry Island, he was studying his Bible. He says, you know what? I need to become a Baptist. And on the way over, he got baptized. And he became a Baptist. I think that's a smart move. He got there, he ministered for years, preached, very few people got saved, if I remember the story correctly, he buried at least one or two wives. Buried some children. There were cannibals that were inhabited the island. And one night his little family and whatnot were under attack. There was a war going on between two tribes. They got stuck in the middle. One of the tribes was coming. They were going to slaughter John Payton and his family, what was left of it. They were going to slaughter them and probably eat them. That night they could hear him coming, they saw the lights through the woods, and they were cowering, praying, God, and they just thought, This is it, God, we give ourselves to you. We were dying in the cause of in the in the battle for the Lord Next thing they knew, everything got quiet, sun come up, they were unharmed. John Payton tells in his biography, autobiography, he says Several years later, that chief of that village got saved, and the whole village got saved. They established the church and John Payton's ministry and they loved the Lord. They loved John Payton. Finally, John Payton came to chief. He says, remember several years ago you guys were going to come out and kill us? He says, nothing ever happened. What happened? The chief said, and this is documented Chief said, John Payton, we came out there for the purpose, we thought you were a spy for the other other tribe. We came out there for the purpose of slaughtering you and your family and everyone associated with you. He said, but when we got there, Your compound was surrounded by soldiers glowing with swords. And we were scared. And we left. John Payton said there wasn't any soldiers. I didn't have any soldiers, glowing soldiers with swords. And the chief said, We saw. And we were not going to attack you. You come up with your own conclusion. But I'm here to say this: if we will give ourselves to the Lord, trust Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, give ourselves the Lord, determine Determined to obey Him in every detail of our life. God will take care of us. God will take care of us. Let's pray. Father, please help us not to be ignorant of the devil's devices. Lord, help us not to neglect The spiritual aspect of our lives, our soul, and all we see is just the physical around us I pray you'd give us wisdom. Pray you'd give those of us that know you as Savior, give us victory over sin and temptation. Help us to trust you and obey you. Lord, if we're talking to some this morning that do not have the assurance of sins forgiven, I pray that today would be a day of escape from the bondage of hell. They could find new life in Christ With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say this, preacher? There are some areas in my Christian life that I'm struggling. I need God to help me. I need God to help me in some areas of my Christian life as a believer. And you say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me and give me victory. In these very specific areas that I'm dealing with in my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. God bless you. Hands all around. Now I'm here to tell you God can deliver you. If we trust him, obey him, wait on him, God can, he will. How many would say, preacher, you know, I hate to admit this, I hate to say it. But I've neglected my spiritual life. Maybe your Bible reading, church attendance, prayer. You say, I get all caught up in the physical and the temporal things of life And really the spiritual and eternal is kind of taking a back seat. And you say, preacher, pray for me that I'll get that thing in right order. And I'll begin to focus more on the spiritual aspect of my being. So any like that, preacher, pray for me. I need that in my life. God bless you. A lot of hands around. Tell you that's such a key. If there's some this morning, say, preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. You say, I don't want to go to hell. I'm telling you, the Lord can save you from hell. He's the only one that can. And he will if we but trust him. How many say, preacher, pray for me? I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven. I don't have that assurance. I'd like for God to help me settle that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'd like to know for sure my sins are forgiven all my way to heaven. Any at all? How about it? Any at all? Father, bless our