Joshua chapter 2, I'm just going to read verse number 1 again. We've been introducing this uh unique, uh amazing woman from the Old Testament, Rahab the harlot. And that's how Uh, you know, that's how she's described, how she's referenced all through Old and New Testament, uh, over and over. Rahab the harlot And we've introduced uh why we should study her. We look noticed that in our first message last week. We introduced a little bit about her. We tried to uh discern what some of her background might be and how she ended up in that. uh with that name and that type of profession. And and uh then we're going to notice here in the coming weeks how she came to the Lord to know the Lord as her Savior So tonight we're just going to start here. I'm going to begin. It's going to a series within a series. I've entitled the message, and it's not the same that's in the bulletin But I've entitled it, Rahab and the Spies, Part 1. We're going to have about three parts to this initial message. And if you would, notice verse number one of Joshua chapter 2. It says, And Joshua, the son of Nun sent out of Shiddem two men to spy secretly, saying, Go view the land, even Jericho. And they went, and they came into a harlot's house named Rahab and lodged there. So Rahab and the spies, let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you, bless now. our study of this uh unique woman and what and the role she plays in the history of the mankind and in the coming Savior And so I ask that you would open our eyes and our minds to understand what you have for us to learn from this principles here that would help us and our faith. And our service to you, that we could be a little more effective in our witness, a little more confident in our faith in you. And I ask, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I know Lord, I acknowledge within myself I have nothing to offer that would help spiritually or any lasting value. So it has to be your word, Lord, and your Holy Spirit. So please fill me And I pray, as I yield my will and present my body, that you would speak through me and instruct us and help us tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Israel is on the eastern shore, the eastern side of the Jordan River. They've been traveling for 40 plus years now at this point. Moses has passed away. Joshua has been given responsibility to lead the people into the promised land. They are now set up on, as I said, on the eastern side of the Jordan River, across the Jordan, going west, you come into the promised land. God has been promising this land to them for years and years and years and years and years. They've heard of it. They know about it, and now they are about to enter it. So Joshua makes the decision, as we noticed in a previous message, to send these spies in. Again, it was not a lack of of faith on his part and it was a totally different situation than when Moses sent the spies in. It's you can't compare the two, it's apples and oranges And so he sends these spies in, and notice he says there in verse 1, he says, send two men to spy secretly, say, go view the land. So cross the cross that Jordan, get over there. Get a get a under get a view, get an understanding of the layout of the land. I believe that's what he's instructing then Where's the travel corridors? Where are the where's narrow passages through hills that might be dangerous? Get a feel for the land. And then he says this, even Jericho, so that's the objective, to find out what the layout of the land is between Shittim, where they're s where they're camped at Cross the river and to Jericho, and then what is Jericho? What uh what are their fortresses? What's the layout of the city So we just have a little idea when we get there what we're facing. Now they had the promises of God. I'm convinced Joshua was not questioning God's promise that he would give them the city. He's just from a practical standpoint, how are we going to get there? What what's it going to be like? So uh a very practical reason, not a lack of faith on Joshua's part at all. Now To get us started, I want to think about these two spies. And these guys that Joshua sent in there. I got looking at the Bible and I came to this conclusion. We know very little about these two spies. There's three things we do know about them. Number one, we know that they are unnamed. In other words, we know that we don't know their names. There's no name given for him. He just says, uh sent out of Shidam two men. And they're referenced throughout the chapter, but we are never given a name. So we have no idea what their names are I would venture to say they're probably younger fellas. There's always the brave ones in the army, you know, the send uh The guys out, but they weren't dummies. They they were intelligent, and we'll see that here in a little bit. So we have no name. We don't know what their names are. We don't know what families they're from. We're not told their daddies Which is often in scripture, you're told who a person's daddy was, it kind of identifies them. There's no name given, no family given, and we're not even told what tribes they're from Sometimes it'll say of the tribe of Benjamin, King Saul of Benjamin or Judah or Dan. But we're not given any of that information. So we know little or nothing about them. However, they played a key role in the history of Israel. And not just in the history of Israel, they played a key role in Scripture and how things played out for the coming Messiah. Now remember, we pointed out previously, Rahab ends up in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. She's a key link in that chain of promised lineage From David to the Messiah. And these two guys, we don't know their name, we don't know what tribe they're from. We don't know what responsibilities they had in Israel. We assume they were part of the defense, whatever military they had. We know nothing about them, but they played a vital role. Now there's a lesson there. The lesson is, all through history, both biblical history and what we call secular history, world history Unnamed and a lot of times forgotten people have had profound influence in the course of history People we don't even know, people we have no names. We think of all the people that the biographies are written about, and there's some great men, some great women that are very well known. But I'm suggesting to you that for every one great man or great woman that we know about, there's probably a thousand great men and women we know nothing about. People that had a profound impact, people that made a difference, and yet They're forgotten from the pages of history. It is possible to have a great influence for the Lord. It's possible to have a great influence For the gospel of Jesus Christ and the kingdom of God, and yet be very little known. All cross. One of my uh one of the things dear to my heart is pastors in uh West Virginia, Virginia, Pennsylvania, all uh wherever. And they have they have what we would refer to as a small church and an out of the out of the out of the uh out of the way place. And you say you never hear of 'em, they n they never have an article in any publication, they're never and their name's never up in lights. But they're faithful to God and they're preaching the word of God and they're and they're walking with God and they're having an influence in people. And the people that we do think of as great people are 100% of the time have been influenced by great people we never heard of Billy Sunday. Who led Billy Sunday to the Lord? Hmm? He was at the Pacific Garden Mission. I don't know. I could look it up. I don't know who was preaching the night Billy Sunday got saved And go down the line, go down the line. People who have uh had a profound influence, yet little or no recognition. I put this quote down, I like this. It is faithfulness to God, not the fame of man, that impacts our world for good and for the gospel. So what I'm trying to say is this. Let's quit trying to let's quit worrying about how famous we are if everybody knows what I'm doing for the Lord, and I want everybody to know that I'm doing this and I'm doing this for the Lord and I'm doing that. I teach this class and I drive this bus and I do this and quit worrying about that and just be what we ought to be and do what we ought to do for God's glory And that's what these guys are. I mean they play a profound role. And so uh what do we know about them? We know this, we don't know their name. Yet they played a key role in Israel's history. So we don't have to worry about fame. We just need to worry about being faithful. Second thing we know about these two guys Is we know that they went in unannounced. Now this caught my attention a little bit. It appears to me, in looking at verse 1 in particular, that Joshua sent out these spies without The congregation of Israel knowing about it. He just sent them out. There's no public announcement. All right, we're going to pick out a couple guys from the twelve tribes We're going to send them into the promised land, and they're going to see the lay of the land and Jericho, and they're going to come back and report to us. That's the way it happened with Moses, and that didn't turn out so hot And I don't know if Joshua learned a lesson or whatnot, but he he uh the way it looks to me is, listen, you two guys just go. We're not making big fanfare, we're not announcing it, we're not putting on CNN, we're not posting on fa in Facebook or social media, you're just gonna go. And they did And they went out there. Notice it says there in verse number one. Joshua the son of Nun sent out of Shiddam two men to spy what? Secretly. Now to me, initially I looked at that, I thought that's a little redundant. Who doesn't spy secretly? You know? Oh, we're going to spy publicly. I think what he's saying here is he sent these spies out without Israel knowing he was sending them. He's just doing it. Just sending them out secretly. Now, when did he send them? This was a question that comes up in my mind. When were these guys sent? Well, if you come back to verse 11 of chapter 1 Joshua is addressing the officers of the people. Verse 10, then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, Now he's got his leadership. He's having a leadership luncheon. He's got these guys together. And he says, pass through the host, all through the people of Israel, and command the people, say, prepare you victals. Now look at this. For within what? Three days ye shall pass over this Jordan to go in to possess the land. Notice he doesn't say to hopefully possess the land or try to possess the land. He's very confident in God's promises. To possess the land. We're going to. And uh which the Lord your God giveth you to possess it. So at this point in chapter 1 and verse 11, at that point, how long is it until they're going to cross the Jordan and go and invade the land? Three days. I'm my suspicion is, now it's possible he sent these three spies in before he made this announcement, but I don't think so I think he made that announcement. I think maybe that night. He says, all right, he name he got everybody's getting ready. Three days we're going in. I think maybe that night he pulls the guys I believe it was in that three day period from when he announced that we're going in in three days until they actually went in. In that time there, uh he sent these spies in. So, we don't know who they are. We don't know nothing about them, uh, names or anything like that. Number two, the spies. They go in unannounced. It's a secret um what's the word we use covert operation. They're sending them in. Then the third thing we know about these guys is they were, one, unnamed, they were unannounced. Number three, they were undeterred. Now, what do we mean if somebody is undeterred? What are we talking about? They're what? They're not distracted. Some hindered. They're not hindered. They're undeterred. What would be another word? They're determined. Nothing's gonna stop 'em. Right? Are you with me? Listen, it's my definition the ones that counts, alright? I don't care what Webster says. The word undeterred means to do something and not get discouraged. It means to not turn back. Moving forward without quitting. That's the whole idea. Undeterred. I'm going to climb this mountain. He is undeterred. He's going to climb that mountain. If it kills him, he's going to get up there. Well, that's the way these guys were. They were undeterved. They were going to get into that land. They were going to cross that river. They're going to get uh they're going to spy out the land, the lay of the land, they're going to go find out Specific information about Jericho, what they're facing, and they're going to get that information back to Joshua. They are undeterred. You say, well, how do you come up with that? Well If you look here, we notice that the king of Jericho knew a lot about these guys. They weren't quite as secretly as they would have wanted, I assume. For instance, look there in verse 2. And it was told the king of Jericho. So somebody comes, the king of Jericho says, hey, I got some important information. Now notice what they told him. They said, Behold, there came men in hither tonight of the children of Israel to search out the country. Huh. Their covers blown. As soon as they get over there, they know The king of Jericho knew what was going on. I would assume, and I think I can safely assume this, that Jericho was on red alert. From Shidam to Jericho, the walls of Jericho, the gate of Jericho to Shidom, that Shiddem is where Israel was camped out. Now, how many Israelites are there in this camp? Million plus. This is huge. They suggest there was a million came out of it out of Egypt. A lot of them died off, but they're having babies and everything for 40 years. There's upwards, perhaps a million people camped, 14 or 18 miles away from them. They've been hearing the stories about how they came out of Egypt. They're not stupid. Everybody in the whole area knew that Israel was coming to Canaan. Everybody knew that Israel had defeated everybody that opposed them or stood in their way. They wiped them out. So Jericho, the king, and the city, knew that just a few miles away was a lot of people who are coming to destroy them. Would you agree with me? Probably on red alert. I don't know military stuff, but I think there's a, some of you guys know this, uh, I think there's a thing called DEF COM. Five? Do I have any idea what I'm talking about? Probably not. But anyway, there's a term for when a mil army is on its highest alert. I'm telling you, that's where Jericho was. They they they had they had watchmen out there, they had people on patrol, I guarantee it, people sitting along the river They I don't know this, I'm speculating. They may have had people crossing a river checking out Israel's camp. I mean they're not stupid. This is a warrior people. They're a very heavily walled city. They know what it's like to to be attacked And so they're on red alert. So I got looking here at verse number two, and I noticed some things that the king of Jericho knew about the spies almost immediately. First of all, he knew that they had entered the city. He knew that there were some spies in his city. Now, if you do a little research, Jericho was really not that big of a city. It was fairly small. It was very potent. It was very strongly defended, but it wasn't that big And so they knew immediately that there is two men in our city scoping us out, spying us out for the purpose of invading us. So he knew that right away. It says, Behold, there be uh there came men in hither tonight. So he knew that there were spies in the city. He knew that they were Israeli spies. He says, came men in hither tonight of the children of Israel. So he knew they're there, he knew they were Israelis, and he knew when they showed up Notice what it says. Came in mether, uh came men in hither tonight of the children of Israel. I mean they They knew as soon as they got in there, they knew they were there. They they spied them. They they spied the spies. So that they knew there were spies in the city. They knew they were from Israel. They were Israeli. They knew almost immediately when they showed up in the city that tonight they got here tonight. And they knew their purpose. He knew why they were there. Notice what it says. To the last part of verse 2, to search out the country. Would you agree with me? I would imagine the king is very concerned. He's got his men armed. He's got his people ready. He's got his secret service or whatever they would have been called. They're out trying to find these guys. This these two spies are performing espionage. They're spying. They're illicitly getting information to destroy these people. What happens if these guys get caught? They are dead. Probably a terrible, terrible, terrible death. Not a spear through the head, but probably a long, drawn-out, painful death. These Canaanites were brutal. They were violent. And so, and then something else, he knew there were spies, he knew they were from Israel, he knew when they showed up He knew why they were there, but here's something else. He knew where they were. Look at verse number three. And the king of Israel sent unto Rahab, saying, Bring forth the men that are come to thee. He knew they were at Rahab's house. Would you agree with me? A little scary. Ain't a lie. I tell you there was no doubt there would have been some that said, I'm out of here, ain't no way. They already know. I mean we show up, they already know all about us. Let's bail, let's retreat, get out of here, run for your lives. But they don't. And that's where I come up with the fact that these guys are undeterred. I my hat's off to these two spies I have tremendous respect the courage of them to go and risk their lives and put themselves in that position to get whatever information they can. and get back to Joshua and share that information with him so it can facilitate an uh uh an entrance and invasion into this city. They're undeterred. So, and my hat's off. So these are the spies, very brave, uh no doubt, very intelligent men. They're no they they pull this off without getting caught. Now they have Rahab's help. But they get away with it and they get the information they need and they get back to Joshua. So these three spies, or two spies I should say, we don't we only know three things about them. One, we don't know much about them. Number two They were um we uh noted that they were unannounced. They went secretly and they were undeterred. Now let's look at this chapter. As I look here Down through verse chapter one, down or verse one, down through verse twenty-one. I've broken this up, this encounter of Rahab with the spies. I've broken it up into three sections. And the one we want to look at tonight. Number one We notice Rahab's contact with the spies. She makes contact with these guys. Again, verse number one. Uh Joshua sent the son, uh the sent the son of son of none, sent him in, go view the land, da da da uh and and uh and came into a harlot's house named Rahab and lodged there. So they make contact Now here's my question. I'm asking a lot of questions. How in the world did these spies end up at Rahab's house? Of all places, they end up at the house of a harlot. Now I am confident one one thing I know they didn't end up there. I'm very, very confident it wasn't for anything illicit They're not here looking for a one-night stand. They're not looking to do to purchase her services. That's not why they're there. We're confident of that. So how did they end up there Well, I have three probabilities. I have two that are speculation. One, I'm absolute certain how they ended up at a harlot's house One of my speculations is because of her place. If you would look at verse number 15, and I think we mentioned this previously, verse 15 of chapter 2. This is after they've encountered and they've gone through, they've uh uh they made this contract with Rahab. And verse 15, we get a little information about her house, its location, and some things about it. Then she let them, the two spies, down by accord through the window. So her house has a window. facing what direction? Out from the city. It's not facing in, obviously. It's an external. It's facing out the walls away. So she lets them down by accord through the window, for her house was upon the town wall, and she dwelt upon the wall. So she's not in the ghettos, she's not downtown, she's out as far away from the city part of the of the dwelling areas as you can possibly get, yet still be in the city. And on top of that, she has a window that goes outside the walls. So, and again, we mentioned this before in a previous message, but would you agree with me, a house on the wall with a window? uh exiting the wall would be a place that would be easy access in and out of the city. Alright? So that to me it's a natural Uh attraction for a spy, say, hey, we can get in and out, right? This house right here, look at this. We can get in and out. We don't have to go through the gates, the main part. Um, you know, that was m uh had watchtowers, at least people on the wall watching. We can slip in and out. Uh it could be discreet. Would you agree with me? Uh her occupation would probably She would want discrete access and exit from her place? Sure. Her customers don't want no doubt wouldn't want to be advertised. And so she has the perfect setup. You can come in and out. Not be seen by a lot of people, not be too obvious, not like right downtown, just crowds of people around. So one reason they may have, again, speculating, may have ended up at the harlot's house is because of the place itself, its location. I put another one down, again, speculation, her profession. This is not somebody that's going to be in the limelight. Right? She's gonna, she's used to being in the shadows. She's used to being out of the public's attention, no doubt. Um being a harlot, would you agree with me? She's probably very good at keeping secrets. Hmm? I would imagine she may have customers that don't want anybody to know. They may pay her handsomely to keep her mouth shut. And so I would guess they're maybe in their thinking. They're thinking, listen, this uh she's not somebody everybody you know, is interacting with. She's not a social light, no doubt. So we can get there. Her house is perfect. Her occupation would be uh her profession would be good. Would be she would be a little bit maybe more sneaky than some others. I thought of this. I thought maybe she might be more open to cooperating with enemies of the city. Now she's going to betray her nation, her neighbors, the people she grew up with. People she does business with in the community buys her groceries or whatever, clothing, well how whatever their b economy was, they're all going to be killed in just a couple days. She knows that. She tells the spies, I know what's coming. We know what's going to happen to our city And she betrays her city because she fears God. She is, in a lot of ways, disloyal to her nation. in order to be loyal to her God. Now you say, well that's terrible. If you knew her nation you would understand. I I said this I think it was last week I said and I'm telling you, you can do a little research. These people were these people were beyond what we would be accustomed to as far as wickedness. Anybody here ever see the news or stuff going on in our world and you're just appalled You would be really, really, really, really appalled at the culture of Jericho and Canaan. I mean it was terrible I mean they're they're taking not not infants in the womb, they're taking babies, two, three, four, five years old, burning them alive to their false gods. Would you agree with me? Apolly And this is what she's saying no to. And she's saying, I don't want to, I'm not wanting to be a part of this. I've heard of Jehovah. And I heard of what he's capable of, and I've seen what he's done, I've heard what he's done for his people. I want to be loyal to the God of Israel. Not the pagan, perverse, violent gods of Canaan. So she's about to betray her nation for the kingdom of God, for the true God. So she would, would you agree with me? Possibly. Maybe they're thinking that she would be open to cooperating with them. She would help cover them up, at least, hide them. until they're able to get away and it it turns out she does. Well I think there's a lesson there for us. I believe loyalty to the Lord must take precedence over loyalty to my nation. I love America. I love it. But when America contradicts God's convictions, when America contradicts biblical principles and biblical values, our loyalty is to the Lord. And not to any government or political party. So loyalty to the Lord must take precedence over loyalty to a nation. And I'm all for being loyal to America. Don't misunderstand. Don't walk out of here and say, yeah, Besselem said you don't shouldn't be loyal to America. I'm not saying that. But when America violates God's laws, I'm loyal to God. That's what I'm saying. When national values conflict with scriptural values, we stay loyal to scriptural values. So, how in the world do these guys end up With uh at a harlot's house. These tremendous spies, brave, loyal to Israel and the God of Israel, faithful, and they're at a harlot's house Well, the place she lived, no doubt, was a factor. Her profession could have been a factor. Those two are speculation. The third reason they ended up there, I am absolutely positive, is correct, and I have scripture to support it. Not her place, her profession, but the Lord's providence. In other words, God led them there. It wasn't a coincidence. It wasn't just happenstance. Just by chance they found this house. It wasn't their own reasoning, their own rationale, though that may have been involved a little bit. God is the one that led them to this woman's house. God knew what was going on in her heart. I put this down. I doubt seriously that the spies, when they crossed that Jordan, when they left camp in Shittam and crossed that Jordan, made the 18-mile trek over to where Jericho was In the night, we know, and they're checking out the land and they're kind of trying to lay low and not be seen. I doubt seriously they anticipated encountering a harlot I don't know what they anticipated. I doubt seriously they anticipated anyone cooperating with them, let alone a harlot cooperating with them. However, long before Joshua sent those spies out, God was preparing the heart of a woman. To accomplish his purposes, to accomplish his plans. Long before they got there, God had been working in Rahab's heart, softening it up. opening her spiritual eyes to see who the true and living God was, as opposed to their pagan, uh idolatrous, perverse worship, shallow and and and wicked She heard about Jehovah. We'll see this here a little bit later. But she heard about Jehovah and who he was and what he was capable of and how he treated his people. And God softened her heart on. God softened her heart up. God was preparing their way, working in the heart and mind of Rahab days Weeks, maybe months and years, this could have been processing in her mind. And she heard the stories of Israel As the rumors and travelers would come and tell of the great conquest of the manna and the great pillar of fire and the great pillar of smoke during the day and the great pillar of fire at night leading the people of God out of Egypt and she'd hear these stories. And now they're here, right at their doorstep Of all places in Egypt, in Jericho, of all places in Jericho, these two spies ended up in the safest place they could possibly be. You know why it was safe? Because it was a place God had prepared for them. The place God had led them and directed them. They ended up with perhaps the most cooperative person in the whole city with their cause and what they were doing, Rahab the harlot. I'm here to tell you, God Like rivers of water can turn the heart of kings into his will, and God can turn the heart of an old harlot. And turn her heart around, open her eyes, she can see and believe, and become an ally of God's people. Isn't that something? And just like God's working in Rahab's life, just like God was leading those spies, I'm here to tell you: God works in our hearts and God leads in our lives. I really do not believe that there are chances, chance encounters, or coincidences, or just happenstance events. I believe God is in control. I believe God leads, and I believe every encounter is potentially a divine encounter. Now, I hope your encounter isn't with a harlot. But sometimes we cross paths with people who are unlikely to be someone God's working in your heart. You follow what I'm saying? If you ever look at someone, just the way they're dressed, their demeanor, all that, and you'd say, there ain't no way God's got nothing to do with them, you have no idea God may be working in their heart in ways you and I would never have dreamed of I am no doubt in my mind. There is no doubt in my mind right now as we're sitting in this auditorium, God's Holy Spirit is working in people's hearts and lives all across this region. And I think there's a lot of people that all they need is somebody to come by and just show them from the Bible how much God loves them, what Jesus Christ did for them on the cross, and if somebody would just explain that to them, they would believe and be saved. God's not dead. God's not inactive. Even in a situation like that, God is working. God is working. God is working. Spies had no idea until all of a sudden she starts saying, I've heard of your God. And and I'm way ahead of myself But it's interesting the term she used. She's using Israeli terms, Jewish terms, about their God. She knew something about God. Huh? Oh yeah, I fear your God. What? On Monday, I went up to Ruby Memorial Hospital to visit Paul Rowan, and by the way, he's doing very well. He moved a step down today, so he's coming along. He still needs prayer. But uh he was in the ICU unit over in the heart section. So I went up as you have to and you you go through um it's like going into a jail, you gotta go through all this stuff, take your picture and all this stuff. So anyway, I go there and uh I said I'd like to visit. I said Paul Rowan. They said, well do you know where he is? I said, no, I'm not sure. He's over in the heart section. I think he's up in the ICU, CV ICU. They said, okay. What's your name, Dennis? What's your last name, Leatherin? Are you a preacher? Yeah. Have you been here before? 742 times. Anybody ever been there? And they give you the little sticker. They said, okay. And they said, all right, you go up to this floor and you go to this room. And she put it on my little sticker, room number in this floor in this section. I said, alright. I said, what's the number? She gave me the number. I said, I'll go. So I went over, went up the floor, and then you come off the elevator and there's another desk you got to go by. And so there's a guy sitting there and I said, alright, I'm here. I want to visit Paul. He's in room so-and-so. He says, hold on a second. What's it age? Uh what's your name? Dennis, what's your last name? Leatherman? Are you a preacher? Yeah, sh you've been here before. Yes, 790. Three times. He goes, okay. He says, tell you what, I'll walk you back to the room. He told me the number. He says, I said, all right, that's great. So go through this door, you go through that door. He's walking me back. We're talking a little bit. Gave him an Easter track. We're walking back there. He goes, right there, that's the room. That's where Paul is I said, okay. So I walk in the room and immediately I see that's not Paul. And there's a lady Uh appears to be uh he's a fairly young fellow, probably thirties, maybe early thirties, very, very ill wall stuff. And what appears to be his mother sitting beside him. And there's a nurse there doing her thing So the fowl back there, right in there, that's where Paul is in that room. So I walked in, I said, Oh, I said, you're not Paul. And she and the mother said, Are you the preacher? I said, I'm a preacher. I said, but I think I'm in the wrong room. And I walked over, I said, what's your name? And she told me. I said, what's is this your son? What's his name? She told me. I said, I think I have the wrong place, but I said, could I pray with you while I'm here? And the nurse said, she goes, I'll find out what's going on here. So she's looking And so we I had prayer. She told me his name. I prayed. And I said, before I go, I'd like to leave you one of my little gospel tracts here. And I said, this tells you how you can know for sure Jesus is your Savior. He'll help you in these times like this, and you can know your sins for you when you're on your way to heaven. And uh she says, Oh thank you, thank you. And she just held it like this. And I said, and I was going to try to share the gospel with, and then the nurse came and said, if you'll come with me, I'll take you to the right room. And I said, just a second So I took the lady and I said, here's a little track, and I said, if you'll open that up, if you'll read down through there, it'll tell you how you know for sure that when you die, your sins begins. It's right from the Bible. The Bible verses are right there And you can read that and there's a prayer, and God, if you mean it, you call on him, God will forgive you and save you. She was, oh thank you, I'll do it, I'll do it. And then the nurse took me out. And we went over to another room. And that's where Paul was, and I visited with Paul. I went back up yesterday for the purpose of trying to catch up with that lady. I thought, find out what happened, and maybe I if she didn't get saved, I could lead her to the Lord. And she wasn't there and the boy was unresponsive and so I left a little nerve. I'm gonna try again, maybe tomorrow. Can I tell you what I think? I think God with the wrong broom number in their system came up twice And then, just in case this knucklehead preacher would still mess it up, he had the guy walk me to the room. So there's no going anywhere wrong place. He walked me literally to the room, said right there. You know what I think? I can't prove this, I may never find out. I think that lady read that tract and got saved that night. I may never know. But how God there is no doubt in my mind, God's providence. was leading me to a lady that needed Christ. It's obvious to me. Now here's what's not so obvious. These guys did not know that God was leading them to the gal that was going to save their life and they were going to save her life. They did not know that. But nevertheless, God was. And here's my point. God's providence leads us sometimes, and we don't even know He's leading us. But we do right, we do what he instructs us to do, and God uses us. Wherever we are. I don't think you can witness to the wrong person. I really don't. Somebody said, well don't share the gospel and they're not quite ready yet. Listen, they're dead spiritually. What are they going to get deader? You know, give them the gospel. The providence of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven I'd ask you to help us be sensitive to your leadership, Lord. And then when we're not even aware of your leadership, help us just be faithful. And doing what you've called us to do. These spies did what their responsibility was, they did what you led them to do, spy at the land, and God, you and your providence led them to right where they needed to be. I pray you do that for every one of us. Tomorrow, tonight, tomorrow, at the store, at work, in town, help us, Lord, to be available to you to use us. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I want to be more conscious of God's Meaning us sometimes we don't even see it, but we're still faithful. Father, bless thou our imitation I ask. In Jesus' name, let's stand together, heads are bowed.