Uh Joshua chapter number two verse one. We're just gonna again, we looked at this a little bit, kind of introduction on the life of Rahab of all people And I want to come back here, verse number one of Joshua. Now keep your Bibles handy tonight. We're going to go to the New Testament a little bit. So, uh, but we're going to start out here, Joshua chapter 2. Did I say chapter 1? Chapter two, verse number one. The Bible says, And Joshua the son of Nun sent out of Shiddem two men to spy secretly, saying Go view the land, even Jericho. And they went, and they came into a harlot's house named Rahab. and lodge there. And then the account goes on from there. But what I want to do tonight, notice a little phrase that says, they came into a harlot's house. I want to talk about this harlot's house. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to teach us tonight and help us in our understanding and lessons we can learn. Father, we pray we bow once again now before we look into your word. And I'm just asking, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would be very present here. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would do what you promised He would do. Teach us all things. I pray you would help us open our spiritual eyes that we can see some lessons and some principles, examples, instructions. It can help us be the Christians that you saved us to be and live the lives you designed us to live. And maybe our witness even would be a little more effective So fill me with your spirit, speak through me your word, and I'll yield to you my will and present my body anew to you now this hour for you to do just that. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I think we know the backstory here pretty well. Josh uh Moses uh was called of God to lead the nation of Israel out of Egypt. They had been under great affliction and and uh uh abuse by the Egyptians and held in slavery. And uh God calls Moses to lead them out and he does in miraculous ways When they come to the promised land, they do not trust God, and they end up wandering in the wilderness for forty years. And through a series of events, Moses ends up dying before they enter into the promised land And so Moses has died. Israel is on the uh eastern shore of the Jordan River looking to go into Jor uh Canaan, the promised land. And Joshua is given the responsibility now, since Moses died, Joshua is given the responsibility to lead Israel across the Jordan River And into the land of Canaan, and then lead them in uh in this campaign to occupy this land that God had given to them. Joshua makes a decision, and we read it here in verse number one, what we just read in chapter two. He makes a decision that before they cross the river and go in, and God Does a miraculous thing to get them across the river, but before any of that happens, he decides he's going to send two spies into this land. He's never been in the land Uh nobody in the nation of Israel, nobody he's leading has ever been there except for well let me take that back. Joshua was uh in the Lamb when he went as a spy under Moses along with Caleb. So they're the two that have been in the land, they've seen a little bit. So anyway, Joshua makes his decision. I'm going to send two spies across the river into the land, check things out Now, Moses did that same thing 40 years earlier, and it ended up a disaster. He sent, Moses sent twelve spies in, and ten of them were bad, and two were good. Joshua and Caleb came back with a good report, said, Yep, we can do this, let's go for it. The ten, the majority, said it's a wonderful land. It's everything exactly the way God said, but there's giants in the land, and the cities are walled up and heavily defended And there's no way in the world we can take this land, and we should not go in and try and take this land as God told us to. So Moses sends his in, and now Joshua is sending two in. Now there's two there's a significant difference between the situation when Moses sent his spies into the land 40 years earlier and what Joshua is doing now. For instance, Moses sent the spies in And they really didn't have a military strategy to what they were doing. He's sending them in, just go check the land out Just go survey it. Let's see what it looks like. And basically, and I'm not necessarily faulting Moses on this, but Basically, Moses sent him in and they were looking to see, is the land what God says it is? Now let me ask you a question. If God says something is something, do we need to confirm that or not? No, if God says it's a landflow of milk and honey, it's a landflow of milk and honey And so that was an unnecessary part of their survey, their spying event. So they went and just surveyed the land. The second problem I see with what Moses sending the spies in was when they came back They reported to the congregation, the people of Israel, the nation of Israel, they reported to the people, and not necessarily to Moses And that that's a problem. Who's the decision maker on this whole endeavor? Moses. He's the one that's given the responsibility. He's the one that's providing leadership, what God is instructing them. So they come back and they don't report to Moses. They go to the people. And of course, the majority of the spies give a bad report. The majority of the spies, here's where the real problem was with Moses' spies. They took it upon themselves. To decide whether we're going to do what God says we should do or not. They took it upon themselves to decide whether God's promises are true or not. God says this is the way the land is. Go in and take it. I'll give you victory. I'll empower. I'll defeat the enemies before you. The spies come back and say, yeah, the land is the way it is. But we are saying we're not going to be able to take them. So what were they basically doing? What were they basically calling God? A liar. They were basically saying what what whatever God said, we can't do this. And we should not go in there, we're not going in. And of course it was disastrous results. They ended up wandering the wilderness for 40 years. Now here you have Joshua, and maybe our first thought is, oh no, here we go again But Joshua sending in the spies is very, very different than Moses sending in the spies. Joshua sends the spies in, he's sending them in with a very specific objective They're not going in there to see whether the land is the way God says it is or not. That's already settled. He's not sending these two spies in to try and determine whether we can defeat them or not. That's already settled. God promised you will. Ah, what Joshua is doing when he sends the two spies in, if you notice there in verse 1, he said very specifically Go to Jericho. Now Jericho is about eight miles in from the Jordan River. So the armies of Israel are going to cross the Jordan River. They're going to have to go eight miles. Now God gives them instructions, very unusual, on how to conquer Jericho. But Joshua wants to know what exactly are we getting into? What is the layout here? What do we anticipate as far as the terrain? Uh what does the the city look like? Remember it's been 40 years since he's been there. And so his objective in sending the spies in is a very specific military objective Not whether we're going to go or not. They're going. But how do we approach this? What can we anticipate? What does it look like? And so he has a very different approach on sending these spies in than what they did under Moses. And the second thing I noticed different as to Joshua's spies and Moses' spies is when they come back, they report directly to Joshua. They're not going out in front of all the people and saying, all right, everybody, hey y'all, this is what we think. None of that. They're coming to Joshua. He's the commander. He's the one responsible. He's the one making the decisions that God's working through. Look with you would over at verse number 23 of chapter 2. This is when the spies finally come back after they've been in the land for a period of time. They come back. Verse 23, Joshua chapter 2. So the two men returned, the two spies. And descended from the mountain and passed over the Jordan River and came to who? Joshua. They're coming and reporting to the commander-in-chief. And uh and uh and came to Joshua the son of nine and told him all things that befell them. And they said unto Joshua, Truly the Lord hath delivered into our hands all the land. They're not disputing what God had said and God had promised. For even all the inhabitants of the country do faint because of us. You notice a difference in their report even from Moses' spies? What did Moses' spies Not telling Moses, telling the whole congregation. They said they're giants and we're like grasshoppers in their eyes. Now that was a totally, that was false information. That was fake news Because the people were scared to death even back when Moses' spies went in, they were scared to death. Rahab's going to tell us that here in a little bit. And so two completely different purposes for the spies, two completely different outcomes. So Joshua set spend sends these spies in. They cross the river, they make that about eight-mile trek They're searching things out, looking at the lay of the land, where the trails are, where the roads are, and probably assessing where how would we travel, what do we need to avoid They get there, they see the city, and they uh make their way around. And then verse number one says, they end up in this harlot's house. And they went and came into a harlot's house named Rahab and lodged there. Now Joshua sent these spies in to uh spy on Jericho. But God's working is what I'm trying to get at. God's working. And God has these spies. God directs these spies, and no doubt they're not aware that God is leading, I'm sure of that, but God is directing them to make contact with this gal This this Rahab, this harlot, God is in his purpose, his design, he works it so they meet. Can you think back through your through your life as a Christian where you seemed it was just incidental or maybe coincidental man uh person humanly we might say that I just happened to run in some into somebody or met somebody And man, they had profound impact on my life. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You just happen to come across them, maybe in a church service, you go somewhere, and man, there's made contact. That's what's happening here Now, Joshua's purpose is to just spy out the lamb, but God is working behind the scenes and he's directing them, and they're making contact with this gal, Rahab. We're not told how they crossed the Jordan River. We're not given a lot of details in this whole endeavor here. We don't know how they crossed the Jordan. We don't know what you know how what their tactics were of getting in the city and Uh whether they have some sort of notebooks, they're drawing maps or whatever. We're not told any of that. But we are and and we're not told how they ended up at Rahab's house. We don't know how that happened Whether they knew she was a harlot and for whatever reason thought that was a good hideout place, there would be reasons for that. I think we'll see here in a little bit But whatever the case is, my point is God is leading and directing in all of this. Now, having said that, like I said, we're going to jump around and some of these verses we're going to turn to because I'd like for you to see them. It might be something to underscore in your Bible. Come with me if you would to Psalms chapter number thirty seven. This whole idea that As far as they knew, it was just Joshua making a wise military decision, some tactics here, get some intel on the enemy and the land. But God is doing something much more than that. Psalms chapter number 37, come down if you would to verse number 23. Now we memorized this verse some time ago here as a church. The first, we memorize verse 23 and 24, but I want us to notice verse 23. The steps of a good man are what? ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Now I think that applies to these spies. God is directing them. These are good men. They believe God. They believe God's promises. They're committed to follow through on God's instructions. They're loyal to God and to his leadership. They're loyal to the people of God. And they're operating on faith. And in so doing, God is directing, God is leading them to come across this woman. And if you remember from our previous message last week, This woman, Rahab, fascinating, unusual woman in the Bible, and yet she is used in such a significant way Not only as an example of what faith is and how faith is displayed, but she's part of the lineage of the Savior of the world. And God is putting all this in place, all this in place. What is seemingly an insignificant encounter is in reality a divine encounter where God is doing something profound. And so we see the Lord's hand all over this. Now, if you would, come back here to Joshua again. We're going to jump back and forth. We're going to end up in the New Testament a little bit, I think. You never know when you start preaching what's going to happen. Joshua verse 1, look at verse 1. It says, and they went and came into a harlot's house. Now I got looking up these words as I always do. I looked up the word harlot. And I found that in this case here, this of course being the Old Testament, fifth book of the Old Testament, sixth book of the Old Testament. What would this, the word harlot here, the English word harlot, it would have been translated from what language? In the Old Testament? Hebrew. It would be Hebrew. New Testament would be. Greek. So that's where it's coming from. So I get looking this up. I know what the English word harlot means and where that. I looked that up and it means what you think it means. However, the word that it the word that it comes from The Hebrew word, one of the definitions, primary definitions, is harlot, or we would say a prostitute. The Bible uses, I think, about 60 or 80 times, I believe, the Bible uses a more harsh word, a cruder word, at least in our minds, the Bible used the word whore. And that's what the word harlot, primary meaning of the Hebrew word, is a harlot or a prostitute, or sometimes the Bible uses that more harsh word. However, There's also another meaning to the word harlot here, and it is used with a slightly different meaning. The other word is an innkeeper. Someone who would entertain people in an inn by providing place for them to stay, providing food temporary for people traveling. And so the word harlot here has the idea of a harlot, like we understand, or sometimes that word can be an innkeeper or someone that entertains travelers and meets their needs as they're on their travels. Some suggest that Rahab the harlot was not a harlot in the sense that we understand a harlot to be Now they'll they make a big deal about that. She has a house, these guys ended up there. She's simply an innkeeper. She's not that type of woman. She's simply an innkeeper. She's simply providing a place for them to stay, and this whole thing plays out. Now, if all we knew about Rahab is what we are given in verse number one here, this statement, I would say that might be plausible. However, we have a New Testament. And the New Testament is a tremendous commentary on the Old Testament. And the Bible, King James Bible, is a tremendous dictionary for itself. You can learn what a word means and what God means just by looking at other passages of Scripture and looking up what I do in every word. So I go to the New Testament and I find Rahab the harlot in James, in Hebrews, and in Matthew. And so I look up the word harlot in the New Testament. The Greek that that word harlot is translated from in the New Testament means one thing and one thing only. Anybody want to guess? Prostitute. Prostitute. There's no other definition for the English word harlot. It means prostitute. So we come to the conclusion, these fellows suggesting that she was just an innkeeper that took uh took care of travelers with their food and rest and all that. We come to the conclusion they're dead wrong. Rahab is a harlot. She is a prostitute. She's not just an innkeeper here. And so, when it says Rahab the harlot, it is literally exactly what it says. And by the way, this may seem odd, and maybe it's a little awkward subject, I don't know. But the word harlot is used fifty times in the Bible, not just of Rahab, but other people and other women in various situations, in one form or another, the word harlot. And so we have this harlot's house. Now we don't know much about by the way, the word house there means what you typically figure. A place where somebody lives. One of the definitions was a household dwelling. The idea of a family living there. It's not an apartment. It's not an inn It's not a restaurant, it's not a motel, it's a family's house where they live. Now, coming back to Rahab, we don't know much about Rahab. We're not told a whole lot about her. So I'm looking at this, I'm trying to pull stuff. What can we learn about this gal? Well, we don't know her age. We don't believe she is an elderly woman. She's probably a young lady. We have no idea what age range she would be. We can take some guesses and I'll give you some information here. in a bit that might help in some way shed a little bit of light on what period of life she's at. We don't know her name. We do know she owned a city, uh a house on the city wall. So back then uh cities were kind of considered uh their own countries almost. They had their own king or governor. Each city would ha have what they called a king or we might call a governor Uh they had their own defenses. They didn't have some national defense. Each city had their own military to some extent. And they were responsible for their own defense, and so they would build these walls up. And Jericho's wall was significant And uh so she lives right on this wall, right where there would be access, no doubt a gate or an entrance coming and going, right along uh the wall Which would imply a couple things. It would imply that perhaps her family was fairly wealthy. It's possible that she wasn't in poverty, but that uh she comes from a fairly wealthy ha uh family, that they would be able to afford a a house uh a home, a house right on the wall where they could easily come and go. We don't know. It's speculation. However, a house on the wall, by the wall, would be very strategic. People could come and go in and out, her house, they're out of the city, they're outside the walls, they can disappear very easily. They can make their way in, get into the city. Would you agree with me? That might be strategic for a prostitute Huh? Customers can come and go in this discreet. People don't see them. They don't have to walk down Main Street and kind of slip in. And not be seen, not be known. Everybody see what I'm saying? So that could be a very strategic thing for a prostitute. It may be, but it absolutely is very strategic for spies Right? I mean they can here's a house right by the wall, they can slip in that house, make sure nobody's followed, nobody's seen, they can slip out into the city, maybe at night, get an idea of the layout of the city, see where they're uh uh archers are and where their towers might be and and then slip back in the day and slip back in there and uh then slip out and get out of there. In fact they do that. They go over the wall But it's a very strategic position that her house is in. Now, whether that's by design, because of her occupation, or obviously God had a part in all of this, God's sovereignty. And so we don't know how old she is. We can speculate a little bit here in a bit. We see she has a house on a wall that suggests there may be some wealth involved, at least with the family It's a very strategic position. And we find that she absolutely does have a family. Come over to verse number 13 of chapter 2. This is after she's encountered the spies, they've interacted a good bit, and they make this covenant with her. And she says in verse number 13, and we're going to look at this in depth much later on, but it says she's speaking here And she goes, and that ye will save alive. Now notice the family members that are apparently living there in the house with her. Save alive my father and my mother and my brethren and my sisters and all that. What's the next word? They have all their children, save my father, my mother, my brothers My brethren and my sisters and all that they have, all their family. Does anybody notice what she does not mention? She doesn't mention anything about a husband. She doesn't mention anything about her own children. She's concerned for my family, my father, my mother, my brothers My sisters and all theirs, she doesn't say a word about my husband. Doesn't say a word about her children. So obviously she does not have a husband, which would fit the occupation. Generally. She doesn't have any children. So that suggests to me she may be a fairly young lady She's not been married. Occupation may have a something to do with the fact she doesn't have a husband or children, or it may be she's just young and doesn't have a husband or children. So Like I said, we don't know a whole lot about her. We look at some of these things and we speculate that maybe this family, his father and mother, may be wealthy. That's why they're able to have a house in the suburbs, so to speak. And uh we don't know. We don't know. Now, here was the question that came up to me the other week when I started looking at this and studying a little bit. And again, this is, we're adults here, so it's a little, maybe a little uncomfortable subject. But my question came up is, why would she be a harlot? What reasons would a woman become a harlot? Why would a woman become a harlot? How did this happen? Well again, we're not told. I did some research and uh looked some things up, and I I came up with four reasons why Rahab may have been a harlot, or why any woman would become a harlot Number one, out of desperation. Sometimes a woman would become a harlot, and this is perhaps true even today, but they think they have no other option to survive There's nothing else I can do. This is my only option. In fact, we read today of young gals will run off to California, or they'll go to New York, and they'll go to a big city, and oh it's going to be something And all the sparkling and all the lights and they get there and find out everything falls through and they end up living on the streets. You've heard the stories. And some fellow comes along and says, listen, you're in bad shape. I can get you some money. And out of desperation, they do the unthinkable. And so sometimes it's out of desperation. In fact, I was reading about in ancient the Middle East, sometimes these gals would be widows. Their husbands went off to war and were killed, and they left, you know, they didn't have welfare, they didn't have this safety net for people like that. And in these pagan societies there's very little compassion. And so sometimes if a young woman found herself to be a widow and little or no family or whatever, they would go this way. Or sometimes it was orphans. Their parents were killed. They're left on their own. They're on the street. And we go down to Dominican a fair bit on mission trips, preach down there for Brother Steve Siddler, and there are literally thousands of orphans, kids, and no parents, abandoned or whatever, living on the streets I mean literally living on the streets under bridges, four, five, six years old, and just getting by. A dear friend of mine, Brother Carlos Morris, down there in Serra, I'm trying to get them up here for you to meet him. He's started two churches doing a great work. They literally took two, I think, two boys off the streets, just young, first grade age, took them off the streets, took them in to take care of them. So sometimes A gal w in that situation in these pagan cultures it was it was it was heartless and they would pursue this way out of desperation Sometimes a woman might pursue this occupation out of debt Again, it was a different culture then. There were no laws protecting people from predators. for the most part. And sometimes a woman could get herself in debt, men also, and they become servants to the lender The Bible says a borrower is servant to the lender, and so sometimes they find themselves basically a slave to the person they've become in debt with And those often, especially in these cultures, those people have no morals. They don't care in the least bit about this gal or any more than they do about the dog in the backyard or or anything else. And so they will sell them. Drive them into harlotry so that they can get some of that debt back. And so sometimes they're driven to it in desperation, sometimes they're driven to it in debt Sometimes it's prisoners of war come back. They've been taken as a prisoner of war, and then whoever has them puts them into that situation Sometimes it's a desire for wealth. Sometimes they really don't need to. But in their mind, it's easy money. I can make a lot of money really quick. By going into this occupation. And perhaps they have the thinking, I'm willing to do anything to get money No matter how wrong it is, I'm willing to do anything to get money. Do you agree with me? We have some of that mentality today. I'll compromise my standards. I'll violate morals. I'll break the law if there's a chance of getting some money out of it. And so desperation, debt, a desire for money, and then sometimes it's just plain old depravity, our own sinful heart. In Mark 7, I think we looked at this verse here just in a message recently, but verse 21 and 22, the Lord said, the Pharisees were criticizing Jesus because The fellows ate with unwashing hands and that. And the Lord said, Listen, it's not what goes into your mouth that defiles you. He said, it's what's in your heart. Everybody familiar with that teaching of the Lord? He says, your heart. And he makes the statement, he says, out of the heart proceed adulteries and fornication, which would be harlotry, would include that. So sometimes these women would get involved in it simply out of depraved heart, their own sinful nature. If you would, I found this interesting, Proverbs chapter number 7, if you would, turn over there Now, Proverbs is written under the inspiration of God by Solomon, and he's writing the book of Proverbs to his son. He says repeatedly, my son, my son, my son. And he's instructing them on how to live a wise life, how to have understanding and be wise. And he's warning them, and it's interesting in the book of Proverbs, he warns them about wealth, about wine, and about women. And in chapter 7, he gives this account. And I found this interesting. Look at verse number 6 with me, if you would. Solomon writing to his son, look up there at verse 1, he says, My son. Verse 6. Well, let's back up even a little bit more. He says, um say to verse four, say unto wisdom, Thou art my sister, call understanding thy kinsmen, that they may keep thee from the strange woman From the stranger which flattereth with her words. Now he's going to illustrate what he means. For at the window of my house I looked through the casement. And beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the youths a young man. What's the next three words? Void of understanding. If a young man's void of understanding, what's another way of saying that? He's stupid. He's a dummy. He's a fool. He says, I see this young man. I discern this guy's void of understanding. And he's passing through the street near her, the strange woman's corner. And he went the way to her house in the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night. So we're getting a picture of this woman. Now he describes the woman. And behold, there met him a woman with the attire of an what? Harlot. And subtle of heart. So two things we're told about this gal. Number one, she dresses like a harlot. Now it doesn't say she is a harlot. It says she has the attire of a harlot, right? So apparently there is a way to dress that makes you appear to be a what? A harlot. Let me just stop and take a little rabbit trail here, just for a second. The way we dress communicates a lot. Both men and women. How we dress. Somebody said the language of the dress, of what we communicate. And so this woman has the attire of a harlot, and she's subtle. So her dress and her deceit, she's very deceitful. Now look at verse 11. She is loud and stubborn, her feet abide not in her house. Now she's without, now in the streets, lieth in wait at every corner. So she caught him and kissed him, and with an impudent face, that means hard and fixed, she's set on this Said unto him, I have peace offerings with me. This day have I paid my vows, therefore came I forth to meet thee diligently to seek thy face, and I have found thee. I've been looking for you, son. I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved works and fine linen of Egypt. This woman's wealthy. Very wealthy. Now, remember, it says she had the attire of a heartless. It doesn't say she was a harlot. She's very, very wealthy. So she's not doing this for money, apparently In fact, if you'll notice here, not one time does she discuss money with this young man. This is not a business transaction. I've decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved works and fine linen of Egypt. I've perfumed my bed with myrrh and aloe and cinnamon. That is not cheap stuff, not in that day and age. Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning. Let us solace ourselves with love. Look at this. For the goodman is not at home. He has gone a long journey. Who would be the goodman? Who would that be? Her husband. He had taken a bag of money with him, and he will come home at the day appointed. And with her much fair speech she caused them to yield, but the flattering of her lips she forced them. Here's here's what I'm I'm saying. Sometimes women get in a woman, maybe in Harl, in Rahab's case, we don't know, would get in there not because she's desperate for money. This woman wasn't Not because she owes, not because she's in some desperate situation. I can't I'm gonna die if I don't she's well taken care of. I think the woman in Proverbs chapter 7, I think she is just a wicked, wicked-hearted woman. It is just the depravity of her heart. She's not doing this for money. She is not a harlot. She's married. She has a ton of money. Nowhere does it say that she's a harlot. She dresses like one, but it doesn't say she is one She just has a depraved heart. And so there's various reasons why a woman would end up being a harlot, or at least acting like one. Now Rahab, we are told she is a harlot. And here's I said all that. Now I say this. I don't know why she is one. She has a family, apparently they may have some money She lives with her family, which seems awfully awkward. Right Now, I think it's important. I was talking this afternoon with my wife about this. The more I'm studying these cultures and these nations that Israel is coming in I believe we fail to realize how perverse and how wicked these nations were that God is leading uh directing Israel to go in and wipe them out. And uh and y I could show you some things in the Bible where God talks about the nations around you, stuff they did, that I am absolutely uncomfortable standing behind a pulpit talking about. And multiple times God will reference things that are absolutely perverse and bizarre. And apparently this was characteristic of their cultures. There's a very real possibility that in Jericho, in Canaan, which is a thoroughly pagan people, thoroughly perverse, if you study what their culture was like It's very possible her parents had no problem with her being involved in this type of business. Very real possibility. So we don't know the particulars. We don't know how she ended up this way. Now, this isn't in my notes, and it really isn't part of my message, but I just thought of this. We don't know how she ended up this way, but we thank God for how it all turned out. And that's the message. Regardless of how low a person may go, regardless of how wicked a person may be, regardless of how foolish they may have behaved. Thank God for the grace of our Lord that can pick them up and dry them out. And that's Rahab. She's a fascinating woman where she's from and where she ends up. A few things about what her life would be like as a harlot. Number one, I put this down. It would be difficult Even in these pagan cultures, harlots for the most part were rejected by society. They were looked down on. Nobody trusted a harlot. You didn't trust them. They'd steal you blind if they could. You didn't trust the harlot. Um They were exploited often. They were just looked down on. They were considered of no value to society, no value as a human being other than what they can entertain with. And so they were exploited. Most of them, now Rahab appears to be an exception, but most of them lived in very poor living conditions. Most of them were in very poor health. That lifestyle would contribute to being in poor health, obviously. And so their lives would have been very, very difficult, their lives would have been very dangerous, and no doubt even for Rahab this would have been the case. Uh violence was very common among her their customers. Could get very, and often did, get very, very violent. Again, disease would be rampant, abuse, and so there was her life would have been very difficult, her life would have been very dangerous, the house of a harlot, this is would have been characteristic. And thirdly, I put this down. It would be severe depression. It would be severe depression. Hopelessness. Guilt would be overwhelming. And you read today, there's accounts of harlots who get saved. Their lives are changed and they're a testimony of the grace of God. And they'll say to you, when I lived that life, the guilt was overwhelming. And the hopelessness. They'll say, and this is true through the ages, there is absolutely no self-respect. They see themselves as worthless. They see themselves as used trash. No self-respect, no self-worth I'm here to say you can't tell you contrary to Hollywood's portrayal and contrary to rap music and rock music and country and western music and their portrayal of this type of lifestyle, there are no happy harlots. They try to glamorize it, they try to paint it up. They try and put this facade out there that this is all let the let the barriers down, just enjoy. And I'm here to tell you behind all of it is an emptiness, a guilt A hopelessness that only Christ can take away. So that's this, that's that's the life that she's coming out of. And then she hears about this nation. I'm getting way ahead of myself, but she hears about this nation Whose God delivered them from the most powerful nation in the world is Egypt. And these people came out. And she hears about all these plagues and these phenomenal stuff that happens to Egypt. That's like the United States of our day. And they're devastated, and that nation is destroyed, not by the people, but by the people's God. And they're hearing these reports. And Rahab is hearing it, and people are coming through, or customers are coming in, and they're and she's hearing this. And then she hears how they cross the Red Sea miraculously And the entire Egyptian army is drowned overnight. And she's hearing this. And she's thinking, our pagan gods don't do that. They don't do nothing. They just destroy us. They're debauchery. And these Israel, they're God. There's no God like that. And then she's hearing about all these nations that are being conquered by these nomads traveling through the wilderness, and every nation that opposes them is obliterated. And now they're coming for us. And something inside her heart and soul says, that God, I want to be my God. And I'm convinced it was fear of what God had coming that drove her to put her faith and trust in the Jehovah, God of Israel. So she's coming out of this emptiness, this guilt, this hopelessness, this valuelessness. And she learns, she hears about Jehovah. And her life is changed. And her life is spared. Her family is spared. And she ends up in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. What does Hebrews 10, 17 say? Anybody got that verse memorized? Hebrews 10. 17. Faith cometh by hearing. And hearing by the word of God. Where did Rahab, living that lifestyle, where did her faith come? Came by hearing testimonies of what God has done. Now let me just make a little side application here. You and I, how many people hear God's ever done anything for you? Anybody at all? How many people hear God saved your soul? Come on now. I'll get you to respond one way or another Since you've been saved, has God done anything wonderful for you since you've been saved? Answered prayers, delivered, maybe whatever. We could make a long list. You know what we ought to be doing? We ought to be talking about that. Where have been talking about what God did for saved uh when he saved us? May seventh, nineteen seventy nine Man, God answered this prayer, God did this for me. You know, God can use these testimonies to have a profound impact in the hearts and minds of unbelievers all around us. I've often said in soul-winning training, one of your most effective witness tools is your own personal testimony. And Rahab got saved because she heard. We're going to see this later on. I got way ahead of myself. So they come to this harlot's house, this house of a harlot. This is the lifestyle. I don't know how she ended up in it. That's how Generally, people did end up in that type of lifestyle. This was characteristic of that lifestyle. And these guys encounter her, and then we're going to in future lessons see how this all plays out. Now let me give you something here real quick. Let me talk about fornication. I know we're mostly older folks, but nevertheless, it's a human thing. Fornication, which would involve harlotry, would harlotry would absolutely involve fornication. Fornication, biblical definition, is any physical intimacy outside of marriage. Period. Any physical intimacy outside of marriage. If it's outside of marriage, if it's physically intimate and it's outside of marriage, it's fornication. Alright, settle back. Well, what about this situation? If it's outside of marriage, it's fornication. Well, what about if it's outside of marriage, it's fornication? Black and white. And God takes it seriously. What she was involved in was strongly condemned by God. In fact, Exodus 20, verse 14, thou shalt not commit adultery. Would you agree with me if a person's involved in harlotry, they're committing adultery? Yeah. And by the way, the customers are committing adultery Jumping on the woman, the men involved in this are just as guilty. Take your Bible if you would, and I'm running out of time, but if you would, real quickly, come back to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Now we live in a society today that has gone to degrees on this that even me before I would say would have never imagined we would end up where we're at And I think it's very, very important for the church and for Christians to understand exactly what this sensuality and this looseness with physical intimacy, how God views this. First Corinthians chapter six, and look with me at verse number eighteen. Now it's very clear, it's very blunt. There's no debate, there's nothing uncertain about what he's saying here. Flee fornication. What does that mean? Stay away from it. Get away from it. Don't get involved. Distance yourself. Stay away. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body. But He that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. Now he said all these sins out there, they're without the body. They come from the heart, but they're out there. But there's something distinct about the sin of fornication. That's against your own body. Now look what he goes on in verse 19. Mono says he says, What? Know you're not that you're what? Body. Now, if he c if a man commits if a person commits fornication, he's sinning against his own body. What know you not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which was in you? And ye are not your own. You're bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. In other words, a person, if a particularly a say person gets involved in fornication of any form, man, I'm sinning against my sinning against the temple of the Holy Ghost. What would have happened in the Old Testament if they would have in the tabernacle in the Holy of Holies where God's presence was uh dwell and they bring some uh a couple would run in there and commit fornication right in there. What would have happened to them on the spot? Boom And yet, here our bodies are the temple of the Holy Spirit. And he says, you stay away from that fornication, you flee. Have nothing to do with that. Go over to if you would, and I gotta end. But come with me real quickly to Hebrews chapter 13. I'm telling you, I'm convinced the church needs to hear this. Because the world is not telling us this, and the world is destroying itself. Hebrews chapter 13, and look with me for wood at verse number four. Hebrews 13, 4. And we're talking about the house of the harlot, so that's why we're on this subject. Verse 4 says, marriage is honorable in all, and the bed undefiled Physical intimacy within the perimeters of marriage is honorable in the eyes of God. It is good It's right, it's pure, and I want to suggest to you it's necessary. Paul says in Corinthians that you should not withhold yourself one from another, the husband and wife. Alright, are you with me? So he's making it very, very clear. There is a place, there is a time and place after marriage, within marriage. Wonderful. Praise the Lord. But But whoremongers and adulterers, God will what? Judged. Pretty pointed there, isn't he? God singles this out, this form of fornication, whoremongers, adulterers. God singles that out as an act that He specifically says, I will judge that. And we could go on. The Bible actually talks about this a whole lot more than you may realize. It was prevalent back in the day, and it's prevalent today. So what am I saying? I'm saying this. Fornication is much more than simply breaking one of God's laws. Simply more than, well, I told a lie. Would you agree with me telling a lie is wrong? Yeah. But I'm suggesting to you, the Bible implies that this sin is more than simply breaking a law. It is defiling A very sacred gift. We're created in the image of God. As a believer, my body is the temple of God. God takes this very, very seriously. Very, very seriously. Now we're going to find out, and we've already referenced it a bit. Thank God, there is forgiveness. Amen. There is cleansing. There is deliverance. We can have a clean heart. We can have a pure mind We can have pure body. Say, preacher, you don't know what I've done, you don't know what past is. I know what mine is. And I'm here to tell you the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from All sin. Say why and we touched on this a little bit last week, then why does God keep referring to her as Rahab the harlot even later on? If she's cleansed, she's forgiven, she's New person, she's delivered. Well, you know, in the Gospels, the Bible refers to Simon the leper many, many times after he was healed of his leprosy. So, why does God do that? Why does he keep talking about Simon the leper? He's not a leper anymore. He's cleansed, he's healed. I think he uses that tag just to remind everybody what God is capable of doing. God can cleanse a leper from leprosy, and God can cleanse a Rahab from harlotry And God can cleanse you and me from whatever we is is our issue. The blood of Jesus Christ is able. So we come, we confess our sin, we forsake it, and we rejoice in the forgiveness and the freedom that we have in Christ. Amen. Let's pray. Father, Lord went a little bit long, but I pray in our day and age, in a society that is so saturated with Adultery and a fornication, all of this. And it's in our churches, dear Lord. I pray you'd help us to see it from your perspective and understand the gravity of this And then rejoice in the power of the gospel, and the power of the blood of Jesus, and what's available. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I don't know how this how you'd respond to this. I don't want some tonight say, Preacher, I thank God for the blood of Jesus Christ. Maybe we'll do it this way. I thank God for the blood of Jesus Christ that cleanses from all sin. Anybody like that? Praise God. Praise God. Praise God. And maybe we just need to come and say, Lord, help me be careful. Help me to get that fleeing down. Help me stay close to you, Lord. Help me to guard my heart and mine. David prayed, Lord, created me a clean heart. And God will do it. I'm here to tell you, God will do it. Father, bless her imitation, I ask in Jesus' name.