Psalm 127, I think our scripture passage was already read this morning, and I do appreciate that. You'll notice the Bible says, if the uh accept the Lord build the house. They labor in vain that build it, except the Lord keep the city. The watchman waketh, but in vain, and it gets down to verse 3 about children being in heritage of the Lord And God has been so good to give us a Christian home and a family. Today, I want to speak to you on the subject about heavenly households heavenly households. It's been my privilege already to have spoken many times last night and again this morning and of course tonight. Today is going to be a very general message. I know that not everybody here is maybe married Last night we kind of looked at the marriage and the relationship of husbands and wives. And today, in this hour, I want to just talk real generally about our households. Except the Lord build the house. They labor in vain that build it. Father, I pray that you'll help us now to learn from your word now today. Thank you for the Holy Scriptures. Thank you for how they speak to us. Thank you that we have an alive book, a preserved and inspired book we we love, that we are able to read the Bible and take practical application. Lord, I pray that these few points that we'll give about heavenly households Lord would hit us all right where we need to be. Lord, I pray that we'll take application or make application to all of our hearts and lives Marriages to be stronger, families to be stronger, parents and children, those relationships. Lord, let our households please you. So I pray that you're blessed now in this hour. We thank you for it in Jesus' name. Amen. I love the focus that your preacher has had on the family. How many of you would remember years ago, it's probably still on the radio now, but Dr. James James Dobson had a radio program called Focus on the Family. How many of you remember that? How many of you parents let your children listen to Adventures in Odyssey? My kids loved that A little bit like with Patch the Pirate, you know, my kids grew up on Ron Hamilton and Patch the Pirate. And, you know, obviously that was a radio program that was by its very name focusing on the family. Can I remind you we all need to focus a little more on our families? Amen? We need to focus personally on our families. And your pastor from time to time will focus on the family as well. Can I also say we ought to be focusing on the family of God? Amen? Uh we we call each other brother and sister around here. Why? It's because we're a family and these folks are so dear. And so we can look at the household of God, we can look at the household of our own families, and obviously we are so thrilled With the great treasure and blessing that the Lord has given to us about that. But you know, when we look at our culture today, we look at the world around us and And you know, I I know that we can can all look and if we're conservatives and we thank God maybe for a little bit of of of space of grace here. Maybe the next couple of years some things can maybe be reversed to come back to be a little more biblical as it relates to the home and the family. But can I remind you the answer is not in the White House Uh the answer is not in Washington, D. C. The answer really is in the church and our own homes and our own families that even though civilization And the foundation of that may be crumbling around us. We need to do our part to make sure we are building heavenly households. You know, even the definition of marriage has been under attack in these days. Isn't that a shame? Uh isn't that a shame that that that some say, well, we need a constitutional amendment, you know, to make a marriage between a man uh and a woman. Can I remind you, God laid that down six thousand years ago in the book of Genesis? We just need to get back to what has already been in place as it relates to the home and the family. You know, in our culture, some call it a same-sex marriage. Can I just say there really is no thing? No thing like that. That's not a thing. Uh uh it can be legalized and and and and politicians can call it everything they want to, but God was very clear that marriage was between a man and a woman. We saw that last evening Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother and cleave unto his wife. There it is, a husband and a wife. And so obviously we've got to get back to the Word of God for how we view The family, this culture of divorce that we have in our day and age. And I understand there may be some divorced folks here And I said this again last evening, and that may have been what is what's been in your past and and I I understand that and I I'm not here to cast stones about that But can I say to the young people here, that here, the teenagers, you boys and girls, you young people, can I remind you, God's ideal was one man, one woman for a lifetime, and that is what God wants for That's the civilization, that foundation of our culture that we need to get back to. And so this thing of cohabitating with one another and well we're just going to live together and see if it works out, that's not a Bible concept, friends. The Bible is very clear that there should be no intimate relationships between a man and a woman except under the umbrella of marriage, what we call holy matrimony. I need some help here, all right? So so this morning we're trying I like that thing. Can I steal that and take it with me around the country? Now I'll be in California somewhere and I'll hold it up and they'll just look at me, right? And they'll think, what in the world is this guy, right? But listen folks, we've got to understand, and can I say as believers we should understand what God says about the home and family and marriage So all of that, and we can say amen to that, but I would ask you today for the message, how heavenly is your household? I mean, how godly is your marriage? How strong is it that marital union that you have? We talked last night about fight uh uh uh like uh fighting like cats and dogs all the time and And uh it seems like there's uh uh uh issues with the children and rebellion and and all of these things. Can I just say if we'll do it the Bible way? The model that the Word of God gives to us Is that we can have a little piece of heaven here on this earth. Heavenly households. I can't wait to get to heaven when all is perfect. But wouldn't it be great that even in this corrupted culture that we live in, wouldn't it be great to have a little bit of perfection. Wouldn't it be great to have a a whole lot of peace? Wouldn't it be great to get along one with another? The Bible talks about living as one flesh. And wouldn't it be wonder if we loved each other like Christ loves the church? And So all of these things this morning, we're going to kind of kind of drill down and say, is my household, is your household a heavenly household? I want you to notice the text In Psalm 127, verse number 1. Look at it again. And the songwriter says, Except the Lord build the house, They labor in vain that build it, except the Lord to keep the city, the watchman waketh But in vain. I want you to notice that word house that is mentioned in verse number one. Except the Lord build the house. Now look this way. We could do some preaching from this passage about the house of God. I think that would be an appropriate thing, but I don't believe it's exactly what this text is meaning Because it goes down to verse number three and it talks about children and husbands and wives having children. Lo, children are in heritage of the Lord. and arrows, verse 4, in the hand of a mighty man. Happy. Verse 5. Happy is that man that hath his quiver full of them. I believe this is talking about the house that we might call our homes, right? So when he says, accept the Lord build the house, accept the Lord build your marriage, accept the Lord be the one that your children are patterning themselves after. And so when they get to be grown adults that they're choosing properly. Isn't it a wonderful thing when you see your children grow up and they choose a godly spouse, a godly husband or a godly wife, and and then those little babies, those grandbabies How many of you are in the grandbaby stage? Can I see your hand? I got two of them. And I got a five and a half year old, almost six, and a little uh little little girl that's almost ten months old. And we're loving that How special is it that those babies are growing up in a home that mom and dad love the Lord and they're in church this morning and and all of those things go back to building a heavenly household And the Bible is very clear. You can't build it alone. The Lord has to build that for you. Did you see that? Now we had to do our part. But please know the Bible says, except the Lord build the house, you're going to just labor in vain Hey, this world doesn't have the answer to what a heavenly home is all about. Dr. Phil can't help you, right? Oprah Winfrey doesn't have the answers to all of problems about home and family, but God does God has the answers, and he wrote us a book called The Bible. And if we'll look at the Word of God, then we can find out what it's like to have Some heavenly household. So I use the word household this morning because the Bible says, except the Lord build the house, what is it that the house holds? Can I ask you that question? What is it that your house holds? Well, it doesn't just hold some furniture. It doesn't just hold some stuff. Your house holds a family. Would you agree with that? Your household is your family. And unless you're unless the Lord builds your family, you're going to just be laboring in vain. Hey, this morning I talked to the men about money and finances and And you know, you use those that those finances to to buy a couch or to buy a bed or to buy a lamp or to buy furniture for your home. Nothing wrong with that. But my friend, you can have a household without having any stuff in that house at all My friend, if you've got a great marriage and you've got a wonderful spouse and a godly relationship and you get along with one another, what value can you put What price tag can you put on a household that is living for the Lord? So I want to talk to you here this morning about the households of the families that live within our homes. You know that someone said there's a difference between a house and a home. A house is where you hang your hat. A home is where you hang your heart. And I think that's so very true, right? Some people live in a house, but they don't really have a home too much. They live in the same dwelling, they maybe live under the same roof. But sometimes they're just roommates. Can I just say this husbands and wives ought to be way more than just roommates? We ought we ought to be we ought to be not just spouses, not just cohabiting under the same roof. We ought to be best friends Amen. We ought to best friends. We ought to share everything. We ought to be madly in love with one another and thankful to the Lord of what He's given to us. You see, all of these are things that we can place into our households to make them more what God wants them to be. So here's the message this morning. If you're a note taker, as your preacher encouraged you to do, I'm going to give you five households in the Bible And we're going to look at them, so I'm going to ask you to take your Bible and kind of follow me around to some different passages, and we're going to look at some different households in the scriptures. And talk about how those can be related or applied to our own houses as well. Let's go to the New Testament, the book of Acts, chapter number 16. Would you please? Acts chapter number 16 And if you're taking a note, I want you to write down, first of all, that we need to have a house or a household of salvation. A household of salvation. We're talking about heavenly households, and you will not have that. I will not have that unless we all know the Lord Jesus Christ to be our Savior. Look at Acts 16 And we're going to see some wonderful words here that are going to bring the message of the text in this morning to us. Look at verse number 30. 1 of Acts 16. It's a great passage, very familiar passage about Paul and the Philippian jailer. Remember in verse 30, the Philippian jailer falls down. He says, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? In verse 31, Paul gives the answer, and they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Read the next phrase, church. Oh now wonderful. Look this way. How many are glad salvation is not just for the dad? Aren't you glad salvation can be to the mom and to brother and to sister and to uh great aunt that maybe lives and grandpa that lives in the back uh uh bedroom. Aren't you glad that he said, look, salvation is not just to the one that believes, but it can be believed by all in the house Let's keep reading verse number thirty-two. He says and they spake unto him the word of the Lord and to all that were in his Verse 33, and he took them the same hour of that night, and he washed their stripes, and they were baptized. He and what are the next two words? All his, that's talking about the family that lived in his house straightway, verse 34. And when he had brought them into his what? He set meat before them and rejoiced, believing in God with all his talk to me, church. Now wouldn't it be a great thing? Look at me, church, the first thing that you have to have If your household is going to be a heavenly household, everybody needs to know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Let me stop and say. Children that grow up in a Christian home, they are not just saved because they grow up in a Christian home There must come a time when they understand and personally accept Jesus as their Savior as well. How many understand that and believe that? You can say, well, my dad was a preacher and my my grandpa was a pre that has nothing to do with whether you're saved or not. You've got to make a personal decision about your salvation. These children in Mr. Philip uh Philippian jailer's house, we don't know what his name is But these children and his wife, and we don't know how many there were, but the Bible says the salvation came to all their house. Wouldn't it be wonderful to know that everybody in your house is on their way to heaven And can I just say this? Wouldn't it be a great thing to know that you're all going to be in heaven one day because you're saved? You understand there's only one thing you can take with you to heaven, all the stuff's going to stay here, but you can take people with you. You can take your family with you. Hey, husbands and wives, moms and dads, let's make sure that our children hear the gospel early in their life. I was saved at the age of five My wife was saved at the age of seven. She just had her spiritual birthday, right? Tomorrow? Tomorrow is my wife's spiritual birthday. Fifty years 49. 49 years she's been saved. Now I shouldn't have told her how old because now you're going to do the math and know how old my wife is. I'm in serious. Can I have lunch with somebody else today? Because I'm in trouble now But isn't it wonderful to know that children can be saved and you will not have a heavenly household unless everybody knows Christ. He said, look, salvation, all you got to do in verse 31 is to believe on the Lord Jesus. Aren't you glad God made salvation simple? Aren't you glad it wasn't real hard? Aren't you glad you didn't have to die on that old rugged cross? Aren't you glad Jesus did it all for you? Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe You see, I'm so glad to know that I am saved this morning. And I'm glad to know that my wife is a believer. And I'm glad to know because my wife and I were both there. My little dirt my little girl Carmen uh just before the age of four, and she was such a smart little kid that she was a little hellion before she got saved, and then things changed I'm talking from the inside out. And then our little daughter Caitlin about the age of five, both of them, and not ever doubting their salvation and now groaning and families of theirs of their own. I'm so glad to know that we can know Christ as our Savior, the household of salvation. It was said like this in Acts 18, verse number 8 about Christmas. It says, He believed on the Lord with all his house. How about the great story of Zacchaeus in Luke 19 and verse number nine, where Jesus looked at Zacchaeus and he said, This day is salvation come to thy house He wasn't just talking about coming to a physical dwelling. I think he was saying, Zacchaeus, what you have now believed in me is the Messiah Your wife can believe that as well. Your children can believe that as well. So look this way, church. Before I go to point number two, we've got to get the basics covered, right? If you want your household to be heavenly, then we must be built on the foundation of the Lord Jesus Christ. There must be a personal relationship with Jesus Christ in a very personal way. Is every member of your household saved and sure? Is every person in your household baptized and obedient? Is every member of your family growing in grace? And are we all happy serving Jesus? Well, wouldn't that be a wonderful household? And can I say from the preacher's standpoint And I've pastored for many years. I loved to see families serve the Lord together. Husbands and wives sitting together in church, arm in arm. Arm around uh one another, uh uh children uh in tow and sitting in in the in the pews of the house of God and and coming to the the the uh kids programs and And realizing maybe the the Christian school or an education and growing up in the things of the Lord. Oh, my friends, what a blessing to have heavenly households when we all know Jesus Christ as our Savior So what do we do with that salvation? Well, let me give you the second household this morning. And I want you to follow me in your Bible to 1 Corinthians chapter number 16, would you? 1 Corinthians and chapter number 16 Not only do I see this morning the household of salvation, but I also see secondly a household of ministry. A household of ministry I guess my question would be, what are you doing with your salvation? What are we doing? Are we living out our salvation? Are we taking the great beautiful, wonderful, and perfect and holy gift of salvation that he has given to us in Christ. And are we sharing that with the world? Look at 1 Corinthians chapter number 16. And verse number 15, and Paul here is telling about a family. Again, we're preaching about families this morning. The family of the church in Corinth here. Of the house of Stephanus. Look at verse 15. I beseech you, brethren. And then he says, Parenthesis, ye know the house of Stephanus. That it is the first fruits of Achaia, and that they have addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints. That ye submit yourselves unto such and to every one that helpeth with us and laboreth. He says, I am glad of the coming of Stephanus. And a fortunatus and a chaicus, for that which was lacking on your part they have supplied, for they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore acknowledge ye them that are such. Did you notice the word house in verse 15 Now remember we started in Psalm 127, except the Lord build the house, and we said that we're talking about households. What's a household? It holds family We said, first of all, the Philippian jailer, he was saved and his house, so it was a household of salvation. Now we find a man by the name of Stephanus and his house, or his household, and this was a household of ministry. Boy, this was one of the great families of the church in Corinth. The church in Corinth was a troubled church. Do you remember that? Remember they were they were uh Carnal, the Bible says in chapter 3. They were divid divided. There was no unity. They were a mess. And 1 Corinthians had to be written under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and Paul was correcting some issues, but he gets to the last chapter, and he says, Now can I talk about one of the great families of your church? Now can I just stop and say, this is not a pride thing, this is not a braggadocious thing, but what if God looked down at Mountain Lake Baptist Church and he had to pinpoint the house of Stephanus Here, which which family would that be? You say, well, preacher, what what are some of the characteristics of this house of Stephanus? Well, look at verse 15. It says that they were first fruits of Achaia. I think what that means is they were, as Paul came to that region of Achaia, as he was there, they heard the gospel, and the Bible says they responded first. They were the first fruits. They were the ones that received the gospel early. They were, watch this, they were responsive to the word of God. Can I ask you a question? Are you a family that is responsive to the Word of God? Hey, do you hear and not just hear but listen and not just listen but apply? Hey, hey, during the invitation, do you ever walk to the front and kneel and make a decision at the altar and tell God why? Because I'm responding to the preaching and the teaching of the word. That's the kind of household Stephanus was Mr. and Mrs. Stephanus and all the boys and girls and the brothers and the sisters, he said they were ones that responded immediately as first fruits when the gospel was preached Notice next what it says in verse 15, and that they have addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints. Do you know that the word addicted is only found one time in our Bible? Now, now we we would say addicted or addictive or addiction. That's a negative thing, right? He's addicted to drugs or he's addicted to alcohol Do you know the one time God uses the word addicted? It's in a positive sense. They were addicted to the ministry. Wow. Can I ask you, are you a household? That you just can't stay away from church. Come on now. I had uh one of my deacon's sons down at Shenandoah, and he's a grown man now and got three boys of his own. But every time he gives his testimony, he gets up and he says I just want you to know I grew up here at Shenandoah. I grew up in certain certain family and I had a drug addiction. My dad drug me to church on Sunday morning and he drugged me to church on Sunday night and he drugged me to church on win. He he was being facetious there. But what a great drug addiction to have. Come on now, that you're always in the house of God, right? Can I ask you a question? What are you addicted to Are you addicted to ministry? Are you addicted to soul winning? Are you addicted to getting the gospel to the lost? Are you addicted to faith-promise missions? Are you addicted to the preaching of the Word of God? This house right here was a house that was addicted to the things of God. Boy, what a heavenly household that must be. And Paul keep in mind, this is at church in Corinth. Probably a lot of the families didn't care much about what God was doing down at the church house. He said, That's not Stephanus Stephanus and all of his house, they're there every time the doors are open. Hey, they're there when the revivals take place and the missions conferences and and they're there for the special occasions and why? Because they just can't get enough of God's word. Can I ask you a question? Is that your household? Dad, are you leading the way in that? Come on now. Dad's supposed to be the leader in the home. Hey, Dad, you shouldn't have to be coerced into coming to church. Your wife shouldn't be more spiritual than you are. Come on, honey, it's time for church now. Ah, I guess I gotta go. What kind of an attitude is that to your children? Can I ask you about the household of ministry? What a great story here in 1 Corinthians chapter number 16. Notice something else about this family here. Notice in verse 16, they were laborers. He said that ye submit yourself unto such, and to everyone that helpeth with us and laboreth. He was talking about verse 15 about the house of Stephanus. He says they're just there all the time. They're at the house of God. They're working the ministry. And they are laboring. They need some help. Can I say to you, church? The families here that you're bought in. Can I say it that way? And I've been a pastor. I know what I'm talking about. To have family, they're on your page. You love your preacher. We're not talking about putting him up on a pedestal. We're not talking about worshiping a man. But how many of you know that Paul said, Follow me as I'm following Christ? And as your pastor is moving forward to have some families that come behind them that other families see and say, Wow, I'm going to jump on board with this thing. Can I say can I ask you, are you on board with the missions thing? I just saw that missions giving there. Wow, for a church your size, that's awesome giving last week. Uh getting the gospel around this world and and building families and running buses. That's all the buses. Uh this morning, can I just say, is your house a part of that? Are you involved? Do you teach? Uh do you help? Do you serve? Are you a soul winner? You see, this household not only of salvation, but the household of ministry. Can I say one more thing about this house before we move to the next point? Look at verse 18. Now he's still talking in context about the house of Stephanus. In verse 18, he says, For they have refreshed my spirit. They've refreshed my spirit. Hey, do you have a refreshing spirit when you come to church? Or are you Miss Negative Nelly? Are you always the one that's got the the the negative report? Are you always the one that's got the critical tongue? Or are you the one that comes and says, everything's alright in my father's house Where there's joy, joy, joy. Hey, did you enjoy coming to church this morning? Drug here, like we said a minute ago. It's a household isn't it how you look at it? Can I ask you how how did you look at ministry? How do you look at the calls of the gospel? What's your relationship with your pastor, for instance? What is your children's relationship with your pastor? Can I say to the moms and dads? You ought to want your kids to know they have a man of God that is called their pastor. Because they may need your pastor one day. They may need to go counsel with him And if you tear him down at the dinner table year after year after year, you think when they their life is falling apart that they're ever going to go see the man that you tore down all those years? That's good preaching right there. You see, your children are going to need a man of God. Your children need this church. You need this church. The households not only of salvation, but the households of ministry. I'll say this and move on. The strength of the church is dependent on the strength of the home. The family of God is made up of the families of men And these households of ministry are so vitally important. Let's go to Matthew chapter number seven quickly. And I want to give you number three, the house of stability. We said the house of salvation. We said the house of serving or the house of ministry. Thirdly, I want to show you the house of stability. Now, Jesus is using the example of a house in Matthew chapter number 7. I know you'll know this once we begin to read. Jesus is telling the story in verse number 24. Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, this is Jesus talking, I will liken him unto a wise man which built his what, church His house upon a rock. And the rain descended and the floods came and the winds blew. And they beat upon that what That house, and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. And everyone that heareth these sayings of mine, and go and doeth not doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand. And the rain descended and the floods came and the winds blew and they beat upon that house. Have y'all not figured this out? When I stop reading, you say the next word How many of you are really slow? You have not figured that out yet. Okay, alright. So let's try that again. Look at verse 27. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and they beat upon that And it fell, and great was the fall of it. So we have two houses. Right? Two houses. There may be two houses represented here. Now I know there's lots more houses or households, but one of two, you're either built on a rock Or you're built upon sand. Right? And did you notice in this story here, Jesus is telling, the rain is going to fall on both houses. Hard times are going to come to both houses. Look, even if you're in church and living for the Lord and love the Lord, that doesn't mean you're not going to have some hard times. God's going to allow some valleys to come in your life He said, now you don't have to go through the valley alone. I'm going to walk the valley with you. But watch friends. He says, the way you can know that your house is stable or not, or is it going to stand, is based on what foundation you built your house on. Can I ask you a question? I think you know the answer. But the house that was founded on a rock, who is the rock in the Bible? Christ Jesus. How about 1 Corinthians 3 10 and 11? Other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is who? Jesus Christ Can I ask you a question? Is your house? Is your marriage? Is your child rearing? Are your finances Are they built on the rock of the Lord Jesus Christ? Look, friends, when you build it on the rock, even when the rain comes, it's going to stand. Why? Because it's a house of stability. Go with me real quick to Ephesians 2. I want to show you something. I'm going to pull two things together here. Look at Ephesians chapter number 2, real quick. I want to show you four things about this house of stability. And we're going to find this in this passage as well. Again, we're looking at the word house or household. We're going to find it in verse 19 of Ephesians 2. Now therefore ye are no more strangers than foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints. Now get ready to get everybody look this way. Get ready? I'm going to stop reading in just a moment, all right? And I want you to say the next word. All right. Are you ready? We're reading at verse 19. Citizen, fellow citizens with the saints and of the Wow, you get this man right here in the third row, he gets a prize. He said it first. All right. The household. That's the word we're looking at, right? The household of who? Of God. And are built upon the what, church? The foundation of the apostles and the prophets. Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord, in whom ye also are builded. Together for an habitation of God through the Spirit. Now I know that's talking more about the local church and the house of God, but could those same applications not be made to our own house If we're built on the Lord Jesus Christ and we are fitly framed together, can I give you four words that I believe give the house stability, the household stability? Number one, we see the word harmony. They're fitly framing together. Harmony. We heard the choir sing a moment ago. We heard the men sing just a moment ago. Did you know that there was harmony there? They were singing different parts, but they were all in the same key, right? You can get up here. If you don't know music, you don't understand the illustration I'm about to give you. But if if one is singing apart in in the key of C and the other is singing in the D minor, it ain't gonna sound good, right? There's no harmony there. Can I say to you that the household of stability fitly frames together? God puts it all together. Can I ask you a question? Does your home have harmony? Are you in harmony with one another? Are you in sync with one another? Are you on one another's page? Are you singing from the same songbook? There's harmony. Number two, there's maturity. You see the word groweth. Groweth. We just read there in the passage there verse 21. Groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord, that's maturity. I don't know how long you've been married today, but you're not done growing. So so some of you folks you've been married thirty years, guess what? There's still more to learn. Some of you say, Well, I'm not gonna come back tonight at six o'clock and I you know come an extra hour and this is you do know preacher, this is Super Bowl Sunday. How much do you want your house to grow? Your household to grow? How much do you want your marriage to keep growing? Uh keep maturing, keep adding Oh, it's so important. Harmony, maturity, number three, spirituality. The Bible calls it a holy temple. A holy temple The spirituality of the house of stability, and then lastly, the word stability. A habitation means a settled dwelling place. And so this morning as we come to the last couple of points here, and I've got to wrap things up. It's already 1150. Can I give you, we've said the house of salvation, right? And we said uh the house of ministry, right? And thirdly, the house of stability and number four the house of unity. They kind of all go hand in hand. Go with me to Matthew twelve. Can I show you what Jesus said about unity and a house? Remember, we're looking at the word house here. Matthew 12, 25. Again, Jesus' words. Verse 25, every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation. And every city or House divided against itself. Here it is, church, shall not stand. Please look this way. Hey, if if you and your husband, you husband and wife You're at disunity. You're fighting. You're not on the same page. There's no unity. The Bible says that kind of house is going to fall. Just like that foolish man building his house on sand, it's going to fall There's nothing strong to hold it. I'm not saying that there aren't going to be times of disagreement. I didn't say there's going to be times where you don't have to work some things out and Maybe you even get in the flesh a little bit and you get carnal and you have to apologize to one another. All of that. That happens. We're all imperfect people But you listen to me. The goal ought to be for your house and your marriage, parents and children, unified Hey, you teenagers, your moms and dad, they're setting a path for you. They're setting a course for you. They're trying to help you to be the Christians that God wants you to be. They want you to have a good Christian home. Look at me, girls and guys This is why we've got to be careful who we date and careful who we like and careful uh who we uh have emotional attachments to and wait to the proper time and let mom and dad be uh a part of that process. You say Man, that sounds really old-fashioned. No, it just sounds very biblical. Because they're trying to help you to have the right kind of home so you can have a stable Unified marriage one day as well. The house of not only stability, but the house of unity. And notice that little phrase Jesus said, if you're divided against itself A city or a house divided against itself shall not stand. You know, there there are different levels of spirituality. I'm gonna I'm I'm gonna take just a moment here and I'm gonna give you the last point and we're done Can I drill deeply just for a moment? Everybody still listen to me? Everybody, will you give me five more minutes? Okay, alright, it's on record. Alright. Live stream, you heard it. It's all recorded There are different levels of spirituality within homes. And we've got to be careful that that does not tear away our unity. You see, you see, if if one spouse is very spiritually minded and the other spouse is very carnal, oh, I didn't say not saved, but carnal, fleshly. The things of God really don't appeal to you. I said it this morning in the men's session. Maybe one wants to tithe and give to the Lord of their of their increase, and the other is like, I ain't giving no money down to the church. You see, the blessings of finance then, of stewardship, cannot be given because there's division. You need to be on the same page behind the Word of God. There's got to be got to be unity. So one, one may be very spiritual and one may be very worldly or carnal. So one may be backslidden, one may be unsubmissive, a teenager may be rebellious, there may be some worldly parenting going on, and guess what? All that's going to happen is your house is shaky. Your house is shaky. You see, you know who you know where we need to get our unity from? This book right here. If God says it, that settles it If this is the way my marriage is supposed to be, then this is what we're going to do. Hey, if the Bible says that I need to correct my children because it's good for them For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. I know it may not be politically correct to tell your children no, but you better tell your children no, you're only gonna hurt them You see, it's Bible, the principles of the God's Word, they work. And there's got to be a house of unity, not divided against itself. And let me make this statement, where did I put my glasses at? I can't read without my glasses. Look look at verse uh uh as we're looking at divided against itself, and these different levels of spirituality don't sink to the lowest level But rather raise to the higher standard. Don't sink to the lowest level, but rather raise to the higher standard within your home. Hey, so instead of the spiritual one having to be less spiritual How about the backslidden ones start being more spiritual? Does that make sense? So let's raise our standards here to the Word of God So that we are unified one with another. Here's the last point, and I'm done this morning. There needs to be a house of provision. First Timothy five and verse number eight, and I'll just read it and we'll be done. But if any provide not for his own, especially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith and is worse than an infidel. That word provide there in the Greek language means to consider in advance. It means to exercise the mind to comprehend and perceive and understand what may come later. A house of provision Look this way. We talked this morning to the men about providing financially. But can I also say that there's a lot more provision that we need to be giving to those in our house than just things? We need to provide a spiritual environment. We need to provide a spiritual culture. We should be providing emotional support. We should be providing mental acuity. We should be teaching our children how to think. We should be teaching all of those in our household the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. You see, there's so much more to provide than just money. He says, look, if you don't provide for your own house, you're worse than an infidel. Can I ask you this morning, is your household providing everything that God wants for your family? You can do that through the local church. You can do that through personal devotions. You can do that through family devotions. You can do that through reading good books. You can do that by putting the Lord first. It really comes down to what we're preaching about today. How heavenly is your household. And so this morning I ask you, are you saved? Do you know Jesus if I asked you to come and stand behind this platform and give your personal testimony? Could you give me What happened, how you came to faith, where it was. You may not know the date, but you know the circumstances. You know you're saved. That is where it all starts. The foundation of salvation. Is everybody in your home? Are they saved? Had they been scripturally baptized? Are they growing in their faith? All of these things we said from the message today of building heavenly households. I believe that's what this weekend is all about. I want God to be pleased with my marriage and be pleased with my child rearing. To be pleased with my finances, and to be pleased with how I respond, to be pleased with how I speak to my wife, the attitudes that I have, the way that I rear my children, all of these things should be done first and foremost. Because God says this is how it should be done. Let's make sure that we are doing what we should to make sure that we have the heavenly households God wants us to have. Would you stand with me, please? Let's let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Let's take a moment of invitation, as someone is coming maybe to the piano to play, if that's the process here Father, I just want to ask you right now to help us all to really think about everything we've heard this morning in this message and the Sunday school hour and the two sessions last night. Lord, we've been given a lot of information. But Lord, I pray it wouldn't just be information or education. Lord, I pray that it would be life-changing truths. Oh God, please help this invitation. If somebody doesn't know they're saved. It's got to start there. We read it a moment ago. What must I do to be saved? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. God, as we then take that salvation and begin to let it grow, we begin to be more like Christ. We begin to mature in our faith. And then ministry comes and unity comes. God help us, I pray. Maybe even to use the altar today as we should, as you direct on our hearts. Please, oh God, I ask you to do it in the invitation. In Jesus' name. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.