Know to do right. We can even uh do right. But we can do it out of duty. Jason said that last night. It's easy to do out of duty. But I don't want to live that way. That's average. That's forced. That's existence. I don't want to just exist. I want to live I want to live. I'm going to ask you a question. This isn't Sunday school and preacher uh he said if you're a part of it you've got to be down on the floor. So I may get down on the floor in a minute, but anyway. What's the difference between an organization and an organism? Somebody raise their hands to somebody yelling out. What's the difference between an organization and an organism? One word Life. It's life. It's that simple. I go into churches, truthfully, I go into churches, I'm telling you the clock. Bam Ten o'clock they start, you know, twelve o'clock they're done. You know, they've got they're organized, I mean From their finances, their missions, I mean their Sunday school classes, the way they dismiss what they do, their teachers, their teachers' meeting. I mean, I walk in and it's well-oiled machine, just like yesterday with your workers I preach was standing and he was wanting to get started. He was looking back at the ladies and I mean you could just see everybody like ants on an anthill, you know. I love seeing that. I love seeing the organization and it takes work and planning But we don't want to be an organization. In fact, God makes it very clear that we're not an organization. This church is an organism. Because there's life here. My wife and I, we're not an organization. It's not the Caldwell organization. Hey, listen, it's the Caldwell family. Because there's life there And I'll take life and disorganization over organization with no life any day of the week. Any day of the week. 1 John chapter 3. I'm going to read the last three verses of the chapter, and we're going to kind of bounce around in this chapter, and I'll probably stay pretty much right here. Verse 22 of 1 John chapter 3. And the Bible says, and whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. And this is his commandment: that we should believe on the name of his son, Jesus Christ, and love one another As he gave us commandment. And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him. And he in him. And hereby we know that he abideth in us by the Spirit which He hath given us. Father, bless our time together this morning. We thank you for the Spirit of God. We appreciate the Sunday school message. And Lord, how that we should judge ourselves, consider, are we filled with the Spirit of God? Lord, do we have the evidence of a joy that we cannot produce, a thankfulness for even the sorrows and conflicts of life? Lord, to humble ourselves. Father, replace that pride with the humility of the Spirit of God. Lord, not something we can produce, but something that you produce in us. Because of your spirit. Lord, we thank you this morning for the grace and goodness that you've given us. We thank you, Father, for the opportunity to preach, to teach, to serve. We thank you that we have a God that we can come and ask of. And because of the asking, we can be impassioned by the consequences and the answers by which we hear and receive. Lord, we pray for the Spirit of God to be able to move up and down the pews of this family this morning, where the existence of life is because you're here. And Lord, if there be one in here that's dead and trespasses in sin, they're not born again, they're not saved. Even though, God, we know that this message is pointed at the believers. Father, if there's someone here not saved, we want to see them born again. We want to see them have life. Not only eternal life, but an abundant life even in this life. We want everyone here to have divine power to have that purpose of life, that divine life. Where people don't just exist. We don't want to just exist. We want to live. God, may we have that desire today. May we see how it's so obtainable if we'll just trust you. And we'll give you the praise and honor for it in Jesus' name. Amen. If I may use the analogy quickly of a doctor, a doctor spends years preparing to be a doctor. He spends hundreds of thousands of dollars to become a doctor. Once he becomes a doctor, then he has the skill set to diagnose. I don't know about you, but I want a doctor that's playing with me and he's able to talk to me and confront me and able to diagnose my problem through me answering questions for him. And then he knows the course of action to help me. I don't know how you are, but that's what I want. I don't want just to, listen, treat the symptoms. I want to cure the disease. I want to be helped. Well, that's what the organism of the church is. This is uh, listen, this is the the doctor's office for this community for the world. That's what our responsibility is. A doctor's job is to prolong life, to give quality of life, to treat the living. So that they don't die, that's his job to bring life. That's his job But it's a shame today. It's appalling today that we have churches that have great organization. Their buildings and facilities are paid off. They're like the doctor who has the ability to diagnose, he has the education to diagnose. He knows the medications, he knows the cure, but he's unwilling to help I get frustrated when I wait three, four, five, six weeks for a doctor's appointment for a specialist, and then I get three minutes of that individual's time. We have listened. We have a society of people out here that we plead with, we beg with Listen, we take financers, we invite them to sportsman's makers, we do everything we can to get them in here, but then we don't give them life. Because we ourselves. Now listen, we ourselves may be organized, but we're not living. We're not living. I want to preach a message this morning. I'll move as quick as I can on how is the health or how healthy is your personal prayer to life. He said, this is about prayer? Absolutely. It's the easiest thing that a Christian can do to impassion himself and maintain health and life in his personal being. It's the least thing that's done. If we have a prayer meeting in this church, we have to have it at breakfast We have to have some other activity, encourage people to come, because people by nature do not want to come just to pray because they by nature don't pray I can let God talk to me, but the truth of the matter is I have to talk to him. He told me in Revelation chapter 3, he said, listen, I will come in and sepulture you. I'll knock on the door. I invite him in, but he wants to sup with me, but at the same time, he wants me to turn around and sup with him. That's intimate. My wife and I love each other 50 times more now because we're intimate with each other. I talked to my daughter in Wyoming last week. And I w we she was talking about her two children getting older. And my daughter's had some health problems as much as her dad and her brother has. And uh she's kind of bounced back and God's given her health again. She's able to get out and do more with her her her her children. And she said, Dad, she says, there's things that bounce from my memory that I realize is so important for my children to see and me and my husband. And she says, when I think back to our home, she says, I can remember getting up for school early to study, and she said, I would always sit next to the vent that went down past your bedroom. She said, because I would hear you and mom praying for us And she says, Dad, it was like there was an arm of love around our home. And she said, I would listen to that. And she said, I would set and I would thank God for what God was doing with my life. And I knew why God was doing it, because my mom and dad was praying for me. Of all the things you think you do for your children, you do for your family, you can't substitute. Listen, life comes into the home because of your relationship with God. Doctors of old For you older folks, you may remember this. I grew up in a coal camp in the southern part of West Virginia where they had the company store. Well, you only had a company store, but you also had a company doctor When I was a kid, his name was Dr. Wilkerson. And then you didn't go to the doctor's office. The doctor did what? Came to your house. You remember that? I remember it because I always dreaded it. He always walked in with one of these. You remember one of these? You can find anything on eBay anymore. I've got a zip tied the handles together. I remember him coming to Dr. Wilkinson coming in with his doctor's bag. It was amazing to me because in that bag, now think about it, in that bag he cured every disease. Don't you remember it took care of the common cold or the bubonic plague? It didn't matter. Whatever you needed, it seemed like it was always in that bag You remember that? That's the way it was for me. I mean now I go to the doctor and he runs $40,000 of test and then sends me to a specialist. It sends me to a specialist that takes a full hospital to diagnose what this guy carried around in a leather bag. I don't know that we've really matured in our medicine or not. And I kind of feel that way about our church, Brother Dennis. I really do because I think, well, we're always coming up with new programs, we're trying to do this, we're trying to do that But the truth of the matter is power with God comes with me being in the Word of God and me talking to God. It's that simple. And that doctor cared. When he came into the house, he sat down next to the bed, he would sit and pat my leg, he would talk to me, he was in no hurry, and I knew he was in no hurry. It was the compassion, it was the love, it was the concern. And I'll never have that for you. I'll never love you, I'll never care for you, I'll always be consumed about myself. Unless I have an active prayer life that's in passion, troop, through me talking to God Me seeing the consequences of what God can do for me. And I you sit there and say amen and you're looking at me and in your mind saying, I know that's that's the case, but how much time do you spend talking to God? And I don't mean you getting down and praying for three hours. I mean throughout the day just Going to God. Listen, I can't do anything without him. Nothing Think about Daniel and the Hebrew children. It's gifts off to them. They're taken from their country. They're taken from their families. They're put in a culture and an environment that's totally foreign to theirs. The food's different. The language is different. Listen, the belief structure is different. Everything is different. Not one thing is consistent with the way they were raised. Not one. Yet they thrived in that environment Don't you see the parallel? I'm a peculiar people. I'm saved. I'm as good as in heaven. I am foreign to this world. I am not of this world I listen, I don't listen, I don't like this world. I don't like what they offer me. I don't like what they want to feed me. I don't like anything about it But God says my life ought to thrive in this environment. And whenever the world tries to make me do something like they did with the Hebrew children, They listen, they would stand up and say no. You know why? Because they had a relationship with their God. They had life, hey, listen, Babylonian Empire didn't They knew what was right. So listen, whether it was the fiery furnace, whether it was the den of lions, it didn't matter They knew how to trust God because they talked to their God. Daniel prayed by the window. Listen, prayed by the window, and Jerusalem was rebuilt. The temple was rebuilt. Many of the minor prophets, everything that happened was because Daniel was on his face before God. Prayer. Gets our answer. I ask God every year to in me give me something that will help the churches that we go into. Several years ago, I wanted people to have biblical perspective. This last year I dealt with humility all year because God was working in me in humility. And I started praying in November. About what God wanted to do. God, I want you to do something in me. And any of you folks that struggle with health problems, you know, health problems tend to make you look at you. You think about you. I hate that. I hate that about me. So I begin to talk to God. I was talking to God about God just today. What do you mean just today? Just today. I just want to serve you today. If you'll give me the strength and the power to preach, teach, do whatever you want me to do today, I'm just going to trust you for today. I was down to that All of a sudden I turn around to 10, 11 o'clock at night. I'm still going. I told my wife, I said, every day we're going to deal one day at a time. I'm already into March. I'm seeing more fruit than I've ever seen in our ministry. God's making more things happen right now than I've ever seen. You say, well, you didn't pray before, I did I just got serious about my relationship with Jesus Christ. I got real serious. And the more I'm doing it, the more I'm wanting to do it. I'm just I'm just excited about me and the Lord right now. Kind of like, you know, when you first met the girlfriend. I'm kind of like that with the Lord right now, so I'm kind of keyed up. I mean I'm personally. You may not be there, but I just listen I'm preaching this morning, so I get to talk about it. So I've got my doctors that this is the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. we're supposed to be doing. And God gave me a simple message. You know, he always opened the dark doctor's bag. I I used to get a kick out of this. Now something I always want never wanted to come out of, but back in my day, their first, you know, answer to everything was a shot of penicillin. That's what they always wanted to do. I didn't want that. Always wanted him to come out with pills first. If it gives me pills, I'm probably not going to get a shot. Okay? That's probably the way it's going to work. I'm going to set this right here. Now this is the first thing I'm going to deal with this morning The health of a prayer life is determined by two things. I'm gonna go to the third thing, but the first two things. It's character and conduct. A reputation is what others think of you. That's important to us. Our character is who we actually are. That's who I am. That's my character. And I got to thinking about this because I've watched God work in my life. Listen, I can't transfer anything to you that God's not doing to me. If you're really, listen, if you're going to accept the Holy Spirit's going to be able to work through me to you, that's where it comes down to. And I got to thinking about Christian character. How many people that are saved and born again that they're trying, listen, they're trying to produce something in themselves that's not there. It's kind of like the doctor having all the capabilities, but because his relationship's not right with God, listen, he just doesn't care like he's supposed to. That comes down to character problem. See, if I want the things of this world, I've got a character problem. And I got to examine 1 John chapter 3, and Christian character is an internal thing. I can't see your character, I can only see your conduct. I can see what you do. So character and contact go together. I've got a third one. We'll deal with it in just a minute. But I've got Christian character here. It says to take internally And I got several things that it says that are ingredients to Christian character. And I'm going to deal with those, dealing with our prayer life and what prayer produces in our life. Prayer forms our character. I believe that with all my heart. I believe prayer forms our character. My relationship, I'm a different man than I was when I first met my wife Debbie. 100% different. It's even scary sometimes because if I know what she's going to say, that means I'm thinking like her and that scares me. Just gonna be right. I'm not saying bad or good, don't run to her. I'm just saying it scares me, okay? I want to think like God. I want to be heavenly minded. And so I want to have Christian character. And the first one is right there in verse 9, it says, Whosoever is born of God does not commit sin. For his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin because he is what? Born of God. I cannot have Christian character. I cannot have a prayer relationship with God. I cannot talk to God, and God can't talk to me effectively unless I'm born of God. I have to be born again. Okay? I've got all kinds of people that I believe. Listen, I don't believe our churches are full of them, but I believe a lot of churches have a lot of lost people in them. I'm not trying to get you lost. I'm just saying that this, listen, this is an organism. This is a living thing. And when there's something dead inside of an organism, that's a cancer. Am I right? It's a malignancy That means that that part of that body that it thinks it's part of, it's not living. It's dead, and it wants to kill everything around it And I don't want to be a malignant. See, I'm born of God. There was a time and place that I realized I need God and I asked God to save me. I'm born of God. So therefore, I can talk to God freely. And some of my conversations are a little loose, but they're private. They're between me and God, and I'm not going to share them with you. Because I'm just like you are. I have periods of unbelief. I believe, but God helped out my unbelief. I have a problem with that. I have a problem trusting God sometimes. So I have Lulu the conversations, but I can freely go to him because I'm a child of God. I'm born of God. I can go to God anytime I want to. And his ears to listen to me. I don't know how he does it. I don't know how he can listen to every born-again Christian across the world at the same time and love us the same. But I know he can because he's God. I'm saved. I'm born again. You have to be born again to be able to have a relationship with God. And if you're here this morning and there's no life in you, you know it. Stop lying to yourself. You know it. Get saved. Get born again. Listen, you'll always be miserable. This world has nothing for us. Think about Daniel. He thrived under every king. Everybody went to him for counsel. They despised what he was, but they had to embrace him because he had the power of God on his life. And I want that. And I want it. I want it not just because I want to be an influence in the world. I want it because I want that relationship with God. Secondly, look at verse 9 again. It says, Whoosoever is born of God does not commit sin, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin. Because he's born of God. I believe the person that has Christian character is going to hate sin. Now that we're down the rubber meets the road Problem with Christianity today, the problem we're organizing ourselves and trying to organize ourselves into growth and we're not growing is because we don't hate sin. We're saved, we're born again, but we don't talk to God because we know we can't go to God unless we're willing to repent of our sin, and we're not willing to return from our sin because we love our sin. It's that simple. So we don't have Christian character today. We may have good Christian reputations, but there's no character. And we don't talk to God. The reason we don't talk to God is because we don't hate our sin. My dad was saved almost three years before my dad put his cigarettes away. And he finally came down to the preacher. He what the preacher walked up and says, Jack, I'd love for you to teach a Sunday school class. And Dad goes, you know, Pastor Thompson, I'd really enjoy teaching. I'd like to do that. I'd like to lend myself to that, but you know I smoke. He says, I don't know that I could do it. And of course Burchers just to me said, well, once you teach a class, give up your cigarettes. Dad goes, well, that is a thought. That's something I could do. I'll never forget the night that he did it because the night he did it, he had tried quitting. But my dad, he had about four thousand people working for him, so he stopped buying cigarettes and he'd go to work and bum them off every He was the boss. Who's not going to give him a cigarette if they smoked? So he'd bum 'em off people. So he wouldn't buy them at home, but he'd bum them off everybody at work. And I'll never forget the night that he went forward. You've seen people I lay their cigarettes on the altar, lay their music on the altar, laid lay physical things on the altar. He didn't do that. He walked up to the preacher. Walked up and handed him the pack of cigarettes. It's like Roy said, Well, you want me to do this, you know? But he just handed them to the preacher and he said, My problem, preacher, and you could hear it for five rows, is that I love the stink of things And the reason I wouldn't give them up is because I loved them. I had to settle that I had to hate those things for me to serve God. I can't have a relationship with God and I could never teach kids unless I give them up And God gave my dad a hate for him. My dad walked away from him and never picked up another one. Our problem is we just don't hate our sin. Our young people, listen, pornography has become epidemic in our society. Prescription drugs are epidemic in our society. Epidemic. That means they've overtaken us. They're destroying us All of a sudden you get quiet because you know it's true. So, therefore, pastors are trying to organize their churches into something that they can't accomplish because it takes life to give life. And life comes from a relationship with Jesus Christ. And that comes from Christian character. Not only comes from God. We've got to be born again. We've got to hate sin. Something else on here. It says verse 11. Look at it. It says, For this is the message that you heard from the beginning that we should what? What? Love one another. I've already touched on it three times. It's not natural for me to love you. It's natural for me to love me. That's in my, listen. My nature. But you know the more I talk to God and I talk to God about people, the more God puts people in my heart and mind He'll put preachers on my heart and mine. I've been to over 400 churches. That's a lot of pastors. It's amazing how that I'll start praying and God will pop a face in my mind. Missionaries. I don't know how you guys do it, but we've got cards on every one of our missionaries. My wife and I we have cards that we go to. And my wife, I'll be honest with you, and and You know, I'm always ragging on her, but truth of it is my wife prays about 20 times more than me. My wife's prayer list is a book long And she if we've been in the church, she prays for that pastor, that pastor's wife, that pastor's children, that pastor's grandchildren. And anybody walks up to her in the church, if you've asked my wife to pray for something, I guarantee you that name's on that prayer list, she prays for it. She prays for people I don't even remember. But I love, I love listening to her talk because she's got them all by category. And when she goes to praying, she'll go by sections. And pray for every one of them. But you know God knows her heart and he knows their needs. And I love that. When I look at a missionary, I'm looking at a name, and I don't even know the face on that missionary, but I know God knows their needs right now And I can talk to God about them. And God all of a sudden will steal my heart and oftentimes even let me in on how I should pray because something will start coming out of my mouth and I'll think, well that's not normal, but evidence maybe it's an emotional need. they have. Maybe it's a financial need they have. Maybe it's a faith need they have right now. Because we all have those struggles. To love one another. Now you just stop and think a minute now. Here's where we've come to. We're dedicated. We'll be here Sunday mornings. But that's our service for God If I only talked to my wife on Sundays, what kind of relationship would I have? I love you, sweetheart, but I've got my buddies, my friends, my hunting buddies, everybody else I want to spend the week with What kind of relationship are we going to have? Let's be honest about it. I'm not going to love you unless I love him. Gotta love God first, then the love for you just comes. It's just there. All of a sudden this church will start coming alive. I appreciate your labor. Appreciate your love. So important. Look at verse 13. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world what? Hate you. Now, listen, I'll just be blunt and honest with you God left heaven, came to earth, and was born in a manger. And then they tried to kill him as a child. He himself says, I have not a place to pillow my head. He had no house to live in. When they killed him, they hung him between heaven and earth because they didn't want him here. The world hates the Lord Jesus Christ. And I don't know if you know it. Maybe you're living in some kind of grievora. I don't know. But right now, our government has cited in with a 50 caliber on Christianity. Society and the world, our our educational institutions, they've all turned the Turks and they're facing it Christianity. That's where they're facing now. And all of a sudden, it's not going to be right or pop or politically correct for you to show up here on Sunday mornings. There's going to be pressure put on you. May not even happen in my generation, but it's going to happen. This world hates you. And if you're a buddy to this world, that means You're not having a relationship with him because they hate him. They don't even know why, but it's because he's holy and they're not. He's life and they don't have it. They listen, they don't even want his moral calendar anymore. They don't want that. They used to use it even as dead people as a malignancy. I want Christian character. The Church of the Lord Jesus Christ, hey, listen, we ought to be showing this world what Christian character is. Well we can only do that with an act of prayer life. God forms that in us through us having a relationship with God. There's another one. I don't know about your parents. I used to hear stories about castor oil all the time. I didn't get much castor oil, but my mom used a fixed vapor rub My mom's answer for everything was Vic Vapor up. I used to dread going to school because, you know, my eyes was watering because I had it under my nose, I had it on my forehead, the back of my neck, all over my chest Rubbed my feet on it and my brother loved to eat it. She'd have to hide that. Back then you got the big jars like this. The big straight and my my brother would scoop it and she'd have to hide it And I'm not going to tell you what that'd do to him if you hold yarn big vapor up, but I had to sleep with him, so we'll just leave your imagination there VIX Vapor Rub. Conduct is external. I can see conduct. This is internal. This is external Prayer fashions our conduct, folks. We cannot divorce prayer from conduct. It's impossible. There's several things that applying this to our lives through Christian character would produce. In other words, conduct produces character. Character establishes right conduct. It's the right circle. You got it? Listen to them. Verse 10. In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil, whosoever doth not righteousness, is not of God, neither he that loveth his brother See, on the one sin we're we're supposed to hate sin. That shows that we have Christian character, but listen, Christian conduct is we'll make righteous choices. Everybody does that with you in their own eyes, I said it last night. Save people who are supposed to be born again, a picture of life They have, listen, they have the ability to pray and talk to God. They have that listen. They have life in them. Ought to be making righteous choices. But the reason we don't make righteous choices is because we're not in the Word of God and we don't talk to God. We don't sup with Him. Listen, when I'm making wrong choices, I'm not going to sit down at the dinner table with Jesus. I'm just being plain with you. It's not going to happen. I don't know how it was in your house, but in my house, when I got in trouble, here's the way it worked. My mother would spank me. My mother spanked me till I was 16. And she couldn't hurt me anymore. I would pretend like it hurt, but it didn't. Okay? But the reason I still did that was because I knew that as soon as my dad walked in the door I mean my dad didn't even get to hang his coat up. My mother was standing at the door saying, Howard needs a spanking. I mean, I'm up to 18 and it's it's still a spanking, you know. And so my dad, my mother did everything. My mother was one of those people that's impulse. My mother got upset. She's a redhead. She's of Scottish-Irish descent. That kind of says it, doesn't it? Anyway. My mother whatever was convenient. You know, if it was my steel-tooth boots, that's what I got upside the head. If she couldn't reach anything, she would actually just use her little freckled fist And and she says, Howard, that sounds terrible when you say that. I said, Is it truthful? Well, it's truthful, but it doesn't sound good. You know, she's been a she's a pastor's wife for years. But when my mom first God saved and even after that I would see her coming and I'd say, whoa, whoa, whoa, let me get my glasses off because I knew it was coming. No. My mom would just start up my head and work down. My dad wasn't that way Okay. I got real good stories about my my mom. I was actually getting a haircut one time, I have to tell. I was getting a haircut. And I didn't want to go to the barber because this guy butchered me. This is back in the 70s where you know I actually had hair and it was important to me And uh and and so I was trying to talk to my mother about not wanting to go to this barber. I was driving a Volkswagen bug. Picture me in a Volkswagen bug and I pretty much fill the bug up. My brother's in the little tiny back seat, my mother's to my right in the pastures. I'm driving. And I start about the haircut that the guy gave me. I didn't say much about the haircut because I she made me go to this barber. That's rebellion. I go in there, I go to the barber, and I didn't really tell him how I want to cut, so he cut it the way I didn't want it to be cut So I started as soon as I got in the car. Now I can't be disrespectful. My dad will kill me. But you know how you disrespect with your eyes My mother says, I saw that look, and so she takes my head, bam, against the side window. I'm doing 50. My brother screams, Mommy's driving, you'll kill us She doesn't doesn't miss a beat. Bam! Does it again like I'm gonna get him unconscious this time. Soon as my dad walks in the door, Jack, Howard needs one My dad would always make me sit through dinner. Isn't that horrible? Who wants to eat? Knowing eternity is, you know, 20 minutes later. Because my dad was never an anger. My dad was the total opposite of my mother. My dad would say, Okay, son, what did you do? And I'd have to explain everything. Everything. He'd never raise his voice or anything. He'd get all done. Lay over the bed. I'm bigger than him by a foot. Lay over the bed. And my dad would start. My dad didn't count. My dad just went to his exhausted. At least that's the way I felt. I can just remember at the last one I got, I was over a twin bed and the twin bed mattress was rolled all the way up underneath of me and I was sweating as drops of blood. That's the way I remember it I didn't enjoy those dinners. Why is it that's the way we live today? I'll tell you why, because we don't make righteous choices because we don't hate our sin. Our tongue that goes off. We do what we want to do Verse 17. But whoso hath the world's good and seeth his brother have need and shut up his bows of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him. My mother's still living, by the way. I built her a home right in front of me. And uh when I'm home, and I'm not home a lot, when I'm home I always go over and spend a couple hours with her. And I fix dinner for my mom and I fix lunch for my mom and my mom and I I'm a lot like my mother. I tend to have that short fuse I blame everything on her, basically. My mother loves souls. You know why? Because my mother got an old Schofield and she wore one out every year for the first twelve years I can remember for being saved. She had compassion on the lost. I can remember my mom driving twenty and thirty miles out of the way to pick somebody up that wanted to go to church. She didn't wait on the church bus ministry to go get them. She went and got them. I don't remember us going to church, preacher, at Cleveland Baptist Church, that we didn't take somebody with us. I don't remember my mom not it was my mother Listen, when you have a relationship with God, you're going to care about other people. And you know what? People will come to church with you because they know you care. God help us. We should be a beacon of life. We're the hospital that has the answer for the death of this world. And it's not through programs and it's not through organization. It's through us getting on our knees and having a relationship with God. And God will change our conduct and build Christian character in us. Look at verse 18. It says, My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed. And in truth. Deed. You know when you show people you have compassion for them, it's when you're willing to sacrifice. It's not hard to give somebody $1,000 when you have $100,000. But when you give somebody $100 and that's all you had, that's a sacrifice. We need to be a society of Christians that are sacrificing for others. You know what? I appreciate. I mean you support me financially. I look up at that faith promise giving And I just want to praise God for it. But you know, I'm actually seeing our faith promised giving go up in churches. Praise God, preacher. But it's not a substitute for you personally going out here and talking to somebody about Jesus. Personal evangelism listened. That is not a substitute for reaching Jerusalem or Judea In other words, I have a personal responsibility to make right choices where my conduct builds Christian character where the world looks at me in this community and says, He has life, and I want it Jesus gave it all for me. That's what sacrifice is I'm gonna go ahead and finish up. I was standing in church about uh middle December, and uh our pastor was preaching. He preached a tremendous message at night, and I had two of the men at the church walked up, and they were both older than me. Both of them in their middle 70s, late 70s. And we were talking about the consequences of sin. And uh how sin uh breaks a person down. I touched on it last night in the Sportsman's Banquet. It can destroy you. And I made this comment. I said, you know, if you go back and study when sin entered into the world, brother was talking about Adam and Eve earlier. Talk about the original sin when we had uh the first Adam and and uh Eve was tempted and lied to and she sinned against God. Before there was sin, God had created man from the dust of the ground in his own image. God did not design you. Now listen to this. God did not design your body. Your spirit or your soul to bear guilt. We're not designed for it. Do you understand that? That's why sin works on our conscience, is a burden to our heart and breaks us down physically. We're not built for it. We're physically not built for it. We're spiritually and emotionally not built for it. Look at verse 19 there, and I mentioned this last night in my preaching. Hereby we know that we are of the truth. And shall assure our hearts before Him. Now listen to what it's saying there. It's saying that we know the truth. That's the Word of God. But we have to give assurance to our heart. You know why? Because the penalty and the burden of sin is something that we've known since we were born. And we're trying to deal with it all the time. That's why in our society today, then everybody tries to take their burden, their guilt, and they try to transfer that to someone else. It's dad's fault, it's mom's fault. It's the teacher's fault. It's the preacher's fault. It's my spouse's fault. It's the children's fault. It's anybody's fault but mine, because I Can't bear it That's the way we look at it. It says there verse 20, for if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart. And knoweth all things. See, when I got saved and I received the nature of God, now I can go to God, and I go to God, listen. guiltless before the Father. I bear no guilt. You said you don't commit sin? No, I didn't say that. I said I just don't trust my heart. I trust the truth of his word He said that I stand before him pure and holy and righteous. I'm as good as in heaven today. That gives me a confidence. That's my third point. We ought to have character. But it's Christian character. Our conduct ought to be righteous. But we ought to have a God confidence about us. And that confidence comes from the truth of the Word of God. And listen, the evidence of truth I say I have faith in God. And I trust God What's the difference between the faith and the trust? Well, faith is something, listen, I decided to exercise in whatever I asked God. Trust is after I got down the road and I saw that he answered the prayer. So when I say to you, I trust God, what I'm saying to you is that God has answered prayers for me for the last 51 years. So my trust builds. My wife, when she married me, listen now, my wife, when I said, honey, I love you, okay, she was taking me at my word. That's why no wives trust their husbands when they get married. None of them. You know why? Because men are dumb. And they're always saying things they shouldn't say. So a woman says, he says he loves me, but you know what? Somewhere along between The first year and the 20th year, she actually began to trust me. You know why? The evidence was there. My words and my deeds, my conduct and my character was evidence to where she could have confidence in me. We don't have confidence in God because we don't talk to God. We don't listen to God. We don't commune with God. We don't step with God. So therefore, when we say we ask God, we're dealing all the time with this and this, and we listen to this. You're no good. You're no good. Well, of course I'm no good, but he's already forgiven that. I'm listening I'm perfect in Christ. I can go to the Father about everything. And do you know what he does? Then he reminds me of those little things. Howard, you didn't trust me this morning. Howard, you didn't have belief in me this morning Howard, I want Howard, you have an opportunity to be a witness to that man at the service station, but you were saying about not feeling good. I don't know how he does with you, but boy he just all of a sudden he last stacks that God I'm sorry, but I want to start my day off fresh with you today. Sorry, Lord. End of the day, the same thing. And then I pillow my head and I can sleep in peace. Now, it's the one we don't like. Nobody likes needles. Now recently I'm done, but recently I went through a period of time that I had to get a shot. And it was a shot in those places that I couldn't give it to myself. You understand? So, I called Jason, I said, Jay, I've got to have a shot. I've got to have one a week. And uh he said, Dad, I want to give you a shot. I said, Well, your mother's not about to do it. And she goes, okay, okay, I'll give you the shot. So I hand her the needle, and she's poking me. It won't go in. Say sweetheart. Just push. It doesn't go in. Push So she's got herself upset. So she finally goes like this and this, breaks it off She's all upset. I turn around and say, sweetheart, the needle's in me, not in you Get out of the way, I'll dig it out. Anybody that likes these things, something's wrong with them. But that definitely, definitely hurt me more than it hurt her She finally learned how to do it and I thank God that we're not doing it anymore because it was this big ordeal that it was worse than having to go to the dentist for a root canal for her to have her give them to me. Look what it says there. It says in verse 20, for if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart and knoweth all things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence. Toward God. Why is it so painful for us to allow the blood of Jesus Christ be injected in and on us? When this is the cure for death, it's life Perfect blood. My blood? My blood's gonna kill me Good friend just diagnosed with leukemia. Blood's going to kill him unless God intervenes. At the age of 13 I confessed I needed God. God applied his blood to me. Let me say something to you. 51 years as of January 16th. God's never let me down one time. And I don't know how Pastor Leatherman feels. I can only speak for me. I just feel like I'm just now becoming a student of God. God, a student of the Word. I'll be honest with you, I love preaching, but I'd rather be talking to Him. The great thing about it is I can talk to Him and preach to you at the same time Isn't that amazing? What an amazing God we serve today. How many of you are taking advantage of prayer? How many have a healthy prayer life in here? How do you know? What kind of character do you have? Now what kind of reputation do you have? What people think of you? How's your Christian character? What's your conduct like? You make them righteous choices? You're sacrificing for others. You have confidence in God. Listen, we're dealing with a society. If I wanted to, I could beat you up with your sin. But the truth and the reality of the matter is, is, listen, all your sin's been taken care of You don't have to walk around under the guilt of sin. You don't have to do that. You have the blood of Jesus Christ applied to you. You have life. Why in the world? Don't live under the penalty of that. I'm a peculiar people. I love to look at Daniel and see him in the environment where that's the way, listen, I have success. I have victory in Jesus Christ. And the great thing about it was I only had to get it one time. What kind of needle is that, man? One shot and you're done. I got the cure for death. I got life and an abundant life in one shot. One shot. How healthy is your prayer life this morning? Are you here this morning? Are you born of God? If you're not born of God, I got the answer. It's found right there in the Word of God. Let's bow our heads together. Heads bowed eyes closed You know, the test for a vessel is if the vessel will hold water. You know, I can have a vessel, maybe a beautiful vase, but if it doesn't hold water, it's not a good vessel. God says I have to be a vessel unto honor. That means that I have Christian character. My conduct produces that Christian character, and I have a confidence in God. That produces, listen, produces a relationship that, listen, the world sees life in me. Got it? Are you a Vessel and Ghana this morning? Does your vessel hold water? What's your character like? What's your conduct like? Do you have God confidence? That tells me what kind of relationship you have with God. How much you're in your Bible, how much time you spend in prayer. How many that are saved and born in? You know you're saved this morning, but you'll admit to me as a Christian this morning. That your character and your conduct comes into question. You're always letting your the devil beat you up with your sin because your prayer life is weak. How many be honest with me this morning? Raise your hand up. All over the auditorium. We have people all over the auditorium. Listen, brothers and sisters, this is a daily fight. I daily myself, and daily I have to choose to talk to God. But it becomes habitual. It becomes a habit. How many here would say, preacher? I'll be honest with you, I'm a malignancy. I'm dead inside. If I died right now, I don't know what'd go to heaven. I'm listening I go to church, I've tried everything, but the guilt of sin weighs on me, and I listen, I don't think, in fact I know in my heart that if I died, I wouldn't go to heaven, and I'm concerned about my eternity. How many be willing to admit, say, preacher, pray for me? If I died, I don't know I'd go to heaven, but I'm concerned. Just raise your hand up and then back down. I'm gonna pray for you. I'm gonna point you out. I am gonna pray for you. Anyone at all Let's stand to our feet this morning. Everybody standing up. We're going to have a stand or two of invitation in just a moment. I want to pray first, okay? Now, listen, I believe that this is why we're here. This is why we this is not a speech. This is preaching. Because unless there's application, unless there's life change, then this means nothing You'll go eat your dinner, you'll talk about the message, and you'll go on with life. No change. I refuse to believe that this isn't going to change people today. I refuse. There's got to be people in here this morning. He says, I listen, I don't have the character I have. I don't have God confidence today. Sin of my life is constantly beating me up. God saved you from all of that. of that. If you're saved and born again, then listen, you have victory today. You can go boldly to the throne of grace. In fact, the word boldly in the scripture is the same as confidence. When I go boldly to God, I go to God with confidence. By me not being able to go to Him is to say that your strength and power is not great enough. And it was, it saved me completely. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, let me pray. And as I pray, if God convicted your heart and spoke to your heart this morning about your health the health of your prayer life, I want listen, that's if the Spirit of God is speaking to you right now Come down here and confess that to God. Say, God, I am not going to allow my sin to defeat me anymore. I desire God confidence. And God, I want Christian character. I want my conduct to be righteous. Oh God in heaven, may I begin to do that which is the easiest thing to do, and that's to talk to you. faithfully. May God convict you this morning. Father, bless now our invitational time. Lord, if there's someone here that's not saved, God, we'd love to see them get saved. today. If there's some person that's here that's that's that's been duped, they've been deceived, God I'd ask even now, Father, that you would uh Father take the blinders off. May they realize they need to be saved. May they get saved today. For those that are saved. God, there was a host of people who raised their hand. Lord, I'm going to ask Father that you move among them right now, that they come on down near the altar, get down on their face, and confess, Lord, I I no longer allow myself to be defeated by my sin. I'm going to covet in my own heart the fact that I can come to you boldly and with confidence. I'm going to come to you and I'm going to begin to have an act of prayer life That listen, not only would that my life would portray to Jesus Christ through character and conduct, but that our church would be a lighthouse of life. God, I'd ask you to bless this invitational time and we'll give you the praise and honor for it in Jesus' name. This name as pianist begins to play softly. I invite you to come this morning.