All right, if you would take your Bibles, turn to Ecclesiastes, chapter number one Ecclesiastes chapter 1. I want to challenge you. I'm tempted to ask if anybody has done this, but I'm not going to do it. I want to challenge you to uh read through the book of Ecclesiastes. If you can sit down and read through the book in a sitting. Just take a little time of an evening. I don't think it'd take you, I don't know, twenty minutes, maybe a half hour, depending on how fast you can read. It shouldn't take very long. Never timed it actually, but uh I'm telling you it's uh it's a blessing and uh you get an idea. What happens when you sit down and read the thing through, uh you get an idea of what he's talking about, what's trying to be communicated here Um nobody gets a newspaper and reads an article, reads two sentences out of the article, puts it up and then gets it out the next day, reads four more sentences and puts it up and gets it out You'd say, what in the world? I don't even understand what this is about. And uh sometimes that's the way we read our Bibles and we don't get the big picture. We don't get the message that's being communicated. So I want to encourage you to consider that And uh read that through maybe several times and be a blessing to you. Ecclesiastes chapter number one. I want to begin reading in verse eight. We've looked at the first seven verses so far And uh it doesn't take long to get into this book and you catch on uh what he's trying to say. And it's not at this point is not a very Uh not a very bright picture he's painting here. Uh before I begin reading in s uh in verse eight, uh let's go back verse number two. That's kind of the theme of the book. It says, Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher, Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. And uh how many people agree with me? That's kind of bleak picture, huh? Then he goes to the next one. What profit hath a man of all the labor which he taketh? And then's the key statement. Under the sun. Ah. Now we understand what he's talking about. Life without God. Life from an earthly perspective and eliminating the heavenly perspective. Now, verse 8, let's pick up there. All things are full of labor. Man cannot utter it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be. That which is done is that which shall be done. And there is no new thing. What's the next couple words? Under the sun. Is there anything whereof it may be said, see, this is new? It hath already been, it hath been already of old time, which was before us. There's no remembrance of former things, neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after. I put the title in the bulletin, uh Unsatisfied Under the Sun. So I worked this and developed it a little bit. I've changed my title. I've entitled this message this, A Hole in the Soul. A hole in the soul. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take this portion of your word, dear Lord. You've inspired it, you've preserved it for us. And now as we look at it on this Sunday night in the fall of 2016, it's written so many years ago. I pray you'd take it and show us. how it applies to our lives today. And I pray that if any of us are looking at life, viewing life under the sun, I pray you'd help us to get a higher vision. I pray you'd help us to uh see things from your perspective and in light of your word and your promises. Lord, I present my body anew, I yield my will, and with all my heart I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me. And you would speak through me and help us. Pray good decisions would be made tonight. I pray our our week would be a little better, a little more effective, our witness this week, because of what takes place tonight. So blessed Lord I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. As I kind of already pointed out, Saul is a human penman of this. This is actually apparently a sermon he preached to Israel. And he's continuing his bleak assessment of life without God. Now, Solomon's unique in the fact that he at one point was a great man of God. God used him to pre uh to pen book of Proverbs, Song of Solomon, Ecclesiastes. So he was a man that had phenomenal wisdom, God given wisdom, supernatural wisdom. He knew God. He knew what life was like, living from God's perspective in the light of God's blessing and God's direction. But he got his eyes off the Lord, and perhaps his great wealth, his great successes in life, and the peace he experienced as the king of Israel blinded him. And he ended his life tragically with a humanistic perspective and a materialistic view of life Verse 4 through 7, he sees, if you remember, we looked at this a couple weeks ago, he sees the cycles of life, the water cycle, the wind currents the water currents and uh the generations, he sees these things as he he doesn't see them as God's cycles in creation, the rhythm of creation to sustain this planet, rather than saying it what God is doing through these life cycles, these rhythms in creation He just sees them as empty, meaningless. Just the same thing over and over and over. And you know, when we see the world from earth's, from man's perspective, from the unbelievers perspective. It is monotonous. You go to bed and so you can get up early and you get up early so you can go to work and you go to work so you can get money So you can get money, so you can buy a house, so they have a place to sleep, to go to bed, so that you can get up in the morning and go to work and get money and pay for the house so you can sleep in it to get up. And it's just like and that's his uh that's his view This past Wednesday we had the final day of the revival meeting up for Brother Heimball in Connecticut there and we went out for a couple hours Wednesday afternoons just knocking on doors of a big apartment complex there and We were going through and we got to talk to a few people and shared the gospel a little bit at the door, nothing real in depth. And uh we met one fellow that had a pretty good testimony of salvation The last door we knocked on, a fellow came to the door and Brother Steve was talking. He said, I'm uh Steve Einbo, pastor at Galilee and Baptist Church. This is uh Dennis Leatherman. He's preaching at our church this week. We're going to invite you out And the guy immediately said, let me, uh he said this. He said, did you come by to did you come by here to tell talk to talk at me about God and then pray with me and leave? We said, well, not exactly. He goes, well, that's usually what they do. I said, well, we wanted to invite you to come outdoor services. Leave a friendly invitation with you He said, can I ask you some questions? We said, sure. His very first question was, how do you know there's a God? Prove to me there's a God. I said, well, proving is a strong word. I said, it's just as difficult to prove there isn't a God as to prove there is one. I said, but I'm convinced there is, and I can tell you why. And he says, well, I want to hear it And uh so I said, well, and that's basically what I preached this summer. I said, well, first of all, in the heart and soul of every human being, I believe there's awareness that God exists. I said, every society that has ever existed has worshipped God of some type. And I said, that to me tells me that there's a universal awareness of God's existence. I said, you don't obviously don't admit it, but I think down inside your heart and soul, I said, I bel I think you are aware that there is actually a God. He kind of scoffed at that And I said, another reason I'm convinced there's a God. I said, I look out here and we look, there's trees and a river there. And I said, I see incredible design, I see incredible plan and purpose and complexity. And I did all the arguments there, you know, the little drawing on the wall. Man made that, and there's the lizard. I went through all of that and uh said all these things and he didn't buy it, and we went back and forth for about 45 minutes And um I said, well what do you see? I said, look at these trees, the the the leaves on these trees and how the molecular makeup of it is. And I said, the DNA That is such a complex, has to be in exact a language, it has to be in a very specific order for us to function. He says, You know what I say? He says, I see wood, I see material stuff, I see molecules, and I see nothing else I said, well that's a pretty bleak view of the world. And he says, the world is a miserable place. You know what that is? That's Solomon's view here. The world is just meaningless. It's just stuff. And we went round and round and round, and I saw the trees, and it was beautiful up there. The leaves were changing. I saw the trees. I saw God's hand. I saw the design of an amazing designer. I saw God's glory displayed. In the world. But he didn't see any of that. He just saw a miserable, miserable place. And that's what Solomon's saying. And he makes a few statements here about the fact that in the heart and soul of every one of us there is a vacuum. And the frustration that comes in trying to fill that vacuum with the things of this world I have two thoughts, and I think it's going to be fairly brief tonight. Two thoughts. Number one, I want us to consider this, and I notice this particularly in verse 8, the dissatisfaction of life under the sun. Dissatisfaction. I can't say for certain, I would never try and guess this, but I I think it's really real possibility. I'm talking to some folks right now that are very dissatisfied with life. Very dissatisfied with what they're experiencing in this thing that we have called life. I've got one life to live. I don't have any do-overs. They look around and they're very, very dissatisfied. I want to say this life without the Lord is very dissatisfying Is very frustrating. Look what he says here. He says, verse 8, all things are full of labor. Man cannot utter it. What is he saying here? That phrase full of labor has this idea, an endless weary drudgery. It's just working over and over and over. And he says, man cannot utter it. He says, we can't he can't even say How weary life is. Just going through the motions, just over and over and over. And the whole idea, what he's suggesting here is this, is that how unfulfilling life is. How dissatisfied we are living just this life. Everywhere we look in this world we see dissatisfaction, do we not? Everywhere we look, people are dissatisfied. Uh dissatisfaction produces frustration. When I cannot find satisfaction in this world and I'm grabbing for this and I'm trying for that and I'm uh looking at this and I'm hoping in that and I'm working for this and it never brings fulfillment. It never brings satisfaction. It never brings contentment to my life, and suddenly that dissatisfaction produces frustration. We get angry We start lashing out at people, and we start snipping at people, and we start biting at people, and it produces, spills over many times into actual violence. Dissatisfaction of life under the sun. Our whole commercial system is pretty much built on dissatisfaction. How many people didn't know you needed something until you saw a commercial for it? Wow, I never knew it existed. I never knew I needed that so bad. I didn't know I could be I didn't I never realized you can't be happy if your w teeth aren't blistering white I didn't know that. Uh I had no idea that you couldn't be happy if you didn't have these two hundred and ninety-five dollar tennis shoes. Who in the world is happy without peace? And how about fellows? You ever go to Cabela's? You were completely satisfied with everything. You walked into Cabela's. Good grief. I need that. Good heavens, I need that. Huh? None of you guys are going to admit it because your wife's sitting right beside you. Ladies, oh I have to have that dress. Oh Our whole commercial system is based on making people dissatisfied with what they have. No, everybody needs you if you drive that car. You've got to have this car, then everybody will like think you're great. And Solomon is saying here, if that's what we're looking for, if we're laboring, To find satisfaction with things of this world and the stuff in this world, we're never going to, we're going to be dissatisfied, and it's going to produce frustration, and that frustration is going to spill out in anger. And so we have a whole generation, not and I don't want to lump everybody in this. We praise the Lord. We've got some good, uh, I think good happy teens in our youth group, I thank God for it, but we have a huge part of our this generation coming behind us. That are angry at everything. And everybody. And no and and and I hate to say this, uh adults are get uh have the same affliction Nobody's treating me right. Nothing is doing me right. Nothing is fulfilling. Nothing is satisfying. And we grab for this and we grab for that. I need more of this, I need to steal that, and I need to uh engage in this and I need to indulge in that and it just doesn't satisfy, doesn't satisfy, doesn't fill the hole that's in my soul And get more and more frustrated. And so we cross the boundaries of decency and we cross the boundaries of common sense and we get involved in things that are absolutely bizarre. Trying to find something to bring fulfillment in life. I have seen no reason we were talking with uh somewhere, we were talking about a bucket list. And a a list of things you want to do before you kick the bucket. And one of them that came up was jumping out of an airplane. That is bizarre. Who would want to do that? And uh I'm not trying to criticize anybody, but you know I I I'm I'm completely satisfied just sitting in the seat and landing normally, you know. But what I'm trying to say is this, we get more and more and more desperate In our efforts to fill that hole in our soul. And it continually, continually fails To meet the needs of us, needs of our heart and soul, and we get frustrated. Look what he says here in verse number eight. He says, The I is not what? Look look at it there. Was it straight? The eye is not satisfied with seeing, neither the ear filled with hearing. I just gotta uh uh it needs to be a little bit more. Uh somebody asked J. D. Rockefeller, and I referenced him in a previous message, somebody asked him one time, Mr. Rockefeller, you're uh you're a billionaire. Now this is in the early 1900s the guy's a billionaire. I was reading about him this week, and uh he's still regarded as perhaps the richest man in modern history, even by today's standards. And somebody asked him one time, they said, Mr. Rockefeller, you're a billionaire. How much is enough? You know, he said, just a little more. Just a little more. You know what that is? That's an expression of dissatisfaction. I won't be happy. Until I have a little more. I won't be satisfied. I won't be fulfilled until I get a little bit more and a little bit more. And you know we find out? We find out we get a little bit more, and we're just as dissatisfied as we were. Before we had a little more. And we get frustrated. We get angry. And we have a nation of angry people. Angry people. God created man With a God-shaped hole in our soul. Adam and Eve knew perfect fellowship with God. Perfect fellowship with God. Sin entered. And they, what did God say? In the day thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely what? Die. Question, did they die physically the day they ate thereof? No, they lived for hundreds of years. What, did God lie? No, they died. They died spiritually. And that perfect fellowship with God Produced a vacuum in their soul. That which was part of their very makeup, their soul and being, was filled with God and his fellowship perfectly. And when sin entered, That spiritual part died. And now there's this spiritual vacuum in their soul. Now God Of course, uh, you know, made made amends and he uh killed the animals, made skins and put a thing put a process in place where animals would be a sacrifice, a covering for sin. But that vacuum is never filled without the Lord. And to this day, every man, woman, child is born with that vacuum, that God-shaped whole. Dissatisfaction produces frustration Now I've not been in the military, a bunch of you guys are in there. I'm told that years ago they used to do a thing with uh with the grunts, I guess you called them or whatever, and the young guys, they have them take a half a day and they dig holes everywhere for a half a day Guess what they did the second half of the day? Fill the holes back up. Next day go out and dig the holes. They dig the holes and they fill them back up. I'm told they actually had a purpose for that. And the idea was this was to find the soldiers' frustration threshold. And they would have them do menial, meaningless tests To see at what point do they get frustrated and they lose it and part of their training. Well, I'm telling you American citizens are crossing the frustration threshold. And we see on every hand road rage. And we see on every i I've gotten to the point when I get in my car in a parking lot, no matter where it is, I've gotten to the point the very first thing when I get in my car, you know what I do is? I lock the doors. I just never know somebody's going to come up for whatever reason. I keep in luck. I was um uh down at the Sword of the Lord conference this summer for a few days. I got to go down there. Um after the service, I went by my favorite restaurant and uh cheat. And um when the sheets did my MTO, got my ham sub and all that and uh so I just sat out in the car. It was nice out summertime. I just sat in the car And I thought, I'll eat my sub out here. And got mayonnaise all over my shirt and toe suit and everything. It was wonderful. Well I'm sitting there, this guy, I see he eyeballed me. He saw me sit in the parking lot, eyeballed me. I thought, uh-oh, here we go And he came over and I talked a little bit, but I just cracked the window. You know why? Because we live in a world that is frustrated and road rage on every hand, and you just don't know who you can trust. A God-shaped vacuum in our souls, and people are trying to fill it, and they can't, and they get frustrated, and they get angry. Road rage, anger, rioting in our streets. I'm telling you, I mean America is not perfect, but I'm telling you, I'm just saying this. These people are writing are so upset about not being treated right, they're being treated better than the majority of people in Africa. Read the letters Scott Hall sends back. Read about what goes on the world. We've got it pretty good here. Here's the problem with American prosperity. As wonderful it is, how grateful it is, it does not fill the hole in the soul. That vacuum is there, and it gets frustrating when we can't fill that need. We get angry, it spills out into our streets, shootings, violence, domestic violence. They're looking to the world and material things to meet a purely spiritual need. And this world cannot fill the hole in our soul I think that's a major part of the message of Ecclesiastes. In previous generations, previous generations. People would struggle to try and be delivered from oppression. We read about previous how they fought against oppression just to be free and find liberty. They struggled against disease and famine. In previous generations, they fought to try and get an education and improve their living conditions. You know what we're struggling for today, particularly here in America? We're struggling This generation is struggling to find a more dynamic form of entertainment. We need a fancier TV, we need a bigger game system, we need a high-tech phone. And if I only had a better entertainment, then I would find fulfillment and purpose. And they're miserable. They're miserable. Today the great fear is not death, not disease, but boredom Empty days and empty lives. Entertainment, entertainment, entertainment. And lives have never been emptier. Trying to be distracted from the frustration that this world doesn't. So I look at this verse here: all things are full of labor. Man cannot utter it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing. Nor the ear with hearing. I gotta have a higher definition TV. I've got to have louder drums beating in my car when I drive down the road. And they get it loud until your eardrums bust and the TV is so clear it seems like you're sitting there on the field. And that hole was still in there That need is still not met. So I see here, first of all, the dissatisfaction of life under the sun. They don't see God, they don't see any purpose, there's no spiritual meaning, fulfillment. And then I see also in verses 9 through 11 the disappointment of life under the sun. Look at verse 9. The thing that hath been is that which shall be. And that which is done is that which shall be done. There is no new thing under the sun. Is there anything whereof it may be said, see this is new. It hath already been of old time, which is before us. There's no remembrance of former things, neither shall there be of any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after. What is he saying here? He's saying there's a dis there is a disappointment. Like there has to be something better. We have a tendency to think that tomorrow is going to bring in a better world. Ah, tomorrow. And man, I should say man has this idea thinking, well some tomorrow we're going to invent something new. And then we'll uh things will work out. And tomorrow we're going to do this, that, and the other, and we'll have peace on the earth. And find out that the things of tomorrow is not going to bring a better world, it's not going to bring more purpose to life, it's not going to bring meaning to existence. Oh, one of these days my vote's going to come in. All my bills will be paid, and everything will be wonderful. And I'll have peace in my heart and all my needs will be met and my life will be fulfilled. I'm here to tell you your boat ain't coming in. It sank several years ago. It's at the bottom of the ocean. There ain't no boat coming in All we're living for is under the sun. I'm telling you, we're going to be disappointed every single time. The fact of the matter is, without God, tomorrow has no hope. Without God, we come up with new gadgets. Come up with a better phone and a nicer TV and a more complex computer. And oh, here's the new gadget. Now it's uh virtual reality. Put it on your eyes. You look around. Boy, it's virtual reality. We're gonna fly to Mars. Oh, if we can do that, then it'll be wonderful. Come up with all these quote unquote new things, you know what find out? Have the new phone, but I still got the same old problems I had before. I got the fancier computer, a nicer car. I still got the same emptiness in my heart and soul I had before I had it. It's nothing new under the sun. See, old preacher, they never had they never had cell phones like this before. Uh who ever heard of a phone that takes pictures? You know, what in the world? Phones that do all this stuff. Yeah, this is new. Uh, might be new, but I'll tell you what, same old problems. Before I held that phone in my hand, I have after I hold it in my hand. Huh? In fact a lot of times I end up with more problems. The answer to life, meaning and purpose and fulfillment and happiness and joy is not found under the sun. And we have going on two, three generations now been brainwashed that this is all there is. And you know what they're saying? I hate life. I want to die. My life is miserable. There's no purpose for living. You know why somebody says that? You know why somebody thinks that way? They're looking for fulfillment under the sun. They're looking for stuff to do what only God can do. Sometimes they're looking for people. If I just had that boyfriend, if I just had that girlfriend, then I would be happy. No, that person cannot do for you what God can do for you. If I had a different husband, if I had a different wife, if I just could get involved with this guy and if I can just have a relationship with that gal then I would be happy and oh I I I'd be fulfilled and you know what if you run off with them you know what you find You got just as many, if not more, problems. Under the sun, under the sun, under the sun. Nothing but dissatisfaction I read about a fellow in the 1600s. This guy is impressive. His name was Pascal. He was a scientist, a mathematician, and an inventor. He was so skilled at mathematics when he was fifteen years old, he was writing books on mathematical stuff. I've never personally read any of his books, obviously. When he was sixteen years old, now this is the early sixteen hundreds in France. When he was 16 years old, he invented the first digital calculator, calculating machine. 16 years old. He was writing books on mathematics, as I said. He invented the barometer in his early twenties. He figured out barometric pressures and how to measure them. Wow, he reminds me of me. Not he invented a vacuum pump. How to make a vacuum. He invented, as a young man, he invented the air compressor, the syringe, hydraulic press. Listen to this. But as a young man, Pascal had trouble with the spiritual equations in life. He soon grew disillusioned with the pleasures of his fashionable society. Get this. And everything became boring to him. Nothing was fulfilling. One night, he picked up a Bible, and he opened it by chance to John chapter 17. And he read verse number three, which says this, and this is life eternal That they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. He said his eyes were opened. And he found out, and I'm putting this in my own words here now, and he realized that there is a whole lot more to life. Than just numbers and things and stuff. And he began to look above the sun. For purpose and meaning. And as far as I understand from reading it, what I can tell is that night he humbled himself and he called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be his personal Savior. He found meaning. And he found what nothing in this world could do for him. He found in the person of Jesus Christ. Though probably we would take no doubt we'd take issue with him on some theological and different issues, but he began to speak out. On the fact that there is more than just material part of life. There is a spiritual aspect. That a man without Understanding that he's going to be disillusioned, he's going to be dissatisfied, he's going to be frustrated, it's going to be empty. Here's what I think Solomon is saying, and he's going to repeat it over and over and over throughout the book. Is you and I are not just physical beings. We are first and foremost spiritual beings that inhabit a physical body. And what we do is we feed the desires of the body. And we starve the needs of the soul. And we're dissatisfied, and we're frustrated, and we're empty. And Solomon says, that is what destroyed me. That's what destroyed me. I want to challenge this tonight. I'm looking out at the crowd. Most of us would claim to know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. If by chance There's someone here who's never accept the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. I can tell you this. You might have the world by the tail, you think, but I'll tell you this without Jesus Christ, you're without God and without hope in the world. And nothing in this world is going to save your soul or give you meaning. Now, most of us know Jesus Christ as Savior, at least we claim to. Let me ask you this. What are we feeding? Am I feeding my soul? Or am I just living for the flesh? Just for the pleasures and desires and desires of the flesh? Or am I looking beyond the sun and saying, you know, God created me in his image. God created me a spiritual being. And I need that fellowship with the Lord. I need that spiritual intake. And so what do we do? We need to read our Bibles every single day. We really do. We need to walk with God and see His hand around us. We need to understand He has a plan and purpose in my life to influence others and help others know Christ. Church is so important, being faithful to church, keeping sin out of my life, and so the Lord can fill and work through me. All these basic, not complicated things, all these things are so important. To find fulfillment and joy. And Solomon lost all of that till it was about too late. Destroyed his life and testimony. But God used them to record this for us. Amen. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to take maybe these few thoughts here. And this kind of bleak picture that Solomon gives us at this point, I pray you'd help us and stir us to look beyond this world and look beyond these things and see your hand in our life and see you working in our life. And when we go through the trials and difficulties, we would understand your presence and your plan and your purpose in all this. I wonder, with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many of us tonight would say, Preacher, pray with me? That my walk with God would be vibrant. That I would be disciplined and give myself to meet the spiritual needs of my being. And not just live for the physical. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray. My Bible reading, my walk with God, my faith in God, my view of this world. I need God to help me. God bless you. Hands all around. Now, maybe before we go to the Lord's Supper, there may be some issues in our life that need attention. I always like to finish out the Lord's Day and go into a new week. Just humbling myself before the Lord at an altar and say, Lord, give me heavenly perspective. Give me heavenly desires and hungers To walk with you and please you. By chance, would there be someone tonight? Say, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. You say, Preacher, pray for me. I I I need Christ to be my Savior. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. Any at all. Now, Father, bless our invitation as we prepare for Lord's Supper. Search our hearts. Draw us close to you. Help us determine to feed our soul. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together.