For your kind hospitality to us, our family, and and uh it's just been a blessing just being able to be with you folks here again. And it's a lot cooler here than it is in Denton, North Carolina right now also. Uh things are sorta heating up in other ways in North Carolina. But uh I want you to turn in your Bibles uh to Ezekiel chapter number twenty-two Ezekiel chapter number twenty-two, I want to bring a challenge to you tonight from the Word of God, uh, and uh uh hope and pray it'll be a blessing to you that the Lord will use it and and uh just help us to carry on another day, another week for the Lord. And then the rest of our lives. Ezekiel chapter number twenty-two, and uh again thank you for the very comfortable rooms that we have and and the meals, everything has just been wonderful and and The main thing is getting to be with you folks and and getting to talk to you your friendliness and and uh hospitality, fellowship, everything. We've just enjoyed it so much Ezekiel chapter number 22, I'm going to start reading in verse number 23. The Bible says, And the word of the Lord came unto me saying Son of man, say unto her, Thou art the land that is not cleansed, nor reigned upon in the day of uh indignation. There is the conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof, like a roaring lion raven into prey, they have devoured souls. They have taken the treasure and precious things, they have made her many widows in the midst thereof. Her priests have violated my law and have profaned mine holy things. They have put no difference between the holy and profane. Neither have they showed difference between the unclean and the clean, and they have uh and have hid their eyes from my Sabbath, and I am profaned among them Her princes in the midst thereof are like wolves ravening the prey, to shed blood and to destroy souls, to get dishonest gain. And her prophets have dawed them with untempered mortar, seeing vanity and divining lies unto them, saying, Thus saith the Lord God, when the Lord hath not spoken The people of the land have used oppression and exercised robbery and have vexed the people, the poor and needy. Yea, they have oppressed the stranger wrongfully, and I sought for a man among them that would make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none Let's pray. Our precious Heavenly Father, we come to you again in Jesus' name, that name that is above every name. And that that name every tongue is going to confess, every knee is going to bow that you are Lord to the glory of God And Lord, we just come before you humbly this evening, Father, asking you to help us, to fill us, Lord, uh, this day and and to speak to our hearts through the preaching of your word. Father, I pray that your word, we know that it will not go out void, but it will do that that you sent it out to do, and that uh that you will win the victory, Father And Lord, we pray that you will above everything be honored and glorified in Jesus Christ magnified. In Jesus' name. Amen. As we look at this scripture here, I love going through a scripture that has a very easy outline. Amen. I know a lot of preachers, they they just blow my mind how they can bring out an outline. I sa I never saw that before. But this one's easy. As we look at it, uh we see uh first of all I see a predicament that we are in in America In our nation. We are in a great predicament. We are in a spiritual warfare. We're not on a playground tonight We're on a battlefield. We're on a uh on the battleground and we need all the help that we can get. We need to keep that whole armor of God upon us And uh uh but we are in a predicament, not only in America, but in our fundamental churches across the land. As we travel from church to church, we see things that you would not believe would happen in a fundamental independent baptist church or so called fundamental independent baptist church today. Uh we've seen all kinds of things. Uh but one thing that we do see is people are still wanting truth. They're still wanting uh the word of God. They are tired of hearing lies uh uh that go out from uh maybe TV evangelists, some of them that are uh are on there for selfish gain. Uh they're tired of that and they want to hear truth. They want to hear something that's going to give them a remedy instead of something just to uh put a band-aid over something. They're wanting a remedy uh for their problem Uh as Pastor Koblitz over in Flermont, Maryland said many times when I was over there helping him, he said, Sin is the problem and Christ is the answer Uh that is always our answer there. But we do have a a need in Ezekiel twenty-two excuse me We find a problem with the priests, the princes, the prophets, and the people. Uh they've all sinned. They've all uh fallen short, they have all turned their back on God Uh we see a problem with the prophets there in verse number 25. There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof. Like a roaring lion raven in the prey. They have devoured souls, they have taken the treasure and precious things. Uh they have made her many widows in the midst thereof. Selfish game, filthy lucre. Uh uh we we call these people hirelings. That's what the the Word of God calls them Uh they're just in there for gain. And then we see a problem with the priest in verse number twenty-six. Her priest have violated my law and have profaned my holy things They have put no difference between the holy and profane, neither have they showed difference between the unclean and the clean, and have hid their eyes from my Sabbath, and I am profaned among them. Can you see the the situation this puts God in when God's people will not do right? Uh whenever a nation turns its back on God, uh if the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? Amen And then we see a problem with their princes. Uh, there in verse 27. Her princes in the midst thereof are like wolves ravening to prey to shed blood and to destroy souls to get dishonest gain. Uh we see that many places around our world tonight. And then there's another problem with the prophets there in verse 28 And her prophets have dogged them with untempered mortar. And then in verse twenty nine we see the problem with the people. The people of the land have used oppression and exercised robbery and have vexed the poor and needy Yea, they have oppressed the stranger wrongfully. Now what happens with the church, uh so goes the country, amen. What uh what so goes the church, goes the neighborhood, and then ultimately the state, then the country. Uh the people were just falling in line with what they had seen at their temple, uh what was going on there. And and then we see a sad, one of the saddest statements ever made in the Word of God, it says, And I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none. You know, as we get closer to the time that the Lord returns, uh I read in the Bible where it said uh he was wondering if he would ever if he would find faith on the earth Will he find faith on the earth? I believe he will if he stops by here. Amen. I believe he'll find it. This is a strong church, but don't take that for granted. Amen. Pray for you, Pastor, pray for one another. We need to strengthen the brethren. We need to strengthen one another here tonight Ezekiel twenty-two, thirty again says, And I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none If we could just for a few moments tonight, just get everything else off of our minds, what we're going to do after the service tonight, or or what we may have faith in us at work next week uh what we may have to do tomorrow. If we could just get all those things off our hearts and off our minds tonight and just open our hearts up to the Word of God, I think we would see in this verse of Scripture we could go ahead and have an altar call right now. Uh that are we standing in the hedge? Are we standing in the gap? Are we one that God could depend on uh to to be there for and to be obedient, to be o faithful uh to be faithful to him The predicament that Ezekiel was up against is the same predicament that we face today here in our land. Why do we have these holes in the hedge? Why is there a hole in the hedge right here? Someone forgot to tell somebody else that Jesus saves. Amen. Somebody dropped the ball. Somebody didn't follow along with the word of God. Somebody, because of filthy game, uh went on their own. And it's been that way all down through history. Why do we have these holes in the hedge? What's the problem? I believe we have some reasons that there's holes in the hedge tonight. Number one, I believe that we have holes in the hedge because of death. We have holes in the hedge because of death tonight. To tell you what I'm talking about, Deuteronomy 34, verse 5 says, So Moses, the servant of the Lord, died there in the land of Moab according to the word of the Lord. Moses, the servant of God, he was called the servant of God. He had given his life for the Lord. And we sit in churches sometimes saying, I can't do anything. I can't do anything for the Lord now in this time in my life Well, Moses was 80 years old when he took the children of Israel out of Egypt, and he was with them for 40 years in the wilderness. We can all do something. We all have no excuse. Pastor Linnman cannot do it all. He's got a good staff here, but they cannot do it all. It takes everybody. But we have holes in the hedge because of death tonight. So Moses, the servant of the Lord, died there in the land of Moab according to the word of the Lord. God told Moses that he was going to die. And he knew when he went up on top of that mount that he was not coming back. We see him. He was not allowed because of disobedience. He was not allowed to go into the promised land, but we do see him later on at the Mount of Transfiguration. He got there a little bit later. But he died there in the land of Moab. A sad reason that we have holes in the hedge today is because of death. No one taking their place. There are missionaries out on the field, foreign fields, all around this world, and they're aging out. Their health cannot hold up anymore. Many of them die on the field. They give their whole lives. But who's taking their place? There's a hole in the hedge in a little town of Marshall, North Carolina tonight. A few months ago, I was asked to come and start a revival meeting in Orangeburg, South Carolina. I was to open it on Sunday, and then this preacher was going to come in and he was going to preach the revival service from from Monday through Friday. The week before this revival was to take place, we were already getting ready, making preparations to go there. We went there. And uh this this preacher, uh, his son was being ordained up in Connecticut. So he went up there, he was on the ordination board, and he went up there to see his son ordained and And he went in there that night, he signed the papers, he went back to his motel room, and he had a massive heart attack and he died. You tell me that didn't leave a hole in the hedge in that little church that he pastored up there in Marshall, North Carolina. Moses left a hole in the hedge whenever he went out to be with the Lord There was a hole in the hedge. Who's going to fill those holes tonight? Who's going to fill that hole? You might have been thinking when I was talking about that revival, a six-day revival? There was a hole in the hedge at that church. They were expecting a revival meeting there, and they were hungry and thirsting for that revival to come. We think six-day revival, that that's that's expensive. I've heard preachers say that'd be too expensive. We cannot we go we cannot go Sunday through Friday. That's just impossible I know schedules sometimes interfere with that and we can't go all the week. But some people will say that it costs too much. We need to look at the cause tonight instead of the cost. The cause is Jesus Christ. The cause is the gospel. The cause is for us to get our hearts right and to be on fire for the Lord and to go and tell somebody about Jesus Christ. The cause is greater than the cost. Uh well you may have heard about this little discrepancy that's going on in North Carolina right now. We're just trying to keep our women and children safe when they go to the restroom. We're just trying to go and keep them safe uh in the locker room, in the shower rooms, at the schools. That is all that HB House Bill 2 is about. The ones that are against it have not even read it. We're just trying to keep people safe. We got to consider you know, we've been told in North Carolina from the federal government that Hey, if you don't repeal that, if you don't get that out of your uh out of your Senate, out of the House there in North Carolina, then we're going to cut federal funding to your schools, to your colleges, and to your roads and and all these things. Well, the last time I looked in the Word of God, the Lord said, The gold is mine and the silver is mine, saith the Lord. It's all his. He owns the cattle on a thousand hills. He can take care of this as long as we do right. We need to continue to do right. But in Deuteronomy thirty-four, God allows us to attend the funeral of a mighty man of God. We could call him the Paul of the Old Testament, or we could call the Apostle Paul the Moses of the New Testament At this funeral, we're not told where the headstone's going to be. We're not told where the burial place is for Moses. We're not told anything about that. And I believe there's a reason. The only thing that we know about the burial place of Moses is that somewhere near the valley of Beth Teor in the land of Moab, God buried his servant. I believe the reason God did it. He did it for a reason is because I believe that the children of Israel would have dug him up and tried to make something spiritual out of his corpse. They would have built a shrine around it and had people coming in and they would have been worshiping Moses instead of God. Because God knew his people. He knew the people there. He said, I don't believe that. Well people are still worshiping Elvis today. He's been buried He's been dead a long time, but you can still go to flea markets and find these huge gaudy rhinestone necklaces that reach all the way across. It says Elvis. You can still buy belt buckles the size of hubcaps that has Elvis on the front. You can still get these velvet paintings of Elvis to hang in your shrine, I guess, for Elvis So if they'd do it for him, I know they would have done it for O for Moses, a servant of God. Every one of us, God's children, sometime in our life are going to look into a casket of a spiritual Moses, a person that had influence in our life. If the Lord doesn't come soon, we'll all go buy a casket if somebody had such an influence in our life. I can think of two people right off that had an influence in my life. There's many, there's many people First one I think about is my grandpa, my mom's dad, grand my grandpa cook. I call him Paul Cook. And and I remember that just as a little boy he'd have me helping him out on the farm. He didn't have all this fancy machinery. He had a a combine that hooked up to the back a pin go through it on the back of his tractor instead of one of these you drive And uh we didn't uh go with a round baleer and use a forklift to pick up the round bales. We had square bales and we picked them up ourselves off the ground and put them on a trailer. And then we took them from the trailer and we put 'em we didn't have a conveyor to put 'em up in the barn loft. We threw them up into the barn loft And I can remember sweating and all those things and I thought, well I hope he's having a good time but he's whistling and everything, but I'm not. I I'm suffering out here, Lord. Please take me away But but I think about that time and and and I remember him singing Amazing Grace while we were out there I thought, what is he singing for? What is he singing about? And I asked him one time, I said, you sing an amazing grace. That sounds good. He said, yes. He said, God has blessed us He said, we've got all this hay, we've got the wheat in the barn, we've got corn in the corn crib for the chickens and the hogs and the cows. He said, God has blessed. Well it didn't help me much back then, but it helps me now. But I think about another one. Another spiritual giant in my life is my wife's grandpa. Full of Jennings. And I remember he taught me contentment. You know, young people today think they've got to have everything that mom and dad has now instead of waiting and working hard all their lives to have it But we, my wife and I, we'd been married for just a short time, and the Lord had blessed us, and we wanted to help him out because he didn't have much. He just had a house that was run down and and uh just I mean he had he had little pieces of shod in the in the baseboard where he had sat in his recliner there with his uh twenty two had a rat shot in there shooting at mice and rats that was running through his house. He was as happy as he could be though. And uh but we had a little bit of money and we wanted to help him. We thought he might like to go out and eat or he might like to get some food and put it in his freezer and And we got ready to hand it to him. He said, y'all come out with me here in just a minute. And we walked out through the kitchen and down in the porch and had a freezer out there He said, I've got plenty of He said, I've got everything I need. He opened the freezer up and he said, I've got rabbits over here, I've got squirrels right here, I've got a carp right here that I called out of the river. I've got uh pophums over here, I've got deer in here. He said, I've got everything that I need. And he was happy as he could be He even cooked one of those possums one time and didn't tell me and and uh we went and ate with him and and he said, How'd you like that? I said, It was good, I love that, that was good. What was it? And he said, It's a possum. Amen. Amen. But I think about those spiritual giants though that taught me some lessons, some life lessons along the way. My mom and dad, I think about these people. And one of these days they're going to be off the scene. And each one of you are probably thinking of people just like that in your life. Somebody that took the word of God and showed you something in there or taught you a life lesson along the way And you've looked into their casket. They're not here anymore. We that we tend to take people for granted in our lives. I was saying this morning, you know, that don't think that you're always going to be the one that's sitting on that pew. We may die off the scene and there's going to be somebody else sitting there someday Don't take your piano player for for granted. Don't take your pastor for granted. Don't take one another for granted. Our lives are short. But at this funeral We see that he is that God buried his servant. Ecclesiastes chapter number eight and verse number eight says, Neither hath he power in the day of death, and there is no discharge in that war. And I believe that's a sister verse to the one that says, you know, it's appointed unto man, wants to die, and after that the judgment. Moses couldn't miss death. There's not a person that can miss death in this room except the Lord come back and rapture his church and take us home. There's holes in the hedge tonight because of death. Who's gonna fill those holes? Who can take maybe nobody can take their place? But somebody needs to fill those holes. Somebody needs to fill that hole in that church down there in Marshall, North Carolina, right above Asheville. They need a pastor. And I know of other churches around North Carolina that need pastors right now. There's holes in the heads because of death. I want to see God raise up some young men and say, I'll feel that hole. I want to see him raise up some young people. If you look back at revivals, I I'm praying for revival. I want to see a real revival before we leave out here. I want to see America revived again But most of those revivals were started with young people. Young people. They had a heart and sincere heart for God and and they weren't ashamed of it and they'd pray to God and revival would break out. I want to see him raise up some young ladies, raise their families for God again. Maybe marry a pastor, a missionary. Some young men say I'll go to the field. God's called me to the mission field I'm willing to leave everything behind and be in the center of God's will. Hey, do you know you're safer in the center of God's will in a hostile territory than you are out of his will in the safest place on earth? Safest place on earth is in the will of God. Who will say I'll fill that hole? Number two, I believe there's holes in the heads because of desertion. Desertion. Second Timothy chapter number four and verse number ten says, For demons hath forsaken me, having loved this present world, and is departed unto Thessalonica. Paul is telling us about a co-laborer that he had that because of the tinsel and the trinkets and the treasures of this world, he left the ministry and followed after the glitz and glimmer He went after those things. He deserted the ministry and went his way. Desertion means turning away from duty or party. In this day that we're living in the United States of America, when I hear the word desertion, it makes me want to brush my teeth. Amen. We hear about soldiers that have fought and I know they're under pressure. I know there's all kinds of things that they go through that I have never faced in my life. But when they turn their back on America and side uh with the other side, with the enemy, that's called desertion. It makes me want to take a bac it makes me at the least want to come down to an altar and pray Desertion. It's a horrible thing. The reason for holes in the hedge is because of desertion. A wise preacher said one time, if you don't listen to preaching, you'll end up as an illustration in a preacher's sermon. Y'all better do right. Amen. We don't need to preach to tickle the congregation's ears. You don't need that for us to to speak to you smooth things. Teaching. We need to preach the truth of God's word and to preach to help to encourage somebody along the way. People are hurting. A lot of churches today have sermon selectors. I've had them come up to me after a message, after got through preaching and shaking hands with people, and they're on their way out. They don't care what they say. Amen. But the sermon selectors, you may have heard of them before. Pastor may have met some of them before. Someone will say, well, I like screaming, and he didn't scream. I like a preacher that'll sweat. I like it when he just peels the bark off of it and rears back and preaches and he's got a wet spot on the back of his coat And under his armpits is dripping off his nose and his and his chin, and he stayed cool the whole time. I didn't like that. Or I like weird. I like a a humorous preacher and he wasn't funny at all. He might have thought he was, but he wasn't funny at all. Whatever happened to it just being the Bible that we come and congregate together to learn from God's Word and to see what God has for us. Amen. Amen. I use this passage this morning 2 Timothy 4. 2. Preach the word. Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. Don't be a deserter. Don't when I talked to Pastor Ever many times, he said I've started about I've started many churches down here in eastern North Carolina. They'll come here, they don't like the standards, they don't like Uh the way we preach, giving the gospel out, they want a social gospel, and they'll leave and they'll go somewhere else. Deserting Remember, people will remember you for a while after you're gone. We leave a legacy, where if we think we do or not. Proverbs 22, 1 says, a good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and love and favor rather than silver and gold. Don't forget that what we do today builds a legacy for tomorrow. If you don't have a good testimony today and you desert, then you're not going to have a good name tomorrow. I remember being called a young preacher. That was a few years ago. It seems like only yesterday I was eighteen and now I'm fifty-one years old. I thought, wow, I I looked at people as 51, they're they're done for. I mean they're I remember being in grade school and seeing those that were graduating and saying, well, they're on the downhill slope. They weren't but eighteen I was on my way back from uh preachers used to call me preacher boy. Uh when I first got called to preach, whenever the Lord saved me, and and I was twenty-six years old, they called me preacher boy and And uh I thought, you know, it sort of disturbed me at first and I thought, well, you know, the uh Paul told Timothy, Let no man despise thy youth and I just brushed it off and everything and And the other day, uh a few months ago, I was coming back from Newport and I was coming around Raleigh, North Carolina, and gotten through all the heavy traffic and I stopped in McDonald's at Apex. And I went in there and I ordered my food and and the lady said, Okay, uh she said, uh do you get the the senior citizen discount? I said, no ma'am, I don't think I'm old enough for that yet. She said, Well I've already offended you already, so I'm gonna give it to you anyway. I said, You didn't offend me. I don't care I was in Walmart down in Moorhead City and and uh went in and I had some of the children with me and and this couple came up and we're making over 'em and and uh talking about how cute they were and everything and then they came up to me and said, Are you grandpa? I said, Yes, I am a grandpa, but these are my children was still raising. I know I'm gonna be seventy when Mary's married but but uh Oh to be called a young preacher boy again. Time flies. And we need to have a good name. The church I got saved at, whenever I trusted Christ, there was five preachers called, five of us young preacher boys called out of there to take the gospel and to preach. And I don't judge people. I'm not saying anything about them. Only God knows, but I'm the only one that's left trying to do something for the Lord. Out of five. Who's gonna take the place? Who's gonna take the place? Desertion. There's holes in the hedge tonight because of desertion. There's holes in the hedge because of death, desertion, and then finally tonight, there's holes in the hedge tonight because of depression Depression. You say, what? What about depression? I don't understand the chemical makeup of the brain. But I do know that there is depression. I do know that a lot of depression sometimes comes from medications that doctors will put us on. And depression comes in, and it's hard to overcome that without the help of the Lord. But there's other times and I can give you scripture for it. About depression. First Kings chapter number 19, verse number four says, But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a juniper tree, and he requested for himself that he might die And said, It is enough now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am not better than my father's. Those were the words of Elijah, the great man of God. After he just had a great revival, he was up on the mountain and and fire came from heaven. He saw the fire come down and lick up the offering and burn the the altar and and the the sacrifice and everything That was a great revival. They took all the prophets of Baal down by the brook and he slaughtered them. He killed them. All the false prophets were gone. And then Jezebel rises up against him and says, I'll have your head. And he takes off. The same Elijah that was on the mountaintop is now under a juniper tree. The same Elijah that preached and prayed down fire from heaven is now saying, God, kill me. You know, I believe if Elijah had really wanted to die, all he had to do is slow down just a little bit and let Jezebel catch up with him I believe she would have, as we say, in Benton County, she would have obliged him. But the Bible says that he went to the wilderness and he went by himself. Isn't that what happens when we get depressed? We don't want anybody around us. We want to just get off by ourself and and be in the mully grubs and There's all kinds of things that can cause depression. But whenever we feel down, whenever we feel depressed or discouraged, that's a good time to get with the brethren. That's not a time to quit on God and stay out of church. That's a time to get with the people of God and get some encouragement from one another. We need that. Don't shut the people out. Don't stop answering the phone. Don't stop answering the door. We need a church, folks. Elijah said, Lord, just go ahead and kill me. Depression is why we have holes in the hedge. Those that used to be Sunday school teachers, I don't know if it's happened here. I don't know the history of this church. I don't know the people here that good. But that may have been the reason some Sunday school teachers left or some church members may have left because of depression. They may have just deserted. Some of them have gone on by the grave. I know a preacher right now in North Carolina that got discouraged and resigned his church. He loved that church, and that church loved him. But he just couldn't get beyond the discouragement. And so he resigned. And left a hole in the hedge there. They need a pastor. The Bible's full of encouraging verses that'll help us. We don't need to be depressed. We can go to Psalm 36, 37, and 40. Take those. Write it down. 36, 37, and 40. Take them home and read them. And get encouraged. Go to Isaiah chapter number 40 and just see who God is. Amen. And get encouragement from that. How about Genesis 1:1? In the beginning, God. That's all we need is God. If you're down, just think of the one who's inside of you. Don't grieve the Holy Spirit of God. He's in there. He's working in your life. I know we go through things. We go through trials. We have people that disappoint us. But if you're down, just think of the one that's inside you. 1 John 4:4 says, Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. Who is the one that's trying to make you depressed? It's the devil. He's trying to defeat you. And he's trying to get you to a point where he can render you useless forever doing anything for God. That's his job God is on the inside of the child of God. As I said this morning, David had to encourage himself. Sometimes we have to do that. Encourage ourselves through the Word of God. Don't slip into depression. It makes a hole in the hedge. You say, but I've got problems. I've got financial problems. Hey, I've had financial problems before. And I probably will again sometime. But I know God's going to look after me. You say, well, my problem is family. You don't understand what's going on in my family right now. Hey, everybody's had family problems My problem's spiritual. I'm in a spiritual battle. Hey, I will pray for you that everybody has spiritual problems at one time or another. 1 Peter chapter 4 and verse number 12 says, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you as though some strange thing happened to you. It happens to everybody. But because God is on the inside, determined you're going to fill the hole in the hedge, because there's somebody that's counting on you All those little children that were here this morning from the bus routes, the children that are in here tonight, they're dependent on you tonight. This hedge that we're talking about is flesh and blood. It's made up of Christians, servants, and the people of God. This heads that we were talking about right here in verse number 30. Sometimes there's holes because of death, desertion, or depression. Ezekiel 22, 31, I left that verse out on purpose, but I want us to look at it now. What is beyond that hedge? What happens when somebody goes through that hole of that hedge? Therefore have I poured out mine indignation upon them. I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath. Their own way have I recompensed upon their heads, saith the Lord God Beyond the hedge, if somebody leaves a hole in the hedge and somebody slips through that hole, they are encountering the wrath and fiery indignation and judgment of Almighty God Someone may come in here to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. They may have been invited by somebody. They may have seen the sign May have heard about FBN radio and tuned in and heard about your services and just dropped in here for a Sunday service. They may be from another denomination. I don't know, but they could come in. What happens when they're sitting back there but there's a hole in the hedge? Somebody didn't go and speak to them. Or maybe somebody in Sunday school had left a hole and somebody else uh wasn't there that morning and they didn't get what they were looking for They say, well, I'll just go back to wherever I was. They slip through the hedge. And they'll end up in an awful place called hell if they're not saved. We need people today that'll say, somebody's died, and I'm gonna get up and I'm gonna plug that hole. I'm going to take the place. I I feel the Lord's call on my life and I'm going to fulfill that. I'm going to study and get everything I can, all everything I need to fulfill that and to fill that hole Because there's going to be a hole someday and I need to plug that hole. I might not be as great as that one that died. I saw all those great names of the people that had been in that tabernacle in New Zealand. All those great names of The forefathers of the faith that we followed after and we've studied after the commentaries and all those things, but they're dead and gone that left a hole in the hedge Who fills the hole? This brother here, brother Howe is trying to fill that hole down there. We need to get behind him and encourage him. Might not be as great as the ones that died, or the ones we think about that died, but you say, I'll be a hole plugger. I'll take their place. I'll stand up, fill the gap. Then when that lost person comes into church and tries to slip out or to slap try to go through, there's somebody blocking their path to destruction. There's somebody to take the word of God and show them how they can be born again, be a child of God. I believe this church is full of hole pluggers, amen. And are filling the gap. People are dependent on you. Don't leave a hole. Why are there holes in the hedge? People have died. This is natural. People have died. People have deserted, and people get depressed and quit on God. Christians, more than now, more now than ever, we need to fill in the gap. I believe truly in my heart that the Lord is soon to return. But if he doesn't come within a with for another thousand years, there's going to be some holes in the hedge and need to be plugged. I believe he's soon to come. How would it be to desert on God maybe five minutes before the Lord returns? You're saved, but you just walked out on him and you stand before him. Maybe some rewards are lost because of it. I want to stand faithful and obedient to him to the end. So that whenever we face him face to face, he'll say, Well done, thou good, faithful servant. You might be here tonight and you're about to go through that hole in the hedge. Hey, there's people here that'll help you. There's people here that'll encourage you. Turn to Jesus. Turn to the Lord. Father, I pray, Lord, you'll take your word now. Speak to hearts, Lord. Father, help us to be the soul winners we need to be. Help us help this church to continue to win Oakland for Christ. That they'll take out that message that says there is a God in Oakland, Maryland. And all around this world, churches, these remnants, as it speaks about in Isaiah chapter number one. These remnants. That are still there filling in the gap. Lord help us to fill the gap. Father, we'll thank you for what you do for us in Jesus' name. Amen.