Peter chapter two and verse number five is all we're going to look at this evening. First Peter chapter two and verse five. The Bible says, ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house. Now those that tuned in online last week or at some point since then Um you know, we said that the church is not ability. How many people ever heard me say the church is not a building? Sure, we know that But Peter says the church is a building. It is a house. That word house there means building. But it's not a physical building. It's not mortar and wood and stone and and um uh brick. It's uh it's a spiritual house, a spiritual building. And I just find that a fascinating thing, scattered all over yet one building. Now he makes another interesting statement. This is what I want to look at tonight. Your lively stones are built up a spiritual house. Now look at this next statement. And holy priesthood. To offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ He says we are a spiritual, he says we are a holy excuse me, we are a holy priesthood. That's what I want to talk about. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts tonight. Father in heaven It is sure good to be assembled together, Lord, like you designed us to do. And we're so grateful for that, Lord. And now is I ask you to help us to push aside the cares of the world and And uh all the other things are scheduled this week, all the things that may distract us. And I pray, Lord, that you would teach us This important truth tonight, that uh as believers we are a holy priesthood. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew this hour. I ask with all my heart That you fill me with your Spirit, that you be the preacher, the speaker tonight, Lord. Speak through me to all of our hearts and lives. Teach us, Lord. And so we'll give you the glory. And we ask for your help in Jesus' name. Amen. Now he says, you're a holy priesthood. Now we want to stop for a minute and remember who Peter is writing to. Who is he saying Who is he telling that they are a spiritual, that they are a holy priesthood? Who is he saying that to? We'll come back, chapter 1, verse 1. Let's just review briefly. And uh he says, verse 1 says, Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers, he's talking about believers here. This world's not our home. We're sojourners, we're just pilgrims passing through To the strangers who scattered throughout Pontius and Cappado or Glacia and Cappadocia and Asia and Bithynia, elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. And he goes on. He's talking to believers. He's writing here, and and this is going to be significant here in a minute, I believe. He's writing to just what I'm calling everyday ordinary believers in the Lord Jesus Christ He's not writing to a special class of ministers, quote unquote. He's not writing to a certain office in a religious organization, the priests. He's writing to everyday folks like you and I. Normal, everyday believers, all classes of society He's addressing. No doubt some of these sojourners, these strangers who were scattered abroad, no doubt some of these were very poor people, what we might refer to as peasants. Um some no doubt perhaps we're dealing with poverty. They've lost their jobs They've been run out of their communities because of their faith in Christ. And no doubt some of them were struggling just to make ends meet, just to get food in their mouth. Uh others perhaps were very wealthy. Some of them may have been upper class, very, very wealthy people doing fine. He's writing to all classes of society. He's writing to folks who fall into all categories as far as the level of education is concerned. Some of these folks that were scattered abroad here perhaps were very uneducated. I think it's very likely that many of them, at least some of them, couldn't read They had never attained that level of education where they could even read or write. No doubt some of those he's writing to were highly educated. Perhaps uh had the some of the best education of their day. Some that you are writing to come from all types of backgrounds. That's one thing I love about the church, is people from so many different backgrounds and so many different uh we're uh uh places in society, yet we come together and all have one heart. Isn't that something We're of war of one mind. So he's writing people from different backgrounds. I would venture to say some of these folks that He's a calling a holy priesthood. Some of them were sincere Jews that when they heard of Jesus the Messiah, they believed the Old Testament prophets and they believed that Jesus was who he claimed to be and they trusted him and were born into the family of God. No doubt some of these were very sincere Jews that he's writing to that had gotten saved. Some of them maybe had been very self-righteous and hypocritical Jews before they trusted in Christ and got saved. You know, you read the gospels Uh many of the Pharisees, self-righteous, hypocrite many of them turned to Christ, believed, and got saved. So two different backgrounds there. Some are just very sincere and humble and believed God and trusted their Messiah when he came, Jesus. Others maybe were very proud and self-righteous and hypocritical in their religion. Yet, uh, when they heard of Christ and they heard the gospel, they came convicted and humbled themselves and trust in Christ, two very different backgrounds. No doubt some of them. Came from very pagan backgrounds, were Greek and uh never heard of Jehovah and worship pagan gods, but they heard the gospel and they believe and got saved And now you have this body of believers, all classes of society, all levels of education, various backgrounds And it refers to them as a holy priesthood. Now, all these people with all these varying characteristics. Yet they were united in two things. One, they were united in their faith in Christ. Again, I just love our church. Uh you can have somebody in our church when things are normal. Uh we can have somebody sitting in our church and often do. Uh on one end of the pew, very wealthy person. Other end of the pew, just struggling, trying to get by, and yet they love each other in Christ-like family. Uh you have somebody maybe that's very educated and maybe has a doctor's degree or something And then you have somebody else that maybe never got out of elementary school, yet they love Christ, love each other, and we have beautiful fellowship in Christ. That's the way it ought to be. I I I kind of bristle at this idea of having, well, our church is a white church, our church is an upper class church, our church is an inner city church, our church is a Asian church, Our church is a is uh uh uh a uh African American church. Our church is this and our no no no there's one church, the Church of Jesus Christ It's not a high pollutant church, it's not a poverty church, it's not an inner city church, and not an outer city church, and location may be wise, but as far as the makeup of the church, we are one in Christ. We are one in Christ. If a person comes in here that's poor and uneducated, and they don't feel comfortable, then that's our fault. We ought to love them regardless. James gives us strong caution. The favoring those that maybe have certain characteristics, certain things, certain things. Jesus Christ died for all, the rich, the poor, the The educated, the uneducated, those with a terrible background, and those with a humble, godly background. He died for them all. He died for those that are uh tall, dark, and handsome. He died for those that are short, um And different. But they had two things in common. One is they had trusted Christ. But they had something else in common. They were all under intense persecution. They had been run out of their homes. They had lost family members. They had lost their jobs in many cases. They had been had families disown them. Run out and they're scattered all around because of their faith in Christ, persecuted because for no other reason than the fact that they knew Jesus Christ as Savior and loved Him and were committed to Him. That's who he's writing to. That's who he is saying. You're a holy priesthood. Look at verse 5, he says it. Holy priesthood. Come down to verse 9. He reiterates this fact. But ye're a chosen generation. Here he uses a different term. He says you're a royal priesthood. A priesthood I think it's, and I want to emphasize this, he is not rating to a special class of ministers. And I use that term in quotes. He's not writing to some religious office that a denomination may come up with. You know, the Catholic Church has their priests And they uh instruct their people, their followers, to come at certain times and into a little confessional and confess their sins to that priest. And those priests have to interpret the scriptures for their people, and those priests have to make the prayers for their people As not who he's talking about, some uh religious uh uh office that man comes up and man invents. He's talking to everyday people. Talking to folks like you and I. He's talking about the lady that believes in the Lord Jesus Christ and runs a little daycare center for little children. He's talking about the mother at home that's trying to uh take care of her home and maybe she has a side job and now with all of this she has to teach her kids we were talking before, say, good night, I got this, this, now and become a teacher. On top of everything. That's who he's talking about. Just that dear mother trying to make ends meet and trying to be what she needs to be. He says, you're a holy priesthood. Talking to the kids in school or at home now. One of our ladies, uh uh uh we she put a little thing on the the computer they did a little quiz for her kid and she goes, uh is your do you have a good teacher? It's a mommy now. She put, I love you mom, but no. That little child that believes in the Lord Jesus Christ. Peter says, you're a holy priesthood Talking Nathan his girls are got saved and they're doing a little discipleship, going to be getting baptized here for long. There's little girls. He says, You're a holy priesthood. You believed on Jesus? You're a holy priesthood. Would you agree with me? It's a little bit a different concept than what religion presents a priesthood to be, right? Truck driver, driving down the road, trying to make ends meet, trying to keep food on the table He says you're a holy priesthood. Carpenter, the plumber, the CEO of a million-dollar business, a holy priesthood, a holy priesthood Now, what in the world is he talking about? Now I'm going to oversimplify this because this could really get very, very theological in a lot of ways. You study the priesthood The Old Testament and a priesthood of the believer. But I'm going to oversimplify it, and the primary reason I'm going to oversimplify it because I'm just a little simple-minded myself I get wading into this, it gets over my head. But there's a few things I want to share with you about this priesthood, this holy priesthood. But number one, here's my first thought. I want to consider the definition of this priesthood. What does he mean? When he's talking about a priesthood. What's he talking about? What does that mean? Well, we look through scripture and we find that the priesthood or a priest Is someone who is, now this is important, is chosen by God to stand before God On behalf of others to offer up prayers and sacrifices on behalf of others. Did you get that? To simplify that definition is simply this. A priest was somebody, in the Old Testament particularly, a priest was somebody that stood before God on behalf of the people. As a priest's job. And that would involve offering sacrifices. That would involve offering up prayers. But he's doing it before God on behalf of the people. Now, a prophet, on the other hand Just to contrast it, a prophet is somebody who stood before the people on behalf of God. He would declare the word of God. The prophet would say, Thus saith the Lord! He was standing before the people on behalf of God. The priest comes to the altar, comes to the tabernacle, later the temple. the the uh the um altars that were there and then the uh uh ark of the covenant once a year, the high priest, and they would go in there on behalf of the people, and they would offer the uh the blood of bulls and goats and offer up that sacrifice. Once a year on the Day of Atonement, the high priest would go into the Holy of Holies, and there he would sprinkle the blood on the mercy seat, and bringing that on behalf of the people, bringing that before God And so when he's talking about the priesthood, he's talking about someone that has access to God. In the Old Testament, primarily on behalf of people. How many people know what I'm talking about? You got it? Did I convey what a priesthood is? Right now, Jesus is our high priest. He is the high priest. Take your Bible, if you would. Turn with me to Hebrews, not too far away. You're in Peter. Just come backwards a little bit. You hit James, and then Hebrews. And Hebrews chapter 7. And again, man, you could study this. It's a fascinating study. You could really get in depth with this. But Hebrews chapter 7, and I want to begin reading in verse 22. Everybody doing all right? Amen. I ought to have these little Emicolon things you hold up, little smiley face, handshake, you know Look at Hebrews 7, verse 22. By so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament. Now look what he says. And they, talking about the Old Testament priests, they truly were many priests. There was lots of them. And because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death. And he's saying, listen, there was lots of Old Testament priests mainly because they died off and they'd have to have a new one. And that one would eventually die, and then there'd be another one, replace them. But this man, Jesus, because he continueth ever, I want to remind you, Jesus Christ is the eternal God. Always was, always will be. He doesn't die off. He died once, rose again, we'll see it in a minute. And so that's what he's talking about. This man, Jesus, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. Now look at verse 25. I've got this underlined in my Bible. I've got it highlighted in my Bible. Look at verse 25. Wherefore he, Jesus. Is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him. That phrase, he saved them to the uttermost. In other words, he saves them and keeps them saved to the uttermost It's not going to be saved for a little while. No, it's saved forever. He saves them to the uttermost that come unto God by him. Look at this. Seeing he ever liveth to what? Make intercession for them. For them. On behalf of us. Say, preacher, can I lose my salvation? The only way we you and I, the only way a genuine believer in the Lord Jesus Christ could lose their salvation is if Jesus died. He ever liveth to make intercession for us. As long as, here's what I'm trying to say. As long as Jesus Is before the throne of God, making intercession for me. As long as he's there, I'm safe and secure. You follow? He's the high priest. He's the one that is representing me before God. He is the one standing before God on my behalf, keeping me and securing me to the uttermost. He's our high priest. Look at verse 26. For such a high priest became us who is holy. This is how much he is holy and harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, made higher than the heavens. Who needeth not daily, as those high priests did in the Old Testament, to offer up sacrifice first for his own sins? Jesus didn't die for his own sins. The Old Testament priests had to. They had to offer sacrifice for their own sins. They were sinners, not Jesus. Uh first for his own sins, then for the peoples, for this he did once when he offered up himself. By the way Uh not only the Catholics wrong on the priesthood there, uh office of priesthood, but they're wrong when they have Eucharist and have Jesus being crucified over and over and over and over and over again Jesus died once for all. Brother, believe it. He died once for all. Look what he says. And then when he offered up himself for the law, maketh men high priests which have infirmity in the Old Testament under the law. But the word of the oath, which was since the law, maketh the Son, who is consecrated for how long? Forever. Jesus Christ is our high priest. While you or I am down here running around with these stupid masks on and Carrying on and all of that, everything we're doing. Forgive me But while we're dealing with all the stuff we're dealing with down here, the whole time we've got an eternal Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of God. Standing before God on our behalf, representing us and praying for us and keeping us. What a wonderful high priest we have! The right hand of God. So Peter writes to these carpenters and farmers and housewives and business people and folks have market, uh uh cobblers maybe, I don't know, whatever occupations they have, some very educated, some not hardly educated at all. He writes to all of them, he says, Hey, you're a holy priesthood. What is that? Well, it's one who stands before God on behalf of others. Jesus, he's the high priest, and he says, you and I are priests. Wow. My second thought is this. Number one, now our role as priests is a little different than Jesus. The various priests had different roles. The high priest had very specific responsibility. The other priests, they had all different kinds of roles. So my second thought is this: number one, the definition of the priest. And number two, real quickly, the designation as a priest. In other words, how in the world did I become a priest? Say, preacher, I didn't know I was a priest. Uh I'm looking down here at Priest Courtney Priest Evan, Priest Betty, Priest Ritha. Uh, her kitty cat isn't a priest though, but Rissa is So how do we and how in the world did I become a priest? God says I'm a priest. How in the world did that happen? Well, let's go back and look how they became priests in the Old Testament when it was introduced Before God gave Israel the law, before he had all the ceremonies and sacrifice and the offices set up at Mount Sinai when he gave the law and Exodus, Leviticus, and Numbers, when he laid all that out there. Before that. A man was a priest by virtue of the fact that he was the head of his household. Now they weren't necessarily called that. But if you look at their actions, their responsibilities, they were fulfilling the responsibilities of a priest on behalf of their household. Now we won't take time to go there, but we could go back into Genesis chapter 8, I think it is. And when Noah came off the ark, the very first thing he did was build an altar and offered up sacrifices on behalf of himself and his family before God. That's the function of a priest. You find later on, you find Abraham building altars and offering up sacrifices and prayers for his household. In fact, it's interesting. The thing about Abraham is he never once built a permanent house But everywhere he went, he left behind altars. He was functioning as a priest. In fact, remember when Lot was down in Sodom? And the angels showed up and told Lot that uh they were going to bring judgment and uh on Adam, and they debated whether we should tell Abraham or not, and they said, Yes, he's faithful. And so what did Abraham, when he found out God was going to judge Sodom and Gomorrah, what did he immediately do to the angel of the Lord? What did he immediately do? He began interceding for Lot and his family down there, family, household family down there. He was fulfilling the function of a priest. Now he's not called a priest. The office wasn't established yet. But he was doing what priests do, standing before God on behalf of his household. If you read the first chapter of Job Job would offer sacrifices and prayers for his household, lest any of them may have sinned in word or deed. Now, Job is never called a priest, as far as I can remember, but he fulfills the office of a priest. He comes before God with sacrifices and prayers on behalf of his household. So before the law, you saw the priest's function displayed in the husbands, the heads of the household. It's part of their responsibility. Then the law showed up. God gave the law. And in the law, God chose a certain tribe or household of the children of Israel. Anyone know who that was? To be a hold the office of a priest. The tribe of Levi. And so to be a priest under the law in the nation of Israel, You had to be, get this, you had to be born into the family of Levi. If you were born in the family of Judah, you could not be a priest. You couldn't go in and offer sacrifices. You certainly couldn't enter into the Holy of Holies on the Day of Atonement. You couldn't do anything in the temple You had to be born into the tribe of Levi, the family of Levi. You were a priest by birth. That's significant. And so throughout the Old Testament, you had, they were born into the tribe of Israel. Any other tribe, any other family born into that? Not eligible. Now we come to the New Testament. You say, well, how do how in the world? How in the world does Stuart Harvey be a holy priesthood? Same way everyone else does. What family we're born into The moment I'm born again, remember in Peter, come back to the end of chapter one, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. Being born again The moment you and I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, and we're born into the family of God, we immediately are declared to be a holy priesthood, a royal priesthood. You and I become priests. Isn't that something? May 7, 1979. Did I ever tell you? May 7, 1979. A whole lot of things took place when you trusted Christ that we don't even realize until years later. Whole lot of stuff happened. I became priest Denny. Dennis, Dennis So the definition of a priest is someone who stands before God on behalf of others to offer up sacrifices and prayers, primarily. The designation of a priest, you and I, now in for us, is by being born into the family of God. Now, my last, and I want to end with this real quick: what are the duties of a priest? Alright, so I'm a priest. Big whoop. What does that mean? Well, so what? Well, offering up sacrifices and prayers on behalf of myself and others Now, in the Old Testament, that was physical in nature. Is everybody with me? Everybody doing all right? How many people are struggling with not being able to get up and go and get a Coke while you're watching it on the screen right now? Yeah, I know how you are. You're usually laying on the sofa in your pajamas. I know how this goes. We have little camera, backward cameras. We can see you at home No, we don't. Government does, we don't. I forget what I was talking about. Um the Old Testament priest was primarily physical. They brought, how many people read in the Old Testament they brought the blood of bulls and goats and oxen? Anybody remember reading that? And it was very detailed. You had to cut it a certain way. Anybody ever uh uh somebody's talking to me recently about the fat Around the kid. I mean he's very specific. They had to take the fat that was around the kidneys and and burn some of it and and some of it was this, some of it they could eat, some of it they couldn't They had the scapegoat, they'd sacrifice one, cut his neck, bleed it out, put the blood on the altar, the other one they'd let go in the wilderness. I mean they had very specific. But the thing is, it was all physical It was actually real literal lambs and sheep. Boy, you you look at the uh the dedication of the temple. They slaughtered thousands and thousands. Of sheep, goat, and oat and goats and oxen for the dedication. It was all physical. It was all literal. You and I, in our time, we do not bring anybody notice we don't bring goats in here and slice their neck and bleed them out on here. We don't do that. Because the sacrifices that you and I offer as a priesthood are not physical, ours are spiritual in nature. You say, Well why they stop the physical? Why ar why aren't we still offering cheap? Lambs and stuff for na sacrifice Because the purpose of all those Old Testament sacrifices was to be, and this is oversimplification, was to be an object lesson of the Lamb of God that was coming. And if you'll study those Old Testament ceremonies particularly, if you'll study them very carefully, every one of them, every aspect of that, in one way or another is a type or a picture or an object lesson of some aspect of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ on that cross. A fascinating study But when Jesus Christ offered himself up as the eternal sacrifice, the sinless pure Lamb of God Then all those Old Testament ceremonies, all those Old Testament sacrifices, all those Old Testament bloodshed was all fulfilled. The object lesson was now fulfilled. What it was pointing to was now fulfilled. There's no reason to carry on. No reason to carry on. Now, here's what I'm getting at. The Old Testament priests, when they offered up those literal physical sacrifices, were all pointing to Christ. Let me ask you a question: Did the blood of bulls and goats wash away their sin? Ooh. Hebrews very clear, chapter 10, does not wash away their sin. Their sins were cleansed and forgiven, not by the blood of the bulls and goats. They did that as a testimony to the fact that they were trusting in the coming Messiah They were looking forward. They were saying, I believe, I'm untrusting in the Lamb of God that is coming. An expression of that faith, the uh the the uh the manifestation of that faith. is I'm fulfilling these ceremonies now because I am looking forward to the day when the Messiah comes. Isaiah 53. Study Isaiah 53. He's coming. The Messiah's coming Well, the Messiah has already come, so we don't offer sacrifices of blood of bulls and goats and all that, because that's all been fulfilled. The object lesson's all been carried out. We don't need an object lesson. We can see what took place. So what offer what sacrifices do we offer? We offer spiritual sacrifices. Now I'm toying with the idea maybe preaching on these sacrifices that you and I as a priesthood, you and I as priests offer up to God. Let me just list them for you. I can't dwell on them. Uh there's seven. Let me let me just give them to you real quick. Number one, we offer up our bodies as a sacrifice. Romans chapter twelve. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living. sacrifice holy and acceptable to God. So one of my sacrifices that I offer up to the Lord As a priesthood, a holy priesthood, I offer up, God, I offer up my body to you. I'm not my own. I've been bought with a price. Lord, I dedicate and present my body to you. I tell you, we we we we offer our bodies to Christ, that'll change a little bit the way we live. Huh? That's pretty significant I can't preach a lot of that that was that's a good message. The second one, Hebrews 13, verse 15, says, we offer up the sacrifice of praise. You know we sing songs. Oh, I heard an old, old story, how the Savior came from glory. How he gave his life on Calvary to save a wretch like, you know what we're doing? We're praising God. We're offering up a sacrifice of praise to God. And it's wholly acceptable to the Lord. The sweet odor, Revelation says, in the nostrils of our God. Sometimes it's a sacrifice to praise God. Sometimes it's a sacrifice to give praise. Man, I'm hurting and I'm struggling to get by and it seems like everything's against me. I come and take my voice and my heart, and I just say, God, I praise you in the midst of all this heartache and trial and difficulty. I offer my praise and thanksgiving to you. That's what priests do. That's what priests do. Offer up our praise to God. Number three, I put this down. Good works, Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 16. Let me ask you a question. Do we do good works so God will accept us? Well, I gotta be good enough, or God I gotta do this, and uh one guy said, uh, I I gotta read my Bible or God won't accept me. That's not why we read our Bible. We don't do good works to be saved. Read Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. So why do we do good works? Because we're saved. Oh Lord, you saved me. You saved me from sin and hell. Just by your grace, you paved hell for me. I just want to live for you. Suppose you were drowning and somebody rescued you from drowning. Do you feel like you'd maybe be indebted to that person a little bit for saving your life? You think maybe Jesus Christ saved us from eternity in hell. Maybe we ought to offer up some good works and appreciation for that and gratitude. Amen or not? See, all our good works we do as a believer is out of gratitude. Not out of duty or trying to gain acceptance, but because he has accepted us So that's a sacrifice, and we could preach about that. Number five, or number four, giving, Hebrews 13, 16 We give money to uh faith promise missions, we give money to keep the church operating, our ties, uh we serve and give of our talents, the the crisis quartet uh Gave them their abilities to sing. They were good, I think. Might need a better name, but other than that, uh pretty good And everything we do, all this, what we're giving of our time and our talents and our treasures, it's a priestly work offering up this to God. Offering up this to God. Listen, if you're doing something for the Lord, maybe you give and you don't get recognized, and we try to be and we are grateful and we try to express that, but sometimes we miss. If you get all offended and mad because nobody recognizes you for what you're doing. You you missed the point. You missed the point. It's a sacrifice to the Lord out of gratitude. The sacrifice of good works. I got a couple more here. I get going on these. Soul winning, Romans 15, 16. The sacrifice of love, Ephesians 5, 1 and 2. The offer and sacrifice of prayers. Revelation 8, verses 3 and 4. We don't do these things to be accepted. We do these things Because God has kept us and as a priest I come very right into the very presence of God. Tonight we had special prayer at 630 for our church and our nation whole situation. And you know what? When Brother Heimball prayed and whether when Brother Ed prayed and when Brother James prayed and when I prayed and when everyone here was praying in your hearts together, joining our hearts together in prayer to God. You know what we were doing? We were coming into the very throne room of God Almighty. God heard us. He was listening to us. God of creation was listening to us. We're priests, we have access. And you've heard me tell this before, but this was so profound. Years ago, there was a lady, and some of you remember her, she was, I believe, a charter member, church, nine in a McGrovie How many folks remember Nina? What a sweetheart. When I first came, and I think I may have told this recently, but it it it's so profound in my mind. When I first came Uh I was a new pastor. I was figuring things out. And Nana came up to me. She used to always sit about here where Betty is. She used to sit in there if I remember right. Might have might have been over here. It was over there? Might have been back there. I don't know Right around in here she always sat. And she came, she was just short. And you never wondered what Nina was thinking. She came up to me and said, uh, preacher, would you be willing to go visit my husband? I didn't know him from Adam. I said, sure I'll be glad to. She's not saved. I said, all right, I'll try and share the gospel with him. Maybe he'll get saved. Oh, that'd be wonderful. She told me the address and She said, um, down on K Street down here, she said, uh, uh, that would be great. Maybe. I said, how about Thursday evening? Would that be good? Yeah, that'd be wonderful. So, all right, we got it all lined up. She starts leaving, then she goes, Oh, by the way, he hates preachers. Oh do you want to she goes he's he's gonna cuss you out until you leave. I said, All right. That'd be a blessing. And I went down there and she won lion. It happened exactly. Did you know, Jim, at all? I don't know. Anyway, uh and uh man he told me how it was I said, Well, God bless you and I left. I said, nine, I visited your husband. She goes, Yeah, I know. And I kind of paced it out a little bit and I visited them every now and then. Uh didn't do very good at winning them over. But then Jim was diagnosed with cirrhosis of the liver. And uh he was going to get a liver transplant. And while they were preparing him for that, they had to put a stent in one of the arteries, I guess going to the liver, and when they did that, they inadvertently punctured his liver. The cancer got out. They couldn't do the transplant. He's going to die And Jim, of his home there, humbled himself before God, called the Lord, and trusted Christ as his Savior. I went by and visited him, and it was a totally different reception. And Jim and I became dear friends. The year or so he had left, year maybe two. I'd visit him. I'd pray and I'd bring I'd bring him uh uh little cassette tapes I'd bring cassette tapes of the Sunday services. He couldn't come out and he'd listen to them. And he kept complaining. He says, I can't hardly hear you. And you walk away from the pulpit and I can't hear you. And so he bought the church, our very first cordless mic, little uh lapel mic. He bought us one. And so he could hear the sermons. That was so different than what he was before. I mean totally different person. Don Williams, they used to be friends years ago. Don said, I said, I said, uh, I said, uh, Jim McRoby got saved. And Don says, yeah right I said, no, really, I think he did. I said, uh he goes so he says, I'm gonna go visit him. So Don went down there and he came back, I was in the office, he walked in, he said, I think the old boy got it They took him up to Pittsburgh. He got real bad. They took him up to Pittsburgh. And, you know, that's a little ways off. And I got a call the next morning. I don't remember if it was a nurse or assistant or somebody, but somebody called me from the hospital up there. They said, this Reverend Leatherman? I said, yeah, this is Pastor Leatherman. They said, um, we got a patient here, Jim McGroby. And he said he was real upset last night, he got scared, and he kept asking us to call you in the middle of the night and have you come in and see him and pray for him. And he is insistent. Pastor Lisman had to come and pray for him. They said, Sir, he's three and a half, four hours away. He couldn't make it here. We'll call him in the morning. No, had to now, had to now. And uh then they finally he kind of calmed down, then he told the nurse this, and he told me this later. He said, uh, he says, you know, it dawned on me. Now that I'm saved, I can pray right to God myself. I said, Jim, you're a priest. You have direct access to God as a child of God. And so does every little child, every teenager Every adult that's trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, we can come directly to the God that spoke all this into existence. How many people think that's awesome? Man. Man. Let's pray. Father, I ask you'd help us to understand what it means to be a holy priesthood. Come to you, the one that created us, that is all powerful. And you'll hear us. And through Christ you receive us And then the privilege of offering up these sacrifices out of a heart of gratitude. Oh Lord, help us. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Across the auditorium, if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, you're a holy priesthood. We need to, we can, and we need to offer up to the Lord out of full hearts of praise. Our service, our sacrifice. Presenting our bodies, giving him our service, our love, our praise And then standing before him, we didn't have time to get this, but standing before him on behalf of others, pray and witness that others would come into this priesthood Heads bound, eyes closed, how many folks would say, preacher, I want to exercise my privileges as a priest? Oh, I want that. How many uplifted hand? I got news for you. You got it. It's true. It's real. Let's come and ask Christ. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Live out this holy priesthood that He has given to us. Now, if you're not saved, you better get saved. Amen? If you're not saved, you better get saved. Don't horse around with that That's serious. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.