We're working our way through this chapter here, this great chapter in the book of Psalms, and uh we start in verse 1. I want to read verse 1 through 3, but this evening I want to look at the first part of verse 2 is what we're going to zero in on. But let me begin reading in verse number 1. It says, I waited patiently for the Lord And we preached on that. And he inclined unto me and heard my cry. What a great statement. What a great testimony. He waited for the Lord, cried on the Lord. God heard him. And we preached on that. Now notice this next statement. He elaborates, it's David here writing under the inspiration of God. And he elaborates on what God did for him a little more specific. He says, I waited, I cried, God heard me, and this is what God did for me. He says, He, the Lord Brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings And then he goes on, and he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it in fear, and shall trust in the Lord. Isn't that a great passage? I just love that. It stirs my heart every time I read it. But I want to look at verse 2. At that statement, he says that God brought him up out of a horrible pit and miry clay. I want us to think about and consider this horrible pit and this miry clay. Let's pray together. Father, we come to your word again now. And Lord, I'm sure I speak for certainly the majority of us. We've come to church tonight with our Bibles, wanting you to speak to us, wanting you to help us grow in our faith. Lord, we're coming to you tonight with our Bibles open, asking you to use your word to help us grow. Pray that our we're asking that our witness for you would be bolder, more confident. Our life would be live, closer fellowship with you. And so, Lord, that's not anything I can produce. We don't have a program in church that can do that. You have to do that. And I'm asking you, Father, that you would please use your word, particularly this one couple statements here You'd help us to see the significance of what is recorded and how it applies to our lives. So Lord, I yield myself anew, my mind. Words, my thoughts, present my body, pray you'd speak through me in this hour once again, Lord. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. We pointed out as we started this study, this series in Psalm 40, and we'll probably be in here for a while, but um We really don't know a whole lot about the background of the psalm itself. He mentions this horrible pit, this Myrie Clay. We don't have any information to go back to to see exactly what event in his life he's referencing here. And I'll talk about that. So th what I'm trying to say is this, we don't know a whole lot about the background of the psalm. We know David penned it and God inspired him to do so. That's pretty much it. There's a couple things we pick up reading through here, and I probably mentioned these previously, but I want to touch on them again. I don't think I picked uh touched on all of these, but one thing we notice, this is an intensely personal psalm. And if we had time, we would read down through the whole chapter, and over and over and over, David is referencing himself. Just there in the first few verses. He says, I waited patiently. He inclined unto me. He heard my cry. He brought me up out of it. And it goes like that all the way through there Verse 8, I delight to do thy will. Verse 9, I preached righteousness. David is referencing himself through this whole psalm. It's a very, very personal psalm. He's not recording something he heard someone else say that God did it for them. It's not, he's not giving us secondhand testimony of what God did for someone else. You follow what I'm saying? It's not like, oh yeah, I know a guy, and God did this for him, and God did that for him. And that's wonderful. I'm not trying to diminish that, but I tell you, there's something about a personal testimony. When I can stand up and firsthand testify what God has done for me personally. You with me? That's a powerful uh um witnessing tool. I put it this way in my notes. I wrote it down like this. Never underestimate the power of your personal testimony What God has done for you. I'm wondering how many folks how how many folks am I talking to tonight? You're saved and you know God has saved your soul from sin and hell. Say amen. Amen. You have a testimony. And you say, well, you know, I grew up in a Christian home. I don't have this big sensational testimony. I want to remind you It takes just as much grace, it takes just as much of the blood of Jesus Christ to save the kid that grew up in the Christian home as it does to save the drunkard off the street. A personal testimony is a powerful force in bringing other people to Jesus Christ. So don't ever be ashamed. Don't ever underestimate the significance of your testimony, what God has done for you in delivering your soul from sin and hell. It's powerful. Say, I want to witness people. I don't know what to tell them. Do what the woman at the well did. Just go and tell them what Christ did for you. And people get saved. People got saved. If you'll notice, and I noticed this last week in a revival meeting, but if you'll notice some of the most powerful sermons That God uses in people's lives to stir people, to trust God, and to live for God and repent of sin and dedicate their lives to Christ. Some of those powerful sermons, if you'll pay close attention They are filled with personal testimonies of what God has done. They saw firsthand what God has done. Anybody ever notice that? Brother Rossi last week did it a number of times. Revival up in New England, but God did something. First hand accounts of the power of God. Witness firsthand. I saw, I saw what God did. I know what God did for me. And that's what David is doing here. So this is an intensely personal psalm. He's talking about what God did for him, and you and I have a personal testimony if we know Christ. And it's very, very powerful. The second thing I notice here, this is a praise psalm. Look at verse, well he says there He says, verse 3, he says, He hath put a new song in my mouth. God delivered him out of this horrible pit, this my clay. He said, God put a new song in my mouth. Look at verse 3. And even what Praise unto our God. This is a psalm of personal testimony. It's a psalm he's praising God. Look at verse 5. Many, O Lord my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done, and thy thoughts which are to usward, they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee. If I would declare and speak of them, they're more than can be numbered. He's praising God. It's a psalm of praise. Look at verse 16. He says, Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee. Let such as love thy salvation say continually, The Lord be magnified. So it's a psalm of praise. He's celebrating God's goodness, God's grace that he's shown to him. Never underestimate the power of praise. I think this little phrase would be uh sh would be, could be, and should be Often on our lips, it's this. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. You say you don't say that at Walmart, do you? Yeah, if they say, oh, this is the wrong price, it's ten dollars cheaper than what we had Well, praise the Lord. It's not that hard to say, and it has an impact. People pay attention. You say praise the Lord. We're not putting on a show. We're not trying to draw attention ourselves. But we want to praise the Lord. It's not hard to say, praise the Lord. In fact, let's just try it right now. Ready? One, two, three. Praise the Lord. Look at the person beside you and say, pray but no, say this. No, wait a minute. Look at the person beside you and say this. I'm glad I don't look like you. And then say this Praise the Lord This psalm is a psalm of praise. Ask God. Let me urge you to do this. Let me exhort you. And myself. Let's ask God to put some praise on our lips. Say, well, of course it's Thanksgiving. We have to thank and praise it. Let's ask God to do it 365 days a year. Just put praise on our lips. I think our witness will be much more effective, much more powerful if we have praise on our lips rather than complaints on our lips. Are you with me? And so this is a psalm of praise. He's rejoicing in what God has done for him, how God has blessed him. This is a petition psalm. He's pleaing with people. He's petitioning others to trust in the Lord. Look at verse 4. He says there, he says, Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust. He's pleaing. He's petitioning people. Trust the Lord. But your faith in Him, He doesn't respect the He and He respecteth not the proud, or such as such as such. Make the Lord your trust. Never be afraid to urge others to trust in the Lord. Now, don't use this little phrase as an excuse for not actually doing something for someone. But I think it's good for us to remind each other and urge each other and encourage each other to trust in God. It's trusting God. I had one one night this week, I forget one of one of the young people, little juniors, were going out the door. They came, Pastor, will you pray for my friend? They told me the situation. I said, sure, let's pray right now. Took their hand. We bowed our heads at the door. I prayed that God would help and do what they asked. And I said this, and now we'll just trust the Lord. We'll just trust the Lord. And that's a good thing to do. You say, yeah, the pastor will do that. Can I tell you, every one of us can do that one with another. Pray together, encourage each other to trust the Lord, trust the Lord. Maybe you know someone's going through a difficult time. How about at invitation time? Just go over, hey, say, hey brother. Hey sister, let's go pray. Let's trust the Lord. Come and pray. Wouldn't that be wonderful? Family praying together. So it's a petition psalm. He's urging people to trust the Lord, call on the Lord. And it's a prophetic psalm. And I know we mentioned this early in our study. Verses 6 through 9 are actually referenced in Hebrews 10, verse 5 through 9. And it's attributed to the Lord Jesus Christ. It's referencing the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the psalm is prophetic about the coming Savior. Now we get to verse 2. And we have here a key statement in this whole song. He says, He brought me up also out of a horrible pit. out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock and established my goings. Now verse 1, it's hard to separate verse 1 and 3 from verse 2, but I think this passage right here, these three verses and maybe verse two in particular, I get the impression, at least humanly speaking, that this is the whole basis of the whole psalm. This is humanly speaking. Now we know God moved on his heart, the inspiration of God. So please, I'm not discounting that But I'm saying from the human end, I kind of get the impression I'm wondering if this isn't the purpose he wrote the whole psalm to begin with. Because God heard his cry and God brought him up out of this horrible pit. And God uh pulled got him out of the Miery Clay and established his feet on the rock, established his goings I think this could very well be, again, from the human perspective, the whole motive for penning this psalm down So I think it's very significant. Three thoughts, real quick, about the horrible pit and the Myra Clay. Number one, I want us to consider the reality Of this horrible pit and miry clay. He, the Lord, brought me up out of this horrible pit. Ms. Miery Clay. Now I'll be honest with you. I've studied this. I've looked. I've looked through the life of David. I looked through this song. And I come to this conclusion. I think it's very unlikely that David is referencing a literal pit. And literal clay. I can't find anywhere where he fell down into a pit and couldn't get out. And it was just horrible down there. And I can't find any record of him getting stuck in mud And clay and he can't get out. And so maybe I'll get to heaven and find out I missed something, but I I I I think it's unlikely that he's referencing a literal pit, literal clay that he got stuck in. I can't find any mention of that anywhere. I think it's most likely he's referring to a spiritual condition he found himself in. Now we don't know what it is. He doesn't tell us what he's referring to when he says this horrible pit. He doesn't tell us what he's referring to. When he mentions this Myri Clay, probably, well very likely, is maybe some bondage to sin. An addictive sin that he's found himself in. Um maybe some maybe maybe depression. Or he got went down a horrible pit of depression. And I've been discouraged. I don't I I don't know. I imagine I perhaps have dealt with depression to some extent. I can't say that personally that I've I don't know if I've ever been in a pit of depression. I've been very discouraged at times, I think most of us, but I know people and I've worked dealt with some people that were in a horrible pit of depression. It's a very real thing. I think it's a spiritual condition. There could be physical uh factors involved Maybe it was the consequences of some horrendous sin, and we know David had a few horrendous sins. Horrendous. Where the consequences were devastating. And so I I I think it's very unlikely, as I said, that he's referring to a literal pit that he was in and literal clay stuck in he can't get out of I did my uh word study as I do, and I looked up the phrase horrible pit, how it's used, where it comes from, and things like that. And it has this idea, if something is horrible. Now we use that word pretty lightly, don't we? Oh, that That pie was horrible. It probably might not have tasted good, but it wasn't horrible. Right? We use that pretty lightly. You know, it's drizzling out. This weather's horrible. The word horrible has this idea, it is if something is horrible, it is overwhelmingly bad. With the emphasis on the overwhelming part. Overwhelmingly unpleasant. One definition I came across, they used the term overwhelming, and they said overwhelmingly miserable There's an element of fear, unbearable conditions. It's horrible And a pit, we all know what a pit is. A pit is a deep, narrow hole in the ground. A pit. When Joseph's brothers kidnapped him, they threw him in a pit. David says that I was in a horrible Overwhelmingly miserable, deep, narrow hole in the ground Now again, he's probably not being literal here. What do we know about a pit? Well, would you agree with me? A pit would be something that is very difficult, if not impossible, to get out of. Right? Is everybody with me so far? Bear with me. He found himself in something that was overwhelming, unbearably miserable, and he could not get out of it. I cannot break free from this. I cannot escape this condition I'm in. Now, whatever it was, bondage to sin, the consequences of sin. Maybe somebody did something that brought put him in this. Maybe he made some foolish decisions himself. But it was a horrible pit. A pit is very deep, you can't get out, and a pit generally, at least in the bottom, is going to be very dark. You can't see. I don't have any answers. I'm in a m an overwhelmingly miserable situation, condition. And I can't get myself out of it. And it's so dark in here. I don't see any answers. I don't see any solutions. I can't see where this is leading me. I can't see how this is going to end up. The whole idea of this, and then we'll look at Myrie Clay, the whole idea of this is something that is hopeless from his perspective. He says he brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of miry clay. Now, miry clay is uh is what you would find at the bottom of the pit. You know, it just stays wet down there. Remember Jeremiah, I don't have the reference, but they lowered Jeremiah down into a pit. Does anybody remember reading that in Jeremiah? And they let him down there, and he was afraid that he was going to die in the mire at the bottom of the pit. It's usually very stinky. It's usually very extremely unpleasant. Refuge, garbage often gets thrown down in pits like this, and they set on the bottom. They start to uh not deteriorate, what's the word? Decay down there sometimes dung It's all down the bottom, and David says, I was down this horrible pit, and in the bottom of the pit there was this Myriam. And he uses the term clay, and the idea of that again is to be stuck in it Now, whatever David is referring to, we don't know. He doesn't tell us. But this we do know: it was apparently overwhelmingly miserable, and he could not get out. I see no escape. I see no hope of ever getting out of this. And his only recourse was to cry to God, oh God. I cried to him. I waited patiently. I had nowhere else to look. I had no other hope. I had nothing I could do. I cried to God. I waited patiently. And He heard me And he inclined, listened down to me in that pit. And he brought me up out of that pit. What a testimony. The reality of this pit. Now, come on, look at verse 12. Are you still there in Psalm? Is everybody still with me? Look at verse 12. I wonder. I'm studying this. I wonder. If verse 12 he isn't describing, if he isn't referencing back to this horrible pit, Miss Miery Clay, look what he says in verse 12. He says, For innumerable evils have what? Compassed me. In other words, I'm down in them. I tend to think that those innumerable evils is the horrible pit that he's referencing. He's got into some bad stuff. He's got maybe he's gotten involved in some bad things and he can't get himself out of it. And it's killing him, and it's miserable, and he's lost, like he says in Psalm 51, he's lost the joy of his salvation, and he can't get it back. In Psalms 51, he says, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. He says, Innumerable evils, overwhelming evils, have compassed me. I'm down in this pit of them. And then he goes on, and he says, mine iniquities have what? Taken hold upon me. I wonder if he isn't referencing the miry clay. And he's stuck in his sin. He can't get out of it. I'm down in this pit. My uh innumerable evils have compassed me and my iniquities have taken hold of me. I wonder if he isn't describing A horrible pit and miry clay. Would you agree with me? David was a man of great faith. Right or wrong? I mean, we read his testimony. The testimony, the biblical testimony, God's testimony of David says he's a man after my what? My own heart. David was a man of great faith. David was a man of passionate devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ. Yet, he was a man of great trials. He was a man that experienced overwhelming heartache. David was a man who sinned so grievously. And he ended up, in his mind, pictured it as a horrible pit, miry clay, and I could get myself out. I want to say this. Maybe somebody's tuned in or somebody here. Maybe you've gotten yourself into sin. Maybe you've gotten yourself into some things that are ungodly. And you say, I don't know how to get out. How could I I don't know how I could ever be forgiven? I don't know how I could ever be delivered. I don't know how I can ever put this behind me. And be ever recovered from what I've done and what I've gotten myself into. I don't know if I could ever recover from that I'm here to tell you there's a God in heaven that hears our cry and inclines unto our cry, and He can deliver us even from the most horrible pits and the most miry clay So the reality of this, I don't know, it was literal, but it was real. David was in a horrible pit in Myrick Clay. Second thing I want us to notice quickly. is David's removal from this horrible pit in Maya Riklay. Again, I don't know how he got himself in there. I don't know w what processes took place, what decisions were made, I don't know what actions he took, that he ended up in this horrible pit, down in this miry clay. I don't know how he got in there, but I know how he got out God brought him out. His deliverance, his removal from it. David knew what to do when he was in the pit. He knew what to do when he was in the clay. Look to God. Pray earnestly. And God came through. Again, my as a your pastor, I urge you, you find yourself in a pit And in clay, miry clay, I urge you, there's one thing you can do. Look to God, call on Him, trust Him, follow His instructions. God can bring you out, even in the worst of circumstances I know he can. I know he can. When you find yourself in a pit, horrible pit, miry clay, it's time to pray. And then lastly, number three. I want us to consider his remembrance of this event. And this is what struck me. Whatever he went through, it was extremely unpleasant. It was horrible. God got him out of it. Now, I don't know about you, but there are some things in my life That I would sure like to put behind me and never, ever, ever remember again. Any can I get a witness? Anybody like that? David remembered this. He's recalling this But what he is remembering about this is the fact that God answered his prayer and delivered him out. And what I take away from this, I think it's good for you and I to look back in our life and remember And follow I hope you follow what I'm trying to say here. Remember the messes God got us out of. Remember the pits that God got us out of. I know this crowd well enough. I know there's a lot of people here that at points in their past life and past Years gone by, you were in some pits, and I know there's folks God got you out. Don't forget what God has done for you. Don't forget the grace and the mercy that God to us when we played the full. But God, in His grace and mercy, heard us when we cried and He delivered us. And he gave us second, and third, and fourth, and fifth chances to get up and back on our feet and live for him again. Don't ever forget. The pits, the clay that God has brought us out of. You follow me? All through Scripture, over and over and over, God, particularly Israel God would urge them to remember their deliverance from Egypt. And I got references. We could spend the next hour just looking at references where God's telling Israel, don't forget. You were in the pit of Egypt. You're in the miry clay of bondage down there. And you cried unto me, I heard you and I delivered you out of that. Don't ever forget that. There's several psalms where God says to Israel, You forgot. And they would mess up. Every time they forgot what God did for them, they would mess up. They would mess up. So remembering, remembering what God has done, remember the pit from which we were dug out of. We don't dwell on the I try not to dwell on the sins of my past, but I sure like to remember my deliverance from my sins of the past. What happens when we remember what God has done for us? All one, I think it I put it this way, it sustains our praise In other words, our praise will die out when we forget how much God has blessed us. Our praise dies out when we forget how much God has helped us. Now, I don't know that this was the purpose of it, but one good thing about a country that sets aside at least one day a year for thanksgiving is because we tend to forget to be thankful. We forget what God has done for us as a nation. We forget how God has delivered us over and over and over again. We forget the mercy and grace that God has shown to us as a very rebellious nation. And Israel forgot. And every time they forget, they'd wander away. They'd wander away. You show me a Christian that forgets how God good God has been to them, and I'll show you a Christian that has no praise on their heart. You show me a complaining Christian and nothing's right and everything's terrible and I'm miserable and I'm mad and I'm bitter and all that. I'll show you somebody that has forgotten the horrible pits and the miry clay that God's brought them out of. So it helps me pray praise, it helps me keep praising God. Psalms 103, I'll just read it to you here real quick. He says in Psalms 103, verse 2, notice what He says here, he says, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. David didn't forget that he was in a Myri, that he was a horrible pit in Myri's cloud. He didn't forget. Dr. Lee Robertson, great preacher, years, has been with the Lord many years now, under him for quite a few years down in Highland Park in Chattanooga. And I must have heard him say this scores of times. And I was in the last preacher boy class that he ever taught. And uh he would say this over and over and over. He said, I have a tendency to forget the negative. I have a tendency to forget the negative. But he would remember the positive God had done for him. Follow what I'm saying? Listen, don't forget what God has done for us. How many folks here are you saved? You know it? Say amen. Anyone here get saved out of sin? We got something to praise God for till the day we go home. I am so glad. I am so glad And that this is all God, so don't misunderstand it. But I'm so glad that I don't pour liquor down my throat anymore I'm so glad I'm not snorting stuff up my nose anymore. So glad I can go to bed at night with joy in my heart and life. So glad for so many things God has brought me out of. And by the way, you say, well I never did all those things. Why don't you be so glad God has kept you from that? Thank God he delivered me from the horrible pit. I never got down in that mess. And God kept me out of it You follow? It helps us praise. It sustains our praise when we get grouchy and things that aren't exactly what we want. But yet I can look back and say, oh God, you've been good. It strengthens our faith. One of the reasons Israel struggled with their faith so much, they kept forgetting past deliverances. One reason Israel struggled with just being faithful to God, being where they should be, doing what they should be doing, living for God. One reason they had such a hard time being faithful is they kept forgetting What God had done for them. How good God had been to them. I got a slew of verses. Well, I'll just leave it David, this young boy, sent by his father to go down, his all his brothers were in the military. His father sent him down to the battlefront, to the to the line, the um the uh combat zone to check on his brothers. He had some cheese and crackers and stuff he was supposed to take down, give 'em, and he gets down there And everybody's scared to death. All the Israeli soldiers are scared to death. They're up on this mountainside. And he's like, what in the world's going on? And he looks out, and here's this giant out there Who is it? Goliath. And he said, What's the deal? And they said, Oh, this is a champion of the Philistines and if somebody we can send a champion out and kill him then they'll be our servants and we they go out if they kill our champion then we'll be their servants and have you seen how big this guy is? And uh do you see how strong he is? He's a warrior and um David You know the story, he says, well, is there not a cause? You know, I'll go out, I'll go out and kill him. That part's in the Hebrew there, you can read it And so King Saul brings David in before he sends out. He says, What in the world? Why would I send you out there? And here's the coolest thing. David remembered something. He says, you're not able to. He goes, yeah, I can. Because he remembered that God had delivered him previously from what? A lion and a bear. And because he remembered a previous deliverance from God, his faith was strong enough To face another adversary. You see? And what I'm trying to say is this. The point I'm trying to make is this If we remember the things God has done for us in the past, our faith to face the future will be much stronger. What if David would have forgotten about that lion and bear? I'm sure he would no way he's going to face a giant. But he looked back and said, oh no, God did this for me and God delivered me and God did that. God will take care of this. God will take care of this. Let me I need to end with this. So number one, remembering, David's remembering what God did for him. He's recording it down under the inspiration of God. And so I remember God brought me out. I called on him, he heard my cry, he climbed into my He climbed his ear into me and he delivered me, brought me up out of it. I remember that. And it sustains our praise, it strengthens our faith, and last of all, it shields us against backsliding. I go down to sheets. I like their coffee. But the thing I don't like, can I tell you something I don't like about sheets? I'll tell you what I don't like about sheets. So you're getting gas or you're sitting there, they play that old-time rock and roll music. Anybody on there here? I mean it's just blaring. And I'll be there pumping my gas, and something back from my horrible pit days, my miry clay days, some song will come through. Anybody anybody here that was saved out of that stuff? Anybody know what I'm talking about? And it's like bingo, all the words come right back. And sometimes I'm being a little, maybe this is TMI. But sometimes that old feeling comes back. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah, this feeling that's associated with that music And it comes back and for a split second the old flesh is, yeah. I told you, TMI And I'll be sitting there and and I'll remember oh oh man I was in that concert you know I I saw them down spectrum and all and pool And I'll remember what that sin did to my life. And the misery and the emptiness and the horrible pit That was associated with that sin. And I don't know how many times over the years, they didn't have sheets where I lived other places just since I've been here. How many times I had to bow my head at that gas pump and say, God forgive me. I don't want nothing to do with that. I never, ever want to go back in that horrible pit. I don't ever want to be back in that Myrie Clay. You know why some people backslide? They forget how horrible the sin was. They forget how miry that clay was. They walk right back to it. There was a fella got saved back in Pennsylvania. Um got saved right about the same time I did. We didn't know each other, but When when we started attending church, we in the same Sunday school class, very large church, we have a very large Sunday school class, college and career age is what they called it. And so we got to know each other, and we had very, very similar backgrounds. Very similar backgrounds. And so we tend to gravitate to each other. He was quite a bit younger than I was And uh and he just lived not far from where I live with my dad. He lived not far, just a couple blocks down the road from where we were at that time. So we get together and We'd have little devotions together about once a day. Every other couple days we'd get together. We'd read and pray and talk and whatever, just try to encourage each other. One time I went down there, just walked down the block, we met up, we're sitting on the porch. We would get every Friday night we got clams and steamed clams. Got down there one time and there was a bottle of beer sitting there. I said his name, I said, what what's this? He goes, oh, it's not real beer, it's non-alcoholic beer. I said, why would you do that? He says, Oh, I just kinda like it. I said, I don't like it I don't care if it's alcoholic or not. I don't want nothing to do with something that absolutely destroyed my life And have a little more next time I go down and be there again. I was getting more and more uncomfortable with this. I I s I was close enough to the horrible pit I don't want to get anywhere near that and slip and fall back in it. You follow what I'm saying? I went off to Bible college, come back at break one time. And I'm tempted to say I won't say his name, but he completely backslid away from God Completely away from God. Never in church. Not living for God. Not reading his Bible. Just away from God. You know what I think happened? I think he forgot how horrible that pit was. He forgot how miry that clay was. He went back, it's important we remember what God has saved us from. Read Apostle Paul over and over and over. He talks about how God saved him out of that life of Pharisees as a blasphemer. I was this and this and this. And God saved me. That's what David's doing. If you're saved, don't ever forget the pit from what God has saved. We ought to study hell every now and then just to be grateful that God saved us from it. Talk about a horrible pit. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to learn from David. Help us, Lord, to remember what you've done for us. Not ever forget how you've answered prayer. You delivered, you met needs, you've given grace. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight would say, like that little song, Lord, remind me. I'm human and I tend to forget. Remind me. Remind me, dear Lord. Is there some tonight say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me remember what He's done for me and not forget anything like that at all? Maybe there's some, and I'm not going to ask you to respond physically, visibly in any way, but maybe there's some, that old pit's calling. That old Myrie Clay is sleezing its way and trying to draw us back. Let's remember how horrible it was. How miry it was. Maybe we know someone that's unsaved. Let's praise God for what he's done. Let's testify what he's done for us so they can be Saved from that pit and clay. Father, bless her invitation, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together