And I've been mentioning this, this whole section here, all the way up until David actually becomes king, is part, I believe, of his preparation for the kingdom. And then also And also um Israel's preparation for David to be king, they're gonna they're gonna have in just a few years from the events that are taking place here, Israel's gonna have a pretty significant revival uh under David's uh leadership and under his administration. And um and uh a lot of times if you study the history of revivals it takes a bit of um preparation so to speak uh just to prepare the people and humble them and all of that. So they're going to go through some period of turmoil here and uh try and uh and God preparing them for uh what's going on Hebrews chapters um 1 Samuel chapter 18, if you would look, I want to begin reading there in verse 5, and I know we looked at a lot of this, so I'm gonna come down to verse 9, but it's been a little while And we can get back into context here. Verse 5. David went out with whithersoever Saul sent him, and behaved himself wisely. Well, that says a lot about David right there. And Saul said him over the men of war, and he's accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants It came to pass as they came when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistine that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing to meet King Saul with tabres and with joy and with instruments and music. And a woman answered one another as they played and said, Saul has slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands. Well that didn't go over very well. Verse 8. And Saul s Saul was very what? Wroth Boy, he got mad. And the saying displeased him, and he said, They have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed but thousands And what can he have more but the kingdom? Look at verse 9. I like the way the Bible phrases things. Look at this. And Saul eyed David from that day forward. Now I don't know about you, but do you ever try and picture that? What does that mean, the item? You know, he's got his eye on him. And so let's look at this. Let's pray, and then we'll look at this, and we'll finish up this section. We'll start anew next week. Father. Blessed now as we study this passage of Scripture. Lord, you've recorded a lot about David in the Bible. Huge portion of the Bible references David. And uh Lord, you said that uh Jesus will sit on the throne of David as amazing things. So help us to learn from David, that we would be men and women after your own heart, like David was. Help us to learn from his mistakes. And God help us to learn from his strong points also. Fill me with your spirit. I pray on this snowy night that you'd speak to me and those of us that are here and those listening in. That you'd help us to grow in our character and our spiritual maturity. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Remember we pointed out David behaved himself wisely was my first point on this section, and that was verse number five. And then um We uh pointed out the next point was the women's extravagance praise, David's wise reaction, the women's extravagant praise, we talked about that And looked at that in depth. Now we're looking at the last part about Saul's response to these women singing these songs about David's praises. And we noted, if you remember, last week, that uh, or the last time we looked at this, that the first record of Saul's response is that of what? He was very what? He's very raugh. He was angry. And um and uh we noted how that affected him in a lot of ways. If you remember, I pointed out that anger took control over Saul And then we said it um it controlled him, it chafed him, in other words, it displeased him, it it ate at him, uh corrupted his witness, collapsed his relationship, clogged his prayer life clouded his thinking, contaminated those around him, and it compiled his troubles. I thought that was a great alliteration on my part. That section there. Wasn't that fantastic? How many people were impressed with that? That was really ingenious. Benjamin Franklin made this statement. Benjamin Franklin fascinates me. I don't know that he was ever a sayed man. There's a little debate about that. I doubt it. I hope he was. But he wa he was pretty clever. And he had some tremendous insight. And he said this. He said, Whatever begins in anger always ends in shame. It's a pretty good statement. Um I won't ask for a poll, but uh I wonder how many of us can testify that firsthand. I hate to say it, but I can. There's times I I've gotten angry and then afterward I was ashamed of getting angry and maybe something I said or did when I was angry. Can can I at least get a witness on that? I'm not the only one here. Thank you Whatever is begun in anger always ends in shame. And we see that's going to be true about King Saul. His whole relationship with David from this point on is going to be rooted in anger And he ends up doing some things. In fact, we're going to find out next week. He ends up saying and doing things that are absolutely shameful. For anybody, let alone the king of God's people, the kings of Israel, to act that way. And so, uh anger. And I got thinking about this as I was looking back over in my notes and preparing for tonight again I got thinking about this. Nobody ever treated King Saul the way he treated David. You know? But you never find David getting angry at King Saul. I can't find any record where David got angry at King Saul He fled from them, but he always honored them. He always respected them. When he did have opportunity to take vengeance He passed it up, said I'm not going to do it. And so it's interesting that the man that is so eat up with anger at King David has never been treated anyway like he's treating the one that he hates And that says a lot there. So we've we noted his wrath, his anger. Now along with wrath comes the second. flaw in his character, and that is that of envy. And that's what I want us to look at tonight. Envy. What we're finding, I think. Now if you remember, you go back, I think it's chapter 16 I believe it's chapter 16, 15 or 16, is where you find King Saul is being partially obedient to God. Remember, God told him the Amalekites kill them all, and um what was the king's name? Agar. Uh he was supposed to kill them, and he was supposed to kill all the sheep and everything. Remember that? And he didn't And he let the king live, and he kept some of the sheep, the good sheep, and the good spoils, and he he obeyed God partially. And we talked about this recently in message, but partial obedience is what? It's disobedience. And God says, listen, you've rebelled against me, and you've rebelled against me, and you've rebelled against me, and rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft. And he says, I am tearing the kingdom from you. And so this attitude, this hard heart, this rebellious heart that has been for the most part internal, is now starting to bear fruit in his life. And I found that our behavior, particularly over extended behavior, repeated behavior, I found is rooted in what we are in our heart. Uh Jesus says, as a man, uh the Proverbs I think says, as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. And so his heart, what the condition of his heart, the root there in his heart is now starting to bear fruit out in his life. And we're starting to see that. And envy is part of that. Now, what does it mean to be what is envy? What is envy? We talked about this before This is my definition after looking it up and looking at different ways it's used and what different people have said about it. This is my definition. The desire for another person's possessions With resentment. Let me ask you this: what is covetousness? What is it to covet something? Okay, I want it for myself. And to covet something, I think, I think you need to qualify that a little bit, to covet something in a negative sense is to want something that is not legitimately mine. Right. Is it wrong for me to want a nice house? No. Is it wrong for me to want Ken's house and get it from him? Yes. And that's where covetous comes in. Covetousness comes in. So what is envy Envy is wanting something, what did I say it? The desire for another's possession, but you inject into that covetousness, you inject into it resentment. Now, if I my covetousness has turned to envy, now I want Ken's house, and I hate him for having it. You follow what I'm saying? That's what envy is. There's an injection of resentment And another person having something I want. It's one thing to just want what they have and to care less about the person. I just want what they have. But when envy comes in, now resentment is in the mix And I want what they have, and I despise them for having it. And that's what we see in uh in Saul here. Um I put it this way. Somebody said this, I don't remember, I don't know where I got it, but they said this. It's counting your neighbor's blessings and resenting him for it. Envy. So here we find Saul is because envy has taken over. Turn with me if you would, and we're going to look at this here a little bit. Let's go over to Proverbs chapter 27. Proverbs, we keep ending up in Proverbs. Proverbs 27 and verse number four. Proverbs 27, 4. Now remember, we got these evil twins that King Saul has borne in his heart and soul. These evil twins. One is wrath. And now we're looking at the other one is envy. Wrath and envy. Now which one is which one was born first? The wrath or the envy. In uh 1 Samuel 18, wrath is mentioned first, but I want to suggest to you that envy was born first. And wrath was the result of that envy. We'll look at that here in a minute. Look at Proverbs 27, verse 4. Wrath is cruel, and anger is outrageous. But who is able to stand before envy? Now, looking at that and how it's stated, of the three mentioned there, wrath, anger, and envy, according to the way that's worded, which of those would be the worst? Envy, who can stand? Wrath as bad as wrath is and as outrageous as anger is, uh who can stand before envy? Envy, and that phrase who can stand before envy has this idea Nobody can control that. Nobody can stand up to that. It takes over. And we notice that in King Saul. It just takes over him. He couldn't stand up to it. Um uh wrath and anger, uh I I wrath and anger are generally provoked from without But I want to say if somebody does something, oh, that makes me angry. Somebody cuts me off its sheets. I'm furious. I'm mad at that. Somebody's in line at Walmart and they got twelve items in the 10 item thing. Oh, that infuriates me. You know, I always say that However, envy isn't necessarily, I don't think envy is necessarily provoked from what is without. I think envy originates in my heart. No, and this is what I mean by that. If somebody, if I'm envious of somebody, I'm envious of Ed's truck. No, I'm not, it keeps breaking down. I'm envious of his car It doesn't Ed's not doing anything to provoke me. His behavior has nothing to do with provoking any anger or wrath in me. It's my own sinful heart that's provoked that's causing that envy. Follow what I'm trying to say? Now if he mouths me off and complains about a long message, then I get angry at him because of something he's doing. You see what I'm trying to say? So coming back to King Saul and David, David wasn't doing anything against King Saul. David was, in fact, David was doing good stuff. David was helping him. And so his envy is stirred up because David's getting the attention and his envy produced the wrath. So envy is uh I was trying to define this. I was working, I was bouncing these off my wife and um she was texting somebody and it's just like, oh yeah, sure it's great. So I think these are good. But um here's here's some other statements about envy that I I put up. Envy is covetousness on crack. I thought that was pretty clever. It's covetousness taken to a whole nother level. It is covetousness injected with anger. Resentment. And this was my final statement on studying this. Envy is sin. It is sin. To resent somebody else for something God has blessed them with. To resent somebody else for something that may have accomplished or something good that may have happened or that they possess, to envy that, to resent them because of that, is absolute sin on my part. And I don't think we give a lot of thought to envy. And I think probably most of us would say envy is not a part of my life. But if I study the Bible, it is mentioned all through Scripture. And I think envy is a bigger issue in our Christian lives than what we may even recognize or at least acknowledge. And so envy, like unforgiveness and like anger, is battery acid on the soul. It affects me. Uh Sol uh King Saul was more messed up by his envy than he ever messed David up. It did more damage to Saul than it did to uh to to David in any way. And so I want to look at a few things here on envy, how it affected Saul, and then I want to look real quickly at a cure for s for envy. And so let's look at these real quick. I'll just go down the list. Come back here to 1 Samuel 18. And the first one I put down with this. Saul's envy instigated anger. Now, this was what I was getting at a little bit a little bit ago. Notice verse 8, Saul was very wroth. The anger is mentioned first, but I do not believe it was born first. I believe he heard the song, he heard what the women were saying about David, he became envious, and that envy produced the anger. Saul's anger was caused by his envy, not by David's action. I think if you would have removed Saul's envy from him, from his heart, he would have had no problem with David. Because David's behavior was good for him. I don't know a king in the world that wouldn't want tens of thousands of his enemies destroyed. What nation wouldn't want that? What nation wouldn't want the champion that they're all terrified of to be removed and dispatched and not have to deal with them anymore? All this stuff is good for King Saul. All that David did was good for him. But because that envy was in place, then boom, that produced that wrath. And we had to be very, very careful And I think this is why in the New Testament the Lord mentions rejoice with them that do rejoice. As a safeguard against envy, man, God's blessed that person. Hey, if we hear of a report of a church where souls are getting saved and they're growing and they're booming, we ought to rejoice in that. We don't have to be envious. Well, they're probably liberal. They're probably compromising some way. No, no, no. And we laugh at that, but the fact is a lot of, that happens a lot in my circles. And you have to be careful about that. And so this envy instigated this anger. I put the second observation down. This envy nurtured paranoia. Look at verse the second part of verse 8. And he said, They have ascribed unto David tens of thousands, and to me they have ascribed but thousands. Let me just stop there. That was I put in the margin of my Bible. Very foolish. What is Solomon doing when he says they've given David tens of thousands, but me thousands? What is he doing? He's what? Oh so I keep saying Solomon, Saul. Uh when he said that, w what was he doing? He was comparing himself Does anybody happen to know what 2 Corinthians 10, 12 says? He says, it says, comparing themselves among themselves, they were not wise. I tell you what, we gotta watch out for comparing ourselves to others. That is a very, very foolish thing to do And that's what we find Solomon doing. He's comparing what they're saying here. And then look what he says. Look at his last statement. And what can they ha what can he have more but the kingdom? Let me ask you a question. Is there anything in David's behavior, any statement David made that we're aware of that's recorded for us in any way that even remotely hints that David's trying to take the kingdom from him? No There's nothing there whatsoever. But in Saul's mind, he is becoming paranoid because of this tremendous envy he has. And so he is projecting onto David. his own mentality, his own spiritual condition, and he's becoming incredibly paranoid And this envy affected him in a in a tremendous way. There's nothing here to suggest now David is going to be the king because God's anointed him But David's not pursuing that. He's content to wait on God's timing. He's content to, he wants to help King Saul be successful in every way he possibly can until that point. But he's become so paranoid. There's a proverb uh that says, the wicked flee when Anybody remember? The wicked flee when no man pursueth. That's paranoia. They're chasing me. They're everywhere. Um uh and so uh the third thing I noticed that this envy affected Saul was it neutralized his relationships. Do you see what I'm doing here? Instigated anger, nurtured paranoia, neutralized his relationships. Look at verse 9. And Saul eyed David from that day forward. There it is. I got looking up that word eyed, and uh it's in a continuous sense. Now I'm not a great English scholar on the la English language. But I understand that word I'd what it's translated from is in a continuous sense. What does that mean? If it's in a continuous sense, it means it's it's ongoing. In other words, this wasn't just the one timey banny songs that uh stink pot. It wasn't that was it's this was ongoing. When these women started singing, boy, it boiled up and it was there. He's he's eyeing David, not just in this one instance But from here on out, he's watching everything David does. Now here's what the idea of eyeing is. This is my definition again. to continually and critically scrutinize and find fault with every word and deed that David does. He's eyeing them. In other words, in Saul's eyes, David couldn't do nothing right. He couldn't say anything right. Did you ever have did you ever say that to somebody? I can't do nothing right for you. Anybody ever Anybody ever have somebody say that to um everybody anybody say is man you can't do anything you can't do nothing right I can't say nothing right no matter what I do it's wrong no matter anybody we're getting a little personal here now Yeah, don't look at your wife right now and don't elbow her or anything. But that's basically what's going on with Saul. I mean it doesn't matter what David does. In Saul's mind, there's something wrong with it. There's something wrong with it. There's something wrong with it. That's what eyeing somebody is. Can I throw I keep repeating myself a little bit here, but David was Saul's friend. He was an asset in every way, shape, and form. But Saul couldn't say it. And man, everything he did was wrong. Everything he did was wrong. I put this down. It annihilated the peace of God. Look at verse 10. Now we're going to come back and look at these verses uh in in the future a little more detail. But look at verse 10. And it came to pass on the morrow that the evil spirit of God came upon Saul. Here it is again. It is impossible to be envious and have peace with God. Envy, at its very root, is discontentment, right? Saul is not content with the fact that they're praising him for thousands. And it is impossible to be discontented, it is impossible to be covetous and discontented and still have the peace of God. Can I say this? And we've already preached on the anger part of this, but it is impossible to be angry and have peace Try it sometime. Get mad and try and just have the peace of God while you're mad. It's impossible. Why don't you calm down and rest? Damn, calm down. Alright? And so there's no peace of God. So his spirit is opened up for this evil spirit of God to come upon him. And I'm telling you, when we get in this state that Saul is in, if we allow ourselves to get into that frame of mind, Man, we are opening ourselves up to saying and doing things that are absolutely horrendous. And Saul's right there, and he stays in that condition. And by the way, there is nothing that anybody has in the world that is worth sacrificing the peace of God for. David's getting the praise of these women, and as wonderful as that was, it was not worth losing the peace of God for Saul. It's better to have the peace of God and have nobody praising us than to have the whole world praising us and not have the peace of God in our heart and life. Follow what I'm saying? And so that's where King Saul is. And then I put this down. It incited greater sin. Look at verse 11. This is what I'm going to preach on next week, hopefully teach on it. And Saul cast the javelin, for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. He went from envy that produced anger, and now we're at attempted murder. Sin in all its forms is always progressive. If I tolerate a little bit of sin and I let that go, that sin is not going to stay little bitty. It is going to grow, it is going to mutate, and it is going to progress to greater and greater and greater sin. Um how many guys say, oh yeah, how many people say this? Oh I just drink a little social drink, never be more than that. Boy, where does that lead? I've never met a drunkard that didn't beget become a drunkard first by beginning to drink Some form another. You know what's so s can I just vent a little bit? You know what's so stupid about legalizing marijuana Because it always leads to greater things. Ask Tom, he can tell you firsthand. I mean not that he's smoking it, but um in the prison there. And this alcohol is the same thing. Let me give you a little personal testimony. Uh when I forget what age I was and my dad's here. But um It was it was summer, I was probably about fifteen I guess or so. We went to a a rock concert and um my buddy came out and he had a bunch of pot. And so for the first time I smoked pot. Oh it was grace. Oh it was wonderful. And we may we came back and I still can see we're sitting in the car I still is a long time ago, but I still I can still hear him saying we are never going to do anything more than pot. There's one smoke pot, no chemicals, we're never going to do any of that stuff. You know how long it lasts? About a month. It was something else, it was something else, something else. Until it is absolutely took over. And what is true on alcohol, and what is true on drugs, is true in any kind of sin you want to come up with And so Sol uh Saul keep saying Solomon. Saul has allowed this envy to take root in his heart. He's become very, very angry. And now it's progressed. It's in it's he's been incited to attempted murder of all things And then the last thing I have on how it affected them was this. If you come down to verse number 12, it makes two statements. And again, I want to talk about this in a little more detail later on. But look at verse 12. And Saul was what? Afraid of David. Come down to verse number 15, the last part of verse 15. He was afraid of him. Saul is scared of David now, and so it induced fear. I thought it was interesting, and again I might want to bring this out a little bit later, but three characteristics of Saul at this point in his life Anger, envy, and fear. You know what that sounds like to me? Misery. That sounds like a miserable, miserable person. They're angry, they're envious, and they're scared. So that's how envy affected Saul. What's the cure for envy? How do I cure envy? Well, I found a psalm that addresses that, believe it or not. Go to Psalm 73. And initially I thought, I'll bet this is a psalm written by David. And it isn't. It's Asaph. And so I know nothing about the context or the situation, what was going on in Asaph's life at this point, but he admits that he was envious. Psalm 73, come over there. I just want to go down through this list real quick that I noticed here. The first 16 verses He's expressing his envy of the wicked. Now it's a little different than Saul's envy in that Saul was envious of the praise of a good man. Where here Asaph is envious of the prosperity of wicked people. But regardless of what the object of the envy is, the characteristics are the same. And the cure is the same. Look, verse 1. Truly God is good to Israel, and as such is of a clean heart. Now look what he said. But as for me, there's a confession going on here. My feet were almost gone. My steps had well-nigh slipped. Man, he's he's about he's on the verge of really, really messing up. Look what he says. What caused all this? For I was what? Envious at who? The foolish. When I saw the prosperity of the wicked, for there is no for there are no bands in their death, but their strength is firm They are not in trouble as other men, neither are they plagued like other men. Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain, violence covereth them as a garment, their eyes stand out with fatness. They have more than heart could wish They're corrupt and speak wickedly concerning oppression. They speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens. Their tongues walk through the earth. Therefore his people return thither, and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them And they say, how doth God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High? Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world. They increase in riches. Verily, I've cleansed my hands in vain. I've washed my hands in innocency. All the day long have I been plagued and chastened every morning. If I say, I will speak thus, behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children. When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me. Do you get the picture he's painting of his thinking? He's seeing these wet his wicked people out there. I mean, they talk wickedly, they live wicked lives, they have no fear of God. And man, their banks or accounts are loaded and they're and uh they have health and they're prosperous. And you see, I see all that here I am and I'm trying to keep my hands clean, I'm trying to do right I don't have any of that. And he says it caused him to be envious of the wicked. And um you know what? I think that's I think that's a very real issue maybe in our day and age. Now we wanna we wanna You know, we want to dump everything on the young people, but I think that might be a little bit of our problem-reaching uh young people growing up for the Lord. We live in such a prosperous land And they see on the media and on the television and all of this on the computer they see all these people living ungodly lives. And man, they're living it up and it seems like they don't have any problems and everything's wonderful to them And here we are, and we can't afford that, and I gotta do this, and can't do you follow what I'm saying? And so envy, if we're not careful, we get envious of the wicked. Now what's the cure for that? And I believe in verse 17 he gives the cure. And again, I just want to go down, list these as quickly as I can. I notice verse 17. I need to correct my perspective. ASAP had a wrong perspective. Look what he says in verse 17. He says, I thought on these coming up to it, I'm all endy of this. Verse 17. Until I went into the what? Sanctuary of God. What is the sanctuary of God? In that day and age, in that time frame, the sanctuary of God is where they went for public worship. Where Israel would show up on the Sabbath for their worship and all of that. What would be a counterpart to that in our day and age? Church! He goes, man, I saw all the Hollywood movie stars and I saw all the politicians and the musicians and all these people living unguily lives and they're drinking and carrying on and nothing's wrong and they're enjoying themselves and it's just all going their way. And I got envious of them. But then I went to church until I went to church. Now, what in the world happened at church? What do you generally hear at church? A sermon from the Word of God if it's a legitimate church. And I think what happened was he went to the sanctuary, he heard a message from the Word of God, however it was conveyed back then, and it cleared up his thinking. It cleared up his thinking. And so it corrected his perspective. I think a lot of our trouble in life is we fail to see things from God's perspective. I went through a number of years ago, I went through a really challenging time, difficult time, some things I was having to deal with. And I remember so many times I knelt by the bed and I prayed, God, help me to see this from your perspective. Because from my perspective, it's overwhelming. From my perspective, it's devastating. I need to see this from your perspective. And God helped. And I've found if we can look at life and we can look at our condition and we can look at our circumstances and we look what's happening in the world from God's perspective. That envy go uh uh is cured up cleared up pretty good. And we're going to see here why in just a moment. Let me give you my second observation. By the way, if Solomon had God's perspective, it would have c solved this whole problem. Not Solomon, King Saul had got saw this from God's perspective, it had cleared it all up. But all he could see was from his point of view. Number two, then I need to comprehend reality. Look at verse 17 320 says, Then I understood their end. Surely thou didst set them in slippery places. Thou castest them down to destruction. How are they brought into desolation as in a moment they are utterly consumed with terrors? I bracketed verse 18 and 19 in my Bible, and in the margin I put this hell He saw their end. These are lost people living it up, carrying on for a brief period of time, as brief as life is. Charlie and I were talking before church tonight, how time is screaming by. You think how brief our lives are, and he says, I saw their end, and then he gives a veiled description of hell there. And if we remember these people that we think, oh, if I could just be in their their shoes, oh if I could just have that lifestyle, oh don't forget where they're heading. Don't forget the end of that lifestyle. Broad is the way that leadeth to destruction. And so reality and need to comprehend reality. Reality is the wicked are without God and without hope in the world, and they die that way. They're lost for all eternity. And then number three, verse 21 and 22, I noticed, confess envy's foolishness. He says, Thus my heart was grieved, I was pricked in my reins. What is he describing? There, ver that verse. Conviction. He got convicted about this. Now remember, he's at the sanctuary. He heard a message probably on hell. He's like, oh wow, that's all these people I'm so envious of. That's where they're heading. And he got convicted. Look what he says in verse 22. So what? Foolish was I, and ignorant. I was as a beast before thee, speaking to the Lord. And so he confessed his foolishness. And then number four, verse thirty-three through twenty-eight, he contended himself with God's provisions and with God's person. Look at what he says here. I'll just read it. Nevertheless, I am continually with thee The wicked can't say that. I'm continually with thee. Thou hast holded me by my right hand. Boy, what a blessing that is. I tell you what, I'd rather live a poor life with God holding my hand than live a rich life and God nowhere around. Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel and afterward, afterward, remember their end was horrible. Afterward, receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there is none upon the earth I desire bes beside thee My flesh and my heart faileth, but God is the strength of my heart, and my portion forever. Lo, for lo, they that are far from thee shall perish. Thou hast destroyed all men that go ahooring from thee, but it is good for me to draw near to God that I uh I have put my trust in the Lord God that I may declare all thy works. Well he got his head on straight, didn't he? Because man, if I uh you know being poor with God is far greater than being rich and living in sin. And what a great statement. And I think that is the cure For envy is get my eyes off of others, get my eyes off of things, get my eyes off of myself, and get my eyes on the Lord, and realize how good I have it in Christ I tell you, eternity is a long time to be wrong. And so we need to get our head on straight. D. L. Moody told a story. He was preaching on envy. This was 100 years ago or whatever. He was preaching on envy. And he told a story about two eagles. And one eagle was A tremendous flyer. And this eagle could fly so high. Did I tell this before? I did. Rats! I'll tell it again. R did I really? Good. Yeah. Alright. This is for those that haven't heard it. Man, that stinks. It's a really good one, so I'll tell it again. And he said this one eagle could fly so tremendously, and the other eagle could fly fair. I mean he couldn't do everything the other guy did, and the eagle got envious The moderate flyering eagle was envious of the great flying eagle And he saw a hunter out with his bow and arrow, and he said, um, and the eagle said to the hunter, he said, Would you shoot down that bird up there, that eagle way up there? And the hunter said, I would, but I need a feather for my arrow to be able to shoot that high. And the envious eagle pulled a feather out and said, Here, use this. And he shot and it fell short. Didn't get He goes, oh. And the eagle said, try again. And the hunter said, I need another feather. He pulled another feather out, put it in his arrow, shot, missed again. He just try again. He said, I need another feather. By the time it was all said and done, the eagle that was envious had no feathers left And the good eagle flying up there was just high above any arrows that would ever reach. And he said the moral of the story is when we get our eyes on others and we get envious of others, the only person we hurt, the only person we destroy is ourselves. And that's what we're going to see happen to King Saul. Saul gave David a hard time. Several years he chased him around, made his life miserable. But you know what was happening? God was using that to strengthen David's steel and make him a strong, mature leader. And all was happening to King Saul. Was running them in, pulling the feathers out, pulling feathers out. And by the time you get to the end of King Saul's life, he's just a pitiful, pe featherless bird. That ends up dying on the battlefield. Envy. What a terrible thing. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help me and help all of us. To be content with such things as we have. You said that's great gain, godliness with contentment. I pray you'd help us keep not get our eyes on others and be so obsessed with this old sinful world. Help us to see what you've done for us and what we have in Christ. And Lord, help us to guard against envy and push out anger. And help us to have faith in you. How many would say, preacher, I'm praying God helps me be content and to rejoice in the Lord and what I have with Him. Any like that? My hands raised. That's what I want. I want to be content in the Lord and not get all worked up what I don't have, what others may or may not have. Father, you know our hearts, you know where we're at and what we need. We ask you to help us in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. If we can get the guys to come on down, we'll