Chapter number eighteen, if you would turn there with me. First Samuel eighteen. We are studying the life of David. And uh working our way through here, I really wanted to get a couple verses covered tonight, but as I uh working on the message and studying and uh It's we're not gonna get all the verses covered tonight I wanted to. So at the rate we're going, it will be the year thirty three thousand, I think. When we finish up the study of David. 1 Samuel 18. I want to begin reading in verse 5. We've already looked at verse 5, 6, and 7. Tonight we're going to look at verse 8. I don't think we're going to get to 9, but I want to read the whole section together to keep it in context so we understand what's happening here. Goliath has been slain by David. David has beheaded him. The Philistines were put in a rout as the Israelite army was emboldened by David's great act of faith. And they pursued the Philistines, and there was a great slaughter took place, not just of Goliath, but of many of the Philistines. Uh David has now been appointed by Saul to uh be in his I don't know if you'd say his cabinet or um uh he's uh in h on his staff, I guess we could say at least And David is behaving himself very wisely, we've noticed in verse 5. David went out whithersoever Saul sent him and behaved himself wisely. And Saul set him over the men of war, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants. And it came to pass as they came when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistine That the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet King Saul. Now who'd they come out to meet? King Saul, no word of David here. They came out to meet King Saul and um uh meet King Saul with their with tabrays and joy and with instruments of music And the woman answered one another as they played and said, Saul has slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands. Um people agree with me, that's a good thing Sure, that's a good they're not saying anything wrong. They're coming out to Saul. I don't I don't see any ill on the part of the women what they're doing there. I think they messed up a little bit. We looked at last week But look how Saul responds. This is what we're going to get to tonight. And Saul was very thrilled with the joy and victory that was attained. No. Look at this. And Saul was very what? Wroth. And the saying displeased him. And he said, they have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed but thousands. What can he have more but the kingdom? That's a little stretch, you know, on his part. So what Saul's saying. And Saul eyed David from that day and forward. We're talking about an envious eye. Let's pray, and we'll look at verse 8 tonight. Father in heaven. I thank you for the testimony of David, his ups and downs, his successes and his failures. Lord, you've told us in your word in New Testament that all this is recorded for our benefit, that we can grow and learn. Grow in our faith and and learn how you respond to man's actions and how man's the consequences of what man's actions are here and So many lessons. So I pray you'd speak to us and teach us tonight, myself included. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray with all my heart it would not be me teaching. But I would pray it would be the Spirit of God, the author, the Word of God, would be teaching all of us tonight how to grow and respond and to deal with our sinful nature in one particular area. So I yield myself to you, Lord, with all my heart. I pray you'd fill me and uh and uh speak through me, as I said. In Jesus' name, amen All right, it's interesting. As David is rising in stature, in his maturity, his experience, but also in the eyes of the nation, as David is on the rise uh ultimately uh ending up on the throne of Israel, as David's on the rise, King Saul is what? He's decreasing. He's on the downward side. And we see Saul, we're going to see in the next several chapters as we go through this coming year, we're going to see Saul diminish more and more and more and more. He is falling apart. And what we read here tonight is the beginning, in a sense, of Saul's outward demise. Now inwardly he's already been rejected by God. Inwardly he's already messed up. But outwardly that's not been as visible as it's going to be in the next little bit. So we see this contrast. David is developing in stature. He is growing. His respect in the eyes of the people uh is increasing more and more as we read here. We pointed out a couple weeks ago my first point in the my division of this section here is uh was verse number five, David's exceptional wisdom, if you remember that We pointed out his allegiance to Saul in spite of Saul's condition, in spite of Saul's cowardice and weak faith, David was loyal. to King Saul. He was loyal to his king, he was loyal to his commander, he was loyal to his people. Then we said noted that David's actions, he behaved himself wisely, and then we pointed out that David was accepted not just by the people at large, But also by Sir Saul's servants who he is working shoulder to shoulder with, and that speaks a lot about David, that people that knew him best understood and respected him. Then we pointed out last week I think it was the women's extravagant praise And uh we said that these women coming out of the cities as the armies are retur are returning, um sa King Saul is returning from battle. This was an ordinary practice, if you remember, we said that. This was something that was not out of the ordinary. It happened uh any time they had a victorious campaign, the women would come out and do this. Uh if they were returning from some um uh some uh uh some type of political meeting with other kings and they're coming back they do this type of thing. We said it was an organized performance and that they were responding one to another verse number seven We said it was an orderly proclamation. I think they're being very, very respectful. They're singing, their songs are addressed to King Saul. who is the king, they should be. Uh they are praising Saul. They're not saying anything critical of Saul at all. And so it was orderly. Now I've injected another point in this, and I'm not going to uh uh spend time on it, but I've injected another point from last week when we looked at this. I put this, it's an outlandish pronouncement And by that I meant this. I wonder if they aren't exaggerating here a little bit. Saul has slain his thousands and David is what? 10,000. Now, most likely this was one battle. Now I hesitate to say dogmatically that they're exaggerating, because the Bible doesn't say they're exaggerating. We know David was an exceptional warrior And so it's very possible that they were being accurate in their statement. However, my impression is they were using what we call artistic license. Does anybody know what artistic license is? It's exaggeration is what it is. Anybody listen to FBN at noon during the weekdays? FBN at noon. What do they do every day at noon on the 88. 7? Oh, sake can use. They play the national anthem. What do they do immediately after the national anthem? They have news. And then after the news, I think that's correct, Order, they have the Bible in living sound. Anyone ever listen to that? Three of us. I know you all are busy during the day. But um the Bible and Living Sound they're acting out uh Bible events and different things and they'll put sound to it and they'll act and um they will take artistic liberties sometimes. And I listen to that And I say, I don't remember reading that exactly in the Bible. And what they're doing is they're filling in and and, you know, making it a story, uh making it uh tellable, even though it may not be exactly So I don't know if maybe these ladies were using a little artistic uh uh license here. Maybe they were exaggerating. But we did say this, it was out of place. The praise was out of line. And by that we meant there's no mention of God. They didn't say anything about God giving the victory and this whole battle, it was obviously God that gave the victory. It wasn't David's skill, certainly wasn't King Saul or the armies. Now we get to the last point, my third point in the division of this passage, and it is this Saul's envious wrath. Look with me again at verse number eight. The opening statement. They're singing to Saul. They're singing his praises. And Saul was very wroth. Saul was very wroth. I enjoy working in flower beds. I am not very good at it, but I thoroughly enjoy it. I like having a little garden. A couple plants out there. I didn't have much of a garden this year. We got a dog and everything that was planted was eaten before it ever even got out of the ground. Uh but the front yard uh we have some flower beds and they were protected. And I enjoy working in the flower beds and um like I said I'm not that great at it but I get like digging out digging around and planting and finding different plants and stuff. And I found, I learned something working in the flower bed, and that is this, if you do not tend or take care of the flowers and the flower bed, something happens. Anybody want to guess what happens if you do not keep the flower bed? Waves show up. How in the world did they get there? I didn't plant them. Uh but out of nowhere, I'll dig that whole thing up. I'll have little um I'll put little uh fabric uh little um not fabric uh um That stuff underneath the ground, fabric type stuff that's supposed to keep the weeds from coming through, and I'll work that, work that, and lo and behold, it won't be two days later, and there's weeds coming up through there And um what if those weeds are growing and I would come and take a weed eater, a weed whacker, and just whack them off, what would happen? They come immediately right back. If I want to get rid of the weeds, if I don't want those weeds terrorizing my flower bed, And corrupting my flower bed and making it ugly, I've got to do more than just whack off the top. I've got to do what? I've got to get down to the roots. The roots. Solomon or uh King Saul has some serious root problems Can I put it this way? David was a quote-unquote beautiful garden for King Saul. David could have enhanced and been a tremendous, let me put it this way, garnish to King Saul's administration. David was good for King Saul. David enhanced King Saul's leadership. It was far better for King Saul to have David on his staff than not have him on his staff. But Saul had a problem. He had weeds, and he never got to the heart. Now, those weeds took place in Saul's heart. He had two particular Growing in his heart, and they took deep root, and both of those weeds are extremely ugly. It's funny. My wife is from West Virginia. And I don't mean Charleston or Huntington or a city, Morgantown, West Virginia. I mean West Virginia. You know what I'm saying? Uh her nephew came up and visited us years ago and he said he ain't never been to a city like Oakland before. That's the truth. That is a true statement. She's from Hinkle Mountain, West Virginia. Um I'm saying I'm saying Well you know what I'm saying, West Virginia So we met in college and we moved to Indianapolis and we lived in a nice little suburb of Indianapolis. Indianapolis is a pretty good-sized city. We live in a suburb, Beach Grove, and we got a nice little house and uh had two no, we don't we don't have any cats, but uh we had this nice little house. and a nice yard and uh driveway and a little garage there and it was just a cute little home young couple we were renting it and um but the yard was covered with dandelions I mean thousands of dandelions And you'd drive down and uh we'd tell people how to get to our house. It's just the one with the yellow yard. And um and so I said, we've got to do something about this. These are terrible. And so I started spraying them and doing stuff getting out there. Remember when you were a kid you used to dig them out with a with a uh a screwdriver or something you get down? And I started and Kathy thought That those were planted there on purpose, that those were flowers that we wanted to. So some weeds are a little attractive. Some weeds are very, very ugly. The weeds in King Saul's heart were very, very ugly. There was two of them. One was anger and one was envy. Now he was able to, on occasion, we'll see this later on as we study David. He was able to on occasion whack the top off of then, but it was only temporarily they would come back. A couple of times he was confronted when he was trying to kill David. He was confronted about that and he says, Oh, I'm wrong, I've sinned, you're right. All he was doing was whacking the top off because that that envy and that anger came right back again And so we're introduced to these two weeds, these two roots in the heart of King Saul. And I think they're both closely, very closely associated with each other. And they are this anger and envy. And I want to take a little bit of time tonight and next lesson and look at these two roots, these two weeds that are rooted in the heart of Saul, that have become such a part of his character. That uh they be they became very detrimental to him. The first one is anger, as I said. And Saul was very wroth Now that's interesting how the Bible uses terminology sometimes. Very rough. I got looking that phrase up and how it's used throughout scripture. And I found that that phrase is actually used in various, it's translated various ways throughout the Bible, but sometimes it's exactly as it is here, and it's used with quite a few different people in Scripture. They were very wroth. They were very wroth. Jews with quite a few people. Some, you, if you didn't know your Bible, you might be surprised to hear that phrase used about that. But one of the people, one of the uh the ones that it's used about the most, is the Lord God How about that? The Lord was very wroth. And anybody want to guess who the object of the Lord's anger was almost exclusively? Children of Israel. Over and over and over it says the Lord was very wroth. The Lord was very angry with them. So, the Lord, it uses that phrase of the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, ah, so then being angry, being very wroth, is not necessarily a bad thing. I would say being very wroth, and we'll talk about the literal definition of the word, but I would say being very wroth would be okay for you and I. With two qualifications. Number one, we've got to be perfectly wise. All right. We've got to be um let me put it this way, let me take it back. We need to be perfectly holy And number two, particularly for that phrase very wroth, we must have absolute all power. Because anger is incredibly powerful. And the only being that I know of in existence that is able to deal with anger. correctly is Almighty God. Because I do not believe that you and I are strong enough morally or in our in our persons strong enough to deal with it. And I'll I'll exp try and explain why I say that. And so it's the only person that's ever used without negative consequences in the scripture, that phrase, is Jehovah, Lord God Almighty. He's perfectly holy and he's all powerful. In the Bible, we're going to notice when this phrase, this anger, this level of anger took over people in the Bible, it was always destructive. Every single time it was destructive. I thought about, as I was studying this and look at this, I thought about James chapter 1 and verse 20. The Bible says the wrath of man, not the wrath of God, the wrath of man worketh not. Anyone know the rest of that verse? Worketh not. The righteousness of God. Now I hear people and some good people and fellows that are, my dear friends, I have tremendous respect for. I've heard them say it from our pulpit Yes, preachers that are very, very dear to me, I have utmost respect for them. They'll say something like this, Well, there's a place for righteous indignation. And I take issue with that, personally. Because of James chapter 1 and verse 20, the wrath of man, there's no qualifications on that. The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. I cannot accomplish righteousness through anger. Through wrath. He cannot. It does not work the righteousness of God. So this phrase is interesting. It's used all through Scripture. And almost every category of person, people you'd be surprised. That had this issue and dealt with this same thing that King Saul struggled with. Now let's look at King Saul and notice what this anger, this uh very wrath, being very, very angry, let's notice how it affected him. Number one, this is my first thought, is this uh this anger controlled King Saul. It controlled him. Look at this phrase here again. And I learned something else tonight. I learned, well, I already knew this, but I relearned it, is do not eat a lot of food right before you preach. Because there's stuff happening up here that you don't know about. It controlled him. The word very wroth there means this, to be exceedingly furious. I mean, he's not just Anybody ever say this? Boy that ticked me off. Anybody ever say something like that? It means it kind of, man, that got my goat. That is kindergarten compared to what this word means. This word means iks in so notice he says it doesn't say he was wroth, it doesn't say he was angry, says he was very wroth I mean this is exceedingly furious. The one definition I had used this term to be exceedingly incensed. Ever heard of that phrase? It is, as I was studying this and how it's used and the definition, I came to this thought. This is borderline insanity. He is so angry, he is losing control of his thinking, he is losing control of his actions. He has absolutely lost it. This anger has taken over. It's interesting. The same phrase is used early in the Bible in Genesis chapter 4. Two brothers came and brought their offerings to the Lord. Anyone want to guess who those two brothers were? Cain and Abel. And the Lord had respect for Abel's offering because it was shed blood, it was as instructed. But Cain brought to the Lord who remembers what was his offering. Vegetables, the fruit of the field, grain, those types of things, non-blood offering. And God refused, did not have respect for Cain's offering. And the Bible says that Cain was very wroth. And he got so angry that anger took over him and drove him to actually kill his brother. He lost control. It's interesting. The Lord said about his anger. He said, I do right to be angry. And he says, and I'm putting in similar words, he said, you can still do right Basically, the Lord said, listen, you bring the right offering, and um and uh it'll be fine, but sin is lying at your door. And I think what the Lord was telling to Cain was, listen, you can straighten this up, you can take care of this, you can put away this rat. He's laying at the door, but if you don't, that thing's going to come through. And that anger came through, and he ended up killing his brother. First murderer in the Bible. Somebody else in the Bible, there's a whole slew. We could talk about Jonah and some of the prophets. There's a whole list of folks that had a hard time with anger. But one another one stands out. That was Moses of all people. Now I have, to me, Moses is, Moses is the man. Now what a phenomenal man of God. I'm reading in uh Hebrews right now in my personal devotions. I read this morning. And um yesterday morning uh I was reading where Moses, where Jesus is compared to Moses. Isn't that an amazing thing? But yet Moses had a terrible time with anger and cost him deeply. And in fact, it ultimately cost him in a sense getting into the promised land. And what's and what uh what illustrates how anger can so take over a person it can control us, as it did King Saul. We notice when Moses went up on the mount and he got the tablets. Let me ask you a question. When he first went up on the mount, who made those tablets of stone? Who made them? God did. God carved them out and God wrote the law with his finger onto those tablets. How many people would be amazed? just to see some tablets that God made and God himself wrote on them. How many people would be amazed, fascinated by that? Moses has them. And he climbs down the mountain carrying these things. We don't know how big they were, but I imagine there was some substance to them. And he's coming down that mountain. He's bringing these things down to give to the people of God And he hears the party and going on, you know the story, and the golden calf and all of that. And Moses becomes exceedingly angry. And what does he do? He loses control and he smashes them. Goes through all that, and then God says, all right, we need to do this again. And this time he tells Moses, you carve them out. Moses had to make them himself. And then he had to lug them back up on top of the mountain for God to write on them and bring them down. And over and over and over throughout Moses' ministry, he would lose his cool. My point is this, anger will control us If we don't root that thing out, it took over King Solomon and absolutely destroyed his life. So anger, first of all, controlled King Saul. There's a saying in the sports world. I've heard, I came across this, a saying in the sports world: mad players are bad players. What anybody want to take a shot? What does that mean? When they say a mad player is a bad player, what are they saying? Yeah. They lose their ability to function. They're not going to play as well. They're not going to perform as well. When anger has taken over them, it diminishes their ability. The idea here is, man, keep your cool. You'll do much better if you keep your cool. Stay controlled. How many of us here have ever gotten angry and said things we ought never have said? Anybody give a witness? How many people ever got angry and did things we never dreamed we would do? What in the world? Anybody here? Anybody say that? What in the world came over me? I'll tell you what came over. That anger controls us How many times we end up coming and saying, man, I can't believe I said that. I'm so sorry. So Saul was controlled by his anger. The second thing I notice here in this verse is Saul was chafed. By his anger. This anger chafed him. Now what does it mean if something chafes you? Anybody know what I'm talking about that? Any of you guys when you're young you're wearing blue jeans and they got wet and you're running around riding your bike. Does anybody know have any i does anybody have any idea what I'm talking about? You all looking at me Y'all, I'm telling you what, we're not having food before church ever again. Yeah, it would get wet and you'd sit on your bike seat and your inside of your calves would rub, man, it would just chake that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And look what it says here about King Saul. Look at this. And it says, and Saul was very wroth, and the saying what? Displeased him. That word displeased is interesting. It means an internal trembling. It means internal turmoil I'm experiencing a little internal turmoil right now from eating right before uh I preach. But what does it say when it says that he was displeased? He was internally he was in turmoil. What do you think that's saying? It was saying that this thing ate at him. This thing stole his sleep from him. He could not sleep. His peace was gone. And I put this down. It is impossible to have the peace of God and be angry at the same time. You see an angry person, I'm showing a person that does not have the peace of God in their heart. It's displeased. There's turmoil. It brings turmoil with it. I put this down. Excuse me, uh it is impossible to have the fruit of the spirit and be angry Because anger, according to Galatians chapter 5, verse 19, down through verse 20, 21, somewhere in there, because anger is a work of the flesh. And verse 22, I think it is, where it says, but the fruit of the Spirit, you go down through that list, and not one of them references anger. So I cannot simultaneously perform a work of the flesh and yet at the same time bear fruit of the Spirit. So this anger, first it controlled King Saul, then it chafed at him. He was just tore up. I put this down. Number three, it corrupted King Saul's witness and his testimony. Angry behavior denies the power of the gospel. Anger weakens our Christian witness. Now tell me, correct me if I'm wrong or not. Now correct me later, not now, but um see if you don't agree with this. I believe I need to have someone's respect if I'm going to have much of a testimony with them. Does that make sense? If I if but they don't respect me, then they're not going to listen to much of what I have to say about anything. If they don't respect me, Then I'm not going to, I'm my witness and my testimony is very, very ineffective. And when that when Saul, when anger took over Saul, you find no respect from Saul from this point on. From this point on, there's no more singing Saul's praises. There's no more respect on the part of anybody in Israel for King Saul. It just goes downhill from there. I'm I put this down in my notes. The world is watching. Anybody here ever worked for someone on a job that just lost their cool was just every little thing. Anybody know I'm talking about I worked for a guy down in Georgia for a short time. in a um a carpet mill down there. And that guy was the most miserable boss I've ever worked for. He's just mad at no matter what. He'd blow his cool and go off. And nobody in that plant, there's probably 25 of us there, nobody in that plant had one ounce of respect for that guy. Everybody wanted to be away. And so it corrupted King Saul's witness, his testimony. I put this down, it collapsed his relationships. Not just with David, but with his family. We're going to study through and work our way through here, and we're going to notice that Saul's relationship with Jonathan deteriorates from this point on. In fact, to the point where there's a total falling out between the two. Very few relationships, I read this quote somewhere, very few relationships can withstand an ongoing anger. It collapses relationships. I put this down. It clogged his prayer life. Do you ever get on your knees and try and pray to God when you're really, really angry? You don't feel like much praying. How many people have ever been this way? I'm so mad, I just want to pray. Nobody does that. It collapses our prayer life. It clogs up our prayer life. God, I am so bad. Now, probably, let me add this here: probably the best thing to do when I'm that way would be to pray. In fact, let me throw this out. Saul could have saved a lot of heartache right here if he'd have just stopped and got on his knees, went to the temple, got the priest, say, hey priest, I'm losing it here. We need to pray Could have changed things around, but it didn't. In fact, from here on you have you find Saul zero answered prayers. From this point on. In fact, he prays very diligently. And God will not hear him. Remember, he goes to the witch of the witch of Endor? And he tries to conjure up Samuel because God won't hear his prayers. Can I suggest to you this is a factor in it? So it clogged his prayer life. I put this down. He clouded his thinking. I started off tonight with making these statements. I believe King Saul needed David. If he was going to be the king, if they're going to continue to be successful, he needed someone like David on board. Remember what his army and his leadership was like before Goliath was dead? Totally ineffective. Totally defeated. I mean, they were cooked. Now he's got David on board, and man, they're having victories. And they're defeating the Philistines. He needs David. But his anger took over and envy along with it took over, and it totally clouded his thinking. And now he's making the stupidest decisions a leader could possibly make. I don't know if his advisors, and we're not don't we don't read this anywhere in scripture, but I can't help but think some of his advisors might be saying, hey King Saul, You might want to rethink your attitude about David. He's pretty good for us. We haven't lost a war since he's been on board. And you're running them around, you're trying to run them off? What are you thinking? I know what he's thinking. The anger had clouded his thinking and the Because uh because of uh say now what do you think of what this guy and that partly Right, that would feed that envy even more. And um good point. We're gonna look at envy. We're gonna take a whole lesson just on envy. But um I think you're right. And maybe we're and we're not w again we're speculating here, but maybe they didn't say anything to him for that very reason They'd be scared to death how he would respond. Nevertheless, he's a fool for running David off. He's he's he's nuts. They're not working with David. I put it this down. It contaminated those around him. I say this often when we preach on this But anger is contagious. Right? We know that's true. You ever walk into a situation and people are mad at each other and you stand there for a bit, and next thing you know, you're mad. And you don't even know what they're mad about, but you're mad because they're mad. Right? You walk in, you're having a great day, everything's fine, and somebody comes up, gets mad at you. And what happens? What's the immediate response? I get mad at them. I'm mad because they're mad. Right? Yeah, listen to the news, it'll make you mad because they're all mad. Take turn over to chapter twenty with me if you would and and um You know, maybe I'm beating this a little bit, but I see just how this had such a profound impact, negative impact on King Saul. Look at chapter 20, and notice verse number 30 This anger is taking over him. 1 Samuel 20, look at verse 30. Then Saul's anger was kindled against who? Jonathan. It's spreading. Now he's mad at Jonathan. Now come down to verse 34. So Jonathan rose up from the table in what? There's anger that's increasing, it's getting more, and spreading. It's corrupting and contaminating everybody he touches. I was reading an article today. It was from um uh uh from um what's the little book you get once um uh Reader's Digest. And uh there was an old article. This guy was doing a study about Amish folk. I was at the funeral day, so this caught my attention. He did a study on Amish people, and in his study of Amish people, he's writing for some school or something, some university, I don't know what it was, but he's studying their characteristics and doing a thing on them. And um he noticed something That in the school where the Amish were, where they would go to school, that none of the Amish kids would yell or scream at each other. And so he caught his attention, he got looking, and they ne none of the Amish kids would w if they did get angry, they wouldn't yell and scream at each other. And so he went to the schoolmaster and he says, I noticed this. Have you ever noticed? He goes, Oh yeah. He goes, why what you what do you think? Why is it all the other kids do, but the Amish kids they never get mad and yell and scream at each other And he said, This, have you ever seen an Amish adult get mad and scream and yell? And he said, No, and don't think I have. He says that explains why their kids don't get mad and scream and yell. Oh Anger contaminates those around it. And we see that happening to King Saul as it affected his kids and his family and those around him. And then last of all, I put this one down. Anger compiled his troubles. It just made things worse. It went from bad to worse to worse to worse. If you would turn with me to Hebrews chapter number 12, and I'll end with this. And a couple other things. Hebrews chapter twelve and I want us to look at verse number fifteen Now this is written to God's people for the most part. I mean there's different uh Hebrews is written to various different uh spiritual people in their various different spiritual conditions. But look in verse 15. He says this, looking, what's that next word? What does diligently mean? If I'm diligently doing something, I'm what? I'm carefully, but it's more than carefully I'm engulfed in it. It means I am applying myself full bore. Right? I am diligent. Um Jennifer had a little video of Georgia and she had gotten some scissors. Did anybody did she show that to anybody? She had some scissors and she was cutting play-doh with these little plastic scissors. And she was just learning how to use it. And I'm telling you, I wish I could show you her face. She was diligently cutting that And I mean every ounce of concentration on that. And that's the idea. Now look what he says here. Looking diligently. I mean Lest any man fail of the grace of God, look at this, he gives another warning, lest any what? Root of bitterness Bitterness. You know what bitterness is? Bitterness is anger left to itself. It is the end result of anger. Bitterness. And he says to all of us, every one of us, have this. This is what I'm saying. I don't think we have to watch out for getting that root in there. I think the root's there. I think the root's there in our sinful nature, in every one of us. It's a work of the flesh. That root is there. But look what he says. He says, lest any root of bitterness springing up. I've got to keep that thing down. I've got to diligently work it, not letting that root spring up at all. And then what it notice what he says, uh spring up, trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. That word trouble has this idea, pile up troubles. Just pile them up, pile them up. It's the only time that word is used in the New Testament. Just piling them up, piling them up, piling them up. So Saul had two roots that he failed to deal with. One was anger, and one was envy. And those two are closely associated, and we're going to see that through there. Proverbs 13:10 says: only by pride cometh what? Contention. Contention is angry strife, heated angry debate. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I'm preaching to myself as much as anybody. That probably strikes home with all of us to some extent. Lord, we certainly don't want to be like King Saul. Or we would like to bear the fruit of the Spirit in our lives. I know I would, and I'm sure I speak for all of us. So I pray in your grace and by your Holy Spirit that you would enable us to root that thing out. And not let that spring up and ruin our testimony or hurt people around us. I pray that each of us would walk closely with you and humbly with you and that you could use us to have an impact in this world. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, and I assure you this message was not a response to anyone or any particular situation. It's part of our study through the life of David. I wonder if there'd be some tonight say, preacher, the Spirit of God touched my heart, and I want to be very, very careful about this, and I want to keep this thing. uh under the power of the Holy Spirit, keep this thing from springing up. Any like that at all. Any at all by the uplifted hand. God bless you. I'm sure it's something at some point all of us have to face and deal with. And God will help us. He sure will, by the power of the Holy Spirit He'll enable us to get victory. Father, I pray you'd bless now and um give us victory in this matter. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James playing some invitation hymns and I don't know might be good for some of us and maybe we get together at family time or there's different things. Maybe financial pressures get on. I don't know what it may be But if God spoke to your heart, I think a old-fashioned altar is a good place just come and say, Lord, I want you to have your way in this. Help me be a testimony of a spirit-filled Christian, the fruit of the spirit in my life. Now David had his own issues. We're going to see them. But uh this was Saul's, one of his major struggles, major downfalls. Oh the MR change. Now, Father in heaven, Lord, we just are grateful that your word does not cut any corners, but you just deal with us who we are and where we're at. So I pray you'd help us to trust you, Lord, and be fully yielded to you in Jesus' name, Amen