We've read this a number of times, and I hope I'm not belaboring this message. I know we've kind of got harped here a little bit, but I think it's important. I think it's of the Lord. We're looking at the transition from King Saul to King David. Now, our overall series is the life of David, and we're still in the early stages of that. And I am turned on now. Okay. Verse 24. I'm just going to read a couple verses because we read this the last few weeks. It says, But the spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. And Saul's servant said unto him, Behold, now an evil spirit from God troubleth thee. Let our Lord now command thy servants, which are before thee, to seek out a man who is a cunning player. on a harp, and shall come to pass that when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well. Title of this whole sermon here that I'm working my way through is uh a king and a musician. And we have two men in the same room. We end up with two men in the same room, but are very, very different in their disposition. Am I in the wrong reference? Did I give you the wrong reason? First Samuel chapter 16. Verse 14. What did I say? That was wrong. Listen, the pipes are froze, so this has been a very long week. Believe me. Alright, we're in 1 Samuel chapter 16, verse 14. And this is introducing an event in the life of Samuel uh King Saul. And David, where David is coming into the king's palace. King Saul is in a, and my first point is this, which we've already began, is the deterioration of a great man. And Saul was a great man at one time. When he was anointed, God says some tremendous things about him. The Spirit of God was upon him, tremendous victories. He started out great. But he deteriorated. And that's what we got parked on here, that process of deterioration. So let's pray, and we'll pick up where we left off last week. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for King David and uh and King Saul. They're important men in the history of Israel. They played very important roles. You've preserved their record in your word for all eternity. for us to learn. So I'm asking you tonight, Lord, to teach us and speak to us and help us. Lord, I don't want to end up like King Saul. Lord, I want to be the man that you saved me and created me to be, and I think I speak for all of us. We all feel that way. And so we're asking you to help us take heed from the life of Saul. the decisions he made and and uh we can uh maybe avoid some of uh this ourselves. So please fill me with your spirit, I pray. I yield myself to you and present my body anew Teach us and help us in Jesus' name. Amen. Of course, we understand that Old Testament, the Spirit, when God would remove his spirit from a man, the Old Testament They did not were not indwelt by the Holy Spirit. We spent a good bit of time teaching that. New Testament, after the ascension of Christ, the Spirit of God now indwells the believer. So what happened to Saul here cannot and will not happen to a New Testament believer. The Spirit of God cannot be taken away, will not leave. We can grieve and quench the Spirit, but He will not leave us. So we already looked at that. The evil spirit, again, I don't believe is a demonic spirit, a devil of any sort. I believe it's just a troubling frame of mind. And we already uh covered that a good bit. Um now what we're looking at, what we've been looking at, and I've been slowly working our way through this, not deliberately, it just kind of panned out this way. How did Saul get from being this tremendous king, anointed of God, the Spirit of God upon him, and tremendous victories to this, I want to use the word pitiful man at the end of his life who ends up taking his life as a tr as a a terrible testimony and uh is set aside and the Bible term is he's rejected by God Now, two things. One, I believe Saul is a saved man. Two, I'm certain he did not lose his salvation, but he lost his testimony. He lost his usefulness Paul says in Corinthians, he says he is fearful that Paul would become a castaway. Remember him saying that? I think it's chapter 9, what we just finished in Sunday school. If you want a picture of what a castaway is, what Saul was talking about, King Saul, is a tremendous, a sad example of that. Where God says, I can no longer use you. I can no longer work through you. I'm setting you aside. I have to replace you. Would you agree with me? That's a tragic condition to be in. When God says that. Now the question is how did he get to that point? What happened? The term we use for Saul's condition, what we're reading here, is backslidden. I think people are familiar with that term, backslidden. Doesn't mean a person's losing their salvation. It means they're away out of fellowship with God. That fellowship is broken. And they're really unuseful to God. God can't use them us in that condition. Or he won't, I should say, use us in that condition So Paul is back, or King Saul is backslidden, and we noted a few things about this, and I want to get to this, and I want to try and finish this thought out tonight. But one, we already pointed out that generally others will notice our backslidden condition before we do. I thought about that and I've been back going back over that. I might want to amend that a little bit and put it this way. Others will notice our backslidding condition sometimes before we acknowledge it Paul or saw here, I keep saying Paul saw here, I don't believe he was aware of how far from God he really was. And if you did you notice here in verse number 15, his servants are the one coming to him and say, hey, King Saul, you have an evil spirit from the Lord. You're not right. Something's messed up here. And the impression I get in studying this is King Saul was not aware of that. He thought everything's fine, I'm fine. Uh and uh they had to come and point that out. And generally that's the way uh I've s I've uh I've noticed is that a bachelor in person a lot of times if we do not if we're not aware of it maybe we are aware of it but we put this front up thinking nobody else knows How far I am from the Lord, but they do notice. They do notice. And so we pointed that out. Then number two, the second thought which we looked at last week is backsliding, and this is vital, backsliding always begins in the heart. Always begins in the heart. We looked at Proverbs 14, 14. The backslider in heart is filled with his own ways. And that is why it's so important that we guard our heart. We guard our heart. We do not let our heart take us down roads and uh and uh get us away from the Lord. Now I want us to look at the others. If you're jotting these down, number one, backsliding is generally observed by others before we at least acknowledge it, sometimes many times before we're even aware of it. That was the case with Saul Number two, it always begins in the heart. Number three, every Christian is susceptible to backsliding. Every single Christian is susceptible to backsliding. I'll tell you one of the best ways to set myself up for backsliding, the best way to set yourself up for backsliding is to think it could never happen to you. Oh, I couldn't that wouldn't ever do. Um how many people either heard somebody say this or you've said it yourself? Oh, I listen, I'm not perfect, but I would never do that. Anybody ever hear that? Anybody ever say that? I'm telling you, you better be careful because that seed of that sin, whatever you're saying, you would never do, that seed rests in every one of our hearts. Some of God's greatest people. How many people here, just from what we know of King David, it it is shocking. That David did some of the things he did. How many people agree with me? Shocking. How can that be? I tell you, every single one of us are susceptible to backsliding. And the moment we think we stand, we better take heed lest we fall. Paul says that. How many people find it shocking that Peter would deny the Lord. Now we've read it so much that we're we we anticipate it. But if we never heard that story before and you come across Peter So outspoken and bold in his defense and his loyalty and devotion to the Lord. And here he is denying them three times. And so it's important to understand That every one of us is susceptible to backsliding. None of us are immune from backsliding. Can you think of some God's great men in the Bible? That ended up backsliding severely. And you think in the Bible, some great men. Samuel, uh, Samuel Samson. Yeah, Samson. In fact, that was another one we use for the illustration where Samson wished not that the spirit left him. He thought everything's fine and it wasn't fine. Um I preached on Sunday morning, one of the key ones. How many people remember? What did I preach on Sunday morning? Noah. And uh how many people find it shocking that Noah would end up getting drunk? And so none of us are immune from it. Every one of us are very are susceptible to this. Um some of God's greatest men. Those that got right with God were those that were used of God. Now, every single Christian is not only susceptible to backsliding, but we all do it to some extent. Uh if we were going to graph the ideal Christian life, all right, here is a super strong, mature Everything God wants me to be a complete Christian. Here's my salvation. If we were going to graph our growth, ideally it would go like this. Shh. Straight up, right? That would be the ideal. What is the realistic graph? It's up, then down, then up, then down. And every one of those down dips is, to some degree, a backslidden. Backsliding to some degree. And so every one of us is susceptible to backsliding. Those that got right were used of God. Those that hardened their heart were not used of God. Here's what I think is the tragedy of King Saul. This is what I think is the whole tragedy of King Saul. It's not that he backslid. I got looking at him and David, and there's some shocking comparisons there. It's not that King Saul, his backsliding isn't what put him on the shelf, that made him useless, that caused God to reject him It was his refusal to deal with his backsliding scripturally. I put it this way. Backsliding, all of us do it to some degree. But King Saul happened, what happened to King Saul was he hardened his heart He hardened his heart and he didn't make it right. Now I was talking to my wife this afternoon about this. I was driving, I had to go I went to the hospital this morning to make some visits up in Morgantown early this morning. I was coming back and I was mowing these thoughts over in my mind And I got thinking about King Saul and King David. And they both, if you think about it, both of them, their sins were somewhat similar. Somewhat similar. King Saul got very proud. Remember Samuel told him when thou wast small in thine own eyes? Uh God used you, I'm putting my own words. You were you were small in your own eyes, then you were great and you had God's power and God was using you. But he got proud. And he got proud. David got proud at the end of 2 Samuel. In fact, why don't you take your Bibles with me and turn there? Keep your place back here you can. But 2 Samuel It's right after 1 Samuel. And notice with me chapter 24, all the way at the end, towards the end of 2 Samuel, chapter 24. I'm going to read the first few verses. David got very proud. This is later in his life. 2 Samuel chapter 24. And it says, and again the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he moved David against them to say, go number Israel and Judah. For the king said to Joab, the captain of the host, which was with him, now listen to what he says, go now through all the tribes of Israel from Dan. Excuse me, even to Beersheba and number the people. Look at this. That what? That I may know the number of the people. What was his motive for numbering the people? So that he could know, how many people do I have? And I underline in my Bible, I underlined that word I. David got very, very proud. He got thinking, I'm really something. I want to know how many people are under me. How many people do I have authority over? Look what Joab says to him. And Joab said unto the king, Now the Lord thy God, add unto the people how many soever they be, a hundredfold And in the eyes of my Lord the King may see it. But he's saying, listen, David, I hope the number of people under you is multiplied a hundredfold. But Why doth my Lord the King delight in this thing? What is Joab saying to him? What's Joab doing here? He's throwing out a word of what? Caution. He's warning them. That reminds me of 1 Corinthians 10 13. There is no temptation taken you but such as common to man. But God is faithful, not suffer us to be tempted above what we are able to but will with the temptation make a way of escape. Here was David's escape. Joe's coming up saying, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, why are you doing this? And he's given David an opportunity to change his mind and not go down this road. The same thing happened with David and Bathsheba. David saw Bathsheba and he and he inquired of his servants, who is this, who is that gal? And what was their answer? This is the wife of Uriah. They said that several times. The wife of Uriah, the wife of Uriah, the wife of Uriah. What were they doing? They were throwing caution up there. David, listen, be careful. But what I'm trying to get at here is David got proud, and he wanted to number the people, and uh, which was strictly forbidden. Just for his own sake. And for sake of time, we'll skip ahead here. But what happened? What was the result of? Well, look over there. Come over to chapter, same chapter. Look at verse 10. They got the number, they numbered them all, and look at this. And David's heart smote him after that he had numbered the people. And David said unto the Lord, I have sinned greatly in that I have done. And now I beseech thee, O Lord, take away the iniquity of thy servant, for I have done very what? Foolishly. So David, after he's done, he realizes, man, this was wrong, and he confesses this sin. But what was the result of it? Come down to verse number 15. God gives them three options. Seven years of famine, three flee for three months. He didn't want to do that. He did that for years under Saul. Or three days pestilence. David says, Let me fall into the hands of the Lord, for he's merciful. And verse 15, so the Lord sent a pestilence upon Israel from the morning even to the time appointed. Look at this And there died of the people from Dan, even to Beersheba, 70,000 men. How many people agree with me? That's a lot of people died. Because David's pride. David's pride. Now Saul became very, very proud. Let me ask you a question. How many people died as a direct result of Saul's pride? Tell you what of Saul's pride. Saul got proud, chased David everywhere. He got l he hardened his heart. Remember, rebellion is the sin of wristcraft, stubbornness. And so, how but how many people died as a result of Saul's pride? 70,000 died as a result of David's. How many of Saul's? Okay, yeah, they eventually, but directly as a result of his pride. You know what I found? I could be wrong. What I found is zero. I can't find anybody that died as a direct result of Paul's pro Saul's pride. God says, you're proud, you're doing this, I'm going to slaughter these people. And that's something. But yet Saul was set aside, and David, we still the the throne Jesus is going to sit on is named after David. What's the difference? What's the difference? Um David. Aha. David, well let me back up before you've given the answer too soon. All right. Well you asked. Well I know, but I Just answer when I tell you to. But um no, I'm joking with you. But there was also um uh I put down here also the pride, but uh also murder. Murder. Who did Saul want to murder? David. He chased them all over the wilderness. He tried his best to kill David. And did he succeed? No. Who did David set out to murder? Murder! Uriah. Did he succeed? Yes. He killed him, along with several others. Collateral damage. So this is what troubled me driving back this morning. How come Saul was proud? Nobody died as a direct result of that. David was proud, 70,000 died. Saul set out to murder a man, didn't succeed. David set out to murder a man and succeeded, along with a number of others died with it. But yet David is honored a man after God's own heart, and Saul is rejected. Does God look lightly on murder No. Would you agree with me? David paid a heavy price for his sin. Heavy price. Is God okay with pride? No. The difference is what Brian said is how they responded to their sin. You read Psalm 51, I say this so often, that is the most contrite most thorough confession and repentance of sin, I believe, in all of history. When David, under the inspiration of God, penned Psalm 51. David's statements here in at the end of 2 Samuel. Man, you can just sense the contrition. You know what? Saul never did that. He said, one time, I've sinned But if you read the context, the whole thing was, I want to say face. Please let me still be king. Please let me still be king And what I'm trying to say to you is this, everybody backslides to some extent. It always begins in our heart. Usually others notice it. If it goes on, others notice it before we do or before we acknowledge it. It always begins in the heart, but how we respond to backsliding determines whether God can continue to bless us or not. David humbled himself and repented. Saul hardened his heart. What's the difference? Here you have one Christian. They're filled with the Spirit. They're happy. They're rejoicing in the Lord's. God's blessing them. They're having an impact on their community and their world with the gospel. And they're obviously a victorious Christian Here you got one over here that's defeated. They have little or no influence. They're miserable. They're just a defeated Christian. What's the difference between this one and that one? Well, this guy's sinning. That one isn't I'm suggesting you know we're all sinners. If any man says he was out sin, he's a liar. What I'm saying is this guy's dealing with his sin in a biblical fashion. This guy is not. Now, what's the biblical fashion to deal with our sin? Number one, we confess it and forsake it as soon as we find out about it. Immediately. Well we let it go on, let it go on, that's a problem. It's going to lead to my last thought here. So those that got right, those that confessed it and dealt with it, forsook it, humbled themselves before God, they can get up and go on. Those that don't, King Saul, they harden their heart, they refuse to acknowledge it, they blame everybody else. Their heart gets hard, God says, I can't use you, I can't bless you. Now let me give you my last thought on this backsliding. Number one, usually others notice it for us. Number two, it begins in our heart. Number three, all of us are sceptible. Number four, if you would, write the jot this down. It usually begins with one issue. I found in my experience and dealing with myself and dealing with others, it's usually one area It's usually one sin, one issue that we won't deal with, we refuse to deal with, and that grows and develops till it takes and destroys our whole lives. Anyone want to take a guess? What was the one sin That King Saul that brought him down. Alright, pride, but how it was expressed in a way that the Bible says expressly Disobedience was all a result of this, I think. This is what I'm thinking. Jealousy Saul did fine. And jealousy is a root of pride, so the root there is pride. But Saul was doing fine until those stinking women Started singing their song. Right? And they come back from battle, and those women are out in the streets, and they're singing, Saul has slain his thousands. And can you see Saul? That's right. But David slain his huh And boy, that got to him. And the Bible says, from that point on, Saul eyed David, I put in the margin of my Bible, the green eye of jealousy. And Saul never got over that. He never dealt with that jealousy. He never was able to deal with it, he never was willing to deal with that envy. And that absolutely destroyed him. Ate him up to the point where he tries to murder his own son. He calls his son a child of a harlot. Saul starts saying stuff that is absolutely ridiculous. He starts doing things that are outrageous Because of one sin that he refused to acknowledge, he refused to deal with. And as I notice that, I look over the ministry of the years and I see so many times it is one thing, one issue. One temptation I'm not willing to flee. One attitude, I'm not willing to adjust. One sin I'm not willing to repent from. I want to show you something. I just noticed this. If you would come back to Hebrews. Hebrews. And by the way, along those lines, it's usually one thing Um Hebrews chapter 11. But when when Satan approached Eve in the garden, he didn't come at her with 25 different issues. He zeroed in on one thing. That forbidden fruit. Now, that one issue is what is what brought mankind down into it. Look at Hebrews chapter 11. I'm sorry, chapter 12. And verse number one. Now I don't know, I just I never noticed this before, or if I did, I didn't pay a whole lot of attention to it. But look what it says. Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Now watch the wording here very carefully. Let us lay aside every weight, and we talk about that often. That's not sin. It's just something that distracts me, keeps me from being the Christian I ought to be. So it's not necessarily something wrong. But look at this. Let us lay aside every weight. Is that plural or singular? Let us lay aside every weight. That's singular. That tells me it's probably one thing. That isn't necessarily wrong, but that has got me my eyes off the Lord and has gotten me drawn away from God. Then look at the wording at the next statement. Let us lay aside every weight. It doesn't say let us lay aside all these weights. But let us find it every way and the what? Sin singular which doth so easily beset us The word beset means to entangle, draw us in, like a net, draw us into something else. So I got looking at that, I got thinking about King Saul. Envy is that one thing that drew him down I look at Hebrews 11, chapter 12, verse 1, every sin singular, that tends to draw us down. And I come to this conclusion, and I've seen it. It's usually one area we're not willing to deal with. One issue I'm not willing to yield to the Lord. One sin that I want to hold on to. One sin that I regard in my heart. God will give you all of this. I'll repent from all of these. But I want to hold on to this one here. And that's usually the one that drags us down and gets us backslidden away from God. For Saul, I believe it was the sin of jealousy. I had a fella, when I was Indianapolis, a guy called the church, and I didn't know him. Apparently he had been a part of church years before I was there Told the church, he says, man, things are messed up. Can uh he said, I don't have a car, can somebody come down? Just I just need someone to come and talk to me and pray with me. And the pastor there, he said, uh, Brother Dennis, would you go down and and just see if you can help this guy see what's going on? So I went down, he had a little apartment. And um We got talked a little bit and he says, yeah, I'm saved. I know I was saved. I was saved at Thompson Road. That was the name of the church. I was saved at Thompson Road Baptist Church. I was baptized there. I was involved faithful. He said I've gotten so far from God. He said everything's a mess. He started telling me all this stuff. And so I was showing them different verses, Romans 12, 1 and 2, and different stuff like that. And it was just, I didn't feel like we were getting anywhere. And I don't know why I said it But I just said, and I I don't remember his name, but I said, I said, I'll bet there's one thing you're holding on to. You know it's wrong in your life, and there's one thing you're not willing The forsake, confess and forsake and get away from. And his head went down immediately. And he says, You're right. And he told me what it was. And he goes, he goes, that's the thing killing me. That's that one thing. And I look at my Bible and I find out we have to be very, very careful. We think all this stuff out there, but it's some little thing hidden in our heart. It's some little thing I'm not willing to acknowledge. Maybe an attitude towards somebody. I'll get everything else in the world right, but I'm not willing to change my attitude towards that person. Or there's some little sin here. I'll do everything else right, but I'm going to hold on. I'm going to hide it in a closet. I'm going to hold on to that one sin. And that's what killed Saul. One sin of envy brought him down. So I'm suggesting to you that it usually begins with one issue. I came across an illustration here of log jams. Sam got us uh for Christmas this little thing you plug in the side of your TV and it gives you all these gazillion channels. Anybody, I don't know. It's amazing you plug it in, it has all I think it's hacking into the internet system somehow, or I don't know how it works. But um You put it in there, and it has all these hunting and outdoor shows and all of this stuff. And so was watching, and they were had this old-time video of logging back in the early 1900s. I think it was up in Canada. And they put him down a river and all those logs are going down. I mean the whole log and these guys are running across them. You ever see it, you know, they're running across the logs. And they got down there and they got pointing out that sometimes those logs will get around a bend or there'll be a rock, and those logs will all jam up And it'll just pile up and pile up, and if they don't deal with it, it actually begins to flood over the sides of the river and everything. There's log jams And after I saw that, I came across this little thing, and they said here that the lumberjack seeks when there's a log jam, the lumberjack seeks that one log That is stemming the whole thing. And when they find that one, they're looking, they see this big mess. Here's a huge mess, and the water's flooding, and the things backed up, and it's incredibly dangerous. But there that what that seasons lumberjack is looking, looking, looking, bingo. There it is. That's the log blocking it. And they'll work their way out there. And what they were showing on this video is talking about is they would take um they'd take a stick that has dynamite on the end. And they'd light it and they'd shove it down in there, then they'd go running back off, right under that one log. Kaboom! That log would go flying. Then it would all break loose. And when I was studying this, thinking about King Saul, envy was that one log that got jammed in his heart and mind, and everything piled up, piled up, piled up And I think that's what happens for you and I as Christians. That one besetting sin, that one thing I'm not willing to yield to the Lord. Not willing to surrender to the Lord. And if we don't deal with that, if we don't blow that thing out of there sky high through confession and repentance, that thing will bog up, b back up, and back up and back up And next thing you know, we're out here and God's saying to Saul, I'm done with you. I can't do anything with you. And am I making sense? You follow what I'm saying? And so we have to be very, very careful. I don't want to end up like King Saul. I really don't. And we need to confess that sin and forsake it, whatever that may be, and get that thing out of it. there. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us on this. I know, Lord, you challenged me and spoke to my heart as it prepared this. And I pray that you would, Holy Spirit, would search us and try us and see if there be any sin, something there that we're holding on to, we're cherishing, we're not willing to let go. And I pray you would break us, Lord. And that log jam would get broken up and we'd be able to go forward for you and live for you. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. Now this could be very personal, and so I understand it's between an individual and the Lord. But I wonder if there would be some say, Pastor I know what that one is. I know what that log is. God's Holy Spirit has touched my heart. And that's the thing. And sometimes that's the hardest thing in the world to come to grips with and be willing to let go But you say, preacher, I want God's blessing. I want revival more than I want anything else. And pray with me that I would carry through and get that log dealt with. That one thing. Is there any like this by the uplifted hand? I know what it is. God's spirit is dealt in the heart. God bless you. Number of hands around. How many people would say, preacher, God has spoken to my heart in one of these processes going through here And you'd say, pray with me, I don't want to I don't want to allow those everyday backfighting that we face. I don't want it to allow it. To become worse. I want to deal with it and get back up. If you know what I'm trying to say, how many people would be like that? Preacher, pray for me. I see the ups and downs in my Christian life. I want to be very, very careful. That when the downs are there, I deal with that and get it back up. How many like that by the uplifted hand? Sure. My hand's raised. And so we need that. Now, Father in heaven, I pray, I kind of stumbled through this, I think, a little tonight, Lord, but I pray that you would challenge us and that this coming year would be a year of spiritual growth for every one of us. And that we would have victory in our lives and not defeat, regardless of circumstances, regardless of the things that the world throws at us, that we'd stay close to you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.