Here in this passage that uh we're looking at we got the first one down. Uh it was the the um oh how did I word that uh the deterioration of a great man, and that was King Saul. He star started out pretty great and uh humble and God's hand was on him and uh what we might refer to Uh when he started out as a good Christian, um, of course, being Old Testament, you wouldn't refer to him a Christian, but he was a good man of God. But things went south pretty quick. And pride crept in, a lot of issues, and um and so we looked at how he had backslidden. I was reading a little uh statement, a boy invited a girl, uh young boy invited a young girl to go to a nightclub And uh place where there was sinful music and sinful worldly atmosphere, uh, drinking, carrying on, dancing and all that type of stuff. And he wanted this girl to go with him to this nightclub And she refused. She said, no, I can't go. She goes, he said, uh, you won't go because your father might hurt you if you go there. And she says, no, that's not it at all. I might hurt my father by my actions going there. And uh that ought to be a key factor in our relationship with the Lord Uh not out of fear of God hurting us, although he will chasten us if it's necessary, but we don't want to grieve our Lord. Amen And so uh uh King Saul completely messed that. He got locked into what he wanted. He leaned on his own understanding, he saw the world through his own eyes, and it didn't matter what God, the preacher, the prophets The Word of God said it none of that mattered. He was going to have his way. And it ended tragically as we've been studying. I was reading a preacher from back in the early 1800s. I I I don't know if he was late seventeen or early eighteen hundreds. He was over in England, a little different um uh denomination we are, but he made this statement He said it's a miserable thing to be a backslider. How many people understand what we mean when we talk about a backslider? We've been preaching on it. He said it's a miserable thing to be a backslider. Of all unhappy things that can befall a man, I suppose backsliding is the worst. A stranded ship a broken winged eagle, a garden overrun with weeds, a harp without strings, a church in ruins, all these are sad sights But a backslider is a sadder sight still. That true grace can never be extinguished and true union with Christ can never be broken off, I have no doubt But I do believe that a man may fall so far away that he loses sight of his own grace and even despairs of his own salvation. He makes this statement. Listen to this. You've got to listen carefully. And if that is not hell, it is certainly the next thing to it. He goes on. He says, a wounded conscience, a mind sick of itself, a memory full of self-reproach A heart pierced through with the Lord's arrows, a spirit broken with a load of inward accusations All this is a taste of hell. It is hell on earth. Now, a backslider, I don't believe they're genuinely slaved. A backslider can never go to hell. But boy, they can sure experience a little bit of hell here on earth by living far from God. I've often said the most miserable person on earth is a saved person that's living backslidden. Away from God, even more so than an unsafe. And so we saw that in King Saul. What a tragic end to a potential life. And he started out so good. And he got so far from God, ended up taking his own life. What a tragedy. A sad, sad picture. Now we're going to shift over, if you would, look at verse number 18, 1 Samuel 16. And uh we're going to look at um uh we saw the degradation, the deterioration of a great man. Now we're gonna look at the distinction of a godly man, two men in the same room One's older, hardened, co uh backslidden, bitter, uh um angry, frustrated. The other is a young man Vibrant, excited, God's hands on him. And uh what a contrast. Look at verse 18. This is what it says. And then answered one of the servants and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse, the Bethlehemite. That is cunning and play, a mighty valiant man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters, and a comely person, and the Lord is with him Now here we have the distinction of a godly man. Now you remember the situation here, the circumstances. King Saul, the Spirit of God, has left him. An evil spirit of the Lord is on him. He's just down. He's discouraged. He's in a dark, dark hole. And so they say, let's get somebody to come in and play some music. Music has a powerful effect. We're going to look at that. And maybe it'll lift his spirits and turn things around. So they found David, and this is their description of him there. Did I pray? I don't think I did. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body with all its germs and sickness and weakness tonight, Lord. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak through my body. I yield my will to you. And I ask for the filling of your Spirit, Lord. Lord, like Paul said, when I'm weak, you're strong. And so I pray that you'd help me get through this and that you would challenge us, speak to our hearts. and uh help us all uh to be strong in the Lord and be the Christian you saved us to be. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. All right, Saul's dealing with the consequences of his rebellion He's trying to patch things up. It's not working. They bring David in. Now there's a phrase here in verse 18 that caught my attention. And I want to spend a little bit of time on that. And uh uh And uh I'm not sure uh if my voice is going to hold up through this, so if I get if I fall over unconscious, just go on with the meeting and pick me up afterward. But Look at verse 18 there. 1 Samuel 16, verse 18. It says this, then answered one of the servants. Now notice something. Who is it that's making this comment? It's one of the what? Servants. So it's not, here's what I want to point out. It's not an acquaintance of David's. This is one of Saul's servants. David's been out in the wilderness. David's been out shepherding the sheep. He's been brought in. And so this is not one of David's kids, not one of the family members. It's not a close acquaintance Alright, so keep that in mind. And answered one of the servants and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite. And that caught my intention. Here is a servant of Saul's. Again, he's not a close associate with David, but he has seen David from a distance. He's seen him down in town coming and going from out in the in the um uh wilderness. He's he's been out there maybe walking along the the dirt roads there out of town and he heard some music playing up on the side of the mountain. He got looking and he paid look up there on the side and there's this young man David that's Bethlehemite, son of Jesse And he's up there. And David caught this servant's attention. Now I got looking at that little phrase, I have seen. It's an interesting word. It means this. It's similar to use in various ways throughout the Old Testament, but it means this, to inspect very closely. Uh it means this. It means to uh uh to gaze or stare at very intently So what this sermon is saying, he's not saying, well, I just happened to come across this guy, saw him down at the market, kind of caught my attention a little bit, and maybe we ought to consider him. No, no, no. This sermon's been studying David This servant's been watching him. He's been looking at him. He's been paying attention to what kind of person David is. Was David aware of that? I think not. There's no reason to believe that David had any idea that anybody was watching him, anybody was paying attention to what he was. And so there's a tremendous lesson in this, and I think a lot of us are aware of this, young and old. If we claim to be a Christian, I'm telling you, people are watching us Whether we are aware of it or not, at work, in the neighborhood, at the store, different places, they are watching us. They are paying very, very close attention. They are studying us intently. They want to find out if what we claim is true about our lives is actually true If what we sing in church on Sunday and Sunday, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night is what we live the rest of the week there watching. You say, oh, nobody pays attention to me. Ha! I don't know how many times. Now of course as pastor sometimes you I get a little bit more of this, but uh I don't know how many times I've been out in the store somewhere and somebody comes up and I'm just doing my thing, paying attention, somebody comes up, total stranger, they say, you're Pastor Leatherman, aren't you? And uh I say, yeah, I I am. I said, I've been watching you. Uh we were in years ago, we used to have uh back when we first came we had a little radio uh program on KHJ. No, it wasn't KHJ. What was that um WMSG back a long time ago was out by the golf course. And uh we had a little program on there Sunday mornings And we were in Morgantown, West Virginia, at the Ruby Memorial Hospital, and we're going up the elevator, and I'm talking a little bit And a lady said, are you Pastor Leatherman? I said, yeah. She goes, I listened to you on WMSG Sunday mornings, and I recognized your voice I thought, boy, I'm glad I wasn't cussing or smoking a cigarette or anything. That'd have been terrible. Right? But my point I'm trying to make is this, David had no idea, I don't believe, he was being watched. David had no idea he was being studied. And uh but they are, and they're watching us, and they want to see if we're for real. And they want to see if what we're what we say we are and what we are are um uh are are the same thing. And so it's a parent stranger. Um now here's something else I thought was very interesting as I got looking at this verse This servant of Saul, who to David, by all appearan bul by all apparently, this guy is a total stranger to David. He has no idea he's being observed. He has no idea he's being studied. But this servant of Saul's comes to the same conclusion about David, just about, that God says about David. His description of David is very, very similar to numerous places in the record of David's life that God says about David. And he lists a number of things. And I thought, what a tremendous thing that David's life was so genuine. And there was no hypocrisy, there was no show, there was no fanfare. What David was with God, the rest of the world saw. It was a legitimate thing. And I wouldn't suggest to you that is the about as mature as a Christian as you're going to get When my testimony to the world is the exact same thing as it is with God. There's no hypocrisy there. With few exceptions, throughout his life, David's testimony with the world and his true condition before God lined up pretty closely. Now here's what we have a tendency to do. And in the Sermon on the Mount, which we studied for several years, here we go Which we studied for several years, the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus was warning his disciples very sharply of the dangers of hypocrisy. Remember that? And the implication there is I may not just be a saved person. I may be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. I may be somebody that is, you know, really trying to live for Him. But yet hypocrisy is a very real danger in the Christian life. From the preacher on down to uh uh the teenagers to the young people, being a hypocrite. is a real danger in the Christian life. What is a hypocrite? Somebody tell me. What does it mean to be a hypocrite? Somebody help me out. Says one thing and that's completely different. That's a pretty good way of putting it. Anybody else have a take on it? Somebody's a hypocrite. What is what is that uh what's that idea A pretender, pretending there's something they're not. The word actually had the idea of wearing a mask. It's actually a theatrical term, if I understand it correctly, and it was this idea. uh you know there's a play going on and the person is one thing, this is what I really am, but I get out on that stage and I put this mask on And I play this part and I put on the I act out this person that I'm really not what that's really not what I am And I'm telling you, that is a real issue in Christianity we put on the show, and we act out there as we're something, and we're really not Take your Bible, if you would, and I want to take a moment and sit on this a little bit. Matthew chapter 23. Now, Lord will, and if we have time, we're going to come back here. But go to Matthew chapter 23 Now what I get from this uh statement of this servant of King Saul, he says, hey, this guy Uh he's this, this, this. He goes down a list of about seven things he says about him. And uh what he's saying about him is the same thing God thinks of him. That tells me there David was not a hypocrite. Now was there some periods in his life where he He uh slipped into hypocrisy, sure, a couple times there. But for the most part, with few exceptions, David pretty much lived out his faith. What he was, he was And what a tremendous thing. Look at Matthew chapter 23. Are you there? Look at verse 25. Listen to the wording of our Lord Jesus. Listen how sharp he says this. Woe unto you. How many people would be uncomfortable with God saying to you, Woe unto you? That would not be a good thing. And Jesus Christ is saying to them, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, look at this, for ye make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but what? What's it say? Within. I circled that word within. But within, they are full of extortion and excess Thou blind Pharisee, look at this. Cleanse first that which is within the cup and the platter, and that the outside of them may be clean also. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees! Hypocrites, for ye are like unto whited sepulchres. What's a whited sepulchre? It's a tomb. It's a whitewash. They went in there, it's tomb. What are in sepulchres? What are in tubes? Yeah, uh rotting, nasty, dead stuff. And uh you're like unto whitest sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead man's bones and uncleanness. Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within are ye full of hypocrisy and iniquity. And so I think about David, his testimony here, as he's coming, as they're trying to find somebody that can patch up Saul's horrendous spiritual condition. He's frustrated, he's empty, he's his he uh there's an evil spirit of the Lord from him, he's stressed out, and they bring David, he says, hey, I've been watching this guy This guy's for real. And when he describes him, we'll look at here in a minute, when he describes him, I get thinking, that's some of the same stuff God said about him And so David's testimony was crystal clear. Crystal clear. You say, well, I don't have a very good testimony, so I shouldn't live that way. Well, what's the cure? Get my heart right, right? Be what it ought to be so that it can live out there. And so let's look at what he said about this. He made seven observ- Oh, by the way, come back here. I noticed uh I'm keep contrasting David and Saul Notice how Saul responded. David, he's legit. He's the real deal. What they saw, I mean, he's the real deal. Look at 1 Samuel 16 and verse 30. I'm sorry, 15 and verse 30, I think. Yes. Now notice King Saul, and we're talking about hypocrisy, just putting on a show, wanting people to think highly of me when I'm really not all that uh that uh I want people to think I am. Look at verse thirty of chapter fifteen. Then he, King Saul, said, he's talking to uh Samuel, uh I have sinned, yet honor me now I pray thee. What before the elders of my people and before Israel, and turn with me that I may worship the Lord thy God. What was he worried about? He's worried about himself and what in particular about himself. He wanted to be honored in front of everybody Listen, I don't want anybody to think bad of me. I don't want anybody to think I'm not a great man of God. So listen, just honor me in front of everybody. Total disregard for any humility, total disregard for any integrity, didn't matter whether he was right or wrong, didn't matter whether he was doing right. Just so people thought I was pretty good. Just so people think that I'm a man of integrity. Just so people think I'm a man of honor. Wasn't a concern about actually being an honorable man. So what a contrast between these two guys. Now, verse number 18 of chapter 16. This servant that's been watching King David, he's been observing him, he's been gazing at him. If they had binoculars, he'd have been looking out and watching David up there. Oh see what he's doing. Is he stealing any sheep Is he kicking those lambs? What's he doing? And uh he's watching him very, very carefully, and he makes seven observations that I see about David. You want to jot these down. I'm going to go through them quickly because I don't have a lot of voice, and so we'll just kind of give them to you. Number one, I put this down, one observation. He said David was skilled. He was very skilled. Look at verse 18. He says, I have seen a son of Jesse, the Bethlehemite, that is cunning in playing. Cunning in playing. That word cunning means he's very skilled. The word playing there, I got looking that up. Everywhere it's used in the Bible, it has to do with some type of musical instrument. So when he says he was cunning in playing, he wasn't talking about basketball. He wasn't talking about cunning in uh Mexican train. You know, one cutting and playing. The word playing is used to describe a musical instrument. It always refers to this, the plucking of some type of musical string. Anybody want to guess probably what he was referring to here? David was very skilled, very gifted, very good at plucking a particular instrument strings. Harp, no doubt, that's what it was. There may have been some other type of instruments there. The word uh playing there is is used other place in the King James, uh minstrel melody instruments And uh so he says, hey, I've been watching this guy. We need somebody that can play some music for King Saul. That music's gonna have a powerful impact on him. It'll bring him peace and they'll settle down. He won't be so stressed. And I've been watching this guy, and this guy's good. Man, I've been going by and hearing him play and down in the marketplace of the evenings, he comes in, and uh that guy is skilled at playing the harp. That guy is very, very good Now the question comes to me is this. How did David get so good at playing the harp? How did he get that way? Okay, I believe there's one of two ways. Some people are just naturally gifted musically. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I hate people like that. I mean they can just sit down at a piano and just play. Anybody know, anybody ever come across, maybe some of y'all are here, and if if you if you're here and you don't even have to try hard and you can just play an instrument, I hate you in Christian love But not really. But uh some people just have it. I was looking at a little video this afternoon. Uh for a brief period of time I was conscious. And um Uh I was fine, and it's uh it's a it's a Asian guy. I don't know if he's Japanese or Chinese, but he has some type of muscular dystrophy or something, but he's blind. And there's this monstrous orchestra and this, I mean thousands of people in the crowd. And he came out and uh self-taught And he sat there, he's probably 13, 14 years old, and he began to play that giant grand piano, and absolutely beautiful And he just played that thing. And I thought, man, here is somebody that God has gifted. Now the Bible doesn't list musical abilities as a specific gift, but there's no doubt that is a gift of God. For somebody to do that. And now, so was David just naturally gifted, or was he very disciplined and diligent, and did he teach himself? And some people are tremendously gifted, not because they necessarily have that natural ability, but they determine to develop it and develop it. And so whatever the case, this is my application I want to try and make, is I believe with all my heart, and I think the Bible is very, very clear, every single person that is saved, God has given you a gift. to be used. And maybe you need to develop a little bit. Maybe it just kind of comes naturally. But God gives his people gifts. Corinthians tells us that. Now, whether it's a musical gift or whatever it may be, God has gifted us. How many folks here, you're saved and you know it? Say amen. That means you have a gift. Y'all are so excited tonight. That means you have a gift. God has given you a specific ability. And what's his intention for using that? His intention is to use it for the advancement of the gospel, to build up the church. and uh bring that thing together and bring glory to God. And so David, this guy, observed them. Wait. There we go. This thing blocks 99% of all germs. So there's 1% getting through car keys. And so uh uh so what about your gift? Now what did David do with his gift? He was using it for the glory of God. The book of Psalms all through there. Book of Psalms all through. David's recording a lot of this music recording. He had CDs out and MP3s. It was pretty incredible. But what I'm trying to say is this, David didn't use his gift for financial gain. He didn't use his gift to exalt himself. He used it to bring glory to God. He used it to be a blessing to others and help others. And I look out in the world there and I see people that are gifted. We're thinking musically now, but I see people that are so gifted. And rather than using that gift to bring glory to God, rather than using that gift to build up the Church of Christ and advance the gospel. They're using it for financial gain. In some cases they're using it to advance ungodly lifestyles and promote ungodly philosophies. Music is a powerful, powerful tool, either in the hand of a child of God or in the hand of Satan. We're going to see that later on. And so the sermon of Saul is looking, he says, we need a music, we need somebody to play music and calm King Saul down. I'm telling you, this son of Jesse that's up on the mountain That guy is very, very skilled. And then number two, he makes this statement. I don't know if I'm going to get through all these. He said he's strong. He says, um, that is uh the Jesse, the Bethlehemite, that is cunning and playing and a mighty valiant man. That word mighty simply means strong. But I like this word. As I got studying, I like to study words. This is kind of neat word. Mighty. It doesn't just mean physically strong. And I believe in studying scripture, David was a very strong man. He was physically fit. I mean he lived on the side of the mountain. He's killing bears and lions you know, and stuff like that. He's taken down giants. Um he he's no weakling. All right? And so uh he was physic. But the word mighty there doesn't just mean physically strong. It has a little flair to the meaning. So it means to be strong with a spice of courage mixed in it. So he is courageously strong. You know, it's one thing to be strong and be a coward. Not going to accomplish a whole much, a whole lot. Some of you can be just tremendous and but scared to death to do anything. And they're not going to amount to a whole lot. But David was physically strong, but he was courageous in that strength. He was courageous in that strength. A strong coward is not much use. And so I thought, well, how do we apply that to me? Here's what I got thinking. Some people have tremendous Bible knowledge. Boy, they can quote verses to you inside and out, upside and down, but they don't really accomplish a whole lot for the Lord. They're strong in their knowledge, they're strong in their facts, but they're not very courageous getting out there and confronting people and sharing the gospel with people and influencing our world for the Lord. I was thinking I mentioned this guy before and he's a fine fella and he follows me on the computer now and we don't interact much. But um when I was in Bible college, he was about the same year as I was. He might have been ahead of me, he might have been behind me My name didn't even anywhere near I was, but um we were down at the same time, and um the guy was how many people know when you refer to someone as an egghead? Well, you know what that means? He's got all this genius. And the guy's a genius. And he would come to church and he had stacks of Greek dictionaries and Greek New Testaments. And his excuse me, his Hebrew lexicons and all that stuff. Dr. Lee Robertson get up there and preach a powerful message. And boy, he'd be there and he'd be looking us up and he had his books on his thing and he'd be looking at. And uh I thought, well, that's interesting. Uh but when it came time for soul winning, when it came time to go out and serve the Lord, God was nowhere around. He was very strong intellectually. He boy he knew the Greek and he knew all the languages, he knew all that. But when it came time to actually get in out and being bold with the gospel, being bold influenced Um not interested at all. And David was not that way. He was strong, but he was also courageous. And uh a strong coward isn't going to be a whole lot of uh uh use to the Lord. Then he says this about him. He says, number three, he says, he's stable. He's stable. He's a cunning and playing, that's skilled. A mighty, valiant man, that's strong, and valiant, the word valiant there has the idea of being very stable. It has this idea of unmovable I like this phrase. I really like this phrase. And maybe we might use it some year for a theme or somehow use it. But I like this statement. Stay the course. I like that. Stay the course. Find out what's right. Find out what's true. Find out what God wants you to do. And then you mark it down and just stay the course. Whether anybody follows you or not, whether no matter what Uh you just stay the course. That's the idea behind that word valiant. A valiant, uh mighty man, a mighty valiant man. has the idea is he's got his sword and he's staying accourse. He's not backing down. He's not turning back. He is valiant. He's getting out there. And that is how David is described here. He stays the course. I had a preacher call me from New York, this was years ago, and he's a pastor leatherman, uh I met you in a meeting up in the Erie And uh we were talking a little bit, you remember? I said, yeah, I remember you a little bit. I think we had lunch and we talked a little bit. He goes, oh, things are just tough and this person's uh whining and that person over there is griping and this, that, and the other side. He says, I just want to talk to you you think it might be time to leave? And just move on, find another church. I said, people are whining and crying. And he says, yeah. I said, well, everywhere you go, you're going to have to deal with people who are whining and crying at some point. I mean that's just human nature. And uh I said, what I suggest to you, and I was had this phrase in my mind I said way back then, I said, uh what I suggest to you is just stay the course. Did God call you there? Then plant your feet, stay there, and go forward. Now I'm not suggesting God doesn't ever lead people different places, and I don't know whatever happened to that guy. But um I know this. God expects us to stay the course. Don't quit. Stay after it. Get after it. And I appreciate I was talking with Lewis Howell afternoon, getting ready for our trip. And I tell you, old Lewis Howe's been down there, what, eight years now or so, and he is just plugging away, plugging away, plugging away. A valiant man down there. Now he's over in Australia. and organizing soul winning and track month things and soul winning training. And he is having a profound impact on South Pacific area there, just staying the course. And so they said David is stable. He's unmoving. He's not up and down, on and off, hot and cold. If you ever meet a Christian, you never know if they're living for God or not. You never know if they're happy Sometimes they're all happy, other times they're all mad, other times, boy, they're living for God, next time they're all any time. You know what I'm talking about? And that's not valiant. David wasn't that way. Let me give you others here real quick. Number four, uh he was a soldier A mighty valiant man, a man of war, the servant says, I've been looking at this. This guy, he is strong, he's courageous, that guy just gets after it. If there's a lion, he doesn't run away, he gets after that thing, stays the course. And he's a man, a mighty man of war. He's a soldier. What comes to your mind when somebody says someone is a man of war? This guy, David, he's a man of war. What how would you describe that? What do you think that is? What do you think that involves? All right. Yeah, he wo he would know his weaponry. Right okay, good. That's good. What else? Strategy? Anyone else? Pastor Brett, what do you think? Put him on the spot. This is what I thought. A man of war is someone who is accustomed to battle. Someone that's accussed. Here's a man of war. This guy is, he's comfortable right down there in the ugliness of it. Um he's he knows the strategies. He knows his weapons. He's not uh I put this down, he's not intimidated by warfare. Egan, let that enemy come on. I tell you what, David and Goliath, I don't see one hint of intimidation on David's part at all. He is a man of war. Well, let's go out and get this guy. He was very confident. He was very sure of what he was doing. And he ran out. None of this round in, round in, round in. He went out after the thing And so he was a soldier. And then he says this. I like this one. He says he's savvy. He's savvy. Look what he says here. Man of war and prudent in manners. Prudent in matters. That word prudent in matters has the idea he has insight on things. He's savvy. He understands how things operate. David was able to look at something and not just see all the parts, but he understood what made that thing tick. And David had real insight. He was savvy. He understood how things work. I got thinking about Mike Stubler. I don't know why. He just keeps coming back to my mind all the time. Old Mike was a great man. And very few people in my 30 plus years of ministry have I come across that got saved and understood what Christianity was like Mike got a hold of it. I mean it was usually you got to grow into it, you know, but man, immediately he knew what this was about. He had insight. And he was what I would describe prudent in spiritual things. And that's the way David was. David was no dummy He understood what life was about. He understood what things were important and what things were not important. We live in a world that completely misses what's important. Investing so much time and effort in things that are temporary and are meaningless, and then neglecting the things that are so valuable eternal. And David could see that. He understood. Then let me give you the last two here real quick. He was striking. Look at this. And a comely person, that word comely means attractive, good looking. Um David was a sharp looking guy. He reminds this reminded me a little of me, but I wasn't going to point that out. But um But he was a sharp-looking guy. He was attractive. This guy, his servant says, there's a guy up there. You know he's a sharp-looking guy. Now, whether we have attractive features or not I believe we ought to always look our best. I believe David kept himself clean. I believe David kept himself sharp. I believe David uh whatever he was doing Excuse me. Um uh uh you know who I thought of on this? I thought of anybody. Oh, it's picked up emotional to the ladies one time and um I uh I wasn't there, my wife told me, but uh she said that uh whenever you go out, you fix yourself up nice. Fix your hair up. Don't go out with care curlers all over your hair and and makeup half on and eyelashes hanging down and and all that. She goes, You fix yourself up, look nice. Listen, uh we're children of the king. And of course, you know, it can't always be uh uh dress to kill, but we ought to be our best. And I think that's what he's saying. This guy's sharp. He's a good-looking guy, and he's sharp. Let me give you the last one, he says, and here it is, he's spirit He's spiritual. And the Lord was with him. What a statement. What a tremendous statement. You know, I was thinking, I was studying this. I would love Able to honestly say this, put on my tombstone, the Lord was with them. The Lord was with them. Wouldn't that be a great statement? The Lord was with them And to me, that is the greatest thing that this servant could possibly say about David. The Lord was with him. What does that mean? He was walking with God. David was right with God. His heart was humble before the Lord. And you could sense God's presence. Did you ever get with someone And you just sense the presence of God there. Think of my grandfather. I think of Anime Nixon down in Chattanooga. Just the presence of God there. The Lord is it with them And so this is not talking about an 85-year-old preacher that's been serving God for 60 years. This is a young teenage boy. And God was with him. What a statement. What a tremendous statement. So David's strong, he's smart, he's skilled, he's a man of war. And then you get this last statement that says, the Lord was with them. And so that tells me this. How many people recognize the name Rambo? This will date some of us. Rambo. David wasn't some sort of Rambo. You know, Rambos are great at killing commies. Right? They're great at killing ISIS and all of that stuff. But Rambos usually make terrible church members. You know is destroy everything. And uh they usually Rambos usually make terrible husbands. They make terrible fathers. You get somebody that has the strength and the courage and the savviness and the skills of a Rambo-type guy, and then you have to board with it. Humble. Powerful. So I look at David and um uh I think man what this guy is saying about David we see other places in scripture Most important I pray that we take these thoughts. Lord, maybe your Holy Spirit could challenge us a little bit. Our heads are bad, our eyes are closed, okay. Um I want to be a little bit more like David. I I see Saul in myself a lot. I want to see more of David. I want to focus on that.