Samuel, and uh we're just uh I want to say we're getting a slow start kind of to it, but um that's not really the case. We Still early on, before he's actually become king, David has been anointed as king. Saul uh King uh Saul, uh God has set him aside. David has been anointed, but he is not on the throne yet. God He is not ready to take the throne, take the responsibility of the kingship, even though God has already determined that he will be king and he was chosen. So we've been looking at some of the background leading up to this. In 1 Samuel chapter 16, I want to begin reading in verse number 14 while you're looking there. By the way, somebody was up at Walmart at the picture section there, and they saw Cinderella was up at the picture developing uh area of Walmart. That's surprising. How many people would be surprised if you saw Cinderella and they said, What in the world are you doing here? She was at the picture section. She says, I'm waiting for my prince. And um how many people say think that was really terrible? That one was that is Jacob's joke. He told that to me before. At figures. When uh when the boys were young at home, they would always say, Dad, those jokes are so lame. But then they would go and tell them to other people during the week. Verse 14 of 1 Samuel 16. But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold, now an evil spirit from God troubleth thee. Let our Lord now command thy servants which are before thee to seek out a man who is a cunning player on a harp And it shall come to pass when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, and he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well. It's interesting, those guys knew the power and the influence of music. Isn't that something? And Saul said unto his servants, Provide me now a man that can play well and bring him to me. Then answered one of the servants and said, Behold, I've seen a son of Jesse, the Bethlehemite, that is cunning in playing And he's a mighty man of a mighty valiant man and a man of war and prudent in matters and a comely person. And the Lord is with him Wherefore Saul sent messengers unto Jesse and said, Send me David thy son, which is with the sheep. Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a kid, and sent them by David his son unto Saul. And David came to Saul and stood before him, and he loved him greatly, and he became his armor-bearer. Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me, for he hath found favor in my sight. And it came to pass when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul that David took a harp and played with his hand. And Saul was what? refreshed and was well and the evil spirit departed from him. Three effects of music there on King Saul We're looking, I think I titled this A King and a Musician, I believe is the title I used there. Let me double-check that. We started this, A King and a Musician. Let's pray together. Father We come to you this Wednesday night, and Lord, a lot of festivities behind us now, and we're buckling down for a new year, getting back in schedule. I pray, Lord, that the goals maybe that we've set that are fresh in our mind and we're enthusiastic about that uh the new year and the anticipation, I pray we not lose our vision, not lose uh that enthusiasm as many of us have determined to renew our walk with you and refresh it I pray maybe you use some thoughts tonight, Lord, to stir us and to help us to establish good patterns for a new year. I pray you'd help us to learn from David and King Saul and this passage of Scripture. Lord, I present my body anew to you this hour, and with all my heart I ask you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me and teach us tonight and challenge us, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. We actually began this a couple weeks ago looking here as the transition is taking place. As I said a few moments ago, King Saul has been set aside by the Lord. He has hardened his heart David is anointed of the Lord, yet David is not on the throne yet. He is still being prepared to take that responsibility. And we notice here we find two men. If you remember I touched on this, we find two men in the same room. They're in the same room, same right there together, but they are very, very different. One of these fellas, his soul is empty and defeated. King Saul at this point is a defeated man. Um he has squandered the tremendous responsibility and privilege God has given to him. He's become proud. And he has lost the great privilege that God had given him to be the king of God's people, to be the ruler of God's people. On the other hand, we have another young man there And this man is vibrant. He is filled with the Spirit of God. He's victorious in his life. We have a tremendous testimony that the servants of Saul give about David, what they've observed about him. And so it's an interesting thing here. We have a defeated king and a victorious musician. Now I wanted to uh we My first point on this here was I I we have three observations I'm making from this, and I'm trying to decide how much to review or not, but we have three observations here. The first one we just started on is this, the deterioration of a great man. King Saul was at one point a very, very great man. But as I said, he squandered that and he has He's been set aside. Notice, and I just want to briefly touch on what we already spoke on, but notice it says in verse number 14, the Spirit of the Lord, what? Departed from Saul. Now we spent a good bit of time on that last time because it's important to understand there is a distinction between the Holy Spirit's role in the Old Testament and the Holy Spirit's role in the New Testament. The Holy Spirit's interaction with God's people in the Old Testament, He did not indwell them. He would come upon them on a temporary basis. He did not permanently indwell Old Testament saints. The Lord Jesus Christ. had not yet ascended to the throne. The blood of Christ has not been placed on the altar. The Holy Spirit does not indwell men on a permanent basis on the Old Testament. And we went through that uh pretty thoroughly. After the ascension of Christ, then the Spirit of God came upon and from that time on, Acts chapter 2, then you have the Holy Spirit indwelling believers. And uh the moment, how many folks here you're saved and you know it. You've got that settled, no doubt about it, you're saved. The moment you trusted Christ the Savior, the Holy Spirit of God moved inside you. Every single one of us sitting here Let me back up. Let me put it this way. How many people anticipate the awe of being in the presence of God in heaven someday? And anybody here ever try to imagine or fantasize what that is will be like to be in the very presence of God? I want to tell you something You have God in your presence just as real now as that will be when we stand before Him in the person indwelling Holy Spirit, the indwelling Holy Spirit. And so now on this side of the cross, when we trust Christ, we have the Holy Spirit. Don't ever let, this is what I'm trying to get at, don't ever let anybody tell you that you can lose the Holy Spirit. There's teaching in certain circles that if you sin, you lose the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit will depart from you. That only took place in the Old Testament. From the ascension of Christ on, the Holy Spirit is in us and seals us. We can grieve the Holy Spirit. We can grieve him. We looked at that. We can quench the Holy Spirit. But we cannot drive the Holy Spirit from us. He will never leave us nor forsake us. However, if uh if I am uh living in a backslidden condition Uh if I'm living in sin and the Holy Spirit is in me, it's that can be pretty miserable. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Some of us know that from experience, what it is to be out of fellowship with God, and the Holy Spirit is in there, and that Holy Spirit is convicting and he's chastening us, and he does not let us be. He vexes us And so the Holy Spirit. So when we get to that phrase there, I just really want to drill that in. It says the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. That is an Old Testament experience. That is not something that can happen to you and I. And by the way, if a person does not have the Holy Spirit, they do not have salvation. It is unscriptural for a saved person to ask God for the Holy Spirit. A saved person already has the Holy Spirit. You're asking for God for something you already have. The issue is not us getting the Spirit. The issue is the Holy Spirit getting all of us. Right? Follow what I'm saying? And us are yielding to him. Now the other thing I wanted to touch on, we did before, I just want to briefly review. It says, an evil spirit from the Lord. Now, I wouldn't get in an argument with anybody over this, but in studying this, my conclusion is that this is not an evil spirit as in a devil. It is not a demonic spirit. By the way, the word demon is never found in the Bible. It's devil. It's always devils And so this evil spirit of the Lord, I do not believe it is an entity. I don't think it is a spiritual entity, a fallen angel, a devil. I don't believe that's what it is. I think it is a is a disturbed mind. God has removed his spirit from him He is now living in a backslidden state, and this evil spirit from the Lord, the words that uh are it that word they're evil means unpleasant, miserable, depressed. Spirit from God. It is the natural result of a saved person being out of God's will. Is this depression, this stress? um and uh this misery. And so we looked at that. Now I want to look at the deterioration of a great man. This is King Saul. And again we looked at the first point He is in a in probably the most backslidden state a person can get. We have a record throughout the Bible of a number of people, God's people who ended up in a backslidden state. It is possible, I believe King Saul was saved. I believe he was a saved man, there's no doubt in my mind. But he is in a backslidden state. It is possible to be saved and be backslidden. Some people equate the term backslidden with losing your salvation. That is not scriptural. A saved person can be backslidden. I heard a preacher say one time, preacher at Texas said he was flying somewhere and they got talking to the guy next to him and he said I'm a Baptist preacher and the guy uh said well uh got talking he said oh you're a Baptist preacher he says you Baptists you believe in backsliding And uh he goes, not only do we believe it, not only do we believe it, we practice it. And so there's more truth to that than we care to admit. And so I want to look at some uh uh observations about backsliding in King Saul. Number one, and we already looked at this, backsliding generally is observed before others, before the individual is aware. Generally speaking, if a Christian backslides, other people will notice it before the individual that is backsliding is aware of it. We'll think everything's fine. We'll think everything's convinced. Notice verse 14. The Spirit of the Lord departed from him. An evil spirit troubled him. That's a statement of fact there. And then you get down to verse number 18, and we have the observation of the servants. I don't think verse 18 is what I want. And verse 15. And Saul's servant said unto him, Behold now an evil spirit from God troubleth thee. My impression in looking at this is Saul was so out of fellowship with God, was so far away from God, yet he never comprehended that. He never saw that. He thought everything's fine. And his servants look at him and say, listen You're not right. You're not the kind of Christian you used to be. You're not walking with God the way you ought to be. Your spirit is not the same as it was. And we notice from Scripture that a lot of times a backslidden person, others will notice their backslidden state before they do. We have a tendency, I say this often, we have a tendency to think that we're more spiritual than what we really are. We have a tendency to think we're stronger Christians than what we really are. We have a tendency to think our faith is stronger than what it really is And Saul wasn't even aware of the fact of how far he was from God. His servants had to point that out to him. There's someone else in the Bible we illustrated that had the same situation That they were incredibly backslidden. The Spirit of God had departed from them and they didn't were not aware of it. Who was that? Samson. And uh when Delilah had his hair cut off, by the way, Delilah did not cut his hair. She had the Philistines cut his hair. And so that's one of the reasons I never allow a woman to cut my hair. The other reason is I don't have any hair to cut. But uh no, actually I do. My wife cuts my hair. But enough about me But the point I'm trying to make is this, and we notice here, that it's incredibly important that you and I spend time daily in the Word of God, because we can backslide and not even be aware of it many times. And when I get in the Word of God, how many folks here ever read the Bible, you read your devotions, and God spoke to your heart and you realized, man, I'm not as strong a Christian as I thought I was That's the word of God. That's the power of the Word of God. How many people ever went to, anybody here ever go to a service, maybe a revival meeting, and the preacher preaches, and by the time he's done, you think, man, I'm the worst Christian in the whole world. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And and we say, man, that was great. But the fact of the matter is we need each other. We need other Christians. We need the preacher. We need the word of God because it's very easy for us to fool ourselves into thinking that we're right with God and things are okay when it's really not. And so that's the s situation Saul was in. Now my second observation is this. If you're writing these down The first one was, I said, backsliding, the deterioration of this great man was observed by others before he noticed it. Backsliding is observed by others generally before the individual notices it. Number two, this is my second observation. Backsliding always begins in the heart Backsliding always begins in the heart. My spiritual well-being is not the result of my surroundings. Now, as important as they are and the role that they play, my spiritual well-being is always the result of my heart. That's where backsliding always begins. That is where salvation begins That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thine heart that Christ God raised them from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Backsliding always begins in the heart. Take your Bible, if you would, keep your place here, and turn with me to Proverbs, chapter number 14. Proverbs 14. And I don't know what your daily Bible reading schedule is, and maybe you're reading through the year. I always suggest that, encourage that, read through the Bible in a year. But another aspect is reading a chapter of Proverbs that corresponds with that calendar day. For instance, today's the third. You read Proverbs chapter 3 at some point. And um that's a good thing to do. I just started here a couple months ago. Um just throw some ideas out there, but I just started how many people have a have a Bible on your phone? Anybody here have a Bible? How many people have your alarm clock on your phone How many people your whole life is on your phone? I set the alarm on my phone and uh when that thing goes off in the morning, the very first thing I do, I get it and I go to that proverb for the day. Before I ever pull the covers down, before I ever do anything, I get that proverb and I read that proverb right first thing when I wake up and just kind of help that set my day. So today was Proverbs 3. Turn with me to Proverbs chapter 14. And notice with me verse number 14. It gives us an insight into backsliding. And as I said, it always begins in the heart. Notice verse 14. The backslider in what? Heart. I circled that word heart. I underlined the whole verse. But I circled that word heart. The backslider in heart Shall be filled with his own ways. You have a Christian, they're saved, they're living for God, they're walking with the Lord, their heart is pure, their relationship with God is what it ought to be They never go from that condition. Nobody ever goes from that condition to a backslidden condition where the heart is hard, like we see and saw, they're cold, they're proud They're demanding their own way. They're self-centered. Everything is about me. Everything is my desires, my pleasures, my will, me, me, me, me. Nobody ever goes from that point A to this point B in a single event. It never happens that way. It always begins with something in the heart. Something gets the heart, and then it is an unseen. Usually it is an unseen process before it becomes visible. May i i it may appear suddenly. How many people here how many people here ever saw a Christian where all of a sudden All of a sudden they're carnal. All of a sudden they're worldly. All of a sudden they're they're away from God. Anybody ever see that happen? Anybody? I'm thinking of a number over the years. I've seen that. Christian walking with God, doing good, then all of a sudden, boom, what happened? Well, I tell you what happened. It began in the heart a long time before it ever become visible. Sometimes you can put on a show, you can put it all out there, then all of a sudden, boom. All of a sudden it becomes visible. But it is never an individual event. Backsliding always begins slowly, always begins in the heart. The heart it means it has an unseen beginning. Now, what do we know about our heart? Obviously, we're not talking about the physical organ, the muscle beating the blood through. So we talk about our heart. When the Bible is referencing our heart, the backslider in heart Believing in your heart. What are we talking about? Who wants to get all right, the inner man? What is that? Okay, your soul? What is the heart? Let me give this suggestion to you. The heart, when the Bible references the heart, and it includes all that was said, but it has this idea, it is the seat of our emotions. It is the seed of all desires come from the heart. The desires and our emotions are found in our heart. And so backsliding begins in the heart. When in my heart I start having desires for things that are outside the will of God. When I start longing, I start loving things, I start desiring things that are outside the perimeters of God's will for mankind, I am beginning to backslide. It always begins in the seed of my emotions. The seed of all desires begin in the heart. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Psalms Keep your place in Proverbs, because we're going to go to another Proverb here in a minute. Tell you what, let's go to the Proverb one first. Go to Proverbs chapter 4. Tomorrow morning I'm going to read this in my devotions, Lord willing. Proverbs chapter 4, and look with me at verse number 14. If you're in the habit of underlining your Bible, I highly recommend you underscore this verse. Proverbs 4 and verse number 23 Notice what it says. Keep thy what? Heart with all what? What does that mean? Diligence. Keep your heart with diligence. It means what? To be very careful. If you're diligent about something, what are you doing? What? You're guarding it, but that I'm looking at that word diligent. Whatever I'm doing, I'm supposed to do it diligently. Whatever keeping my heart means, I'm supposed to do it diligently. Alright, stick to it, staying with it. I'm I I'm gonna suggest with enthusiasm, with all my effort, I'm diligent. Here's a guy, he's uh Building a house and he's doing it very diligently. Man, he's putting every effort into it. All his attention is focused on that. Every effort, every ounce of energy is focused on doing whatever it is. And the Bible says here that we are to keep our hearts with all diligence. And I take away from that this idea. If I don't do anything else, I better keep my heart. I better keep my heart. Now notice what is it? Why should we do that? What does he say? Keep thy heart with all diligence for what? Out of it are the issues of life. In other words, how my life is, the life I'm living, what the condition of my life is, my spiritual well-being, all of that comes out of me, whether I keep my heart or not. Backsliding begins in the heart. Spiritual victory begins in the heart. Spiritual well-being begins in the heart. The heart is the seed. Of our emotions, our desires, our spiritual well-being, that is where it all takes place, and that is where backsliding begins And he says, keep, the word keep is what Betty was saying there, to guard, protect, has the idea of putting a garrison around. I had to be very, very careful. Now, for years, as I preached on this passage and I studied it, and uh I had this idea. All right, here's my heart It's out of the it are the issues of life. What kind of person I am is dependent upon my heart, the desires, the will, the longings, the love of my heart, what I love. I've got to protect that from external assault I've got to protect my heart from external influence. And I think that is true. But there's another direction this verse is talking about. That word keep also means this. It's used this way sometimes, to imprison. To keep within prison, to um to restrain, to keep under It's kind of like uh um put somebody in prison, in jail. Tom knows about that. You restrain them, you keep them in there. I always felt like Tom was on the wrong side of the bars was my Personal feeling. But uh But you follow where I'm going at with this What does Jeremiah say in Jeremiah chapter 17? What does he say about our heart? The heart is deceitful, and what Desperately wicked. Who can know it? This heart, where backsliding begins, where my salvation begins, all of that, is is indescribably corrupt And I believe when God tells us to keep our heart, not it does include, don't keep it safe from wicked external things. That's why we ought to be careful of the music we listen to. The stuff we look at, the things we read, the places we go, the people we allow to influence us. We ought to be very, very careful. We ought to have standards. We ought to have convictions. Personal separation. We referenced that Sunday morning. So all that is in place, but there's also an aspect where I've got to keep my heart. I've got to keep it in prison. Proverbs, there's another Proverbs that says this: He that trusteth in his own heart is a Fool. It's a fool. It's not wise. The world says, oh, just follow your heart. How many people have ever heard that? is follow your heart. I'm suggesting you that's terrible advice. Because our heart is deceitful, desperately wicked. And it will lead us astray every single time. If my heart gets its way, I'm going to end up over here with King Saul. And I'm going to be so far from God, I'm going to be backslidden, my life is going to be a mess, I'm going to be defeated. So not only do I protect my heart from external, I don't let my heart take over. I let the Holy Spirit of God take over. I yield my will to God. There's a proverb that says this, my son, give me thine heart. What is God saying? He's saying, listen, you let me control that thing. Don't let that heart run the show. You let me run the show. Submission. So backsliding always begins in a heart, and I must keep my heart in check. I cannot let my desires run rampant. I cannot let my love to be just unrestrained. It must be kept there. Now, now I want you to come over, if you would, to Psalms chapter 66, if you would. Psalm 66. Backsliding always begins in the heart. David knew this, and he makes a statement here in Psalm 66 and verse number 18, another verse that would be Very good to highlight some way in your Bible. Psalm 66 and verse number 18. Look what it says. If I regard iniquity in my what? Heart. The Lord will not hear me. Do you notice it's the heart where it determines whether my prayers are heard or not Backsliding always begins in the heart. Now the interesting thing here with the heart, it doesn't say if I regard iniquity in my head, it doesn't say if I regard iniquity in my hand. It's in my heart, what my desire is. And that word regard goes right along with our definition of the heart, the seed of emotions, the seed of our emotions, the seed of our desires. Notice he says, if I regard, that word regard, you might want to jot this down, means to this, to value or to cherish. And it has this definition. I found this years ago in one of the Hebrew dictionaries I was looking at, has this definition, to view with pleasure. Isn't that an interesting? If I regard iniquity in my heart, if I view with pleasure sin in my heart, iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Is in the heart, is in the heart. Um how many people ever drove down uh a highway and there's a big billboard and it was a very sinful billboard, maybe a very immodest something or whiskey or something like that. Anybody ever see that Can we control us seeing it with our eyes? No. But we can keep our heart from desiring it. That's what he's talking about. Or you ever been in a waiting room and there's a show on TV and it's a terrible show? Something with Christian ought not to watch. And it's there. And you can't stop from looking at it. I mean you could go over and rip it off the wall, but you m might not be invited back. You know what I'm saying? Tom Malone, I heard Dr. Tom Malone years ago make this statement. You can't keep a bird from flying over your head, but you can stop it from making a nest in your hair. And that's the point he was making. Listen, we can't blind ourselves to all potential sin out there and iniquity out there, but we must not let our hearts fall in love with it. I must keep my heart. I must imprison it. I must guard it. I cannot let it have its way. Keep their heart with all diligence And so back here to chapter 14 of Proverbs. Come back there with me. I'm not done with that verse yet. It begins in the heart, begins in the heart, begins in the heart. Chapter 14, verse 14, the backslider in heart. Now this is going to bring us back to King Saul here. The backslider in heart shall be filled with his what? His own ways. His own ways. Um backsliding always is associated with selfishness. That phrase own ways is also used other places in the Bible to describe the course of one's life. Backsider in Heart is saying this, I am going to decide the course of my life In my heart, I have said, all right, this is the lifestyle I want to live. This is the kind of life I want to live. This is the life I'm after. And he says the backslider in heart is always filled with him deciding, this is the way I'm going to go. This is the way I'm going to go. My Bible says that we should yield ourselves to the Lord and let the Lord decide the course of our life. How many people ever heard this verse? There is a way that seemeth right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. That is what he's cautioning us about. Alright, this this is what I want. This is what I want. And they pursue it. The heart desires it. This is the heart. If I regard it, uh if the backslider and heart is filled with his own ways, this is what I'm going to be, this is where I'm going. And I tell you, we could be here for hours giving testimony of lives that were destroyed because a Christian, many times a young Christian, decides this is how I'm going to live my life. They have little or no life experience to base those decisions on. They've been a child the whole time, and they're going to make a decision what kind of person I'm going to be when I'm 50, 60 years old, when they're just a kid. How foolish is that? And God says the backsider, the one that ends up uh destroying his life and and ruining his walk with God is one that says, this is the way I'm going to live, this is the decision I'm making, this is And by the way, that word filled with his own ways, it always has this. It addresses the moral character of that person. The backslider in heart says, I'm going to decide what's right and wrong. I'm going to decide what is good and what is bad. I'm going to decide what is best for me and what is not best for me. And the person that ends up in a backslidden state always begins in their heart deciding whether this is best for me or whether that is best for me, and they disregard what their creator says is best for them. And they end up in a backslidden state. The backslider in heart is filled with his own ways. I decide the direction of my life I decide what is right and wrong. What happened to Israel? When they were absolutely destroyed, the Bible says there was no king in Israel, and every man did that which was what? Right in his own eyes. They were filled with their own ways. Now, question: Does that or does that not sound like King Saul? at the end of his life. That is exactly what he was. That is exactly. God said, kill them all. Achan, kill all the um um who was it, the Agagites And King Agag and all his gang and the Gagites. And he says, kill them all and kill King Agag. But Solomon was filled with his own ways. And he says, you know, it doesn't make sense to kill them all. I mean, look at these good sheep. We could do something with that and all this. And he filled with his own ways, disregarded God's ways, and God said, I'm done with you. I'm done with you. And put him aside Backslidden heart is always filled with their own ways, filled with their own ways. The chief characteristic, I would say, of a backslidden heart is insistence upon their own ways. That is the at least an indicator of a backslidden heart is when it has to be my what my way. I don't care what God says, I don't care what God's Word says, I don't care what Good counsel tells me, I insist on my way. I insist what I say is right, what I say is true, what I say is wrong. And they push all that other aside. Chief indicator of a backslidden heart. Chief indicator of a backslidden heart And so, a perfect description of King Saul. Come with me back to Samuel now, and we're only going to get this point in. Come back to 1 Samuel and I want to notice. I want us to look at King Saul in light of what we just said. Chapter 15, 1 Samuel, chapter 15, and look with me at verse 23. Well, let's look, let's start in verse 22. Again, great passage to underscore in your Bible. When Samuel said This is where um King Saul had disobeyed God. He kept the best of the sheep and all that, and he blamed the people and all these reasons Verse 17 he says, When thou wast little in thine own sight, thou wast that uh wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel Then verse 19, wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of the Lord? Why? Because he's filled with his own ways. He's filled with his own ways. Then come down to verse 23. Look what Samuel says. Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifice as in what? Obeying the voice of the Lord. You see it there, verse 23, chapter 15, 22, that's what I'm trying to say At the Lord is great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifice, as in obeying the voice of the Lord, behold to what? Obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. What's he saying? He's saying, put away your own ways. Don't be filled with your own ways. Trust me. Follow my instructions. What I say, my voice, listen to my voice. That's better than giving all kinds of sacrifices, but doing your own thing and making your being your own God For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness as iniquity and idolatry Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, he hath also rejected thee from being king. Does that not sound like he's filled with his own ways? It's exactly what he is. He's deciding what's right and wrong. He's coming up with his own morals. Even later on, David went down that same path. And um, and we'll look at this much later when we get to this point in David's life, but we get down there with David and Bathsheba. And he sees her and he starts saying, who is that woman? What do his servants say to him? Their first response is, that is Uriah's wife. That was God instructing David. That was God saying, David, this is the way you go, not that way. I've already told you about that. I've already warned you about it. David, you need to go this way. But David was filled with his own ways. I don't care what God said. I'm going to decide what is best for me. And what a disaster that was. David was filled with his own ways. David experienced that. Later on he numbered the people towards the end of his his ministry as king. And Joab comes to him. Joab says, Don't do this, David. There's no need to number the people. Everybody knows how great Israel is and how. He goes, nope, I'm still going to do it. And 70, I believe the number's correct, 70,000 people died. Because David was filled with his own ways. That number might not be correct, but it's tens of thousands. Filled with his own ways, filled with his own ways So we're going into a new year. Let's ask ourselves this. This is my question for us. In December 2031 of 2018, Not quite 12 months from now. Am I going to be over here, close to the Lord, walking with God? Am I going to be in God's will, experiencing God's blessing we preached on Sunday morning, or am I going to be over here in Saul's camp? Away from the Lord, filled with my own ways, God's blessing removed, frustration, evil spirit of the Lord upon me, stressed out, unhappy, lonely. It will all begin. One, others will probably if that change takes place in the next 12 months, others will probably notice it before I do, or at least before I acknowledge it. And two, it'll begin in my heart. It'll begin with me letting my heart's desires indulge them. Little bit here, little bit there, little bit here, tolerating this. I want that. I know what God says, but my I want this. I know what God says, but boy, I really like that. I know what God says, but I love this Next thing you know, you're over here. That's exactly what happened with Saul. That's exactly what happened. The deterioration of a great man. I don't want that to happen to me. I don't believe any of us here that know the Lord surely would want it to happen to us. Amen. So let's guard our hearts this year. Let's keep our hearts with all diligence. Stay faithful to church. Keeping that Bible. Be sensitive and tender. God's Spirit speaks to us. Oh, I need to trust God. I need to obey God. I don't want to go down that road. I want my heart yielded to the Lord. Amen? Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would uh help us this coming year. We want your blessing, Lord. We want to be that blessed man in Psalms chapter 1 that we thought about Sunday. And Lord, we need you to help us guard our hearts. We need your Holy Spirit, Lord. Don't leave us alone. Lord, we pray so often, keep me on a short leash, Lord. Don't let me wander. I know I'm prone to. And so let's ask God to help us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, God's Holy Spirit already this year is dealing with my heart about the direction of my life and issues in my life. And I want the Lord to have his way. I want to be yielded to him and not filled with my own ways. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. God's Holy Spirit is already dealing with my heart. And I want to be sensitive. I want to be yielded to him. I want his blessings. God bless you, hands all around. And that's our decision. It's our decision. Trust the Lord, go his way, or lean on our own understanding. And maybe tonight, first Wednesday, prayer meeting of the year, maybe an old-fashioned order is a good place. Say, Lord, here's my heart. Take and seal it. Lord, protect it. Keep it That it stays in tune with you and loves you. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.