Somebody gave me this tie and I put it on I forgot it has a little noise in it. There 1 Samuel. How many folks are ready for Christmas? Have all your gifts, every everybody done shopping? How many haven't started yet? It's usually the way I am. And uh our oldest son and our granddaughter coming in and my daddy. So we're gonna have a great, great time. We're really looking forward to it. And um Somebody tell me what is your f what is what do you think is the greatest Christmas carol in existence? Anybody have an idea? I got thinking the other day. I was listening to the radio and they were playing different ones and they played one. I thought to myself, at least in my mind, that is the greatest Christmas carol ever written. Anyone have any? A little town of Bethlehem. O holy night. That's not bad. Those aren't bad. Silent. Silent night is what I think. No, or no, that's not the right one. Silent, that's your that you think is the greatest Christmas cow ever in. You know what I think? I think um heart the Herald. Angel saying, and the reason, if you go through there, those verses, they are so doctrinally solid, it's incredible. Talks about the sinful nature. It's a neat song. So we can all be right Whatever we think is the best, right? 1 Samuel chapter 16, and I'm going to begin reading in verse 14. We've been reading these sections here, this passage. For the last couple Wednesdays, I used it kind of as a platform, but tonight we're going to start looking into it. We're only going to get the first part this evening. But uh notice in verse number 14 it says this. Now David has been anointed. He's just a young man. King uh uh the prophet Samuel has come, he's anointed David. It's kind of not public yet, I'm sure it's Going around, but he's not in office yet, is what I'm trying to say. And so he's still a young man. Saul's still on the throne, and that's the setting. Verse 14. But the spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. And an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. And Saul's servant said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubleth him. Let our Lord now command thy servants, which are before thee, to seek out a man who is a cunning player on a harp, and it shall come to pass that when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand and thou shalt be well. And Saul said unto his servant, Provide me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me Then answered one of the servants and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse, of the Bethlehemite, that is cunning and playing A mighty man, mighty valiant man, and a man of war, prudent in matters, and comely person, and notice this, and the Lord is with him. Wherefore Saul sent messengers unto Jesse and said, Send me David thy son, which is in the sheep. And it goes on down, they bring David in. We're not going to get to that section tonight. But I want us to notice the first verse number 14 But the spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. The whole section I entitled this, A King and a Musician. A King and a Musician. Let's pray, and uh we'll at least get this message started. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the word of God. I thank you for um uh the the the honesty of your word, Lord, and that you don't paint uh superficial pictures of your men, but you point out the mistakes and failures, the shortcomings, and that we're all sinners So I pray you'd take this few thoughts here on this passage. I pray you'd apply it to our lives. And I pray as we finish out the 2017 and begin 18. That our hearts would be stirred to be closer to you than we've ever been before, that our hearts and minds would be purer, and that we'd be stronger in our faith, and we'd walk closer to you, we'd know you. And so I ask you to maybe spark something in our hearts tonight through these thoughts. I yield my will to you, Lord. I present my body anew. And I ask you with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. That you speak through me and teach us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I was reading a little bit about the ancient Roman arenas where the gladiators were. And the gladiators would go out into these arenas. A lot of the gladiators were prisoners of war. They were slaves. They had gotten themselves in debt or whatever they couldn't pay. And so they would get into this business of being a gladiator. Of course, the gladiators fought to the death. And when they would step out into that arena, one of two things was going to happen, most likely, generally. Either they were going to be killed, destroyed, Or they could come out, if they would come out victorious, they could gain their freedom. Uh many times there was tremendous wealth, popularity, it was a sport, so he they became very popular if they were performed well and killed their opponent. And um sometimes it even had political implications on what direction it would go. So there was a lot at stake when those gladiators were out in that arena and they were going to fight. Now I said that to say this. There is an arena For each of us also, that determines what our Christian life, what our spiritual well-being is going to be. And that arena is our heart and soul, our mind. That's where the battle is. That's where the struggle is in our soul. Sometimes Christians, a defeated Christian or a backslidden Christian, which is what we're going to end up talking about here in a little bit. defeated Christian or a backslidden Christian, sometimes we will want to blame our environment. Well, it's the place I work and it's this and the country and this and society. And we wouldn't blame all these external things. The battle for your spiritual well-being, my spiritual well-being is not society It's in my own heart and soul. That's where the battle is fought. That's where the conflict. That's where it's going to come out, whether I'm victorious or defeated. Some people sometimes we want to blame others Well, if you knew what my family was like, you knew why I wanted a good Christian. If you knew this, if you knew my circumstance, we're going to blame all this stuff. And the Bible is very, very clear. The struggle and the battle for victory in my Christian life, my spiritual well-being, is not the world I live in and is not the environment or my circumstances even. It is in my own heart and soul, in my way I think, the way I see things. That's where the battle is. There's a book written years ago by a fellow by the name of Tim LeHay, Battle for the Mind. It's a powerful book. He had some good points. And the struggle there is in the soul, in our thinking, in our attitude, the way we see things, the way we value things. So, that being the case, I put this down, the soul is the arena where spiritual battles are won and lost. And if that's the case, if that's true, and I believe it is, I'm convinced it is, then the condition of my soul should be my greatest concern. Right or wrong? If that's going to determine my spiritual well-being and how I end up standing before the Lord and what how what kind of Christian I'm going to be, what kind of influence, what kind of blessings I'm going to have of God on my life then my the condition of my soul ought to be my highest concern. I want to suggest to you tonight, I know it's Christmas and buying things and Money and you know, a new year and all that. But the condition of my soul is far more important than the condition of my bank account. then uh the condition of the house I live in, all these things, and they're all important. Don't misunderstand. But you can live in the nicest house. and have the best bank account, but if your heart and if you're defeated in your soul, if you're spiritually defeated, you're defeated. And you might live in a tar paper shack and have five nickels in your savings account, but if you're right with God and close to God, you're on victory side. And so the condition of my soul ought to be, and it really is, my greatest concern, my spiritual well-being, my walk with God. Now, having said that, there's some things that are very, very important. If the condition of my soul, my walk with God, is the biggest, greatest concern in my life, then that means spending time every day in my Bible and prayer is vitally important. And I know maybe some folks are just sick of hearing me saying that, but I'm telling you, until the Lord comes back, we're going to keep hounding that Because that is so important that I spend time on a daily basis with the Lord. Let him speak to me, direct me, encourage me, convict me, challenge me, warn me, give me promises, let him do all that through his word. And then I pour my heart out to God and tell him my needs and ask him for wisdom and direction in my life. And so that's vitally important. And also if my spiritual condition is where determines my the my victory in life, my success in life, then I think faithful church attendance is important. I really do. I tell you, I have learned more how to live for God, and I have been encouraged more to live for God, and been challenged more to live for God. by going to church than any other place I've ever been to in my life. And I'm saying to you, I learned more in church, in Sunday school in church, than I did in five years of Bible college. You say, I thought you had a four-year degree. I did. I squeezed five four years into five. It was challenging And then I believe it's important I touched on this Sunday night, but if my spiritual well-being is vital, determines my success in life, then I need to have some standards and convictions I need to protect. What's the Bible say? Keep thy heart with all diligence. I need to have some safeguards up. I need to have some spiritual chain-link fences around. To protect me spiritually. I can't let the world and the and uh the devil and all this just pour in on me in my ears and my eyes. I can't I need to have some set uh things in place, some convictions in place Because my spiritual well-being is the most important thing. What do you do with the most valuable thing you have? Suppose you have a ring you inherited from your great-grandfather, it's worth $15,000 You just leave it laying around? Just leave it out on the front porch, on the little table on the front porch. No. Man, you protect that thing. You put all kinds of barriers up around that and protect it. And I'm saying to you, that's our heart and soul. My walk with God, my relationship with God is so important. And the tragic thing is to see so many Christians be so flippant with their Christian life. And so negligent, and just treating it so trivially, my walk with God, and that is so vitally important I said all that to say this in our text, what we read, and I didn't finish reading all the way down through here, but this whole passage here, we have two men, they're in the same room, but they're in two very different conditions. Saul, the king, he sleeps in a king's bed. He sits on a king's throne. He eats king's meals. He lives in a king's palace. And he's defeated. He's troubled. He's stressed out. He's frustrated. He's not happy. He is an unhappy king. And in that same room is a shepherd young man. He sleeps on dirt, maybe a little blanket. He eats a shepherd's meal. He's living out under the stars. Maybe he has a little tent he pops up, a little tarp or something that goes underneath. Two men, same room. But that young man that doesn't have a king's palace, king's bed, king's food, or any of that, but he does have peace in his heart. And he does have the joy of the Lord, and he has the victory in his life, and he has something to him Um notice, did you notice when we were reading, I tried to emphasize a little bit when I was reading, but did you notice in verse number 14? The first part of verse 14, what does it say about the Lord and King Saul? Look at the first part of verse 14. This is group Bible study tonight. What's it say? First part of verse 14. The king uh King Saul and the Lord. What's the deal? Somebody tell me. What Spirit of the Lord departed from him. Right? Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. Now come up to verse 18 and look at the last phrase of verse 18. What does it say about David? And the Lord was with him. Two very different conditions. Here is King Saul, a great man in many ways, at least he was. King of God's people, tremendous privilege, tremendous responsibility, and here he is, the Spirit of the Lord's left him, and an evil spirit is tormenting him. Then you have this little boy, this young man, he's probably a young man at this point. He doesn't have hardly nothing. He's got a harp, maybe, and just a few little things that a shepherd would have. But God is with him. Wow, what a contrast, huh? What a contrast. One is miserable. I put it this way, one is miserable, King Saul, and one is mighty. Little David the Shepherd Boy. Now I want us to notice a few things. I broke this whole section down into three parts. And uh let me see if I wrote them down here. Um I got uh first of all the deterioration of a great man. King Saul was a great man at one time, and it deteriorated down to this. And then we're going to notice, we're not going to get to this tonight, but we're going to notice the distinctions of a godly man. That's a young man named David. Godly man and very distinctively godly. Very distinctively the Lord is with him in a very distinct way. And then we're going to notice the dynamics of a gifted musician. And David as a musician, the impact that he had upon King Saul. So we're not going to get to those last two. I want us to look here at the deterioration of a great man. I do not want To happen to any person in my church that God has given me to pastor. I do it's not my church, Lord Church. I don't want anybody in this church that God has given me responsibility to pastor. I don't want anybody in this church to end up like King Saul. I want anybody's spiritual life to deteriorate. I would hate it to come to my end of my life. And know that there was people that sat under my ministry that maybe I had somewhat of an influence in and ended up like King Saul. Now I ha I don't have control over that. But I don't want to end up like King Saul. I don't want to get to the end of my life and be miserable and the peace and presence of God absent. I don't want that. I don't want that. So I want to look at King Da King Saul and I want to find out how did this happen? How did he get to this point? Then we're going to look at David and his godliness as we have been looking. Now there's a few things that we need to notice here before we look at the process as I broke it down. Now, we're going to have to be a little theologically here, first of all. Notice in verse 14 it says, but the Spirit of the Lord, what's that talking about? Who's that talking about? The Spirit of the Lord. Holy Spirit of God. Third person of the Trinity is referred to him. The Holy Ghost. Spirit of God. The Spirit of the Lord did what? Departed from him. I looked up that word departed, and it simply means what you think it would mean. It means you simply moved away from them. It has this idea. Here's King Saul. Let's say this pulpit represents King Saul. I'm the Spirit of the Lord. And I departed from him. I was left. Not a part of him anymore. Not a part of his life. I'm not a part of his decisions. I'm not a part of nothing. He's on his own. He's alone. So that's the idea of the word departed. It has the idea also has this idea to be taken away, to be removed. Now, before Pentecost, before the Lord Jesus ascended to heaven, the Spirit of God came in Acts chapter 2, before Pentecost, the Holy Spirit had a different role. In mankind's experience than he did after Pentecost. At Pentecost, there was a profound change that took place. Now Jesus at the right hand of the Father, the blood of Christ has been applied to the altar. And we have a new relationship, a different relationship on this side of Pentecost with the Holy Spirit than they had on the other side in the Old Testament. Before Pentecost, the Holy Spirit would come upon people. I'm upon people. Samson, and I believe I'm correct on this, and I need to go back and verify it. But I believe it's said of Samson more than any other man, the Spirit of God came upon him. The Spirit of God came upon him. The Spirit of God came upon him But the Spirit of God then would leave. Come upon somebody and leave. Get a little earlier in King Saul's life. When he's first anointed, the Spirit of God came upon him. And it'll say another time, the Spirit of God came upon him. Now it says the Spirit of God left him. That does not happen on this side of Pentecost On this side of Pentecost, at the moment a person trusts Jesus Christ the Savior, how many folks here tonight, you're saved, you know it. Say amen. The moment you trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, whenever that was, that point in time when you bowed your head, you recognized to God you're a sinner, you turned from that sin to Christ, you trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior That split second, God forgave you all your sin. He gave you eternal life. He wrote your name in heaven. You have a home in heaven. And he begins the process of changing life. But the Holy Spirit of God moved into your body. At that very moment, it's called being indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. Every person here tonight, and I assume that you said you're saved, I believe that. Every person here tonight that's genuinely said at some point you trusted Christ, the Holy Spirit of God, the God that created this incredible universe, is in your body right now in the person of the Holy Spirit So I don't feel him. Well that has nothing to do with it. The fact is he's there. Can you feel your liver? Oh, but is there is it there? Sure. So don't don't get hyped up on feelings The Holy Spirit of God, the moment a person trusts Christ, is indwelt by the Holy Spirit. That did not happen before Pentecost. When I trusted Christ as Savior, I was baptized into the body of Christ, Corinthians teaches that, by the Holy Spirit. Place me in the body of Christ. The Holy Spirit indwells me. The Holy Spirit, the moment I trusted Christ as Savior, the Bible says that the Holy Spirit of God sealed me until the day of redemption. And that sealing, when you seal a can full of beans, it's a preservative. It is an act that preserves those beans from going bad. And so when the Holy Spirit, when I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit of God sealed me, my salvation, and it can't obey it. Because the Holy Spirit is there. And how long does it say we are sealed to? Until the day of redemption. I had a guy tell me, I mentioned this before, but I had a guy tell me one time, oh yeah, we're sealed, but we can break that seal. I said, no, it says that we are sealed until when? The day of redemption. Doesn't say we seal until I sin. It says until the day of redemption. I have no control over the day of redemption. That's when Christ comes back. And so the Holy Spirit of God, the moment I trust Christ, He moves within me. And I always try to point this out, people who are praying and asking for God to give them the Holy Spirit, people that are saved, asking God to give them the Holy Spirit, they're asking for something they already got. If they're saved. And if they're not saved, you're not going to get the Holy Spirit until you're saved And so we're indwelt, we're sealed, we're baptized, we're sealed by the Holy Spirit, and our body becomes the temple of the Holy Spirit. So when you read here that King Saul, that the Spirit of the Lord departed from him, don't think for one minute that that can happen to you or to me. The Holy Spirit will never, ever, ever leave a believer. Now sometimes in certain denominations, preachers will get worked up and they'll try and scare their people and say, you better live for God. or the Spirit of God will depart from you. That is not true. And we could do a whole study. In fact I just thought of this. If you'll enroll in Bible Institute this coming spring, we're going to study the doctrine of the Holy Spirit, and you will know exactly what I'm talking about. So everybody's going to enroll, right? Alright, you're gonna lose the spirit if you don't enroll. No, you won't. Don't let anybody tell you God will take his spirit from you. How many people, I'm telling you, if what I'm saying right now, if this would really sink in, our minds would be exploding. That God Almighty lives within our bodies. That is incredible. And he says, I'm never, ever, ever, ever going to leave you under any circumstances at all, for any reason whatsoever, never. Wow. Talk about secure, talk about safe. But Solomon, but Saul He's Old Testament. And the Spirit of God departed from him. Spirit of God departed from him. I cannot drive the Holy Spirit away from me, but I can do two things to the Holy Spirit. One thing I can do is I can grieve the Holy Spirit. Will you take your Bible? Turn with me to Ephesians. Now stay here. Lord will, and if we have time, we're going to get back to this. But come with me to Ephesians. Some people I'm talking to, this is old stuff. You've heard this a million times. Other people I'm talking to you might have never heard this before. But it's Bible. Ephesians and chapter number four, back in the New Testament. I can't drive the Holy Spirit away. God will never take the Holy Spirit away from me. He's not going to leave me voluntarily. The Holy Spirit will not lead me. But I can do two things to the Holy Spirit. Ephesians chapter 4 and verse number 30. Let's start in verse 29, because I think we need to understand the context so we understand what's taking place here. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. How much corrupt communication should come out of our mouth None. Nothing corrupt. Nothing nasty. No nasty words. No bad words. Would you agree with me? Christians ought not to say bad words. Christians ought not to cuss. I think we ought to be very, very careful, even about euphemisms we use, personally. And so let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is what? Good To the use of edifying, building up, that it may minister grace to the ears. So the communication that comes out of my mouth ought to build up, ought to edify, ought to minister grace to those hearing us And now look at verse 30. And what? Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God. Now, here's what I was referring to earlier, whereby you are sealed until the day of redemption. Then he comes down and look, all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, evil speaking put away from you. So that verse is right smack dab in the middle of that. That tells me I can grieve the Holy Spirit by saying Unkind things, corrupt communication, and all that. And so one thing I can do, I will never lose the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit will never leave me as a believer. But I can talk and act in such a way that the Holy Spirit in me is grieved. Grieved. How many people when you were little, if you saw your parents sad, maybe you saw a parent crying, how many of it made you sad? Sure. You hate that. Now think about that. Here is God. By my behavior, my talk, the way I talk, things I say, God is grieved. I don't know, that ought to grieve us. I think that I can. And here's another thing, amazing thing to me, that I can behave in such a way that it affects God. I can affect God? Wow! So I can grieve the Holy Spirit, and there's something else I can do. Come over to 1 Thessalonians chapter number 5. And verse number nineteen He goes down a list of things here the church at Thessalica should be doing. Just makes these statements. Verse 16, rejoice evermore, pray without ceasing. 18 and everything, give thanks, O God. Then verse number 19, he says this about the Holy Spirit. What does he say? Quench not the Holy Spirit. Now, what does that mean? Here's something I can do. I can quench the Holy Spirit. Now again, I can't run the Holy Spirit off. I can't make him depart from me. I can't remove him from me But one thing I can do, I can quench him. The word quench there has this idea to suppress, to push down. You see, the Holy Spirit is active in the life of a believer. He is constantly working in our heart, directing us, helping us grow, challenging us. Convicting us, all these types of things. The Holy Spirit is there. Part of his ministry is to develop in me the character of Christ. Now as he works and he convicts me and he brings thoughts to my mind, he brings scripture to mind, and he speaks to my heart through Bible reading, preaching or whatever, and he's dealing with me and something comes up, you need to keep doing this, you're doing good here, don't do this, stop that. I can either listen and let the Holy Spirit have that influence, that impact on my life, or I can push them down and quench them. Say, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'll do my thing. So I can't drive the Holy Spirit off. I can't get away from him, he's not going to leave me, but I can sure grieve him and I can quench him and push him down. The classic illustration of that is when the preacher is preaching God deals with your heart about something, and we the old-time preachers used to say this, people hang on at the invitation time rather than going forward. Boy, they hold on to those pews with white knuckles. Anybody ever hear a preacher talk about that I'm not going up there. I'm not giving in to what the Holy Spirit spoke to me about. Now going to the altar is external. The problem is in the heart when God speaks in my heart and I refuse. Yield to him. What I'm doing is quenching the Spirit, quenching the Spirit. So in the Old Testament, the Holy Spirit would come and go. Come upon Samson. He'd do a great work. Samson would get flirting around with these ungodly women and get involved in fornication. Spirit would leave him. And he'd do whatever. God had told me he'd come upon him. Sam, uh King Saul, he's anointed to be king. He's humble. He's doing right. Spirit of God came upon him. And he gets a knucklehead, gets hard-hearted and proud, Spirit of God left him. That's Old Testament. New Testament, the Holy Spirit moves in. He secures us, he stays there, but boy, our actions, we can grieve them, we can quench them, but he's not going to leave us. Now, come back here to 1 Samuel. There's another statement here before we get into it That I want to highlight. I spent a little longer on that than I intended to, but the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. That cannot happen to you or me Yes. Yes, absolutely. Um liquor and I believe, this is me since you've opened that door, I believe that um personally from my own experience Uh before I was saying in studying scriptures that alcohol is a type of drug. Alcohol is a drug. So it is a drug abuse just like pot or coke or It's a drug abuse. And I am convinced, in my mind, my heart and mind, we're a little off the subject here, but I am convinced in my heart and mind from my experience of studying scripture and working with people that drug-induced um alterations that take place is a s there's a spiritual aspect to it and it is demonic at its core I believe when I am bringing drugs into my body, not for healing, not for that type of thing, but mind-altering drugs and these types of things, I am actually opening myself to demonic devilish involvement in my life. I believe that with all my heart. The word in sorcery in Revelation comes from the same word, our word, pharmacy. Pharmaceu. It's translated sorcery, which is demonic and satanic, and we have drugs. And so I agree with you. And that would that would would that would tremendously grieve the Holy Spirit. Now we're off on a little tangent here. A Christian cannot be indwelt by the devil Or devils. Cannot be into it. But I certainly can be oppressed by them. I certainly can be influenced powerfully by them. And when I take that drug or drink or whatever, I am opening myself for the m I believe devils to have all kinds of influence over me. Of course, as an unsaved person, they got an open door. There's no resistance there spiritually whatsoever. So does that make sense? And so, yes, absolutely. It it is. The world takes drinking liquor so lightly and treats it so flippantly and it And it is so deadly. It is so deadly on so many levels. And so my answer is right You're correct. Now come back here if you would. There's another thing and I'm not even going to I'm not even going to get to the sub-outline of my first introduction point. But look at this. I do want to point something else out here. But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. Okay, we understand. Old Testament. Pentecost hasn't happened. The Lord's not uh been at the altar yet. All right, we understand the Holy Spirit didn't dwell then. But notice something else here that kind of bothered me. And an evil spirit, what's the next three words? From the Lord troubled him How many people that raises a question mark in your mind? The Lord sending an e uh a the Lord, this is the way we read it. The Lord sending a devil An evil spirit, a devil, into King Saul? Would God send devils? Into people? I don't think so. My opinion. Now I study this, see what great, smarter men than I say, and they've got differing opinions. So that means I can think for myself Right? This is what I think. I don't think God sends devils. There's a statement, and I should have got the reference, I don't have it on top of my tongue, but in Isaiah the Bible says that the Lord creates good and he creates evil. evil. Now some of our Calvinist neighbors like to say, see, God is the author of sin. He created evil. An evil spirit, there's what you need to understand is there's more than one definition to the word evil. It doesn't necessarily mean morally wicked. Sometimes it means simply trouble, difficulty, trials. That type of thing. And so studying this, I don't believe for a minute that a holy God would send a devil into one of his anointed men that he set up as king of his people. And this is what I think it is. I think God was just sending them trouble. God removed his spirit, and God sent a spirit Of emptiness, stress, distress. In fact, the word evil there, I got looking at that, the word evil means this, unpleasant, miserable, distressed. And so I think God says, all right, listen, you want it your way, and that's an interesting statement, what I just said, because a little bit later we're going to see that Saul's whole problem was it became all about Saul. Wasn't about the Lord, wasn't about God's glory, wasn't about God's will, it was all about me. What I want, my way. And God says, all right, you want your way, I'm going to remove my spirit from you, and I'm going to give you this torment, this misery. This unhappiness, this emptiness that comes by living for self. Comes by living for self. So I wanted to clarify, I don't believe Uh God sent a devil here and to uh do this. I I I don't I I just don't see that. I might get to heaven and find out I was wrong. I don't think so. I think God is just saying, listen here here's what I'm trying to get at The most miserable person in the world, in my mind, is a saved person who is not living for God. They are tormented. It is just an evil spirit all about it. The most miserable person in the world is a saved person. li backslidden, living for themselves, living in sin. I've seen it. I've been doing this. I've been here 24 years. I was in Indianapolis for four years working in the church. I was three years uh working in youth evangelism. I've been doing this for a little while. And I have seen happy, godly, victorious Christians that love the Lord, rejoice in God, just happy as can be. And I saw them get focused on self, get out of the will of God, backslide. And that joy and that victory and that blessing just deteriorates. And they get to where they're just going through the motions, and you can tell they're frustrated and they're angry and the joy is gone, the victory is gone. And I think that's what we see with King Saul here. In a lot of cases, I would probably know what I'm going to do about the other. And the earth we find it. But it says What it says equal square or evil square or something. Whatever it has a lot of time it refers to Physical malady, mental, uh malady. Which is different. Right. Right. By a demonic spirit, a devil. Yes. Yeah, exactly. And I think what you just said, we can look at King Saul in the coming years. is behavior and you see serious mental I called him a psycho king last week and I think that could be part of what this evil spirit is. But if we look at what David did to alleviate the problems and solve one Anybody here has a my lane headache? Okay. Very, very simple because we should have a fall Mm. So it was the some sort of physical material problem. Yeah. So I wanted to clarify, thank you, Brian. I wanted to clarify some of those terms there. The Holy Spirit departed from them. You and I do not lose the Holy Spirit. That was an Old Testament situation, and God doesn't send devils to possess us. Alright. So now my first point. Let me just get us started on this. Now let's look at this here. The Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. And the servant said unto him, Behold, now an evil spirit from God troubleth thee. King Saul is backslidden. Right? How many people would agree with me on that? I believe he's a saved man. I've had people challenge that. I'm I'm pretty con I'm convinced that he was a saved man, that he's in heaven. I'm convinced of that However, he is so far from God at this point. He is so far what we call backslidden that he's a classic he's a classic study on how a person backslides So I'm going to give you some observations on backsliding, and then we're going to have to quit here in a minute or two. But let me at least get us started on this. Number one, on backsliding, of studying King Saul. I put this down. Generally, a backsliding is generally observed by others before the individual is aware of it. A backsliding Christian, usually other people around pick it up. Everything's fine. And other people around saying, man, something ain't right, brother. Something ain't right, says there. What do you mean? And look what I this is this is one of the places I get it here. Look at verse 15. The Spirit of the Lord's departed from him 14, evil spirits troubling him. And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now an evil spirit from God troubleth thee. Who was it that picked up that this was King Saul's situation? It was his servants And they came to him and said, hey King Saul, I don't know if you know this or not, but we've been watching, we've been looking at this thing. These things are falling apart here. You ain't what you used to be. Something's wrong. There's an evil spirit of the Lord there. Something's changed. And that is, I've seen over the years, that is uh that is usually how it goes. Generally, that is how it goes out. Verse 14 is a statement of fact. Spirit of the Lord left them, evil spirit showed up. Verse um uh 15 is an observation made by the servants. I want you to go with, and I'll quit with this one, I promise you, but I want to give you an illustration of this. Come to Judges. So we're in 1 Samuel, so you go back towards the New Testament And I think you hit go backwards, it'd be Ruth, is that right? Judges Ruth. I want to go to Judges. I want to get back to Joshua. I want to get stop at Judges. And verse chapter number 16. Is one of the most fascinating characters. I'm not my favorite, but he's fascinating. Samson. Man, what a guy What a mess. Chapter 16, and look with me if you would at verse number 15. Now this is the this is Samson and who? Delilah. Lovely Delilah. And so Samson is tearing the place up. He's tearing the Philistines all to pieces. I mean he's just wreaking havoc with the Philistines. And Delilah is 19th girlfriend or whatever. Um, uh, she's looking at him and uh the Philistines get to her and say, We need you to figure out what the deal is, because we're looking at Samson and we cannot figure out how in the world he has such strength I mean his arms are like pencils and his the the guy's a little weakly. Now it doesn't say that, but I think that's the case because they can't figure out why he's so strong. If he was looked like me, they'd all know why he was strong. But um So it's and so she goes the they go to the Lyle and says, listen, we'll give you a lot of money, we'll make you rich, you figure out what makes them so strong, and tell us, and then we'll get them. And so she bu buys into that. What what a good girlfriend, huh? And so the first thing he tells in verse 7, he says, if you tie me up with seven green whiffs. Now I got looking up whiffs, and that's a type of rope. They use wood. It's kind of like a pliable wood or something. I don't understand what it is exactly. But it's a rope of wood, very, very strong. And what happens? She ties, he falls asleep, she ties her up with these whiffs, calls the Philistines in, Samson, the Philistines are upon you, what's he do? Just snaps him, kills all the Philistines Rats, that didn't work. So then she goes, Alright, what is it now? Then the next thing he tells her in verse number 11, he says, Tie me with new ropes that have never been used before. Big old ropes, tie me up with that. I'm powerless So she puts him to sleep, he falls asleep, Philistines come in, Samson, Philistines, snaps him, shh, like like a little thread on a little candle. It did just nothing. Boom, boom, boom, he kills all those Philistines Man. So she tries again. And uh he says verse eleven, he goes, alright, if you um she goes, man, you keep messing with me, you're making fun of me, you're lying to me, tell me the truth. And he says, well, if you weave the seven locks of my head with the web. Now, as far as I can tell, that web is part of a weaver's beam, you know, a loom. Some part of that. You tie that in, weave that into uh his hair, and um and I'll be powerless. So lo and behold, it puts him to sleep. Philistines come in, Samson, Philippines, gets up, kills them all Now I don't know. Not only was Samson pretty strong that God had given him, but he was pretty dumb. At some point it would be like Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Then he tells her the truth. You knucklehead, she just did everything you said. What do you think she's going to do now? Backslidden Christians aren't always the smartest. And then verse 15, and she says to him, How canst thou say I love thee when thine heart is not with me? You mocked me these three times. So finally he tells her that all is heart, verse 17. And then Those things come in and he's powerless. And what I'm trying to get to is verse 20, the last part. And he wists not that the Lord was departed from him. Hmm. And my point is this, when you and I as Christians, when we start to backslide, usually other people are aware of it before we are. When the blessing and joy and peace and presence of God is not in our lives, usually other people pick it up before we do. And that's the way it was with King Saul. Yes, and I was reading one fellow was saying, he is saying a backsledden heart is displayed in a person's character and their behavior. It comes out that way. And people see that. I've said this often, I believe it's true, and I'm guilty of it myself. We tend to think we're better Christians than what we really are. We tend to think we're stronger in our faith than what we really are. We tend to think we're closer to the Lord than what we really are. And that makes us very, very vulnerable to when we do backslide, we don't see it. And it's others around us. So that tells me the importance of having good godly fellowship. Get around other good godly Christians. They'll pick that up, they'll be able to help me, right? Uh you're hanging around with people that are worse than if I'm hanging around with people worse than me And I'm back, I don't see it. I'm not gonna it's not gonna be brought. But I get around anybody here ever go to church or get in the service or something, you get around somebody, and afterward you feel like, man, I'm not nearly as good a Christian as I thought, you get around them I have several evangelists that we bring through and that we have in the past. Whenever the week's over, I think, man, he made me see that I'm not the greatest Christian as I thought as I was And so it's important that we stay around godly Christians, have good godly fellowship. That's why if a person is in a liberal church, and there's not any godliness in liberal church, they ought to get out of that and get in a good church because you can backslide and not even know it and people around wouldn't pick it up. But you get in around godly people and it becomes a little more obvious. Am I making sense? And so it's important for godly fellowship and it's important to have, and I'm saying this to and about myself, it's important to have an honest pastor. Right? If I can backslide and I don't pick it up right away, others will pick it up before I do. I want a preacher that's going to preach the truth and preach against sin so that I can get that dealt with. And not just let it go on. If you've got a backslidden person in the church service and the preacher never preaches on sin, and every preacher never talks about backsliding, the preacher never talks about not being right with God and doing what's right, then I'm not gonna how am I gonna pick it up? Right? Until it's a disaster. And so that it's very, very important, uh good godly Christian fellowship and have a preacher that uh preaches uh the truth and preaches it straight. To be honest with you, I I A pastor that doesn't preach against sin and doesn't preach the Bible straight, I don't believe loves his congregation. Well I I love my people too much to say talk about that. No, that's not true. If you love them, you'd want to help them, and you gotta you need it. I need it. So This is a little different tonight, but um we're gonna I got about four other points on saw backsliding and we'll pick them up next year Because Steve Heimball is going to be here next week and the week after that will be next year. Right? You got a pretty slick pastor here. You gotta get up early to pull the water from my eyes. So let's let's ask the Lord. Let's do this. Let's ask the Lord not to help us not backslide. And if we are backslidden, let's ask the Lord to help us get it right. Amen. Father in heaven, thank you for this portion of Scripture, and we're so sorry for Saul that it turned out the way he did so long ago. But Lord, we do want to learn from him. And Lord, I would pray that future generations would learn from me, not in the same way that I ended up like him Lord, that we can be victorious. We can have the joy and presence of God in our lives. We don't want to grieve you, Lord. We don't want to quench your spirit. We want to be filled with your spirit and yield it to your spirit. And you live the Christ light through us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight say, preacher, yeah, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. But uh I don't want to grieve the Holy Spirit. Maybe God spoke to some hearts about that. I don't want to quench the Holy Spirit anymore. Maybe God spoke to some hearts about that. I need to be careful, my close walk with God. Is there any like that in any way the Spirit of God maybe spoke to your heart tonight? How about it? Any at all? Uplifted hand. Sure. That's the Holy Spirit working in our heart, trying to keep things, keep us where we need to be, going where we need to go. So Father, I ask you to bless our invitation now. I believe invitations are important. And help us to be sensitive and yielded to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.