We've been looking at this now for a month or so, but uh it's a fascinating passage. We notice that um, let's see, I need to get rid of We notice the fall. The first thing we notice beginning uh there in uh what verse? Let me get here in verse uh fourteen and down we noted the the deterioration of a great man. And King Saul was by anyone's measure at the beginning of his ministry, I guess you'd say, uh, he was a great man by anybody's standards. Um but he deteriorated and he fell uh and uh and and ended up terribly. We were at at as I mentioned, we were at the uh Bible Time board meeting and um Brother Koots is He's now the director, executive director of Bible Time. Course, Charles Holmsher was the founder and director, and I worked with him for many, many years. Of course, he's with the Lord. I think his birthday, his last birthday, it had been like ninety-four or something, but he's been with the Lord a number of years now. But um Brother Koontz was telling us at the meeting, he says when uh uh Brother Homesher was in his mid eighties eighty five, eighty-six, somewhere around there. They were talking and um Brother Holmsture made this statement. He said he said, I'm really worried that I don't blow it before God calls me home. I don't mess up real bad before God calls me home. And Brother Koontz was shocked that he said that. And he was telling me, and he he said, I said to him, I said, Brother Holmeshire You're 80 whatever years old. What in the world makes you think you're going to blow it now? And he said, Brother Homer got very stern, and he looked at him. He said, This, you do not understand the flesh. We do not understand the flesh. And what he was saying was, is that sin what do we mean by flesh? It's our what? Our sinful nature. And what he was saying was very clear that his sinful nature does not die out with age. It doesn't weaken. And we see that in King Saul as it started out, as I said, a tremendous man of God. And yet um he deteriorated. And we noted that. And then we noted the um the distinctions of a godly man. And if you would look there with me. Am I not turned on to me? I am on. Um look with uh there, and we looked at this before, but I want us to notice verse 18 again. He said, Then answered one of the servants. Saul's away from God. God's spirits left him. We talked about that. Evil spirit of the Lord's upon him. He's messed up. He's under all kinds of stress. And so they're looking for someone to come in and play some music that would calm King Saul down and and ease his tension, I guess. They answered one of the servants, verse 18, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse, the Bethlehemite, that is cunning and playing. And a mighty valiant man, and a man of war, and prudent in manners, and a comely person, and the Lord is with them. Boy, what a resume there. What a description of a tremendous man. David is without a doubt a godly man from his youth. And uh so we noted that, and we looked at that now and when it came down if you would notice verse number 23. So David gets in there, they bring him in. David's very skilled playing the harp, stringed instruments. They bring David in. Saul gets all worked up. He's in one of his fits. David comes in and begins playing. Now look at verse 23. And it came to pass when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul that David took in harp and played with his hand. Now look at this So Saul was refreshed and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him. That fascinates me. That here is Saul under a really a spiritual depression, a spiritual distress. And David comes in, he doesn't preach a sermon, he doesn't quote poetry. All he does is brings out a musical instrument and he begins to play, and that calms King Saul down And I put it this way, the dynamics of a gifted musician. So we had the deterioration of this great man, we had the distinction of a godly man. Now we have the dynamics of a gifted musician Let's pray, and uh I want to look probably tonight, maybe next week. I'll I think I'm gonna extend it to next week. I want to look at music in the Bible, a little bit of the music's power, music's influence Let's pray first. Father in heaven, we come to you in a nice warm building on a cold, snowy night, and we ask that you would speak to our hearts and challenge us. I thank you for music, the song that was just sung. Bless my heart. And our congregational singing. And Lord, last night driving home, or actually this morning, early this morning driving in and the good music on the radio and how that blessed me. So teach us, Lord, to not take it for granted. Help us to understand a little bit of music's role in our lives. and uh and your perspective of it. And so I need your help for that, Lord. I don't have the wisdom to be able to present that. So I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit And you teach us from your word, I pray. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Daniel is a young man at this point. We don't know what age, maybe late teens, I would guess, somewhere around there. But he is an incredibly impressive young man. We saw the statements they made, the observations that these to David were strangers in they in verse number 18. And we saw all that. But the point I'm trying to get to is this. God's not, he's not ready. As impressive as David is at this point, he is not yet ready for the kingdom. He's not yet ready to sit on the throne. He still has some lessons to be learned. And that's a whole nother message in itself and the fact that before God uses us, a lot of times he has to put us through the ringer. We have to go through a series of tests and be challenged. And so God is teaching David some important lessons, and a little bit he's going to face Goliath and all that he learns and takes away from that. and uh uh other um uh situations he faces before he's ready for the throne. But I think God is teaching them something here. He's a skilled physician. We picked that up in verse number 18. It says he was cunning in playing, and we noted that that was a reference to his ability to play musical instruments. He was a very skilled musician. But nevertheless, God, I believe, God wanted to teach David something about the powerful influence music has. As he comes in and he sees firsthand, as he simply plays an instrument, and the effect that that music has upon King Saul and the spiritual aspect of all of that. And I think David is learning. God is teaching him. And I think David learned a lesson very well. Because later on in life we find God using him to pen perhaps half, maybe more than half of the of Israel's songbook, which is the book of songs. And uh he leads great choirs there in Israel. You'll read that about David where he organized and put assigned choir leaders and just phenomenal musician. and understood music, understood the role that music plays in our lives, and understood the power that music has in our spiritual lives. So God is, I think this is a lesson. God is teaching David and um and uh and uh and the the uh uh the impact of music and through David we see it, we read it, and we can learn from this Whether we recognize it, or now let me stop before we get into this, I want to say this right up front. I am not a musician I am not an expert on music by anyone any stretch of the imagination. I think some of you will understand what I mean by this. I don't really understand a lot of the mechanics of music and all of the philosophy behind it necessarily But I recognize good music when I hear it. But I know what I'm talking about it. And do you ever hear a song that's pretty good song? It's there But something doesn't ring true. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? And just something in your spirit says something's not right here. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I was in a meeting not too long ago. It was beautiful music, everything, and the song saying just something in my spirit. It was grieved a little bit. I thought something was not right. And so I'm not an expert and I'm not trying to get real hyper super spiritual and say, oh, I can really feel whether it's right or not. That's not what I'm talking about. But um Whether we recognize it or not, music has a powerful influence on our lives. So I don't think much about music. You might not, but music is influencing you. Music is influencing me Both positive in a positive way and a negative way. How many people think we sing songs here and play music just so we fill up the time and keep people here as long as we can? Trust me, I'm not up here leading con congregational songs on Wednesday nights without the piano because um you know I'm such a blessing in my singing, I'm sure of that. But it has it plays an important role And we'll talk about that probably in another week. But what I'm trying to get at here now is this whether we recognize it or not, whether we are conscious of it or not, music is affecting us probably in this day and age. on a daily basis. Many times I believe unconsciously it is affecting us. From when we're very, very small, music plays a role in our development and our influence. lullabies, little baby lullabies, right? The mother has the little baby there, it's screaming. What does a mother do? So it seems like instinctively, if a baby's all this upset, she'll start rocking and think, what else she'll start doing Mm-hmm, she'll start humming or singing a song, rock a bye baby in the treetop. When the wind blows, the cradle will rock. When the bell breaks, the baby will fall. Down will come the baby cradle and all. What kind of morbid person wrote that song? I got thinking about who in the wor right mind puts a baby in a cradle up in a tree and then sings about it when it falls out? But would you agree with me that little little ditty like that, a little lullaby, has an impact on the baby. A lot of times they'll just kind of come down or you'll m now they have where they have You know, you just wind it up and that thing will start just playing little songs and the baby calms down. You know what that tells me? That tells me that music is a powerful influence on us. Emotionally, physically, we saw that there. Even from a little child, these little lullaby. Anybody here ever go in a restaurant? Anybody here ever go in a restaurant? It's totally silent, no music You hardly ever hear that, don't you? There's always something in the background. And if you go to Denny's, it's like you're on the front row of an acid rock concert, you know. Um why do they anybody here want to take a guess? Why do they play music in a restaurant like that? What why would they do that? Make a nice atmosphere? Yeah, and I I am c absolutely convinced that when when they're busy, they'll crank that thing up and they'll get some rock and roll music on and you next thing you know you're just wolfing it down, you get out of there and somebody else come in. Huh? If you go to a nice upper scale restaurant, they'll play a little bit more classical music. Why? Because it sets an atmosphere And um why? Because music has a profound impact. It has a tremendous influence over us, and we don't even realize it. Uh sporting events. You know, when they're playing. And next thing you know, everybody's all wound up. And uh, you know, they don't they don't play some nice little You know, when they're playing football or something, it's Um Shopping Centers. Do you ever notice that? I'm convinced there's subliminal messages that only women pick up. Buy more, buy more, buy more, buy more Advertisements. Right? Man, they'll play and there'll be some catchy little ditty. And man, that thing gets stuck in your head. And the next thing you're at Walmart, you got a whole cart full, you know? You didn't even realize I was buying it. Influence. Um, movies. You watch a show, some kind of movie or show, there's always music, and that music helps set the tone, whether it's a real tense, they'll play kind of tense music, or it's something, or it's light Did you ever anybody ever notice that? I saw a little clip. It's some time ago. Somebody had sent me a clip from some famous movie, but all the music was removed. And all it was was just the conversation and the sounds. It was the most boring thing I ever saw in my life. It's like, this is lame. Why? Because music has a powerful, powerful influence. It affects us emotionally. They start playing that scary movie, and all of a sudden you're getting all scared. Or play that scary music or you know it's uh real romantic. You know. Um phones. Man, I was traveling, as I said, the last couple of days. Everywhere I went, everybody had a phone. with two little wires drilled into their ears. Anybody know that? I've tried it, I cannot get them to stand. I just I can't stand them. Everywhere I went, the guy beside me and the one plating sitting there. And uh I I'm sitting there trying to read and he's got those things in his head. Tinko boonga tumka boom. Good night It's a vital part of our lives. How many people here ever heard, we're older, when you get older, you hear a song back when you were younger. And you get that weird nostalgic feeling. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And it's just certain song it makes you think of the spring for whatever reason. Or you get this nostalgic feeling. Tell me music isn't very influential. Tell me music doesn't have a psychological, emotional, physical impact on us. It does. In church services, I I as far as I know, every religion I've ever heard of, except one I'm going to reference here a little bit, has some sort of music involved in it. You go into the most uncivilized societies, and they'll have some sort of religion. They all do, without exception, they all worship some sort of God. and there is some sort of music associated with that worship. Why? Because music has a very spiritual aspect to it A very powerful emotional influence, a psychological influence, stirs our memories and our feelings and We use it in church service. Music plays a very, very important role in our lives. Music plays an important role in the lives of God's people. And that is by God's design. God is the author of music. He really is. Now I want to show you some interesting things in the Bible. Turn with me if you would. Now we're going to use our Bibles a lot. We'll see how much time we have. But go to the book of Job. Book of Job, chapter 38, is towards the end of the book. Job's friends have been raking him over the coals, accusing him of all kinds of nonsense. Of course, Job was innocent of all of it. Job got his head out of sorts and his thinking out of sorts and he's trying to justify himself, excuse himself, which he really did nothing directly to uh to cause all the the death and the suffering all that he's going through is Satan and God's going on. But um Job has been going asking questions. His friends have been running their mouths And the whole thing is just deteriorating. And finally God steps in. And I put in ch verse one, um Chapter 38, right at the beginning of the chapter, I wrote this in the margin of my Bible, when God starts asking questions. And if you notice chapter 38, I think 39, maybe even into 40, there's a whole series of questions God asked. In fact, I circled all the question marks and there's just dozens of them. Where were you when I did this? Where were you when I did this? You guys think you know all the answers? You guys think you were something else? What about this? What about this? I tell you, when God starts answering questions, man starts getting humbled. And comes down through here and at verse number I want to begin reading in verse number 4. You notice verse 2, who is this that darkeneth counsel by words and mouth? He goes down there. Then verse 4, look what he says. This is God speaking to Job and his buddies. Where wast thou when I lay the foundations of the earth? Now, what let's find out what he's talking about. What's God talking about here? Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth? What's the question consist of? Where were you when I created the earth? He's using very descriptive language here, but when I laid the foundations, where were you when I created the earth? Now he goes on, look, declare if thou hast understanding. You know so much? Where were you when I made the world? Tell me, who hath laid the measures thereof if thou knowest? Or who hath stretched the line of it? Whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened, or who laid the cornerstone thereof? Now look at verse 7. Now, in this series of questions that are very humbling and putting these guys in their place, he makes a statement that Catches my attention. When um he says, uh let me come back and read the sentence, whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened, or who lay the cornerstones thereof? When the morning stars what? Sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy. Question mark. Did you catch what he's saying here? He's saying to Job and his buddies, and I'm just going to summarize what he's saying, he's saying, where were you when I made the earth? When the sons of God, when the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy. Now he's saying that when he created foundation, there were these morning stars and these sons of God that were singing together. And that phrase singing together has the idea of many, many voices joining together in harmony. They're singing together. And the impress the word picture you get in studying this is this massive choir. And God's creating the earth, and these morning stars are joining their voices together, singing glory and praise to God at the moment of creation. And then the sons of God join in on that. Now here's the question. What in the world are these morning stars? The whole stars are not created. They're just in the process. Who are these sons of God? Man's not created at this point yet. Now, I cannot say emphatically, and I don't think anybody in the world can say dogmatically this is who these are and what they are, but the only conclusion I can come to is these are angels That are bringing glory to God when He creates the earth and the heaven and earth and all that, He's laying the foundation. This is the if these are angels, if these are referencing angels, this is the only reference in all scripture where you find angels singing That's the only time. You say, well, they sang when Jesus was born. Read it very, very carefully. It says they spake. And it doesn't say they sang. And so I would like to say dogmatically these are absolutely interesting, but I don't know what else they would be. But nevertheless, you have right at the beginning of creation, you have this This incredible celestial choir singing out the glory of God. How many folks ever heard the Mormon Tabernacle sing Messiah? How many people agree with me? That's majestic. That's fallen man's voices together in harmony and is absolutely majestic. Can you imagine The morning stars and the sons of God lifting their voices together, no doubt in perfect harmony, and exalting and glorifying God as he speaks this world into existence. What an event, my mind just, my imagination just goes wild. And so music is God's idea Music is such a part of everything God is and everything God has done. So here you have, apparently at the beginning of creation, you have music and song as a as a significant playing a significant part in that. Now come back to Revelation chapter 5. Now here we are thousands of years later. We're at the other end of the spectrum of man's history. We're at the end of the age And lo and behold, you have songs being sung. You have music being lifted up to the Lord. Revelation chapter 5 and verse number 8. And again, we don't have time to try and identify all these beings. And chap Revelation chapter 5, verse number 8. And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and the four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps Alright, there's musical instruments, golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of the saints, and that's a beautiful word picture. Now look what it says. And they what? They sung a new song, saying, Now this is the song, thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed to us Redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and every tongue and people and nation. By the way, that's a reference to world missions there. Did you catch that? Every single tongue, every single nation, people have gotten saved out. The only way that could happen is if missionaries went there, right? And so they're singing, and hath made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth How many people agree with me that was that will probably be a pretty beautiful sound, be a whole lot prettier than telephones ringing. I know I had to pick on Sandy. She does it on purpose. Tell him we said hey. Okay. All right, good. How do you feel agree with me? That's pr that's probably gonna be a pretty amazing thing to hear and say. These these yeah, that and phone rangings I mean, multiplied, multiplied hundreds of thousands, millions of people singing praise to the Lord Jesus Christ. What an amazing event. And so we have music is God's idea and it's part of his plan. It's part of creation. Music is God's invention. Now, I want to show you something else pretty interesting. Go to Ezekiel chapter number 28. Ezekiel, back in the Old Testament. And this I I think answers maybe gives a little bit of insight into that Job passage, these morning stars, these sons of God, who they are In Ezekiel chapter 28, we have a record, a description of Satan before his fall. And he goes down, he gives a pretty fantastic uh description of what Satan, Lucifer at that point, what he appeared to be. And look at verse 13. He says, Thou hast been in Eden. The garden of God, every precious stone was thy covering, the Sardis and Topaz and Diamond and Barrel and the Onyx and the Jasper and the Sapphire and the Emerald. and the carbuncle and the gold. I mean this guy is decked out. This would be the original bling. Right? I mean he's got all these things. It's all part of him, these fantastic diamonds and precious jewels. It's all part of his makeup and gold. And look at this. And the workmanship of thy tabres. I think is how you pronounce it, and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created. Now here you have a description of Lucifer, and part of his makeup is this incredible precious stones and jewels, but in along with that is stated that the workmanship of his tabres That word tabres would describe, it's either like a small tambourine. Now what role does a tambourine play in music? Kind of keeps the rhythm going. Or a small drum. You know, a drum and fife? That drum keeps that rhythm going. Keeps the rhythm going. What's the thing called when you play piano and you set up there and it goes chok chok ch Metrodome. Metrodome? Metro. Metronome. Hold you, I don't know music. But what's the what's the role of that little thing? To keep time, keep the rhythm. And that is what this tabre was designed for. It was a musical instrument, either a small tambourine or a small type of drum. And it was designed to keep the time or the rhythm of music. It was built into Satan's very creation. It was part of his physical being. And then pipes is a reference to musical instruments that would be like woodwinds, that type of thing, flutes, or you'd think of an organ, a pipe organ. And this is all part of Lucifer's makeup. How many how many people agree with me? You try to picture that in your mind, it seems almost bizarre. Anybody know to to have some being that this is part of their makeup I don't think in the setting and the context it was bizarre at all. This is before his fall. And so we come to this conclusion, and many, many Bible scholars have suggested this, and I tend to agree with them What we get this idea is that Satan was heaven's choir director. And as the anointed cherub, as one of the very specific class of beings in heaven. His responsibility was to bring glory to God through the music, through choir, leading this great music of heaven. Now that makes me wonder if that wasn't part of his role when God laid the foundations of the world. That wasn't part of this massive choir singing praise to God as God is doing this fantastic creation of everything. And so music is God's idea. He designed Satan as a almost as a musical instrument, a living musical instrument. And before the fall, Satan's apparent responsibility, one of them at least, was to glorify God and exalt God through music and praise. So music in and of itself is a good thing. It's created by God. Now think about that. The most powerful created being, Satan. The most powerful created being led the music of heaven to bring glory to God. Now here's where the caution comes in. When Satan fell, He did not lose that ability. When Satan fell, he did not lose that skill that was designed into him, this musical skill. What changed, I believe, in Satan's fall was not his ability to produce music, but his motive for producing music. Before the fall, what would have been, I mean this is divinely created into him by God to do this. Before the fall, what was his motive for music? What was it designed for? To glorify God, to exalt God. Now he has rebelled against God and he has fallen from this position And no longer is Satan's desire to glorify God and exalt God and to draw people's attention and praise to God, now he hates God. And rather than now bringing glory to God, he has this musical skills, he has this musical ability. But now he hates God. And no doubt he uses that to draw them away. Look at verse, I have written down here, verse 7 and 8, Ezekiel. No, no, I'm sorry. Go to Exodus. Now I want you to notice something else. We see how this plays out. Exodus chapter 32. Now Satan's goal is to turn man against God. Now Satan's goal is to get man not to trust God, not to yield himself to him and glorify him, but to rebel against him, join him in the rebellion. And so he knows this music and he hates God. He knows the power and the purpose of music. And now he is using that uh to uh turn man against god. Exodus chapter 32. What's the story here? Moses is going up on the Mount Sinai. He's getting the commandments from God. Aaron is left back in the camp People get restless, get impatient. How many folks have noticed people get impatient? How many people here ever, when you've gotten patient, you've messed up? Yeah. I've never regretted waiting on God. I do regret many times I did not wait on God, I got impatient. They got impatient, and look what happens beginning in verse number one, Exodus 32 It says, and when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out of the mount, they got impatient, the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron and said unto him, Uh, make us God, small J. Which shall go before us, as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we know what not has become of him And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings which are in the ears of your wives and of your sons and of your daughters, and bring them to me. I put in the margin of my Bible, Aaron was a pole-driven leader He just went by what the people said. And all the people broke off verse three, the golden earrings which were in their ears, and brought them to Aaron. And he received them at their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool after they had made a molten calf. after he had made a molten calf, and they said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. Good or bad? This is terrible. They're rebelling against God, and when God's up there giving uh Moses the commandments, one of which is thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, they're down here making a graven image If you're willing, come down to verse 7. And the Lord said unto Moses, get thee down. Now I think this is interesting. Look at the wording here. God's talking to Moses, go get thee down, for thy people, which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves. How many people here, when one of the kids is being bad, you say to your wife, Your child Right? The wife says the husband, Your kids, we mean mine. And it's God saying to Moses, Ah, they're your people, Moses. And uh they turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded them. Now come over to verse number 25. Now look at this. This is where it gets interesting. Uh verse number 25. No, wait a minute. Come back up here. I skipped the part. And uh verse 17. So Joshua and Moses are up, they're coming down the mountain. When Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, They got this little golden calf, they're partying and carrying on. He said unto Moses, There's noise of war in the camp. And he, Moses, said, It's not the voice of them that shout for mastery, neither is the voice of them that cry for being overcome. But it is the noise of them that what? Sing do I hear. Now I thought it was interesting that Joshua heard them sing and he thought it was war going on. So that tells me they're listening to rock and roll music. Sounds like war. Boom. But Moses says, no, they're singing. They're singing. Here you have blanton rebellion against God. And right in the very mix of it is music. Is music. I'm telling you, Satan is powerful. He understands the power of music. And he has been for many, many centuries, thousands of years. has been using music as a part of drawing man against God of promoting rebellion against God. There is no doubt about it The power of music. The power of music. Satan understands it. He knows music and he hates God. Oh, by the way, this is what I was getting at. Notice verse 25. I think this is kind of interesting. And when Moses saw that the people were naked, for Aaron had made them naked under their shame among their enemies, Moses stood in the gate of the camp and said, Who is on the Lord's side? But I thought it was interesting you've got this music, which would, by my description, be some sort of rock and roll music going on. It sounds like war. And you have idolatry going on, you have rebellion against God, and right in the mix of it, you have immodesty and you have immorality. This is what I thought of when I was studying it. Sex and drugs and rock and roll. The world recognizes that. And it's nothing new to the 50s, 60s, and our age. It has been going on for millennials, for many, many, many years And you have it right here. And so Satan understands what we're saying is this. Music is the powerful, powerful source. Force. And it can do one of two things. Music can draw me closer to the Lord and bring glory to God. Or it can stir up the sinful flesh of man, inflame the sinful flesh of man, and turn us against the things of God. This is why for all these years I have been adamantly against going to dances. And those types of things. I know the schools have them, they have their whatever dance, whatever, and all of that. And I know all of that, and it seems cute and innocent, but I'm telling you, music is such a powerful, powerful thing. And I would venture to say there are m hundreds of thousands of young people that messed up their testimonies bad. At a stupid dance where sensual music's being played and immodesty is being tramped around. And that, uh I'm telling you, that does not bring glory to God. That does not draw people closer to the Lord. God, it inflames the flesh and is a very, very dangerous thing. And so music is a powerful force. Martin Luther, how many people recognize the name? Old Martin Luther, the reformer, he made this statement He said, the devil takes flight at the sound of godly music. He understood the influence of music and The power of music, whether it's good to resist and quench the devil, or of the devil, it can inflame the flesh. He taught his folks, uh. Martin Luther back years ago, he said, every child of God should have two books. Every child of God ought to have a Bible and ought to have a hymn book. And he understood the power of music. One of the reasons the hymns that Martin Luther wrote, one of the purposes he wrote them, was to teach doctrine. And his his many of his hymns were powerful in doctrine. And it was designed, he understood the design is draw us to God and bring close, bring us closer to the God. Every child of God should have a Bible and a hymn book. We tried for years gr raising the boys. We would s we would read scripture every evening we'd read scripture and we'd read a hymn from the hymn book. We had both of those setting there where we had devotions. And we'd just sing our way through the hymn book I believe it's a powerful, powerful force. I got a couple minutes. Let me give you my my last couple thoughts here on this. What is the purpose of music? Write this down, and I want to go expand on this a little bit in another message. But music is designed by God, number one, to bring glory to God. Now, what do we mean when we say bring glory to God? What does that mean in a practical aspect? We use these terms. We don't even know what we're talking about. So we're going to, this music is going to bring glory to God. Alright, it's going to exalt the Lord. The word glory itself comes from the word to be very, very weighty, to be very, very heavy. And I think when the Bible says that it's designed to bring glory to God, it is to add weight to the Lord. Anybody here ever hear somebody make this statement? That guy's word carries a lot of weight. Has a lot of influence. You trust it. You lift it up. You honor what that guy says. It carries a lot of weight. And so we're bringing glory to God. We're wanting people to put a lot of weight on the Lord. They honor him, they trust him, they exalt him. And so music is designed to bring glory to God. Music is not designed to glorify the musician. Alright? And I thank God for the folks in our church here. We have some tremendously gifted musicians, but I have never sensed in any of them it was ever designed because I want people to think what a great musician I am. That is not scriptural purpose of music. And it's the same thing with preaching. When we're done, we don't want somebody to say when somebody's done, boy. uh you're a tremendous few musician, though they may be, and there's nothing wrong with saying that in and of itself, but our pr our our result, our our conclusion would be, boy, what a tremendous God. You see what I'm saying? We want that in the message. Boy, that was a great sermon, thank you very much. I'd like to hear people say, Boy, what a great God Brings glory to God. Remember in Acts chapter 16, Paul and Silas were somewhere. It wasn't a very pleasant place. They were in jail. And in a Philippian jail, which is nothing like our jails. I'll tell you right now, they didn't have cable. Right? I mean it was ugly. And uh I mean as nasty as you can think and you we can go into great description And at midnight, Paul and Silas were griping and complaining, and the prisoners heard them. No It says the Bible says they were praying and singing praises to God. And it makes this statement, the prisoners heard them. They're singing glory to God. They're singing music in that prison. And what ended up happening? The jailer ended up getting saved. His household got saved. I am convinced that guy came under tremendous conviction. Because he heard the songs that Paul and Silas were praising God. That is the purpose of music, to draw people to the Lord, to exalt the Lord and attract people to Christ. So it's designed to bring glory to God. And number two, it's designed to bring me closer to God. Now bear with me. I want us to look at a couple verses, and then we're going to quit. Ephesians chapter number five. Two Ephesians and Colossians, there's two verses here that are very almost identical, and they tell us a lot about the importance of music in the life of a Christian. The importance of the right kind of music in the life of a Christian. What did I say? Ephesians chapter number five. We're familiar with verse 18. Be not drunk with wine, but be what? Filled with the Spirit. Look at verse 19, Ephesians 5. Speaking to yourselves, And look at this. Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, doing what? Singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Now come over to Colossians, just a couple pages over. Chapter 3 and verse 16. Everybody hanging in here with me? Look at verse 16, Colossians 3. Let the word of Christ Well, in you richly, in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another, how? In Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. I can't find anywhere in the Bible. Now listen, I'm not trying to br paint with too broad of a brush here, but I can't find anywhere in the Bible where music is simply entertainment. Now is it wrong to have entertaining music? I don't think so. you know, a little something just kind of entertaining in the background. The Bible doesn't forbid that. But what I'm trying to say is the purpose that God has created music was not designed for entertainment. It was designed to draw people to Christ and strengthen me spiritually. Now, question, what are psalms, hymns, and spiritual psalms Now again, I'm not an expert on all this, but this is the way I understand it. A psalm is any psalm with a truth about God. Can anybody think of a song in our songbook where it is declaring a truth about God? Holy, holy, a mighty fortress is our God. A song that describes a truth about God would be, I believe, considered a psalm. It's a scriptural truth. Psalms, hymns, what are hymns? I believe a hymn here in this context is a song that is bringing praise to God. Praise him, praise him, Jesus our blessed Redeemer, sing O earth, his wonderful love proclaim. It's singing praises to God. A song I'm singing about God, how amazing He is. Mighty fortress is our God. A psalm would be praises about God. And then a spiritual song, I believe, is a testimony of what God has done for me. Redeemed how I love to proclaim it. Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. I'm singing about what God has done for me. And all of these are designed to help me grow in my faith and be stronger in my faith. Music is never designed to be entertainment. I was reading about a fella, John and his wife Elaine Beekman. Back many, many in the early part of 1900, God called them to missionary work with the Clole C-H-O-L toll Indians of southern Mexico. They had to ride mules and travel by dugout canoes to get back to this tribe down southern Mexico, early 1900s. For 25 years they worked translating the New Testament into the language of these Indians. According to this report, they are one of the few societies. What's interesting is when the missionaries claimed these Indians did not know how to sing. One of the few closed societies where they did they didn't sing. I didn't know what music was, they didn't sing They began introducing the gospel, they translated scriptures into them. More than 12,000 of these Indians trusted Christ as Savior, became a very strong Christian community. And now, this was when it was written, which was a number of years ago, guess what that society of Indians are known for? They're singing. They're singing. Never heard it. Did not know what it was. They're introduced to Christ, and they began to sing. And they began to sing. They began to sing The power of music, the influence of music, David just plays a little instrument, boom, and immediately has a profound effect on Saul. And I'm telling you it affects you and I. And we need to be very, very careful. We need to be very, very careful what type of music we allow to influence us. We'll talk about that another time. Does it make sense? So let's um let's just it you say, Well, I don't sing. Uh God tells us to, and just sing to the Lord. You say, Well, I don't I don't I don't I I don't want to sing for other people. Don't sing for other people, sing for the Lord And sing to his glory. Make a joyful noise. And uh I believe it helps us grow. Father, I pray you'd take these truths and challenge us and help us. We live in a world filled with music of all stripes and of all types. Help us to be very, very discerning, be very, very careful what we're going to allow to influence us and our young people. And uh we want you to be pleased. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some folks say, preach, I never really thought about it I know there's some music that's influenced that you know I've got going on that probably wouldn't fall in wouldn't line up with scripture real well and you'd say, Preacher, uh I I need to give this some thought. Is there any like that, preacher? You know, I just need to give this some thought. God bless you. I wonder if some would say, well, I never really thought about it, but I'm going to make a conscious effort to make music more part of my Christian life, singing in my heart and playing it in my home and in my I think how many people would be like that, preacher, I want to make make a more deliberate effort. God bless you. God bless you. Father in heaven, Lord, we don't have a piano player to give an invitation, but I pray you'd help us to give thought to this and take this very, very seriously. I pray you'd help us to be singing Christians in a singing church, not for our glory or not for our to impress anybody, but just because we love you, Lord, and we want to glorify you in Jesus' name. Amen.