Psalm one nineteen. Let's read together. I know we already quoted this together earlier. Brother Matt read it, and uh but let's read verse one hundred and five together, Psalms one nineteen. Everybody got it there? Ready? Here we go. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. I want to speak about this lamp and this light here. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord. for the word of God you've given to us and the impact, uh the effect it has upon our lives as individuals, upon our church. Lord, we're thinking of our nursery and our young people today, the impact of the Word of God on their lives. And Lord, we trust on our community and surrounding areas as we give these gospel tracts out that have the Word of God, the Gospel that that would have an impact in the lives and holes of folks that live around us. And so we're asking you to speak our hearts now and challenge us. I ask Lord you'd help us to be people of the book. And not just in word, but in our daily living. Fill me with your spirit is my earnest prayer, Lord. I yield my will, present my body anew. And ask that you would speak through me and fill me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now I'm speaking to believers this morning. If you're saved and you know it, say amen. I wanted to say if you're saved and you know it, stomp your feet. But you don't have to do that. We used to do on the buses with the kids uh when we had the sunny school bus I worked on we have them doing all kinds of ridiculous stuff. If you're saved then you know it stand on your head. If you're saved you know it jump out the window, you know It's good to be saved, isn't it? Now that's who I'm speaking to this morning. This is what I want to challenge Now if you're here this morning and you don't know for sure in your heart and soul that your sins are forgiven, that when you die you go to heaven, not to hell, if you don't have that settled, I mean a and and uh a scriptural basis for that assurance I'll plea with you this morning, get that settled today. Don't go another day without knowing for sure that God has forgiven you and saved you from your sin. and from eternity in hell. So I'm talking to believers this morning, and here's my question to start our message this morning. How important, how important is your Bible to you? Now think about that. How important is your Bible to you? Whether you're a young person or senior citizen, wherever you're at, how important is our Bible to us? Somebody has said that We ought to consider our use and our handling of the Bible and compare it to how we use and handle our cell phones. How many people have a cell phone? Probably easier to ask how many don't. How many people here ever got up in the morning and you went off somewhere and you forgot your phone? You said, Oh, I need to go back and get that phone. Anybody here ever do that? Sure, I'm guilty. How many people ever take a half hour looking for your cell phone? Where did I put that thing? Walk anybody know what I'm talking about? Did you ever do that? You're talking to someone on the cell phone. I can't find my cell phone, right? I wonder how many of us have ever got up now hear me out. I wonder how many of us ever got up, headed out in the day, stopped down the road a mile and said, oh man, I forgot to read my Bible Turn around and come back, read our Bible before we go somewhere. Follow what I'm saying? This is my question. This is my question. How important is your Bible to you? What role does it play in your daily life? What influence does that book that you're probably holding in your hands right now, what influence on your life does that book have? The Bible, the Word of God. It is impossible. Now get this statement It is impossible to separate genuine Christianity from the Word of God. If you do not have the Word of God, you do not have genuine Christianity. Sometimes we'll refer to biblical Christians or biblical Christianity. Now, in reality, there is no such thing as unbiblical Christianity. But we use that phrase, we use that terminology to distinguish between Christianity and name only and just calling myself a Christian or calling something a Christian and whether it is actually a biblical Christian. You follow you follow what I'm trying to say? You can call anything and today anything in the world is called Christian. Anything in the world is called Christian But if it isn't biblically based, if it isn't grounded and founded and guided and following the teaching, the clear teaching of the Bible, the Word of God, it is not genuine Christianity. And so it is impossible to separate the Word of God from genuine Christianity. You can't separate those two. Let me take that a step farther. Let me be a little more specific, I guess, is what I want to say. It is impossible to separate the Word of God from salvation. You go to ten different churches, you'll have people tell you ten different ways you get saved. You you you get on the internet, Google in how do I get how do I know for sure my sins are given all my way to heaven? You could come up with 10,000 different theories and ideas and man's answers and all of that. But if it's not Bible salvation, it ain't salvation If I didn't get saved, if you didn't get saved the Bible way, I hate to say it, but we're not saved. Jesus said, not everyone says to me, Lord, Lord, is going to enter the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of God, he that comes the Bible way. So, how important is the Bible to us? I cannot be a genuine Christian apart from the Word of God. I do not have Bible I do not have genuine salvation apart from the Word of God. It must be Bible salvation Every aspect of our faith, every aspect of our faith as Christians, as believers, is based upon the Word of God. Probably one of the most famous Christian songs in the world, and one of the best, I think, in my mind. Jesus loves me. This I know Now listen, Jesus loves me. This I know. For the Bible tells me so. You understand what that song is teaching us? That my assurance, my confidence, that Jesus loves me Is based upon what the Bible tells me. That is the basis of it. In fact, everything we know and understand about God we get from the Word of God. Now we can look at creation, we see evidence of a creator We see evidence of design. We see design all around us. To me, and I know I go off on this sometimes, but To me the most ridiculous thing in the world is that we somehow came from nothing or over extended periods of time somehow one form miraculously changes into another form I just think if you step back for a moment and think for a minute, that is the most ridiculous thing in the world. We see design, we see evidence of intelligence, we see intricate complexity. Statistically speaking, it is impossible for it just to happen. The odds of it happening are impossible. But we really don't know much, if anything, about God. We can look at creation and say, yeah, there must be something, somebody. But we come to the Word of God and we find out who that somebody is. Jehovah. We find out what he's like. We find out what he expects from us, what he thinks about us, how he operates. Every aspect of our faith is what I'm trying to say is based upon the Word of God. It's based upon the Word of God. As a Baptist or a Baptist church, somebody asked Charles Spurgeon years ago. They said, if you weren't a Baptist, what would you be? He said, I'd be ashamed. Now listen, I know we're not the only believers in the world, and other people outside the Baptist church that love the Lord, and there's people inside the Baptist church that don't love the Lord. Right? We understand that. But one of the primary distinctive of the Baptist faith, the primary distinctive of the Baptist faith is this: the Bible is our sole authority. We have no other authority than that old book right there. We have no other authority than that. That is the only, and that is our supreme authority, the Word of God. And so, uh, the Bible is the very word of God. We begin with that premise. The Bible is God's word, it is our sole authority, it is our final authority. I'm grateful I was raised to believe the Bible. Uh when I was in high school I did a l um we were required the only thing I did in school is what I was required, but um We were required to do a genealogy of your family. Anybody ever do something like that for your family? I tell you, it's fascinating. And I did a genealogy of our family. In fact, there's a book written. It's called The Leatherman Family Genealogy. It's huge. It's a bestseller. I'm telling you, it's fascinating. And so I got working on that thing, and I was able to go back seven generations of Leathermans. Seven generations, back to, and if I remember correctly, it was Jacob Lederman. Came from Germany to New Jersey, South Jersey area, migrated to America legally. And um And they were fleeing religious persecution in Europe and coming to America, the land of the free, liberty. And for seven generations, and as far as I can tell in studying that, every one of those great, great, great, great, great-grandfathers, every one of that family was a Bible believer. It's a Bible believer. Now they weren't Baptists necessarily all of them, but they believed the Bible. They believed. What a heritage. I'm telling you, if you've got a young people, if you've got a mom and dad, or you've got a bus worker, you've got a youth pastor that believes the Bible and loves you, you want to thank God for that. The Bible. I was raised to believe that this book is God's Word. When I got saved, I started, you know, God just changed my life so dramatically. And I can't explain it why God would do that for me. But I began reading my Bible and I began devouring that thing. I was just captivated. By what the Bible taught and what it said, and I would read it and read it, I was just fascinated And I had no problem accepting that what this book was telling me was the absolute final authority in all the universe. The Bible. The Bible. Psalm 119 is the Word of God chapter of the Bible. The Bible chapter of the Bible. I mean nearly every verse in all through Psalm 119, all 176 verses of Psalm 119, nearly every verse references the Bible in one form or another. And not just the Bible in a cold, indifferent way, you know, but no, and he'll reference the Word of God and how it affects our lives, how it impacts us. Psalm 119 is a fascinating chapter. It is the largest chapter in the book of Psalms, it's the largest psalm, and it is the largest, longest chapter in all the Bible. 176 verses. All about the Word of God. The Word of God. There's no title given if you come back to verse number one and look, there's no title there. There's no penman mention, of course God being the author, but there's no penman. We don't know who God used to record this down. I got looking up at different commentaries and Bible scholars and uh just kind of looking and seeing what who they thought, you know, maybe they'd see something that I'd missed or whatever And uh there was a bunch of names thrown out, possible penmen for the book of uh for the Psalms 119, uh one fellow suggested maybe It was Nehemiah had written this. Another one said Hezekiah, may be the human penman here. Another suggested Jeremiah. Another one said Ezra. One guy said Malachi. And I came to this conclusion. They don't have any idea who penned this. We don't know. We're not told. Now I got looking at a little bit. Here's what I think, and this is just total speculation on my part. I think David was behind this And the reason I think that is if you go through and look at some of the terms he uses and some of the expressions there are very similar to terms and expressions that we find in Psalms that he we know he wrote. Now that's not definite, and you know, it's really not here or there, I guess, in the long run. But this just sounds like something David would write. Now Psalm 119 is fasting. I want to give you a little background before behind it. How many folks are glad you came to church? Amen? You hanging in there with me? How many people are glad you're not back in the nursery changing diapers right now? Amen. Praise the Lord for that. I love babies and I love to hand them off when they start stinking It's the longest psalm in the book of Psalms. It's the longest chapter in the Bible. It is a masterpiece on the Word of God. Now here is something unique about the book of Psalms. It is actually a poetic type of writing. How many people notice that the entire chapter, how many people notice in your Bible, it's broken up into sections of eight verses? Anybody notice that? The whole thing is broken up into sections of eight verses. How many people notice in your Bible there's a strange little word at the top of each of those sections? Does anybody know what that word is? That little odd word that in our language has no meaning? Does anybody know what that is? That is the Hebrew alphabet. There's 22 sections corresponding to the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet. So if you want to learn the Hebrew alphabet, just go through the book of Hebrew Hebrews. No. Go through. Psalms 119, and at the top of each eight-verse section, there you have the Hebrew alphabet. And you can memorize that and go to work tomorrow and say, hey, I know Hebrew, I know the Hebrew alphabet. And you'll impress your friends and family. Now here's something even more fascinating. Not only is Psalm 119 broken up into 22 sections of eight verses each, each one titled by the Hebrew Alphabet, working its way through the Hebrew Alphabet. But in the Hebrew, which it's translated from, every one of those verses, the first word in every one of those verses begins with that Hebrew letter that is listed at the top of that section. Isn't that fascinating? And so it is a it is a poetic type thing. It's really a masterpiece of writing as it goes down here with the Hebrew alphabet, each each verse uh beginning in the Hebrew with uh uh word that begins with that Hebrew letter for that uh for that section. Again, its central theme is the Word of God, especially as it applies to the struggles of life Now here's something else as I was looking at Psalm 119 and I've read it scores at times. Many of you have also. Some of you might have it memorized. I know uh Brother Foster was here years ago. He memorized he could quote Psalm 119, all 176 verses, just like that. And so maybe some others have that memorized. Here's something else as I got looking at that and studying it that I noticed now I may be reading in this a little bit. But I kind of get the impression that the early portion of Psalm 119 is perhaps, assuming David's the author, referencing his early years of his life. His youth. Verse number nine, wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his ways? Uh he he early on there, um verse fourteen, thy word of a hidden my heart that I might sin against thee. I just get the impression early on it's maybe his youth. And then as you work your way through the chapter, it progresses through his later years in life. Now, I don't know. I may be reading a little bit into that, but I thought I saw it there. Now let's come to 105. I wanted to give you a little background of the chapter. It's a fascinating chapter. It is a masterpiece. We come to Psalm 105. I believe Psalm 105 is the most popular verse, most well-known verse in all of Psalm 119. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet. And a light into my path. It's the 14th section of all 22. It's the 14th section. Every word in this, every verse begins in the Hebrew with the letter Nun. It's the Hebrew letter nun. And it's perhaps the most well-known verse in the chapter. Let's look at it. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. If you're going to summarize that verse into one little statement, that verse is telling us that God's word gives us direction. How many people would see that? That word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. It gives me direction. It gives me direction in life. It gives me direction as to eternity. As Bible-believing Christians, we have a great advantage over the unsaved, over the unbeliever Um anybody here? Now let's be honest. It's just us this morning. So this is, we'll just keep this among ourselves. How many people here have ever looked at maybe an unsaid person? Maybe you've seen a situation and you thought, and for whatever reason, maybe something they had, something they were doing, and you thought, boy, that would be nice. Anybody here? You follow what I'm saying? Do you ever get just maybe a little envious of the unsaved? You get up Sunday morning, it's a beautiful day out, say, man, this would be a good day to go trout fishing. You're driving to church in your suit and you look over and there's some heathen pagans. They're out along the stream fishing, and something inside says, boy, I'd like to be doing that today. Now I know I know nobody in this church ever thinks that way, but I've heard of others. But the fact of the matter is, fact of the matter is, as Bible believers, we've got something they don't have. And here's what I'm getting at. We have insight into life and where it leads that this unsaved world doesn't have. You and I, as Bible believers, we know where we're heading. We know how this all ends up. We know where we're going to spend eternity. And you know what we find? We had folks out yesterday giving out tracts, and you know what we find we knock on someone's door, we approach someone, we get talking to them And we ask them this question, do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? Do you know what answer we get over and over and over and over? I hope so. I think so. Sometimes somebody will say this to me, nobody can know that. Would you agree with me? That's a miserable way to live. I don't know. Most important issue in life, whether I'm going to spend a eternity in heaven or hell. And people say, I don't know. I don't know. My wife led a lady to the Lord years ago. She led her to the Lord on her hundredth birthday. Not my wife's hundredth birthday, the lady's hundredth birthday. And the lady bowed her head. Kathy went through the plan of salvation with her. The lady bowed her head and accepted Christ as Savior on her birthday, her hundredth birthday. They got talking a little bit, and the lady was friendly as could be and just open. And Kathy said, 100 years old. That's pretty impressive. She said this. Have you ever thought about this over the years? And you know what the lady said? She said, I always just push it out of my mind. When I thought about dying and where I would go, I just pushed it out of my mind Isn't that sad? So as Bible believers, we have a lamp to our feet. We have a light to our path. We have real clear direction. Uh something this world doesn't have. If you we were talking in Sunday school, you watch the news, man, it is disturbing. And you know what's so disturbing about it is we live in a world that has no idea where it's going Has no idea where it's coming from, and has no idea how to function on a day-by-day basis. They're just grappling at things. Did you notice what's right and wrong is constantly changing in the world There's nothing true, there's nothing solid, there's nothing there's nothing concrete, it's just fluid what's right and wrong and where we're going and what to do and what not to do and what the styles are and what the fashions are. Man, it's just This whole world is just in darkness staggering around. But as a Bible believer, we have something. We have a light, a lamp to our feet, and a light to our path, and we can see clearly where we're going. And we see clearly, we have a clear understanding as where life leads us, either heaven or hell. Hebrews 9. 27 says, that is an appointed unto man once to die But after this, the judgment. Very clear light. Very clear lay down. We get to the end of this life, it's heaven or hell. That's it. The Bible lays that out for us. We have a clear understanding how to live this life. Now, again, I don't think I'm reading too much into this. Look at verse 105. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet. Now why does he say feet? That's uh that's uh uh what do you do with your feet? What? You walk. Take one step, one step, one step. When he says, thy word is a lamp unto my feet, I think he's referencing the fact the Bible tells me how to live on a daily basis. What I should do each day. How I should live. What should I do today? What should I do here? What should I do? A lamp unto my feet. A step-by-step. The Christian light is referred to as a walk. And God shows us how to live. God teaches us how to live. Guide our daily walk. Then he says the word is a lamp unto my feet. and a light into my path. The word path there means a a uh uh um i it has the idea of a a road or a pathway uh or a journey that leads to a destination There's two distinct ideas between the feet and the path. The feet is right here and now, my everyday living The path is where I end up at. The path is where this walk I'm taking, where it leads me to, where the final destination is And so, the Bible has a twofold application. One, as we emphasize a lot from the Bible, I find out where I'm going to spend eternity. But also from the Bible, I find out how I should live my daily life. Couple thoughts along those lines. Number one, I put this down: the Bible directs us concerning right and wrong. Concerning right and wrong. Anybody here ever be in a situation you say, I don't even know what the right thing is to do? Anyone ever do that? I can't even, I don't know. This is so convoluted, so messed up, I don't even know what the right thing is to do. The Bible tells us very clearly what is right and wrong. We live in a world that rejects God's word We live in a world that has no moral absolutes. In the world, and this is the mentality of the world. Tell me if I'm right or wrong. This is the mentality of the world. You have no right to say what's right or wrong. Here's how it's expressed. You can't judge me. Now, some extent that's true. God's the judge, right? But the whole idea is whatever is right for me is right for me, whatever is right for you is right for you, what might be right for me might be wrong for you, and what's wrong for you might be right for me And there's no moral absolutes, and there's no moral uh there's no absolute right and wrong, but we come to the Word of God and we find out: yes, there are some things that are right, and there are some things that are wrong. There are moral absolutes. Um who's to say what is right or wrong? Who's to say what is moral or immoral? And when the world pushes God out, and when the world pushes the word of God out, then everything is fluid. And there's no basis And you know what happens? There are when when when when we have the mentality that there's nothing really right or wrong, it's all just relative When we get that mentality and start living that way as an individual or a society, the fact is there are rights and wrongs, and there are consequences. to right and wrong, whether we recognize it or not. You see where I'm trying to go with this? And so if I'm saying, oh, there's no right, there's no wrong, it's just whatever I decide, whatever's good for me, that's what's right and wrong. But the fact is because there is something right and there is something wrong and there's consequence of that, we have a world experiencing the consequences of ignoring what is right and wrong, and they're all messed up and their lives are a mess and they're shattered and empty and and there's no fulfillment or purpose in their lives. Life, and I don't see the they don't see that that's a consequence of pushing out the principles of God's Word. I don't know if I'm making sense here on this or not But there is a basis. Let me try and illustrate what I'm trying to say. Back in Pennsylvania, years ago, they were building a bridge, a pretty large bridge across, I guess there's a river or something, I don't know. And uh for whatever reason, the engineers started on both sides of the river, I guess it was, and they were going to work together and they were gonna meet in the middle. Bring that bridge, build it from each end, and they're gonna meet in the middle. So they worked away, everybody's happy doing work doing their Bridge stuff, engineer stuff, and they're building that thing's come along and the people are watching and they're excited there's gonna be a new bridge and they come along, come along, and they're getting there, and they got to the center And the one side was sixteen feet off from the other side And they said, how in the world would that happen? How in the world did it happen? They got back and looking at stuff, and each side used a different point of reference. From where they were going. And it never met. And there was frustration and there was waste and people were angry and that whole thing was a disaster. Now that's what happens in life. That's what happens in society when everybody is operating from their own point of reference. You see what I'm trying to say? And so these people are mad at these people, and what I think is this is what ought this is what's right. No, this is what's right, and they're mad and they're fighting and wars and Because we don't have a a a uniform point of reference. And that's what the Bible is. I was reading about out in Kansas. I didn't know about this. Out in Kansas, there's a place in Osborne, Kansas. It's called the Meads Ranch Triangulation Station. Have you ever heard of that, Ken? Ken knows everything. It's a little marker in the ground. It's the 39th parallel. It marks where the 39th parallel crosses the 98th meridian. And the National Geodetic Survey is a federal agency, and their responsibility was that every point in the United States, every reference for surveying and everything, was to operate off of that point there in Osborne, Kansas. And that's what made things work. They had one standard of what is right, where it's at, and everything operated off of that. Now So I understand it. They don't use that too much anymore because now we have something, it's called GPS. It's on your phone, it's in your car. It's everywhere. And now that is what they operate by, and I don't understand all that. I just know it works most of the time. Now here's the thing. This is our Meads Ranch Triangulation Station. Spiritually. This is our GPS. And I come to this and I find out how I should live, I find out how I should operate, what is right, what is wrong, what is moral, what is immoral. That is our reference point. After I got saved, I mentioned I began devouring the Bible. I just couldn't read the Bible enough, and I was so intense in studying it. And my whole perspective in life changed. And I found as I read the Word of God and I grew in my faith and I understand, understood the things of God more and more and more, I found that things that before I trusted Christ, before I was coming to the Word of God, That were so important to me, now they were not very important at all. And things that before I could care less about now became very, very important. How many people before you got saved, you never thought about going to church, and you could care less about that. Anybody here like that before you get saved? That's the way I was. But after I got saved, started reading the Bible, man, that church became the most precious thing in the world to me Body of believers getting there. Man, to this day, I love it. This is my family. This is my heart and soul. Whole different perspective, whole different point of reference. And that's what the Bible is. It changes the things I thought before were meaningless now are incredibly important to me. They bring peace and fulfillment in my life. The Bible gives us direction. And let me say this and I'll end. The Bible directs us concerning the value of our soul. Life is precious. I tell you, we are living in a horrific day when life is meaningless. And that this is just me. Maybe this is just me. But when people are jumping off of bridges with a rubber band tied to their leg, And listen, maybe you've done that and you know you can be dumb if you want. But to me To me, life is so precious that to toy with losing it, and to play with sacrificing it, just for the thrill To me indicates a lack of value for that life. You follow what I'm saying? If you've got ten $100 bills, you don't just sling that around. That's valuable. If you're not rich, man, that's precious. You hold on to that. You take care of it. You protect it. Why? Because it's of great value And life is precious. My Bible tells me that we are created in the image of God. This world tells our young people, these world tells our young people and the kids downstairs that they've got to look like this or they've got to act like this or They've got to have this figure, they gotta have this stuff stuck in their head and their face, and they've gotta have these tattoos, and they've got to dress this in modest, you've got to show this much of your body Or you're nothing, or you're nobody cares about you, or you're not popular. I'm telling you, that's a lie of the devil. My Bible tells me that every one of us is created in the image of God And we are precious in the eyes of God, and we don't have to do ridiculous stuff to be popular. All we gotta do is just trust God and believe Him. Am I making sense? That's what the Bible tells us. It's a lamp to our feet, a light to our face. Hey, I read the Bible, I realize I'm creating the image of God. Life is precious. My life has meaning and purpose. God has a plan. Listen, every single one of us, there's a purpose for your life. There's a purpose for my life That's what the Bible tells me. The world says, ah, you're just a mistake. It's unbelievable that parents telling kids, ah, you're garbage. I wish I'd have never had you. I wish I'd have boarded you. Happens. I look in my Bible and I see a God in heaven that created me and gave me this life That thinks I'm valuable, that thinks I'm worth dying for, that thinks I'm worth more than everything in the world. What's your profit a man you gain the whole world, lose his own soul? God says you're worth more than all this world That's what the Bible tells us. It gives us direction concerning the value of our soul and the purpose of our life. Years ago, and I meant to talk with dad about this before, but um back in the 90s, dad called me up and we were talking, he says, Hey, I want to take you out to Colorado hunting. I'll pay for it, I'll pay the guide and everything. I'd never been out there before up to that point. I'd never been out hunting out there. And he says, um, he goes, I want to take you out there hunting and I'll cover the expenses. You will go out and shoot an elk. And uh I said, well, let me think about it. Okay. And um Remember then? And so we went out to southwest Colorado, Cortez, out there in the southwest corner of Colorado, and buddy of his was a guide out there, and we went out hunting and um for I guess five days. And so anyway, we're out there and and um I didn't get anything. But um One night we are in the stands and we hunt till dark, you stay in the spot that they put you till dark, and then you walk up to the dirt road there and he comes by and picks you up. And the one night, I don't know, it's there a couple nights and I was down at the end of the path and I didn't get anything, the the jeep came by, I hopped in. Dad was dropped off up the road a ways mile or so and so we're going by and we picked another guy up and he drove a mile or so pick and we got to the spot where dad was supposed to be there and he wasn't there And we're it's dark, you know, it's like nine o'clock at night. And uh we said, huh, I wonder if he got something. Maybe he's down there he got one. I said, Well I didn't hear any shots, but it's big area So we waited, blew the horn a little bit, nothing. We waited. Nothing. And so we h hiked down the trail where he was stationed and the stand blind the stand was empty and no sign around I tell you what, I started getting worried. And we walked around there and we're calling, yelling, hey, hey, hey. Nothing, nothing, nothing. So we come back up to the Jeep, see if maybe he's up there. We drove up and down a little bit, maybe came out somewhere else. I mean we're at about an hour now after we're supposed to pick him up. I was scared of death. My mind is racing. And he had a heart attack. He's laying down in there somewhere. Coyote him. You know, I didn't know. Mountain lions, there's mountain lions all over there. And I mean to tell you I was scared to death Uh uh uh I've just taken the worst and we're driving up finally it's like ten o'clock and he says, well let's go back to the cabin and uh we'll see and maybe we'll need to call in some uh who you call the na not the National Guard This part part rescue people. And we'll call somebody, get them to come in here. And I'm like, oh Lord. And we get pull up in the cabin. Guess who's standing in the doorway of the cabin? I said, what are you doing here? He goes, Oh, I just followed my compass and came up. We got talking. Here he had gotten out and he got turned around, but when he When he got in the stand, he looked at his compass which way direction was, and he knew which direction the cabin was on the compass And so when he got down, he kind of went off in the wrong direction, realized the road wasn't where it was, so he looked at his compass and knew what direction he needed to go. And he just followed that thing, a mile or two, and came out right at the cabin So he was sitting in there eating cheeseburgers and we're sweating bullets out here. Now, I said that to say this. What that compass was to him in the dark Is what the Bible is to you and I in life. And that Bible tells me, this is the way, walking in it. This book of the law shall not depart thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all things that are written therein. Then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success It's the guide for our life. Let me ask you a question. How important is the Bible to you? Do you read it every day? Do you follow its instructions? Do you do what it says? It's a lamp into our feet and a light into our path. Father, I pray maybe you'd take these thoughts and help us, Lord, to Elevate the Bible in our lives, the role it plays, the place it holds in our lives, and help us to live by this book. Help us to heed its warning, to claim its promises, and to follow its instructions. And Lord, we believe you'll bless us just like you promised you would. If we'll just do what this old book says. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many say, Preacher, I gotta be honest, the Bible doesn't Hold a place in my life it really should as a believer and you'd say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart this morning, and by his grace I want to make that Bible The compass of my life. I want it to be the very center and the guide of my life. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray with me. I need to make sure. How many would say, Preacher, I'm not reading that Bible like I should? Reading it And letting it lead me and speak to me and help me. Every people say I need to work more at reading my Bible like us. So it ain't like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. Maybe there's some areas that the Bible tells us things we should be doing. You say, I'm not doing that like the Bible says. I'm not heeding those warnings. I want to urge you this morning, let the Lord have his way. Take God at His word, trust Him, and obey Him. And he'll lead you and guide you in your life. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask, Jane, can I have you at the piano there, please? And let's ask the Lord to uh Have his way in our lives, maybe kneel at an old-fashioned altar, and just let the Lord have his way. Let's stand together with our heads bowed, eyes closed. And as Jane plays the piano there