Um I'll turn my mic on and I want to begin reading in verse number one. We started this passage uh last week and we want to finish it up. I'll read down through verse number three Ecclesiastes chapter 10, verse number one. The Bible says, dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary. I have the hardest time saying that word. I got it written down. Apothecary. Was the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savor, so doth a little folly him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor. A wise man's heart is at his right hand, but a fool's heart at his left Yea, also, when he that is a fool walketh by the way, his wisdom failth him, and he saith to everyone that he is a fool. Entitled The Message, A Lesson from Dead Flies. Brother Brian said to me this morning, going out the door as we were leaving after service morning, he says, You're the only person I know who gets so excited about dead flies You can learn a lot from dead flies. So let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us tonight. Father in heaven, we're grateful for a good day. Your day always is special. And uh we're glad when you meet with us and you stir us and challenge us. And so I pray now as we wind down, then uh we look in your word. I ask that you would speak to our hearts, that you would teach us from your word. I present my body, Lord, to you, just as a conduit for you to use, a vessel, for you to speak through, dear Lord, and challenge us and help us to be wise. I yield my will to you, Lord, and direct my thinking. Lord, if I have something written down that I should not say, Lord, help me to skip over it And Lord, if there's something I ought to say that I didn't jot down, I pray you'd bring it to my mind as I'm preaching. And we just want you to help us be what you've saved us to be. So please bless now, I ask. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think chapter 10, as I got looking at it again this week, chapter 10, I think, is very similar to the book of Proverbs What we're going to notice here in chapter ten is we're going to notice contrast. He's contrasting uh the wisdom versus foolishness. In fact, I went through and highlighted the word fool all down through there and through the whole chapter it's used over and over and over again. So it reminds me a lot of um A lot of the book of Proverbs where he is contrasting, as I said, wisdom and foolishness. He's giving advice on good conduct. I think chapter ten is also answering. He's he's seeking to answer a question that he brought up. Now it's not directly in question form. But a question he brought up in chapter 2, then again in chapter number 6. If you would come back to chapter 2 with me just quickly, just to catch the uh get the context here a little bit. See what Solomon under the inspiration of God is saying. Chapter 2 and notice with me verse number 3 Now, this early part of the book of Ecclesiastes, if you remember, he's kind of testifying to how, what his thinking was that led him down the path out of the will of God. To where he was pushing God out of his thinking, out of his life. And the thinking that the process that brought that about. And he says in verse 3 of chapter 2, he says, I sought in mine heart to give myself unto wine. Yet acquainting my heart with wisdom, and to lay hold on folly. Look at this, till I might see What was that good for the sons of men, which they should do under heaven all the days of their life? So he says, I'm trying to find I'm trying to find that which is good to do. All the days that we live under heaven. Come over to chapter 6. He says something right along very similar lines. Chapter 6 and verse number 12, the last verse of chapter 6. He says, For who knoweth what is good for man in this life? all the days of his vain life which he s uh spendeth as a shadow. For who can tell a man What shall be after him under the sun? But the first part he says, who knoweth what is good for a man in this life? And I believe chapter 10, he's trying to address that. How how how do we live? What is a good life to live? What are good decisions to be made? What is good behavior? What are good actions to be while we're living our life here under the sun. And so I think he's addressing that. Now if you remember last week we looked at verse 1 and we noted the ruin of foolishness If a person acts foolish, it's going to hurt them. How many people understand that? That's true across the board in any area of life. You play the fool And we're going to get hurt. There's going to be consequences to that. The tragic thing is so many times, and I'm no doubt folks could bear witness to this So many times we don't realize, we don't pay attention to how foolish we were till afterward we start feeling the sting. Right? And we think, oh, how foolish was I? Why didn't I think? Anybody ever say this? What was I thinking? Alright, we played the fool. We did something foolish. And so we find the ruin of foolishness where he says there, a man that is held in honor, he says, um So doth a little folly him that is reputation for wisdom and honor. And so to summarize what he's saying there is, it is the small things Small failures, small foolish decisions we make in small areas, dead flies, just little dead flies. But boy, they can ruin ruin a reputation. We noted Noah and Samson and others that allowed little things to destroy their lives. Success or failure in life is the result of keeping the dead flies Little foolish things, keeping them out of our ointment, out of our life, out of our out of our uh uh our living, our testimony. And I ended with this. Um And uh this is true for all of us, but I I've tried awfully hard, as many of you have, we've tried awfully hard to have a good testimony. How many folks would say with me, honestly, preacher, I've tried hard to have a good testimony as a Christian? Sure we do. That's our intention. We care about that. But you know what? Every one of us could ruin that testimony that we worked for years to establish we could ruin it in one evening of foolishness. One act of foolishness, one dead fly, we allow an adointment, and boy, though all those years could be gone. And I tell you, the world is not going to overlook a dead fly for 25 years of faithfulness. All they're going to see is that dead fly. And so we have to be very careful. The ruin of foolishness. Now I want to look at verse 2 and 3, and I'll try and just be briefly look at these, but I notice the root of foolishness And I see that in verse number two. And by the way, this is just an aside, I think verse number two is a good verse for Republicans And Democrats, look at it there carefully, do you get it? I read that, I thought, there we go, that's the Republican, that ought to be the Republican verse. A wise man's heart is that is right hand and the um a fool's heart is at his left. But uh nevertheless we'll move right on. But I thought that was a good political verse for Republicans. So the question here is: the question we pose is this: why does one person act foolishly and another person act wisely? I've been around long enough now, I've seen this. Many of you have also. How is it you have two folks grow up in the maybe the same church? They have very similar, if not identical, backgrounds. They have the same Sunday school teachers. They have the same preacher. They have the same influences. They're all taught the same truths from the same Bible. And they grow up, and one absolutely plays the fool, and another one goes on and is wise and fears God and lives for God and makes something of himself for the Lord. What is the difference? Why does one go that way, go to the right hand, and the other goes to the left? My answer to that is this it depends where their heart is. Is my heart in my right hand? Hand of wisdom? Or is my heart in the left hand and play the fool and be foolish? So the key phrases here in verse number two, and we need to understand, is what does he mean by right hand and left hand? And if you study through the Bible, you find out that the right hand is very, very significant. Not in a literal sense. He's not making judgment. How many folks here are left-handed? Anyone here left-handed? Uh he's not making judgment on left-handed people, although I think they're weird, but um they're in their right mind, yeah. Uh Ha ha ha. He's not making judgment on left-handed and right people. He's not talking about our literal hands and our right left hands. He's talking about when in the Bible, when it talks about somebody's right hand, anybody here read in the Bible where it references the right hand of God? Anybody remember reading that? Jesus is said to be seated at the what? The right hand of God. Why does he say the right hand of God? Other times the Bible will reference the right hand, the right hand. In the Bible, the right hand is symbolic or represents a place of great honor. If somebody was seated at the right hand of the king, that was a place of great honor. It was a place of power. He's a place of protection. The queen would often sit at the right hand of the king Representing the place of great honor, a grace of a place of power and uh a place of dignity And so when he references the right hand, his heart is in the right hand. In other words, his heart is pursuing that which is his heart is committed, his heart is in the place of pursuing honor of God. And that which is the protection of God, living within the will of God. His heart is there at the right hand. The other side, the left hand in the Bible, generally represents a place of evil A place of that is sinister. In fact, the word sinister itself comes from a Latin word at the left hand. And so symbolically, in the Bible and throughout history, the left hand, for the most part, has represented evil, something that is sinister, doom, or facing judgment. By the way, all of us have right hands and left hands. And so where my heart is. Is going to determine whether I am wise or whether I'm foolish. Wisdom and foolishness are not dependent upon my circumstances. Wisdom and foolishness are not dependent on my situations. And to some extent, though it is influenced by, it's not dependent upon my uprising. There have been some tremendously wise people who have come out of some horrendous circumstances Horrendous situations. There have been young people that have been raised with godly parents. A mom that loves God and is committed to the Word of God. And she's honest and true, and she's a woman of integrity. And Daddy is a man of great faith and honor, a man of spiritual dignity, is committed to Christ And mom and dad love the Lord, are committed to the Lord, yet I see a young person grow up in that home and be awfully foolish. Awfully foolish. And I've seen kids grow up in a home that's horrendous. Maybe there's drugs and adultery. Alcohol and cursing and filth, pornography, and all this stuff in a home, it's horrendous Yet I've seen young people come up out of homes like that with tremendous wisdom and be something for God. I'm thinking of uh some young people back in Indianapolis, and it was interesting working with young people and now looking back 30 years later and seeing where those young people ended up and what their lives ended up being like And I'll tell you a lot of the ones, not all, but a lot of the young people that were in the youth group that we thought at the time were really going to be something Boy, they had all the elements, all the opportunities were there, and all the home and everything was all in place. And boy, this young man's going to be something for God. He's going to be wise. I look back 30 years later, and the guy played the absolute fool and turned out to be nothing for God. And I look back and some of the kids that came in on the buses and some of them we picked up in our car and they came from horrendous homes. Not some of those homes I wouldn't in a million years want anybody to have to grow up in that kind of environment. I'm thinking of one boy in particular. Never became wealthy Never became well known. But I tell you, that kid's living for God. He's witnessing. He's faithful to church. He's wise. How is that? How does that happen? What's the factor that determines which way they go? I tell you, according to this verse and the rest of the scripture, it depends where our heart is. Is my heart in my right hand or is it in my left hand? Is my heart committed to that which is Honorable and of God and true and integrity and purity and righteousness, the right hand? Or is my heart evil? Is my heart dirty? Is my heart dishonest? Is my heart producing that which is going to bring the judgment of God on my life? Where is my heart at? Which hand is it in? Solomon, and by the way, I think sometimes we can switch hands. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to 1 Kings, just a few. Okay, well, a little ways back, 1 Kings, and chapter number 11. This is a sad testimony of Solomon. To stick to the illustration he's using here, the symbolism he's using here, Solomon started out with his heart in his right hand. He had tremendous wisdom. He had supernaturally given wisdom. But yet his heart turned. His heart was changed. And he forsook the wisdom of his right hand, and his heart ended up in his left hand. Look with me at chapter 11. I want to begin reading in verse number 1. Now listen carefully to the terms used here, the words that are used. But King Solomon loved many strange women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh. Women of the Moabites and the Ammonites and Edomites and Zidonians and Hittites Let me ask you a question. What type of women were these? And I'm not talking necessarily immorals. That term strange woman would imply immorality, immoral woman. But when he mentions these nations, why is he saying that? What what what is what is he saying about these women? They are what? They're pagans These are women that don't know God. These are women that don't fear Jehovah and comprehend the laws of God and the holiness of God. They're worshiping statues and false gods and perverse. uh um uh uh r religious practices and Solomon is marrying these women He's falling in love with these women. Look what happens. Solomon loved many strange women, together with the daughters and all this list, of the nations concerning which the Lord said unto the children of Israel, ye shall not be. Go in unto them, neither shall they come unto you, in unto you. For surely, look at this, they will turn away your heart after their gods. What's that last statement say? Solomon did what? He claved to them in love. And he had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines, and his wives turned away his heart. For it came to pass when Solomon is old, at Ecclesiastes, he's referencing, getting to the thinking of Ecclesiastes. Came to pass when Solomon was old that his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. What happened? Solomon's heart went from his right hand, a place of honor and faith, and integrity, and godliness, and purity, and fear of the Lord. And these influences, these outside influences, affected his heart and turned up and ended over in the left hand. We do what we do because of the condition of our heart. My wisdom and my foolishness is dependent upon Kind of heart I have, where it's at. The Bible talks about the importance of the heart. And by the way, what do we mean by the heart? The heart is the core of what we are. The heart is where my affections are. You know why we desire certain things? You know why we desire things? Because that is the condition of our heart to desire that. You know why someone lies? A person lies because they have a dishonest heart. It's the core of our being. You know why someone steals from other people, takes things that's not theirs? It's because their heart is the heart of a thief. And he's saying, your heart is what determines what we are. The condition of our heart dictates our behavior. The condition of our heart dictates our affections, what we want and Why we want that and what we love. Solomon's heart was turned. He loved these Strange gods. He went after these strange gods. We do what we do because of the condition of our heart. Our heart is the core of our affections. It is the core of our values and our principles that we live by. Our heart determines that, not the physical muscle beaten away inside there, but what we are Romans chapter 10 tells us, with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. That's where salvation is. Always say in our soul winning training and even when I'm out witnessing up I'm sharing the gospel with someone. I I think I don't have a problem with hel helping them say a prayer. I know some people say, well, mate, let them say their own prayer. That's fine, but I I like to help them say a prayer, but there's a real caution that has to go with that That salvation is not just lipping certain words in a quote-unquote prayer. Salvation is a heart matter where from my heart I am trusting with all my heart. Trusting Jesus to forgive all my sin, give me a new life, eternal life, make me a new creature, and accept me into his presence at death. So the heart is the matter. The heart is the heart of the matter. Proverbs chapter 4 says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. My heart in my right hand? Is it true and pure and honest and good? Or is my heart in my left hand and dirty and nasty and dishonest? Facing the judgment of God. So Solomon's pointing out here, he says, under the sun, it's our the condition of our heart. A wise man's heart is in his right hand, but a fool's heart is at his left. Keep your heart with all diligence. Keep your heart with all diligence. I tell you, we have to be so careful because what we allow Influence us and how we allow our heart to direct us very much determines whether we're going to be wise or Or where they're going to be foolish. And so the root of foolishness, the ruin of foolishness, is just foolish little things we allow into our lives. The root of all of that is because of where our heart is I like there's a, and I think it's, and um don't don't quote me on this reference. I think it's Proverbs 5, but Solomon is saying to his son, he says, Son, give me thine heart. And I've always pictured that God, my father, saying to Dennis Leatherman, Son, give me thine heart. Love me. Be committed to me. Put your heart in your right hand of love and devotion to my Lord and my God. Not in the left hand, living for the flesh and self. Foolish. Keep your heart with all diligence. So that is the root Of this ruin of foolishness. And then the last verse, verse number three, it's just a simple little truth given here, I think, in verse number three. He says, yea also, so he's include he's continuing this thought, yea also, when he that is a fool Walketh by the way, his wisdom faileth him, of course, thus being the fool, his wisdom failth him, and he saith to everyone. That he is a fool. I put this, the reputation of foolishness. And what does he mean when he uses that phrase, when a fool walketh by the way? I think he's simply referencing here, just going about everyday life. He's just walking by the way. He's doing what he does, getting up in the morning, going through the day. Going to bed at night, getting up, going through the day, just living his everyday life, just going through his life. But he's a fool. He's not wise. He's not keeping his heart. He's not fearing God, which is the beginning of wisdom. I think I'm correct on this statement. When a person is foolish, very seldom is a person foolish in one area of their life. Generally, if a person is foolish in one area of their life, I believe they're foolish in many, many areas of their life. So you walk by the way. He says to everybody, I'm a fool. I'm a fool. I'm a fool. By the way, he talks. He's saying, I'm a fool. I'm a fool. But the way he acts, the way he responds to things. His values, his principles, the way he determines what is right and wrong, what he his lifestyle is like. A fool's saying, I'm a fool, I'm a fool. I'm a fool. The reputation of a fool, I think, again, this is my opinion, but I think generally everyone knows who the fool is. Except the fool. Usually they're the ones that don't even see it. His foolish actions betray his foolishness. His foolish decisions betray his foolishness. Proverbs 13, 16 says this: a fool layeth open his folly. In other words, it becomes obvious. Becomes obvious. We were in Philadelphia last week and we had a wonderful time. We got to see some historic sites. We went to um Reading Terminal, if you've ever been down there, we went there Thursday night. My mom worked there for years down at Reading Terminal and some of the booths there. We walked through Chinatown. And I got a hot dog, but um no I didn't. But we just walked through Chinatown on Friday Uh before we went in the evening we went over to the Delpts and fellowship and saw the church there where they're meeting. We went downtown and we saw where Benjamin Franklin was buried. How people recognize the name Benjamin Franklin. I don't believe Benjamin Franklin ever got saved, personally. I mean I don't know. But I see little in information indication that he ever trusted Christ. Benjamin Franklin was, however, good friends with George Whitfield. One of my favorite preachers in all of history. And he admired George Whitfield. He gave thousands of dollars, uh, lots of money to George Whitfield had a had a um an orphanage down in Georgia that he re he would come up in New England raise money and go down and built that orphanage. Benjamin Franklin had unusual common sense, particularly for a lost man, but he was incredibly intelligent and he had some real insight. He made a statement, I just thought of this. A fool and his money are soon parted. True statement, right? He wrote a little ditty that kind of goes with what Solomon is teaching us here. And it goes like this. You've probably heard it, many of you. For want of a nail The shoe was lost. Horseshoe. For want of a nail, the shoe was lost. For want of a shoe, the horse was lost. For one of a horse, the rider was lost. For one of a rider, the battle was lost. For want of a battle, the kingdom was lost, and all for the want of a horseshoe. Of a horseshoe nail, all for the want of a horseshoe nail. What was Benjamin Franklin saying in that little thing? He was saying just a little foolishness. A little neglect, a little, can I say this? Stupidity cost so dearly, so dearly Dead flies, there's a lot to be learned from dead flies. We let them into our ointment. The price can be very, very costly. Let's be wise, amen. I want my heart to be in my right hand. I don't want it to drift over into foolishness. And all that. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you challenge us with these thoughts. I don't believe I'm talking to anybody here, surely. Lord, that Would want to be deliberately be foolish. Surely all of us want to be wise. We want to succeed. We want to be men and women of faith. Men and women of integrity, we want our lives to fulfill the purpose for what you've created us and saved us to be. Lord, I think I speak surely for most, if not all. When we stand before you, Lord, we want to hear you say, Well done, good and faithful servant. So Lord, we need to be wise. We need to guard our hearts. Keep them. And I pray you'd help us to do that. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I don't know how God might speak to your heart in this message, but maybe there's some would need to just kneel on an altar and Say, Lord, I need you to help me be careful. I've been reckless. I've allowed some dead flies in. And the Spirit of God has been dealing with your heart about that. Things we know that are not right-handed, but are left-handed, biblically speaking. I wonder how many would say, preacher, pray for me. I need to get my heart in the right place. I want my heart to be true and to be the Lord's. Any like that by the uplifted hand preacher, that's my prayer. I want my heart. Is there any say preacher? And this is between you and God, so I understand it's personal, but is there some, say, preacher? I gotta admit there's some dead flies floating around there. I gotta get them taken care of. I gotta get them out. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I know there is. I know there is. And if the truth were known, probably all of us would raise our hand and have to acknowledge that There's someone here and say, Preacher, I've never been saved. I need to be saved. I don't want to die and go to hell. Any at all like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. Now, Father in heaven, as we give our invitation before we take part in Lord's Supper, I pray you'd stir us to humble ourselves, pray, seek your face, put these things out of our hearts and lives. Lord, I know in my own life. There's just so many areas we have to be so careful. I ask you to help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed, as we prepare for the Lord's Supper. How about it? As piano plays, maybe