Cassus chapter ten, turn my mic on. And uh verse number one. The Bible says, look at this. I'll tell you the Bible has some interesting statements. And Solomon here, under the inspiration of God, uses a very um uh unusual illustration to make a very important part. He says in verse 1, he says, dead flies Cause the ointment of the apocryphery of man, I practice all day to say that. Apothecary. Right? Apothecary. It's hard to believe I actually did graduate from college Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savor. So doth a little folly in him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor. A wise man's heart is at his right hand. But a fool's heart at his left. Yea, also, when he that is a fool walketh by the way, his wisdom faileth him And he saith to everyone that he is a fool. A lesson from dead flies. Let's pray, and uh we'll try and get right to the point here this evening. Father in heaven, it's a good day. It's been a good day, and I thank you for your blessings. I thank you for the young boy that trusted you as Savior. He was so happy. I thank you for others that heard the gospel, other decisions made. Just grateful for your blessings on us. And I ask now you'd use these thoughts from your word. We've already had a full service, Lord, but I pray you'd use these thoughts from your word to challenge us this coming week that we would be wise and not foolish. And Lord, maybe there's someone under the sound of my voice that would be foolish, is living a foolish life, that your spirit and your grace you touch that heart. And turn them and help us to be wise. So fill me with your spirit is my continual prayer, Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I tell you when Solomon of all people, when he starts talking about wisdom and foolishness, I think it's a good idea to pay attention. When Solomon starts about starts talking about what a foolish person is and what a wise person is, I better listen very, very carefully, because I'm telling you right now, Solomon knows what he's talking about. He was given by God directly by God. He was given supernatural wisdom There was nobody in that has lived apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. There never has been doubt there ever will be somebody that has insight into what is right and wrong, what is wise and foolish, nobody apart from Lord Jesus Christ like a pu like a Solomon. And so when he starts talking about this, we would be very wise to pay close attention to him. In fact, I went through just this chapter and I highlighted The times the word fool or foolish or some ver some form of those words is used. And I notice it's used nine times in this, just in this chapter. I was reading somewhere else, and they said that Solomon used, under the inspiration of God, some form of the word fool 128 times in his inspired writings. That's the Proverbs, Song of Solomon, Ecclesiastes. So he knows what it means to be foolish, not just because of his tremendous wisdom, but tragically because of his own foolish decisions. I've said this numerous times through this study. It is shocking to me how a man who is so wise can act so foolishly. And so he knows what he's talking about here in this matter of wisdom. And the first 15 verses of chapter 10, my study of it, my take on it, he is contrasting wisdom with foolishness. And we're going to look here quickly at the first three. I was reading about um uh an Indian lore that the Indians would teach their children. about life. And uh the the story went like this. There was once an Indian brave that was coming back from a hunting trip. And as he was going down the game trail, making his way back to the Indian village, he discovered an eagle egg that had fallen out of an eagle's nest above and somehow had landed undamaged. And so there's no way he could get it back up in the nest. So he brought it home, and they had a lot of prairie chickens. How many people know what a prairie chicken is there? Can't hardly fly, they just run around scratching in the dirt And he took that egg, again, this is just Indian lore. He took that egg and slipped it into the nest of a prairie chicken The mother sat on that egg and hatched it and raised that eagle as a prairie chicken. His entire life that eagle thought it was a prairie chicken. He stayed on the ground, just flew up, hopped around, flew around a little bit like the others, ate worms and grubs. Years went by and the eagle grew and thought nothing about eating worms and grubs, thought nothing about just flopping around there on the ground, but But later on, as a couple years went by, the eagle happened to glance up in the sky, and way up in the sky, a mile or so up in the sky, he saw a bird gliding so effort effortlessly. And effortlessly, right? Don't be so critical. And that eagle looked up there, and he saw that, and uh he said, he said to the other prairie chicken, he says, What is that bird way up in the sky? How can that bird fly up there? We're down here eating grubs and hopping around. And the other prairie chickens gathered round the eagle and they said, Oh, those are eagles. They can do that. But we must stay down here. We are prairie chickens. This is what we do. And for the rest of that eagle's life, he hopped around on the ground eating grubs and worms. when he could have soared with the other eagles and accomplished so much more in his life I read that, I thought about Solomon's contrast with the wise and the foolish, and how many times we see Christians People who claim to be Christians and they're grubbing around in this old world and they're eating on the sins and the temporary pleasures of this world And they just hop around and they really never accomplish much. They really never gain any depth to their spiritual life. They never soar spiritually and be all that God created them to be because of They listen to such foolish advice. When God's children listen to the world's voices, When God's children follow this world's advice, they're acting like that foolish eagle. And they're wasting their lives. I see here in this passage, and again I want to very quickly give this to you. I see, first of all, I see three statements about foolishness that Solomon makes under the inspiration of God. Number one, I see the ruin of foolishness. Again, verse number one, dead flies caused the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savior. So doth, look at this, so doth a little folly him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor. You know that little decisions have large consequences. Some little decision I make that I don't give it much thought and I don't think it has much significance, yet it has a profound impact on my life, the rest of my life, and affects others around me. Just a little action that I don't give any thought to, yet it can be so profound And myself and the life around us. One of the chief characteristics of wisdom, I've often said this, one of the chief characteristics of wisdom is the ability to see the consequences of my actions before the action is taken. You follow what I'm trying to say? The ability to say, alright, if I make this decision, if I take this action This is what I'd be able to I'm able to look beyond that and see what the consequences of that action are going to be. I can look beyond before I even make the decision I have the insight, the ability to say, all right, if I make that decision, then I'm going to have to deal with these consequences, but the fall Doesn't even give any thought to what the consequences are. Doesn't even give any thought to how that's going to play out, how that's going to affect me in a year, five years, ten years down the road, how that's going to affect other people around. That is the fool. The wise man says, all right, I've got to think this through. How is this going to affect what uh here's one. How is this going to affect my standing at the judgment seat of Christ? He says, take your Bible if you would, and turn over to Proverbs chapter 22. And we actually looked at this passage before, but I think it ties right into what Solomon is saying here. Proverbs chapter 22, and I want you I'd like you to turn here because I'd really advise you to mark or indicate, highlight, or Someway underline this passage because I think it's very significant. Proverbs chapter twenty two and verse number three A prudent man, what would be another way you could describe a prudent man, or a how else could you say it? A wise man. A prudent man or a wise man, look at this, foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. But the simple, now you could, a synonym for the word simple there would be what? Foolish. There's some variations in meaning, but basically it's the same. But the simple pass on. They don't even think about it, they don't give any concern, they don't give any thought to the consequences, they don't give any foresight, they have no foresight as to how this is going to play out. They just pass on and what happens to them. They're punished. And the idea behind that is they reap the consequences. They suffer the consequences. I wish I could tell you how many times I've sat beside the bed of somebody's coming to their end of their life and they made statements like this. Preacher, I wish I wish I hadn't done this. I wish I'd have thought these things through. I had a man tell me a number of years ago and he had uh gotten mar married married into a not a good situation and uh Uh this was many years ago, and and shortly after he got married, he said this to me, he said, I wish that I'd have thought this through a little bit first I wished I'd have given a little more time and thought this through. Isn't that sad? And so Solomon is saying, and by the way, Proverbs chapter 27, 12 says the exact same thing. The prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself, but the simple pass on and are punished. They suffer the consequences. Come back over to Ecclesiastes chapter 10 there, verse 1. And actually what he's doing in verse number 1, I believe he is carrying over the thought that he left us with in chapter 9 and verse number 18. It says, Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but look at this, but one sinner destroyeth much good And then you come into verse 1 of chapter 10. Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savor. Show doth a little folly, a little folly. Him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor. Now, this apothecary is similar to what we would refer to Jodi as a pharmacist. Uh back in the day the uh these were the fellas that put together the uh the things to uh come up with the medicines and the uh Those type of things, similar to what we have what we refer to as a pharmacist today. And the ointment here refers to any number of um uh of uh uh uh things. Um it was uh usually what I could tell in studying it's made up many times. This ointment would be made up maybe of vegetables, some sort of vegetable fat Or fruit juices and uh olive oils, different things like that. And they would use it for various reasons. Sometimes they would use it for cosmetic purposes. They would anoint their head James and I were talking, and I'm going to fill a personal secret. He said back when he was in the military, he would use hair oil, Daberdan. Was that the brand? He's not saying anything. And uh that was the kind of idea they'd flicked their hair back, you know. And it would be it would be for cosmetics, so we'd look good. I don't think it helped them that much, but um but they would maybe put it uh use it as some sort of perfume type thing Sometimes they'd anoint their feet. Proverbs 27 and verse 9 says that this ointment rejoices, perfume rejoices the heart. The whole idea is like some sort of cologne or deodorant. In other words, they would use it to keep you from thinking. And so it had cosmetic purposes. Sometimes it was used at funerals. They would anoint the body of the dead. uh with these types of oils and these ointments. Uh sometimes they use it for medicinal purposes, maybe soothe a burn they put it on or heal a wound It was used in ceremonies, particularly at the temple and later in the tabernacle, later at the temple. They would anoint Aaron's head. They would anoint the uh uh the priest's head with oil So he's referencing this type of thing, and it was something that was good. It was something that was beneficial. So here you have something that is good and beneficial and it is positive. It is making life better. But then he introduces the dead flies. I've read about, I was studying flies this week. I found out that the average fly carries, the average fly carries on its body two million bacteria. These things are nasty. I read this, I never knew this before, but when a fly finds something, it's going to eat. And it sees a dead possum on the road When it starts eating that flesh or what's left of it, it actually regurgitates some stomach fluids up onto the food and help soften it and di digest the food before it ever even eats it, then it swallows it down. Um we're gonna go down to Berry Queen afterward. Anybody wanna join me? So the idea when he says dead flies, he's talking about nasty things. Some uh one of the writers I was studying suggested that he's referencing here some sort of horse fly Now, horsefly, you know, they're carrying around a lot of blood in them. They'll suck the blood out of you, and man, they hurt. Anybody ever getting bit by a horsefly? Wow. And these things die. And for whatever reason, maybe they left the lid off the ointment, or somehow, and that horse flyer, a couple of them, it's plural, they get into that ointment. And they die in there. And they've just been eating on a dead possum and they've been sucking blood out of a horse. And they get in there and they die. What do you think that does to that ointment? It corrupts it. It spoils it. In fact, he says here, it gives it a, notice what it says, a stinking savor. I think our term for that was it reeks. It is nasty. Now a fly is a very small thing. A very little, what we might say is insignificant thing, just an irritating thing. But Solomon is telling us that just like a little tiny fly that can ruin a $10,000 uh value of ointment. Just a little fly gets in there can ruin that whole thing. So just a little bit of folly, little bit of foolishness. Can ruin a good man's reputation. Small things ruin good things. I thought about Noah. I wish we had time. Thought about Noah. Would you agree with me? Noah's a good man. Would you agree with me? Noah was held in high reputation. Noah, in our hearts and minds, is a man of tremendous honor. But at the end of his life, a couple flies got in his ointment. And it put a little stinky odor there. Noah planted vineyards after he got off the ark and he got drinking that liquor, and the shame and the reproach that result of Noah getting drunk. Is recorded in Scripture for all eternity. And if you read just that little statement, it is a very shameful, shameful thing. Little fly got in there. Boy, it stank up his reputation. Can I throw this out? No Christian ought to ever touch liquor. Ever. It is nothing but dead flies. I'm telling you, how many f how many times have we seen them on news? a a politician or some leader who is held in fair res and highly respected, they go out and get drunk and do something stupid, and boy, they're marked for life. Their career is ruined. I submit to you, there is no place, no place in the life of a child of God for liquor of any sort. Any sort. I thought about Samson. Boy, you know, Hebrews eleven honors Samson tremendously. Samson, by all reports, by all regards, is a tr uh had tremendous honor, tremendous respect. He defeated the enemies. But boy, there was flies in his ointment, wasn't there? Now we think of Samson, we think of womanizing. Um, Solomon Boy, what a great wise man. Tremendous honor, honored tremendously. But uh can I put it this way? He married some dead flies. They drew his heart away from the true God. He worshipped false God, and his testimony was ruined. It's possible. I've I've tried for long before we got here since God saved me and I've haven't lived up to it. I uh I I think everybody understands that. I've tried very, very hard in the twenty-five years I've been in Oakland to have a good testimony I've tried to be a good, and you have also in your Christian life. You know, I could I could one night of folly Destroy it. Twenty-five years I've worked on have trying to have a good testimony. One act of foolishness I think I say this often, I think Ecclesiastes applies so much, but Pastor Matt and Courtney and their ministry with the young people is so vitally important that we warn them about dead flies. That they can live a life of honor and integrity, purity and godliness Or the coming generation can look to these young people that are young now and as they grow and say, there is somebody I can respect. There is a person of honor. There is a person, a woman of integrity, a woman of dignity. A young man of integrity, of godliness. I'm telling you, we live in a world of dead flies. They're everywhere. So Solomon says, just like a dead fly gets an ointment and it reaps. So a little folly gets in the life of a person and it ruins their testimony. The ruin of foolishness. Success and failure in the life of a child of God results in keeping dead flies. Out of my ointment. Make sense? You want to ruin your life? You want to lose respect? You want to sacrifice your testimony for Christ and for God and the truth Don't be careful about little things. I tell you, here's what kills us. Oh, that's not that. That's just something little. Oh that's nothing. Just a dead fly. Anybody here ever go out to eat, get a bowl of soup, just turn around, there's a little dead I you ever yet had somebody say, Oh, it's just a dead fly. I knew no, I take it back. I know But it's the little things, the little things. I'm going to end here with this statement. Little sins and little compromises. Can destroy the testimony of someone that's held in regard and respect. Here's a tragedy. We have so many in our churches. Here's here's and maybe I'm being overly negative, but it just I've been in this a long time and I've seen so many that don't even care whether they have a testimony or not Integrity means nothing. Character, respect means nothing. What a tragedy. How do you reach people like that? How do you help someone that doesn't even care about integrity But those that do, and those that care and understand the value of my life are going to watch out for dead flies. Keep them out. Father in heaven, I pray you take this thought. And I pray at least the next seven days, Lord, this coming week, you'd help us to keep the lid on our ointment closed. Keep the dead flies out. Be very, very careful, the things we say and do, the places we go. Watch out for the little things. The little foxes that spoil the vines. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I want to be very, very careful. I don't want to lose my testimony. I don't want to stink up my integrity. I want God to help me. I don't need to pay attention. I need to be wise. Is there any like that by the uplifting hand? My hands raised. As I studied this, I thought, God help me, God help me. Give me grace Father in heaven, I pray you bless our invitation time now and help us, as we said this morning, take our relationship with you seriously. Help us take our testimony, our integrity seriously. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jane's playing the invitation