In the first couple verses here, we read these a moment ago. Matthew chapter 18. Notice the Bible says, uh the same came to uh at the same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Now let me just stop there. There's a couple other accounts of this event in the other gospels, and these guys were actually fussing with each other over who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. And um I don't know how many people find it uh a little how uh maybe find it a little hard to believe that adult disciples of Christ would fuss with each other. I mean, over who's the greatest And so we'll mention that here in a bit, but that's the context. Now look what Jesus does. This is my message. And Jesus called a little child unto him. And set him in the midst of them. I don't know about you. If it was me, I'd have started barking at these guys. You know, I'd have started rebuke them. You knuckleheads, grow up. What's the matter with you? That's what I would have said. But uh Jesus is a little wiser than I am. He gets a child, he calls this little child unto him, he sets him in the midst of the disciples, puts him right smack dab in the middle And he said, Verily, verily I say unto you, except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same as the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. I want to talk about a lesson from a child. A lesson from a child. Here's my thinking We're going to teach children this week about the Word of God. We're going to teach them about creation. We're going to teach them what salvation is, how to be saved. We're going to teach them how to live for Jesus We're going to teach them of Jesus coming back again someday. We're going to teach them to live for God, that they need to be a witness and try and win their moms and dads, friends and neighbors to the Lord We're going to teach them what it means to be a Christian and how to live the Christian life. We're going to challenge them to dedicate their lives to Jesus Christ. We're going to challenge them to surrender their lives, to let God use them, maybe on foreign mission fields Maybe in uh here in the States, in some way, whatever the Lord has planned for their life, we want to challenge them to be submissive to that plan. There's going to be a lot of teaching, going to be a lot of instruction, from the adults, the teachers to the kids But I'm wondering, I'm wondering if there isn't something we can learn from the kids this week. And that when this is all said and done, we could God could use the children To help us be the kind of Christians he intends for us to be. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us learn a lesson. From the children, as Jesus used this little child here. Lord, we don't know their name. We don't know how old they were, we guess. We don't know what they were like. We don't know nothing about them other than they were just a little child. And yet you used that child in a powerful way to alter the disciples' thinking. Change the way they were behaving. Prepare them to serve you in a great way in the book of Acts. So Lord, I pray you'd do the same for us this morning. Pray you'd challenge us. Lord, some of us need the way we think to be altered. Some of us the way we behave, the way we treat others. We need that changed and help us to learn from children. Holy Spirit, I pray you'd be our teacher, our preacher this hour. I yield my will to you I present my body anew, and with all my heart I ask you to fill me and speak through me. Don't let us leave here the way we came. Pray we'd be closer to you and more submissive. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think one of the great challenges in the Christian life is interpersonal relationships. How many people know what I mean by interpersonal relationships? In other words, getting along One of the biggest challenges. Most people mess up in their Christian life because of how they interact with other people, with other Christians. That's one of the biggest areas of failure in Christian life. It's one of the biggest challenges in the Christian life. To live a life that pleases God, I must be able to treat my brothers and sisters and the unsaved. I must be able to treat them in a Christ-like, godly, scriptural way. My life is going to be victorious. If I'm going to have a victorious Christian life, I have got to lure to be Christ-like in my actions one with another. The disciples had not attained that yet. The Lord was still working on them. They're fussing over who's going to be the greatest. They're fussing over who has the most to offer. They're fussing over who is the better Christian, so to speak, than the others And no doubt along with that, and we see this in other places, in fact, some places, uh there's one passage, uh, we may get to it, I don't know. There's one passage where it says they got so heated on this that they had indignation one towards another. In fact, they actually got to the point where they're telling uh other disciples, I hate that disciple. I hate Peter. He said, what's he going to be in the kingdom? Obviously, I'm something better than he is. It had devolved to that level. You say surely disciples of Jesus Christ. You say surely nobody in a Bible-believing church would behave that way. Surely nobody, surely disciples of Jesus Christ would not behave, would behave that way. Surely they wouldn't. But they did. And Christians do. One of the great challenges of Christian life is getting along with my spouse. You say, praise you, you don't know my spouse. Yeah, but I do know your God. And I know what God expects from us. And I know what God can enable us to do. One of the great challenges in Christian life is getting along with one another, church members. Say, well, and uh I you you might not believe this or not, but I'm telling you, I've been doing this long enough. I've heard Christian church members say, I hate that church member I'm telling you, you better be careful about that. You won't bring the wrath of God. Jesus sharpest rebukes to his disciples. I mean his sharpest rebukes. Well for two things. Number one, their lack of faith, and number two, their treatment of others The lessons from a child. Lessons from a child. If my life is going to please God, I must learn to interact with others in a Christ-like, loving, and selfless way. I put this down. If I want to avoid God's rebuke, And God's judgment, God's chastisement on my life, I must learn to interact with others in a Christ-like, loving, and selfless way. If I consider myself a disciple of Jesus Christ, I must learn the truth of Matthew chapter 5. Would you turn there with me? Now keep your place, because we're going to come back and look at this child here in a bit But come back just a few chapters earlier in the book of Matthew to chapter 5. This is the chapter 5, 6, and 7 records the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached I say that every time I reference the Sermon on the Mount. And in the beginning of this sermon, Jesus makes a statement. And he's preaching, Jesus is preaching to disciples. He's preaching to, in our context, it'd be the church folk. Folks that know the Lord as Savior have committed ourselves to live for him, at least to some extent. And notice in verse number 43 And the disciples struggled with this, believe it or not. Matthew chapter 5, verse 43. He says, Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemy. That person that is opposed to you, that person that Has very few characteristics you appreciate. Love them. Bless them that curse you. You say, preacher, what if somebody hates me? Look what Jesus said. Do good to them that hate you. Pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. For he maketh his son to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. For if you love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? Even the wicked sinners in the world love those that please them. Ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? Do not even publicans so? Be ye therefore perfect. That word perfect means complete, all out in this, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. If I consider myself a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, I've got to learn to do exactly what that passage says right there. If I can't do that, if I can't obey that instruction right there, then I have no right to call myself a disciple of Jesus Christ. Amen or not. Amen. Sometimes people will say and do things. So be unkind. Maybe they'll curse us. They'll say things that they'll do things that disappoint us. And we have one of two reactions. I can get all mad and worked up about it and hate them. Run them down, tell others about how awful they are, just talk about it all the time. Or I can view that treatment As an opportunity to behave like a disciple. Here's an opportunity. Somebody's despitefully using you. They're cursing me. They hate me. Here's a perfect opportunity that I can be a disciple to them. I can be a disciple of Jesus Christ. I can love them. I can bless them. I can pray for them. And be gracious and patient and kind to them. That's what Jesus is saying. And the disciples struggled with this, even amongst themselves Good night. You read through the gospels, they're asking Jesus pray down thunderbolts on people out there and play down, send fire, burn them up. And uh Jesus says, you guys don't even know what spirit you are. What are you talking about? One of the challenges in the Christian life, one of the real challenges in the Christian life is being able to interact with people I've found that almost probably pretty much a hundred percent of human beings are naturally very selfish. We want our way, we want to be happy, we want to be pleased, we want to be blessed, we want things to be the way I think they should be, and all of that And when you have eight billion people are all focused on themselves and zeroed in on what they want and what they have, it's inevitable there's going to be what? Conflict. Because you have all these little entities seeking their own, and they're going to be running into each other. And Jesus says that's not how disciples operate. We live by a higher level. We live by a different standard. We have a different worldview. We have a different frame of mind. And he takes three and a half years where he's working on his disciples and he's trying to teach them and train them and bring them out of that thinking. I put this down. One thing that will put me out of fellowship with God as quick as anything is being out of fellowship with my brother or sister in Christ. And I the I I I came up as I was studying this, I come up with probably two uh two-score, 40-50 verses along these lines that say almost exactly that. If I want to be in fellowship with God, I need to learn to be in fellowship with my brothers and sisters in Christ. And not just the ones that make me happy. Not just the ones that scratch my back and give me nice presents at Christmas and wish me happy birthday on my birthday. By the way, happy birthday, Chester, I just wanted to say that But he loves me even if I didn't say that. What was that song Chester used to sing? You can't love. Yeah, if you don't love your neighbor, you don't love God. That's what Jesus is trying to teach these disciples. John chapter 13, verse 35. Listen what Jesus said. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one toward another. That's how people know you're You say, yeah, I got that, I got a good fundamental independent Baptist King James Bible haircut. Everybody knew I'm a Christian. They'll see that haircut. It's not what Jesus said. Now, I think fellows ought to have a decent haircut, personally. Well, they'll know I'm a disciple of Jesus Christ because I dress modestly. I got knee-length skirts and dresses, and I don't show off any skin, and I'm all I'm modest. Now listen, I think ladies ought to be modest. I think men ought to be modest. But that's not what Jesus said that people are going to know how we're a disciple of Christ. He says by this Shall all men know that you are my disciple if you have what? Love one toward another. And he doesn't qualify that. Love one toward another. It's a characteristic of discipleship. Romans chapter 12, verse 9 and 10 says, let love be without dissimulation. That word dissimulation means without hypocrisy, without phoniness. In other words, love, let your love be sincere. I mean, sincerely love someone. Love that one, love others. Then he goes on, he says, be kindly affectioned one to another. He's writing to the believers in Rome, and he says, listen, you guys be kind. Be respectful to each other. Don't be phony, love sincerely. You say, well, I just can't love that person. Why don't you ask God's Holy Spirit to fill you with His love? And says the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. Let God's love for you be shed abroad in your hearts. Is anybody with me this morning? I don't want to preach to a wall. I want revival in our church. We're about to spend a week with kids coming in here, Lord will, in hundred, maybe two hundred, I'm praying. And they've got to hear from God. For many of them, this is the only time they hear the Word of God. This is the only time they hear the gospel. We need God's power. We need God's presence. Jesus is about to send these disciples out into the world in the book of Acts, and they are not ready They're fussing with each other, they're arguing over who's the greatest, they're mad, they're hating each other. And they're there they need things need to change if they're going to be used of God. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, Paul's writing to this church at Corinth, and most of us familiar, that church was a mess. I mean, a mess. Fornication and adultery throughout the church. Drunkenness, lying to each other, suing each other, fighting with each other. And he writes this letter to them, and the very first thing he addresses Is their treatment of one another. They're they're fine, oh I'm of this person, I this I like this one, I can't stand that guy. And they were they were had all these little different sects, these little different uh cliques. This well this group didn't like that group, and that group didn't. I'm telling you what And he rebukes them sharply. And he's listening to what Paul said. I'm telling you, if I was pastor of that church, I would fall on my face in shame. To hear Paul say this to me in my church. I could not speak as unto you as spiritual, I can only talk to you like you're little babies. How many people agree with me? That would be a shame. He says you're carnal. You're under the control of the flesh. This isn't of God. And he rebukes them sharply. That's what I'm trying to get at, and I'm spending some time on this. That's the condition the disciples were in. Their attitude one towards another. Throughout the Gospels, there's this ongoing issue with the disciples. Who's the greatest? Who's superior? Who's the better disciple? It escalated. You get to Mark chapter 9, and they're disputing. I mean, they're fussing and fighting over this Who's the greatest? I don't know about you. Sounds like kindergarten to me. But that's that's disciples. And by the way. That's still a challenge in our day and age. We're no different than those twelve guys that he's dealing with. Am I right or wrong? We're no different. We're no different. We got to learn the same lessons these disciples needed to learn. If we're going to have God's power, if we're going to have Acts chapter 2 and be able to stand up and be filled with the Spirit of God and preach the power of God and see souls saved and lives changed, we've got to learn the lesson the disciples learned. We really do. It escalated to Matthew chapter 20. They have indignation one towards another. I mean, they have they have dislike for each other. And so they come to Jesus here in Matthew 18, if you wouldn't come back with me. And they're questioning, they have this question of who's the greatest? Who should be treated as the great disciple? And Jesus responds with an object lesson. I tell ya, it it It's good to study the methods of Jesus in teaching and witnessing. He was a master at taking something that everybody was familiar with. And draw that in and give a powerful, powerful scriptural, spiritual truth that often changed lives. And so Jesus does that. The disciples come, they're fussing with each other. Get away from me. I'm greater than you. Come on, are you serious? You think Peter's great? No, are you kidding me? You hear how he talks? Thomas, he doesn't believe anything. You know, Mark, he's out there. Andrew, he's just running around trying to They come to Jesus, all right, Jesus, we need you to settle this. Who's the greatest? And Jesus doesn't answer their question directly. And he glances off, and again I'm using my imagination here a little bit, but he glances off, and here's a young child. Crowds all around. The disciples are up there asking him this fussing and going on. There's a little child there, and he goes and gets this child and takes the child. He calls the child and brings her and puts the child right in the middle of them. And I'm picturing in my mind how the disciples are responding to this. They're here fussing who's the greatest, and they're all mad at each other and uh we want Jesus, pick which one of us is the greatest. Jesus just says, hey, hey young sonny, hey, little child, come here, come here. Little boy comes over. I guess we don't know if it's a boy or girl, but little child comes over. He picks him up I uh this is the way I see it. And he sets that child down and he looks in the eyes of every one of those twelve disciples I see the disciples thinking, pfft, what's it what's this kid? What's he bringing the kid for? What's this isn't? Jesus addresses their question with an object lesson. By the way, this child, if you look there, now we'll look at the text here now, but notice this Jesus called a, it said it doesn't say a child, it says what kind of child? A little child. I can look that up and saw how it's used other places in the Gospels, and it's probably a toddler. Sometimes that phrase little child refers to an infant. I don't believe it's an infant, because he calls them to come over. It very it does not refer to an older child, like a preteen or teen that age, or it wouldn't be referred to as a little child. So my guess is it's a toddler. Three, four. This little child would be in Joy's class. Right? You have toddlers. And so, what what are they age, three, four years old, five? And so he brings this little child over, he puts them in the midst, and he starts teaching them. The first thing I want to notice here, and I've got a little bit of time. He stresses to them the importance of humility, which is the polar opposite of what they were doing. It was the exact opposite of what they were. So Jesus doesn't answer their question, he addresses their problem The question was, who's the greatest? The problem was they had no concept of what humility was. And that is what caused all this dissension and this bitterness and this fussing and this uh uh broken fellowship It's because they were proud. They were in love with themselves. They exalted themselves. This is about me and what I want and what I think. And Jesus said, let me teach you a lesson. Come here, little sonny, come on over here. He picks him up, he sets him right in the middle And he stresses to them the importance of humility. If you would, come back to chapter 17 and look with me, if you would, at verse 22. This is what Jesus had just said to them. He had just taught them this. 17, Matthew 17, verse 22. And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said unto them, The Son of Man shall be betrayed into the hands of men, and they shall kill him. And the third day he shall be raised again, and they were exceeding sorry. Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. Who's the Son of Man Jesus is talking about? Himself He said, listen, fellas, I want you to understand something. It's not long. In just a brief period of time, I'm going to be betrayed. They're going to take me and kill me. But I'm going to rise again the third day. I'm telling you, Jesus' death on the cross, his his betrayal, His crucifixion was the greatest act of love in all of history. Jesus just told them about the most Selfless act of love anyone has ever performed in all of history. And they completely missed it. They're still focused on themselves. Oh, well, we're sorry to hear that. But who's the greatest? The word that comes to my mind is knuckleheads. Jesus is about to perform the greatest act of humility in all of human history. And they completely miss it. And I'm telling you, what will help you and I tremendously in my treatment and actions and attitudes towards my brothers and sisters My fellow church members, people of the world, anybody I come across, what will help us tremendously if we will stop and remember what Jesus Christ has done for us. And the love and the compassion and the forgiveness and the grace he has shown to us who have sinned against him. And yet, while yet a sinner, Christ died for me. They missed that completely. And he's saying, listen, fellas, for three and a half years Jesus was working, working to weed out their self-love, their pride. Their superior attitude, their self-righteousness, it was so ingrained in their hearts and minds. At this point in time, the disciples are acting no different than the Pharisees. No different. Who's the greatest? Jesus brings a little child, sets that child in the middle, and says, I want to teach you about humility. I want to solve your problem. I'm not going to answer your question, I'm going to solve your problem. The problem is your pride. The importance of humility. The disciples never would have the power of God until they learned to humble themselves. The disciples never would have a lasting impact on the world until they learned to humble themselves. So he emphasizes the importance of humility. Now come back to chapter 18, if you would, and then he gives this illustration of humility. This is where the child comes in. It says, he called a little child unto him and set him in the midst of them. As I said, it was probably a toddler. We're pretty confident that was the case. And he uses this little child as an illustration of genuine humility. Now let me pause here before we look at this child a bit, what Jesus did. Let me pause here. At no time was Jesus suggesting we should be childish. There's a difference between learning some lessons about humility from a child and imitating their childishness. He's not suggesting. In fact, we pointed out before, in 1 Corinthians, Paul rebuked the Corinthian church for being childish. But here we have a lesson from a child, an illustration of what humility is. A couple things. He said, well, how do you learn humility from this right here? Well, notice in verse number two, it says that he called a little child. What does it mean when you call someone? You're saying, hey, come here. You're talking to them. You're giving a little structure. You're giving an invitation. Hey, come on over here. It's obvious in the verse there that the child, as soon as Jesus called, the child came. The child responded to the call of Jesus. When Jesus spoke to that child, the child responded. The child submitted to what the Lord Jesus said. Can I suggest to you an illustration of humility is that when God confronts our pride, when God confronts our self-righteousness, when God confronts our sin, the Holy Spirit God speaks to us about our carnal condition? Humility says, okay, Lord, I'm responding. That's humility. Okay. Pride says, no. Pride, if it was in this child, the child would have said, no. Not coming over there. I'm not doing what you say. I'm not answering your call. I'm not submitting to your instructions. But the child came. And the disciples see this. And I see, I see the Lord, and this is my total imagination, so bear with me. I see Jesus, hey Sonny, come here. And as soon as he says that, the little child comes, and I see the Lord, look at the disciples. Child comes over to Jesus, stands by his side. No argument, no self-will, no resistance. A characteristic of greatness in God's eyes is dying to self, submitting to the Lord. So the child comes over. Then notice also, Jesus called a little child. So the child came as soon as he called. Number two, it says, and set him in the midst of them. I looked that up and did a little study on the phrase set him and all that, and this is the idea behind it. Jesus, a little child, apparently came over to where Jesus was. Jesus took that little child Picked him up and set him over here where the disciples were. He set him in the midst of the disciples. So that tells me this little child was willing for the Lord Jesus To place him where he needed to be. Child didn't just walk over in there. Jesus picked him up and placed him. Now, maybe I'm reading a little bit into this. I don't think so, but that child displayed an attitude of not my will, but thy will be done. He heard the call, the little child heard the call. Hey, Sonny, come on over here. Child comes over. Jesus looks at the disciples. He picks the child up, sets him in the midst of the disciples. The child's completely submissive. To what Christ is doing? Would you agree with me that child is completely trusting in Christ. He's allowing him to pick him up and place him in a different location. That's faith. That's trust. These disciples learn to die to self, quit looking at themselves, quit exalting themselves, quit leaning on their own understanding, and let the Lord work in their life and make them what they ought to be. And he says, look at this little child. He came when I called. I set him over here. He allowed me to move him. And then I noticed this child, there's no self-praise by the child. Just willing to be used by the Lord. I can't find anywhere. I looked at all the accounts of this. I can't find anywhere where this child Puffs his shoulders, his head back and puffs his chest out and say, oh, look how God's using me. I must be something. Great. Ah, I must be something. Listen, uh I if God God I think God's blessing our church, I really do. I think God's using a lot of people in our church in a lot of various ways, and I thank God for that. But I want to remind all of us God could use a donkey if he wanted. So don't get puffed up thinking who's the greatest soul winner, who's the greatest teacher, or who's the greatest this, or who's the greatest that, or I'm better than this, and I'm better than that. We're all a bunch of sorry sinners ought to be burning in hell right now, and by God's grace he's given us eternal life. And he's given us the privilege to live for him and love people and care about others. Little child. Lesson from a little child. This is what I was thinking. I was preparing this week. These old kids will line up out here. I absolutely thoroughly enjoy Bible time. Has anybody picked that up? I love it. I'll make a fool out of myself all week long. I'll get one of the lineup sticks and put it on my nose and I'll walk around balancing a line-up stick on my nose. How many people ever saw me do that? I'll charge a dollar. Come on out. I'll do it for you. We're going to teach the kids some things. Now, one thing you'll notice if you'll watch this week, I'm going to do this. Sometimes evangelists do or don't, but I do I'll say, eyeballs, and we'll teach all those kids and they'll go click. I mean instantly, without thinking. It's an instant uh Uh response reaction um reaction, I guess, is what I want. I mean it's without even thinking. And uh maybe we could look at that. Hey, here's what I'm getting at, and learn a lesson. God says, do this, yes sir. I vote clay. God said to Abraham, take your child, your only child whom you love. No hesitation, no debate, no negotiating. Humble trust and faith. Jesus used that child, they learned a lesson. All this week we're gonna we're gonna teach them songs. I w I want to I want to challenge you. These little kids are gonna be sitting here. I don't know how many. I'd love to have 500. But if we have 5, 10, 15, or 20, you watch these little kids down here. When the it comes time to sing, they are going to sing. I mean there's exceptions, but there they sing. I love it. Humility. Learn from a child. Except you become like a child. God leads to follow. God speaks and respond. God moves in your heart and life and needs to make some adjustments and changes in my attitude, my actions, my habits, my behavior. Yes, Lord. The illustration of humility by a child, then last of all I am with this, the inspiration of humility. Look at verse number four. He says there, verse three, Verily I say unto you, except you be converted and become as little children. He shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. What he's saying is, getting saved requires an act of humbling myself before Christ, trusting as my Savior, just like a child trusts a parent or adult. By the way, let me throw this out. These children don't have to be like adults to get saved. Adults have to be like children to get saved. Well, are they old enough? My question is, well, are they too old? By the way, there's nobody too old to get saved. And children can get saved at a lot younger age than most people give them credit for. Believe that. And so he says, except you become like a child. He's saying this that humility is a key factor in salvation. Yeah nobody nobody comes to Christ trusting Christ full pride. Oh yeah I'm righteous, I'm better than others. Yeah, I'll trust Jesus my Savior. Doesn't work that way. Come to Christ, say I'm a sorry, wretched sinner, I deserve to burn in hell. I need Christ Greatness in God. Oh, look at verse 4. Whosoever there shall humble himself as a little child. Look at this. The same is the greatest. And the kingdom of heaven. Ah, now he answers their question. First he addressed their problem. You guys are a bunch of self-righteous, proud Pharisees. Didn't say that, but what he's saying. Said you humble yourself. That's what greatness is. Greatness in God's eyes is not the same as greatness in the world's eyes. Greatness in God's eyes is not the richest person in the church. Greatness in God's eyes is not the smartest person in the church. The hardest working person in the church, the one who puts others down, the one who thinks so highly of themselves, that's not the greatest person in the church, in God's kingdom. Jesus' point was the greatest disciple in God's eyes. The one who humbles himself like a child. Humbles himself like a child. I wish I had a video of those disciples responding to what Jesus just said. I wish I could see their faces. Greatness in God's eyes is humility. My will yielded to God's will. My love governed by God's love. Two of the most honored men in the New Testament. Two of the highest honored men in all of the New Testament. John the Baptist is one of them. Jesus says there was no greater prophet born of women than John the Baptist. You can't get a higher accolade than that. You know what John the Baptist said? They asked him about whether he was the Christ. He goes, oh no, no. He must increase. But I must decrease. So it's not about me. I'm not the greatest. I'm decrease. Second, I believe, most honored man in the New Testament, one was John the Baptist. The second, I would say, was Paul. God used Paul to record more of the New Testament than any other human being. And in Galatians chapter 2, verse 20, listen to the mind of Paul. He said, For I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I. Christ liveth in me. Now one little phrase caught my attention. Yet not I Your average American Christian is I B I'm superior. I can rebuke you. I can correct you. I can dislike you because it's about me. And Paul said, hmm. I'm crucified with Christ. And I live, God's giving me life, but it's not I. It's not I. It's not I. A lesson from a child. I wonder if we can't learn a little bit from the children as we're teaching them this week. Are you with me? There's a s an account. There's some question as to whether it's a legend or not, I don't know, but there's a There's a pianist that was very popular years ago. I don't think he's still living. Paderowski. I think he was Polish. I think he became a Some type of political leader in Poland eventually, but he was a phenomenal pianist. And he was playing in the United States. He was to have a concert. Of course it was sold out. And there was a young couple, husband and wife, and they had a child, five, six, seven, or eight years old, and they were teaching that child piano. The child was struggling, wasn't real interested, and they got a brilliant idea. They said, we're going to take that child to hear Padaruski, the great pianist. And he'll be inspired to play, and he'll be inspired. Maybe he will someday be a great pianist. And they got there and the place is packed and there's hubbub going on before the concert. The orchestra in the back is practicing and tuning their instruments up and it's just a little chaos. And the couple got talking to some people some people seated beside them And they got distracted and got into conversation, and while they were doing that, their little boy got up and wandered off. And so finally their conversation settled down and they uh their beginning it was obviously this the concert was about to begin. They sat down, we looked over, and the boy's gone. And they're running up and down the aisle, where are they? Oh Polly, Polly. I don't remember his name. I don't know what his name was. And they're going, Where are they, where are you? And people are like, And finally they sit down, they're mortified. Where did our boy go? And about that time the curtains opened, and their little boy was sitting at the piano. And he was looking at and he started going ten Dum dum dum. He's playing chopsticks. And he's just playing her mom and dad are mortified. And the crowd started saying, what is this? Get him off there. Get that kid out of there. Boo. And they started doing all this. And the pianist Adaruski was all behind and he heard what was going on. He looked out and he saw the crowd all up for and he saw the little boy sitting there and he realized what happened He made his way over, and the crowd went silent when he walked out. The little boy didn't know he was there, just playing away in his own world. The great pianist leaned down and whispered in the boys' ears, Don't stop playing. Just keep playing. And that great pianist took his hands and reached around and began playing a score along with what that little boy was doing. And they played a phenomenal, phenomenal piece. And the cloud crowd came unglued I saw what I'd done. I want to suggest to you, you and I need to see ourselves as that little boy. I'm just down here. Bing, bing, bing, bing, bing, bing, bing, bing. I'm not the greatest. I'm the least. But I have a God in heaven that if I'll take the little bit that I am and let Him take me and use me, He can make something beautiful You can use us in a great way. Sunday school teachers, this week you may be nervous. I don't know how good a job, but I tell you, you just do the best you can. You get right with God. You do the best you can You love people, let God fill you, and I'll tell you, God could change lives of those who sit under us. But if we're like the disciples, Proud, self-righteous, looking down on others. You might as well mark it down. God's not going to use that. God's not going to use that. Here's my plea Sunday before Bible time. Let's get right with God. Let's just get right with God. Amen? Father bless now. I hope you use these thoughts, these challenges. Pray you'd speak deep to our hearts, Lord, that we could root out that pride, root out that selfishness, root out that desire for greatness. Help us, Lord, just be tools in your hands. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there'd be some be honest enough to say, preacher, you know I do struggle with pride. I do tend to see myself more highly than I ought to. And maybe God spoke to your heart this morning, and between you and God, you'd say, I need to address that I need to deal with that. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I know it. I know it. Maybe you're out of sorts with a brother or sister in Christ. Maybe you said some hard things. Another brother or sister in Christ, maybe this morning come say, Lord, that's not right. I want to make that right. I want your blessing. I want revival. I want you to use me I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I'm serving this week in Bible time, a little anxious about it. I need God to assure me that He's going to use me. I just need to trust God that He's going to use me. Is there any like that? Peter, I'm just a little anxious about this. God bless you, hands all around. I tell you, every Sunday morning I'm a little anxious about this. God does what God does best. He uses humble broken vessels to do great work Father, bless our invitation, I ask, in Jesus' name