Peter, we're into the first couple verses. We're going to pick up in verse three tonight. And I need to get wired up here. Let me ask you a question. If a cow does not produce milk, is it a milk dud? Or is it an utter failure? That was Mary's. She sent that one to me. They weren't as good as mine this morning, but 1 Peter chapter 1, I want to read verse 3, 4, and 5. We're only going to get to verse 3 tonight, and uh I'm going to try and get right to the point here, but if you would follow along in your Bibles. 1 Peter chapter 1. And verse number three, the Bible says this: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope By the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time I put down for verse number three, I put this, we have a lively hope. That's what we're going to talk about tonight. Beside verse number four, I put this, we have a legitimate hope Our hope is based on a on a uh has a firm basis. And so we have a legitimate hope. And then verse number five, I put we have a lasting hope. And so let's pray, and we're going to look at this lively hope that we notice here in verse number three. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the word of God. I thank you for this book here that we're studying. I pray that you would use it to help us grow in our faith. And Lord, I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew. And I pray that you would speak your word through me to each and every one of our hearts. Lord, some folks tonight need some encouragement from you. I have no doubt about that. Lord, some of us need some direction and decisions to make in which way our life is going. Lord, we need you to help us. You know the end from the beginning. You know what tomorrow holds. So, Lord, show us and direct us. And Lord, some of us may be Or some of us need you to do a little correction, a little discipline there. So we ask that because you love us that you would do that and help us be right. And Lord, maybe there's some that need salvation, do not have assurance of sins forgiven, and not assured of heaven and not going to hell. So please use your word tonight. Again, fill me with your Spirit. Speak through me. As I give myself anew to you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. First Peter, of course, was written by Peter, and we talked a good bit about Peter and and uh uh just uh uh uh you would not expect someone like Peter to write a book like this. And we talked about that at length. But he's writing, here's the thing, and it comes out here in these couple verses here we're going to look at. He is writing to young believers. These are folks that just newly got saved. We mentioned already, but I praise the Lord for actually trusting the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior this morning. We've had a number of people in the last couple of weeks, Brother Charlie and Dale, Brother Dale and Charlie, where'd they go? Where did Charlie go? McDonald's? And uh they were out a week ago Thursday and were able to uh share the gospel with a fellow and and he trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior And just uh as the weeks go by, we see people trust Christ as Savior. These are new believers, these are young Christians, they just accepted Christ And we trust that they're seeing God work in their life now and bringing about that new life that salvation produces. And that's what Peter is writing to. With the difference being, is that these new believers were living in a culture that was intensely hostile to their faith. These were new believers who, because of their faith in Christ, because of their relationship with the Lord, because of what God was doing in their life, their families rejected them. I mean, flat out rejected them. When I was first went to Bible college, there was an elder man there, and he had a ministry, International Board of Jewish Missions. And he was a Jewish fellow. He was very elderly at the time. He's been with the Lord many, many years now. But uh he came to America from Israel. I think he went to Canada initially And he was introduced to the gospel, and he trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. Now this is an Orthodox Jew. And when he trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, God changed his life, and he said, all of a sudden, all the Old Testament prophecies made sense. When he saw that Jesus Christ was the Messiah that had been prophesied all through the centuries to the Jewish people, when he accepted Christ as Savior, he said that Bible came together. But he said, My family turned against me. I can still hear him standing in the big, huge auditorium, six thousand folk. I heard him, I can still hear him in my mind's uh mine's ear, I can still hear him saying, and my family rejected me. And he says they hated me. And I remember one time he was saying, my father would beat me and beat me. And my uncles. And they drove me out of the house. Not because he was a drunk, not because he was a thief. Not because he was adulterer. But for one reason and one reason only, because of his faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what these believers were facing. Their families rejected them. They were driven out of their homes. They had been driven out of their homes. They had been violently persecuted. Many of them had given their lives. You read the history books, and uh they would often be disfigured. They would beat them and torture them. For no other reason than the fact that they had a relationship with Jesus Christ. So that's the people that Peter is writing to. That's who this book here, 1 Peter, these uh several chapters. It's directed to these strangers that are scattered throughout Asia Minor there. And as we said, that word scattered has the idea because of persecution. They were driven out. And so he's writing them, and he's writing this, he's trying to encourage them in their faith. Now this Probably is an overless overly simplistic question, but let me ask you this. What does it mean to encourage somebody? Somebody talk to me. If you're going to encourage somebody, you're doing what? You're lifting them up? Just think of the word. Break the word down to N Courage. It's to instill or to give them more what? Courage. He's writing to them so that in the face of this persecution, as some of them are being hunted down by family members, some of them are being hunted down by the Jews in the synagogues. Some of them are being hunted down by the pagan religious leaders because of their faith in Christ. Peter's writing to them And he wants to build up, he wants to strengthen, he wants to renew their what? Their courage So they would not be fearful in the midst of all this, so that they could stand, as the children say here just a moment ago, to stand in the midst of persecution. Now we're nowhere near in America what they were facing. We're nowhere near that. I understand that, and I don't want to be sensational in my preaching. But I'm telling you, hostility towards Christianity is increasing in our culture. There are certain elements of our culture, there's certain elements of the entertainment industry, large elements of the entertainment industry. There are very large elements of the music industry. There are certain elements in the political sphere that not only do not want to tolerate us, but they were absolutely openly hostile to us. I've said this before, and I just reiterate I I'm absolutely convinced of this. Any political party, any political party that Celebrates the murder and dismemberment of an unborn child, any political party that celebrates that will have no problem whatsoever killing Christians You mark my word. They have no problem whatsoever taking away our freedom to preach and practice our faith as the Bible teaches us. So We're nowhere near where these new t where these uh folks are that Peter's writing to. We're not experiencing that by anywhere close. But I am saying this. The principles and what he says in the book of First Peter very much apply to you and I in the day and age we are in. And so it's an important book. And uh it's one I believe we ought to study very, very carefully. In verse 1 and 2, as we already looked, we notice their position in Christ. And this is how he starts out the book. He says, you're elect, God has chosen you. He said there and we elaborated what that means. And he says, God has set you apart through the Holy Spirit And he's telling them, Listen, you guys are in a very secure position spiritually. You're okay spiritually. God's got you So he tells them their position. Now, here, verse 3, 4, and 5, I believe he's pointing out the possessions, what we have as a Christian. How many people here, when you got saved, your life was changed? Can I get a witness? God, something different happened. When I got saved, I mention this often, but when I got saved, I didn't understand it all. I couldn't explain it all. But I knew this when I got up off my knees, something was different about Dennis Leatherman. God had brought about a change. And there are certain things, when we know Jesus Christ as Savior, there are certain things that take place. Now I want us to point out in verse number three, and we're just going to look at verse three tonight I want us to notice, first of all, the blessings of knowing the Lord is our Savior. Blessings of knowing the Lord is their Savior. Let me ask this. I think we're having problems with our air conditioner. I think it either got overrun or it's not working at all. But um I've been looking at them, working on them, it ain't working. So I'm going to do something I think maybe I've done two or three times. I'm going to take my jacket off No way. I'm gonna do it. You have ex I knew that was gonna happen, this Brother Heinball. I knew it. I mean when you when you look like this you can't help it I lo completely lost my train of thought. But you've experienced history tonight. When we get saved, there's blessings that come with knowing the Lord and Savior. Look at verse 3 with me. Let's just look at this. Blessed Be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. That word blessed used there, that word that is blessed, is uh comes from a word, a different word than other terms in the Bible for blessed are used. Uh we studied the the uh um the Beatitudes on Wednesday night a couple years a year or so ago. And we went through the Beatitudes and Blessed are the poor in spirit, blessed are the meek, blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness. Blah, fit, blah, those actually come from a word that has a slight different meaning than what this one does. And I thought that was interesting And so I got looking enough, and I found out that the term that this word blessed comes from is never used in reference to man. Whenever the word blessed is in the Bible and it's referring to a man, it has a little different meaning. This word here is only used in reference to God. Every time you find this word blessed and you find the word it's translated from, It is always in the context of addressing God. It means, the meaning of the word is this, to praise or to express adoration for or to express gratitude to. Blessed. Be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Adoration and praise and glory to the God and Father of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That word is never used in addressing man. You know why? Because man should never be glorified, only God. I was in a meeting years ago and uh there was a very famous preacher. He's been with the Lord and he's a and he was a good man. God used him a great way And he was going to preach, and I had gone over to West Virginia, drove a couple hours. I wanted to hear him preach that night, because powerful, powerful preacher. God used him in great ways. And the fellow that was introducing him made a statement that ruined my evening completely. I mean, I couldn't get a thing out of the message because of what he said. And he got up and he was introducing the preacher, and he made this statement. He says, Now, I don't worship Dr. So-and-so. But it is so close that you can't tell the difference. And I thought to myself, that is borderline blasphemy. There ought not to be any question about who we worship. There should not ever be any nothing should come so close to the position that my God and Savior has in my life that you can't tell the difference. It shouldn't even be near that point. The Bible uses this term in addressing God Almighty because God is the one to be adored. God is the one to be praised. God is the one to be worshipped. If you would turn over, I can illustrate this in Ephesians chapter number one. I'll just real quickly I'll point this out. Ephesians chapter 1. And verse number three, you notice the word uh Blessed is used twice in this verse. Notice Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3. Look at what it says. Blessed be who? The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, almost identical to what we read in Peter. So this blessedness is being addressed to who? To God. Now notice the next statement. Who hath What? Blessed us with all spiritual blessings. That actually comes from the word that has two very uh has two different aspects to it. The one is glory and blessing and adoration to God Almighty. The other one has the idea of joy and the blessings of God to be upon us. Now, maybe I'm making more out of this than what it ought to be, but I thought this is interesting. I believe Peter is writing To these people that are being persecuted, right at the beginning of the book, he's pointing out an important principle, and that is this. In the Christian life, our joy, our confidence, our peace is not in circumstances, but it is in the Lord Is the Lord. You follow what I'm trying to say? And right from the beginning, he's trying to get their eyes off of their circumstances, off of the persecution. They're trying to get their eyes off of the people that hate them and are trying to kill them. So discouraging, so overwhelming. I mean put pushing them to the point maybe that some maybe some of them did. And they want to quit And he says, no, no, no, no, no, no. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, He is the focus of our praise. He is the focus of our attention. Times of trial, we need to remember it is our we can have joy and peace and confidence in times of trial and times of injustice, not in our circumstances, but in the Lord and who and what He is. The believers in the book of Acts understood this. Would you turn with me to Acts chapter number 5 very quickly? Acts chapter 5. Just go back there in the New Testament a little bit. I believe what Peter is establishing for these persecuted Christian is, listen, our peace, our confidence, our joy, our Our strength, our encouragement, our boldness is not dependent on certain circumstances, but it is found in our relationship with the Lord. Blessed be the Lord and uh father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Look at Acts chapter 5, verse 41. I love this. Every time I read this, this stirs my heart and challenges me. Acts chapter 5 verse 41. Are you there? And they departed from the presence of the council. These are disciples. They've just been beat. They've just been in prison. They've just been treated unjustly. They departed from the presence of the council. Look at this. What's the next word? Rejoicing that everything was going their way. Rejoicing that the council was so happy with them getting saved and uh their changed life. No Look at this. They departed the president of the council rejoicing that they were counted worthy to what? Suffer shame for his name. Man, I mean these believers are getting beat up, they're getting thrown in prison, uh, they're being threatened, they're being uh uh humiliated publicly. And they come out of that meeting. Oh, praise to him who reigns. I mean, they're rejoicing. Why? Because they're being treated this way? No. They're rejoicing in who the Lord is and their relationship with the Lord. That stirred my heart. Look at the next verse. Look what they do. And daily in the temple, in every house, they cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. They learn to rejoice not in their circumstances, but in their relationship with the Lord. Come over to chapter 16 with me, if you would, real quick. Is everybody with me tonight? Everybody doing alright? Alright. Acts chapter 16 and uh verse number 25. You say, Oh preacher, you just don't know how bad I got it. You just don't know how mean my boss is. You just don't know how you just don't know the hard time my spouse has given me because I'm a Christian. You just don't know how I'm getting cussed out uh from my family for uh going to church and doing uh you just don't you you just don't understand. Uh maybe not, but look at these guys. And at midnight, Paul and Silas prayed, and what'd they do? Sang praises unto God, and the prisoners heard them. If you read up there a little earlier, you'll find out. These guys are thrown in prison in a dungeon, a m uh in a in a Middle Eastern dungeon back two thousand years ago. You can imagine the filth, you can imagine the conditions. They're in stocks. They're bound. In the middle of the night, they're not complaining and griping. I can't believe they said that too. Oh, they're not doing this. I'm calling CLA. No, no, no, they didn't do any of that. They're singing and praising God and praying. Why? Because they had a relationship with the Lord in spite of injustice, in spite of injury, in spite of per imprisonment Their relationship was knowing the Lord. So Peter's writing to them, and he's pointing out right at the beginning the principle that we rejoice in the Lord, not in our circumstances. My dad for years, I don't know what he does here since he moved down, but I know the one apartment lived in back home, he had a poem on the wall. And I've learned it touched my heart, and I got copies of it, and since then I have put one in the cover, inside the cover of my Bible, for all these many, many years. It goes like this. When things go wrong as they sometimes will, when the road you're traveling seems all uphill, when the funds are low and the debts are high, and you want to smile but you have to sigh When care is pressing you down a bit, rest if you must, but don't you quit. Life is queer with its twists and turns, as every one of us sometimes learns, and many a fellow turns about when he might have won had he stuck it out. Don't give up, though the pace seems slow. You may succeed with another blow. Often the goal is closer than it seems to a faint and faltering man. Often the struggler had given up when he might have captured the victor's cup, and he learned too late when the lights came down how close he was to the golden crown. Success is failure turned inside out, the silver tint in the clouds of doubt. And you never can tell how close you are. It might be near when it seems so far. So stick to the fight when your heart is hit. It's when things seem worse that you must not quit. I think Peter is writing to these believers saying, Listen, I know the persecution is overwhelming, I know the pain is intense, I know the rejection hurts deeply. But you remember who is your father. You remember the relationship you have. You remember the blessings there is. And knowing for sure your sins are forgiven, you have a home in heaven. Blessed be the name of the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Don't quit. There's some folks, I know for a fact that I'm preaching to some folks tonight that are going through it. I know for a fact I'm preaching to some folks tonight are struggling with bitterness. Struggling with discouragement, struggling with heartache, struggling with frustration, disappointment And I'm here to tell you: listen, this world's not our home. We have a heavenly Father in heaven. That's where we look for peace. That's where we look for confidence. That's where we look for our joy, not in our circumstances. Don't get bitter. Don't quit. You just keep on trusting God, trusting God. Am I making any sense? And so he writes to them. Right off the bat, he says, Blessed be the God and Father. of our Lord Jesus Christ. You keep your eyes on the Lord. You remember where our blessings come from. You remember who we worship and who we serve. Now if you would, let's look at this verse here again Verse number three, let me get back there. He says, Blessed be the God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ. They had the blessings of knowing the Lord. Number two, he points out quickly the abundant mercy of the Lord. Look what he says. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his what Abundant mercy. Now you all gotta talk to me. It's hotter up here than it is down there, alright? But I ain't taking nothing else off, so just Which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again. Abundant mercy. What is mercy? Our definition is getting something, not getting something I do deserve. Let me give you the definition. It's undeserved kindness. It's God being kind to me, even though I don't deserve to be kind. It's undeserved goodwill. It's undeserved compassion. God being compassionate to us, even though we don't deserve it. I'm ashamed to admit this, I'm ashamed to say this. But how many times I took my Lord's name in vain? And said God's name in ways that blasphemed his name and were vain. And yet God, in his abundant mercy, would forgive me when I trusted Christ as Savior. And showed me compassion. How many times we said things that hurt others? How many times I thought things that grieved our God. And yet God in his abundant mercy shows compassion to me. Shows compassion. And he's reminding them. Listen, God has shown us undeserved pity and compassion. When I was studying that word there and how it's used and different things. I couldn't help but think of Romans chapter 5 and verse 8. But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we are yet what? Sinners, Christ died for us. You imagine that? Our sin was so great, and the things we've said and done that hurt the Lord and that hurt others, yet God loved us enough to die for our sin. Rise again. I can't get over that. I can't get over that. I don't know where you're at and what your situation is, but I can say to this to you with absolute certainty, I can tell you the absolute truth. God loves you even though you've sinned against him. Things we've said and done, God in His mercy shows compassion to us. And here's the great thing, God can and will save any any old sinner that will humble ourselves and turn to Him and trust Him as our Savior. Nobody in the world, we said this this morning, there's nobody in the world that sins so bad that God's mercy can't reach. Notice what he says, God's abundant mercy. That word abundant means great, exceedingly large. When I was looking up that word, I thought about the Grand Canyon. How huge and massive that place is. Um exceeding God's abundant mercy. Another definition for the word abundant has the idea of pot boiling over. I've used this often before. I like to eat peas. Anybody here like peas? I mean peas, just peas, nothing else, just peas. Um uh uh somebody said uh uh we need world peace. I like world peas, you know. Stir them up. Now we that was lame, wasn't it? I'm trying, y'all pray for me. But I put that little pot on there, I put a bunch of water in, I put a thing of peas in there, turn it on high And it's going um and I watch it. And I watch pot never. So then I get distracted. I go over and check Facebook or something. I go do something. I get this, go do that. And inevitably, I mean every stinking time. What happens? Ah, I'm in the other room. I go under boy. That's the idea of this word abundant. Mercy that just pours over. Turn with me, if you would, real quickly, to Psalms chapter number 136. He's telling them they're under persecution. He says, listen, don't you you keep your eyes on the Lord. Blessed be the God and Father. You have blessings of knowing the Lord. Listen, God's shown abundant mercy. Don't you get discouraged. Don't you get Don't you quit. Look at Psalms 136. Did you ever read through the book of Psalms and come to this one? Psalms 136, look what it says. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for what? Look at verse two. Oh give thanks unto the God of gods for what? Look at the last part of verse three. Mercy endourds. Look at the last part of verse four. Say it. Look at the last part of verse five. Six. Seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirty, forty, fifty, all the way through for twenty-six verses, he says over and over and over, His mercy endures forever, His mercy endureth forever, His mercy endures forever. What in the world is the psalmist saying? He's saying God's mercy is abundant. You and I can't outsend his mercy. You and I can't escape the mercy of God. It is abundant. I put this down. In a merciless world We can bless and praise God because we have a relationship with a creator that is abundantly kind to us. We have a creator that is abundantly compassionate to us, that is abundantly pitiful to us. Say, nobody cares about me. That's a lie. There's a God in heaven who cares deeply for you. Say, oh no, I I just wish somebody would pity me. I tell you what, we have a creator that pities us. And he doesn't just pity us, but he comes down, he helps us. He says they have the abundant mercy of the Lord. We don't deserve it. We live in a world that opposes our Lord and Savior and is merciless, but we have a Savior that is abundant. Let me finish up real quick, last part of verse 3. Ah, they have the blessings of a relationship with the Lord. They have abundant mercy, and I'll end with this. They have a bold hope in the Lord. Look again at verse 3. Who hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. That word begotten. That is a term unique to Christianity. It means to be born. Who has made us born again? Bible talks about growing as a Christian. The Bible talks about gaining knowledge, Proverbs being disciplined and getting training. But all that begins with the new birth. Every aspect of the Christian life begins with the new birth. Nobody can experience the blessings of God until they're born again. I should say the blessings of the Christian life until they're born again. Nobody. That's where it all begins. You can read your Bible, you can go to church, you can get baptized. You can memorize verses, you can give out gospel tracts, you can do all kinds of religious quote-unquote stuff, but until a person is born again, they are lost They're outside the family of God, and if they die in that condition, they're separated from God for all eternity. And he's reminding these dear folks. Listen, you've been born again into the family of God. God's given you a new life. And he says they've been born into a lively hope. It's not a living hope, it's a lively hope. There's a difference. What does it mean to have a lively hope? Uh if somebody's uh can I get one of you guys to come up here? Xander, would you come up here and uh Aiden, you come on up here. I'm gonna alright. Xander, you're always the bad guy. And um I'm gonna make you the good guy this time. Stay right there. You go over there, Aiden. Alright. Are these guys alive? No trick question. Are they alive or are they dead? They're alive. Praise the Lord for that. That's good, huh? He was crawling under my crawlspace this week helping repair our bathroom he's working on He's got he's still got a spider there, isn't it? Alright, you're like but just be real dull and not mad, just dull and boring and Yeah. Right, perfect. Alright, he's alive, right? He is gonna be lively. Come on, be lively, happy, full of energy. You're doing terrible. You're a better bad guy than a new one. Alright, so he says we're given we're born again unto a lively hope. And some of the modern Bibles translate it living hope. That's a wrong translation. That is not right. It's a lively hope. Oh, here's Aiden. He's alive. Oh, he's got hope. Yeah, you do. Oh, he's saved and he's got hope he's going to heaven and and yeah I'm going to heaven. Yeah I'm a Christian. Yeah, God's good to me. I'm saying it, you just act it Here, this guy has lively hope. Woo! I'm safe! And uh and he's bouncing. He's like Tigger. And um I don't know if that illustrated what I'm trying to say, but he says, listen, as a believer, you and I when we're born again We have hope. And by that that word hope there doesn't mean, oh I hope so. It means I'm I'm that I'm confident, I'm sure. But it's not just a hope that's like and this is the way a lot of Christians are. This is the way I thought all Christians were before I got saved. Yeah, I'm saved. Oh boy. I have the joy, joy, joy, joy. He goes, no, that's not the way a Christian lives. We're born again. We have a relationship with God the Father. He's blessed us. He's shown us so much mercy. The way some Christians look and act and talk, the way they the attitude some Christians have, I don't blame the lost for not wanting to get saved. Here these new believers are. They're being persecuted. They've lost their family. Some of them have been are are beat up and bloody. Some have been killed. Some are in prison. And they're fleeing for their lives and all through the Asia Minor there just trying to get away from all the hatred and the violence that's being poured on them because of their faith in Christ. And Peter writes to them and says, listen You've been born again. God has you a hope that not just endures this, but is victorious in it. A lively hope. A lively hope. A hope that has life, a hope that has enthusiasm, a hope that has zeal, a hope that is dynamic, a hope that is zealously competent. You know who I thought of? Frederick Kearney. How many people about jumped out of your shoes when he started preaching Sunday, Wednesday night? He got up here, Woo! I said, good night. That guy's excited. And Peter's writing to these new believers say, you need some enthusiasm. Don't let this persecution get you down. Living hope endures persecution, lively hope thrives in persecution. Paul and Silas, and there's believers in Acts. They were persecuted so intensely, but they didn't just endure it. They rejoiced in God through all of it. They sang praises and prayed, and the prisoners saw them And it had an impact. And the prison guard, the prison warden called on the Lord and trusted him as his Savior. The basis of this hope is the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The resurrection is not just an Easter theme, but it is the very core of victorious Christian living. That was the theme through the book of Acts, all their preaching. Jesus Christ is alive. Jesus Christ is alive Came back from the dead, you can kill us, you can imprison us, you can beat us, you can shame us, you can try and shut us up, but we're not Because we live, serve a Savior who is alive. And I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ is just alive today as he was in the book of Acts. Time tends to destroy most hope, but when our hope is in Christ, that hope never dies because Christ rose again to never die again. I love the song. It goes, how sweet to hold a newborn baby and feel the pride and joy that he gives. But oh greater still the calm assurance we can face on certain days because he lives. And because he lives, I can face tomorrow. Because he lives, all fear is gone. Because I know he holds the future, and life is worth the living, just because he lives. I don't know what we're going through. I don't know what you're facing. We're not anything close to what these dear people were. I know this. We have a living Savior that loves us dearly. We keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ and not let the circumstances get us down. We can rejoice and sing even in the most difficult of times I don't know if this made sense. I don't know if this connected with you or not, but I know this. We serve a risen Savior. And we can come to him and trust him. If you're here, you never trusted Christ as Savior. God wants you to know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that you have a home in heaven when you die. He wants to take away sin. He wants to take away those things that are destroying us and separate us from them. If we'll simply accept Jesus Christ our personal Savior, He'll forgive us, He'll take those things away, and I can have a relationship. With the God that created me, the God that loves me. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd take these stumbling words tonight. I pray that maybe you'd speak to some hearts. Maybe there's somebody that's gone through it a bit. Somebody's giving them a hard time because of their faith. Maybe there's, I don't know. But I pray you'd help us get our eyes off of ourselves and off of our circumstances and focus on you and trust you And go forward in faith. Lord, if there's some here tonight that have never been saved, that are still in their sins, I pray you'd save them tonight, oh God. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many Christians here tonight? You're saved, you know you're saved, you'd say, Preacher, I gotta get my eyes off of the circumstances I'm in. I've gotta get my eyes off of the situation I'm in. I need to get them back on the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I keep looking at the circumstance around me. I need to get them on the Lord. God bless you. God bless you all around. How many folks here tonight say, preacher, I know someone that's going through it? I mean they're going through it. And you'd say, preacher, pray that God will help me be a blessing to them. An encouragement to them like Peter was to these believers. You'd say, Preacher, I know someone there they're on my heart and mind. They're going through anything like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. Let's ask God to use us and help us, be encouragement to them Does anyone here say tonight, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven? I don't want to go to hell. I want to know God's forgiven me. I want to know God's saved me from hell. Give me a good new life. You'd say, preacher, pray for me that God would help me settle that. Is there any like that this evening? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to die my sins. I want to know God's forgiven me. I want Him to save me. Any at all? Any at all Now, Father, I ask you bless our invitation. Pray you'd help us to respond in faith. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed. Eyes are closed.