How many people read that and say, What in the world is he talking about? We'll try and find out here in a minute. Look at verse 20. Curse not the king, no, not in thy thought, and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber. For a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter. I've entitled the message A Little Bird Told Me. How many people ever heard that statement? A little bird told me. How'd you find out? Oh, a little bird told me. That's where this comes from, this uh passage right here. Let's pray. Father, I pray you'd speak to our hearts tonight. And uh take these two verses and the and the the context here and pray you'd challenge us and help us. Father, I understand God, you are you are sovereign, you are in charge, you are you uh things don't happen by accident. So Lord I believe that uh this passage you have us consider it tonight for its purpose Perhaps something this week that it will relate to, something you know is in our future. So help us, Lord, to grasp this and understand what's being said And trust you to use us, Lord, and direct us. So fill me with your spirit is my continual prayer, Lord And speak through me, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. How many people ever heard this? By the skin of your teeth. Anybody ever hear that? Do you know that's from Job chapter number 19 verse 20? What does it mean if you if there's somebody says uh uh that uh they they use that term, skinnier teeth, what does that mean? I want group participation tonight. Oh, just barely made it. Just the skin on your teeth. Think how thin that is. And just barely got it. How about this one? The blind leading the blind. We use that sometimes. That's uh Jesus referenced that in Matthew 15 and Luke chapter 6. How many people ever said this? These kids, I am at my wit's end. Anybody ever say that? I am at my wit's end. That is actually from Psalms 107, verse 27, is where that statement comes from. This one you're probably familiar. Anybody ever hear say somebody say this, the writing on the wall? Ever hear that? Sometimes you'll see that in the news. What does that mean? You can see what's going to happen You can see that's the writing on the wall. You know exactly what's going to happen. That's from where? Daniel. Uh how about this one? Sour grapes. Anybody ever hear that? Uh it's just sour grapes. That's actually from Ezekiel 18, too. Bite the dust. Anybody ever hear that? Boy, he bit the dust. That's from Psalm 72, verse 9. And so it's interesting, so many things in our society and in our world are referenced back to the Bible And the statement, a little bird told me, we get from verse number 20. The context here, as I was saying, I believe goes back to verse 16. I was initially looking at these two verses as a separate subject. But I think, after I, as I said, after I got looking at it, I believe they tie in here. And if you'll remember, verse 16, 17, and 18, when we study that, he's talking about incompetent leadership. Look up there at 16. He says, Woe unto thee, O land. When thy king is a what? A child? An immature incompetent leadership Has anybody ever seen some immature, incompetent leadership in any positions ever in your life? Yeah, watch the news. And then he comes down here, and I believe what he's doing, he's carrying it over. Verse 16, 17, 18, we have an incompetent leadership, and I think what he's addressing here is corrupt leadership. Corrupt leadership, and I want to explain how I came to that conclusion here. My first point is this: corrupt leadership, first of all, is extravagant. Extravagant. I got looking at verse verse 19 and I'll be honest with you, I did not understand what he was talking about. I started looking it up and look at the words, how they're used, how they're used other places And I believe he's talking about corrupt leadership that is just living high on the hog. Look what he says here. He says, a feast is made for bread. Now before I get at that, what when we're talking about corrupt leadership, if somebody says that guy is corrupt, what do we mean by that? Talk to me tonight. Come on. He's corrupt. It means he's a crook. In what way? Well how what would make a person corrupt? They would be what? They would be what? I hear they would be dishonest. I'm looking for that. I don't hear you until you say what I want to you say, and then I hear you. They're dishonest. How about this? They have a serious flaw in their character. By the way, a dishonest person has serious flaws in their character They would have a serious flaw in a character. They're dishonest. I think somebody may have said this. They lack morals. It would be an immoral person. They're corrupt. They lack integrity Corrupt person would not be somebody of integrity. And so here we have, I believe, corrupt leadership or corrupt rulers, actually in the context here. And I think they're characterized by two things. primarily uh would characterize a corrupt leader, a political leader, a business leader, two things. One it would be bribery, where you could buy them off. They make some money off all right. Uh when we were in um in our adopted country, um we were there and one of our men I I won't say who he was, but he's retired from the army, um, got pulled over. And the policeman, a Kazakh a Kazakh policeman had him up in the car and I tell you what, he might not admit it. He was scared to death. I'll tell you that right now. And um he kept saying American, American, and he was wanting to get him to pay him off uh to give him so much money. And he asked them through somehow he communicated that a how much money he had. And um, you know, he had to show him and boy he wanted all the money he had or he was going to take him to jail I guess. I don't know Uh somehow he got out of that. But um uh but corrupt corruption, a corrupt leader, corrupt person would look for a bribery or extortion. Uh they would embezzle money And so they're living an extravagant lifestyle. A corrupt leader, corrupt businessman, or somebody like that would be living an extravagant lifestyle at the expense of the people they're responsible for. How many people know what I'm talking about when I mention a third world country? You know what we mean by that? It's usually pretty impoverished. Pretty set back. But if you'll notice in a third world country, a lot of times the leadership lives pretty good. Do you ever notice that? I saw an article just recently, I think it was Cuba. And you know, Cuba isn't the most wealthiest country in the world, but the leadership was living in these extravagant homes and living very, very wealthy lifestyles. I think it was true down in Venezuela, uh, at one point. And that's pretty characteristic of corrupt leadership uh third world countries. By the way, we saw that those are around back in the 1980s in the religious world. Anybody remember the the PTL Club? Anybody remember that thing? And the corruption that was going on in the leadership there and having uh dog houses with air conditioning and they're getting money from old ladies and You know, poor people, send in your money, send in your money, send in your money. And here they're living this extravagant lifestyle. And uh we still see that a little bit today So I think that's what he's referencing. Now, this is how I come to this conclusion. Now, let's look at verse 19. He said a feast is made for laughter. I put this down. That is corruption in indulgence. They are just indulging. That's how I come to this conclusion. I looked up the word feast. It's used too, it's translated 277 times in the Bible. in different ways. Um every just about every single time it is translated bread One instance right here, it's translated feast. Feast. And so while I'm looking at this, it has the idea of bread or a meal. But in an extravagant way. And what he's saying here is, I believe this, Solomon is saying that these corrupt leaders are having these uh indulgent meals. They have these extravagant parties. They just have a huge spread out there. And it's not because they're hungry. They're not eating because they're hungry. They're not eating because um, you know, it's time to have a meal. They it is an indulgence on their part. And so the first thing I noticed they have this feast for laughter. A feast is made for laughter. That's indulgence. Then he says this. And wine maketh merry. I put this down, intoxication. They're just getting drunk, and they're not happy unless they're intoxicated. Now I'm tempted to stop there when I was preparing and just talk about that for a while, but I tell you, there is something seriously wrong. with somebody, there's something seriously missing from a person's heart and life if they cannot be happy without some sort of intoxication. Now think about that. I am so glad what God delivered me from. I praise him every day What God delivered me from. And I found out that in Christ, I don't need any artificial intoxication to be happy and enjoy my life. And if I need that, if somebody needs that and they have to go to that or they have to some have some sort of stimulation in some way or another to have any sort of pleasure or any sort of uh happiness or fulfillment and joy in their life, then that tells me this there is something seriously lacking in the heart and soul of that person. And so they're looking to and the and uh what he's referencing here is they're looking to wine to find any purpose in life. They're looking to wine to find fulfillment and joy And anything to rejoice in. As a Christian, we can be sober and rejoice. How many people are glad for that? How many people are glad you didn't have to go get drunk last night to be happy Praise the Lord for that. And so these corrupt leaders, they're having these extravagant feasts, they're not happy unless they're drinking and drunk. And then he uses this last statement here. He says, But money answereth all things. And I put this down just to kind of maintain my alliteration here. Ignorance They're indulgent. Boy, they have these great feasts, living it up. Uh they're intoxicated. They're not happy unless they're drunk. And then money answereth all things. I put ignorant, and this is why I put ignorant down, is they believe that money is the solution to all problems. Money is the solution. We live in a world that believes that. We live in a nation that believes if you just throw more money at it, that will solve the problem. If we have a bigger, and even Christians, if we're not careful, we'll fall into this. If I had a bigger house, then I'd be happier. If I had a newer car, a fancier car, boy, then I'd be happy. If I had a if I had more cash in my wallet, boy, then I'd be happy. Um listen, uh, you know, we're grateful for God's blessings and we work hard and we want to, you know, accumulate wealth if we can and use it for God's glory. But if we're dependent upon that, we think that's going to solve all our problems. If we get more money and a bigger this and more of that, um we are ignorant in that thinking. And so the implication here is their indulgence, they're indulging themselves in their meals, in their drunkenness, and their finances, and they're doing all of that at the expense of the people who are supporting them. I think you found this to be true. I think you understand this. It is very easy for a corrupt person to be loose with other people's money. We see that in politics, don't we? But it's just they've got that income. That taxes are coming in regardless of how they spend it. And uh it's very easy to be loose with other people's money. And a corrupt leader is someone who is very loose with the other people's money that are supporting them. And so I think that's what he's talking about in verse 19. Then we get to verse number 20. I put this down. Corrupt leaders, first of all, are extravagant. Then I put this down: corrupt leaders are exasperating. What does it mean if somebody is exasperated? Alright, frustration is a part of it, but it's more than being frustrated. You can be frustrated and not be exasperated. Anybody want to take this? You're this is like English class. You're learning all these new big words. By the way, I had to look it up. What a minute. Uh exasperated. Ah you pull your hair out. You can tell I've been exasperated on the case in my life. It has this idea to be exasperated means this. To be extremely annoyed Uh to be irritated, I I thought this definition was interesting, to be irritated to the point of malice I am so i i it's expressed this way. Oh I just wanted to choke him. Anybody ever say that? Think that way? Oh, I could beat him over the head with a stick. I'm so frustrated. How many people ever said that? Oh, you're not gonna admit it, huh? Yeah, okay. How many people ever thought that? Yeah, cowards. It means extreme frustration. Now notice the cause of their frustration. He says, Curse not the king, know not in thy thought, and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber. The cause of their frustration, you notice he references the king and the rich The king and the rich. Two categories. Now I may be wrong on this, but I think two categories of people where you find the mo where corruption is the most frustrating Now, corruption is in all societies, right? There are corrupt rich people, there are corrupt poor people. Right or wrong? Well, the more you talk to me, the quicker I'll go I mean there's corruption in all societies. Atheists, there's corrupt atheists. Did you know that? There's corrupt religious people. There's corrupt politicians. There's corrupt uh thieves. I guess they would the fact they're a thief, they would be corrupt So corruption is through all societies, but this is what I'm trying to get at. If a poor person is stealing You kind of think, well, in in fact Proverbs even references, if he steals to satisfy his soul, defeat him, you know, then you know he can pay you back and make it right. When a poor person or someone like that is dishonest, maybe, or corrupt, you think, well, you know, their situation may have driven to that. But when a politician is corrupt Or when a very wealthy person is corrupt, that is extremely frustrating. And I think for two reasons. Number one, they're already well off Right? They're they're already very well off. A rich person to be corrupt and embezzle money and and you know and be dishonest and all that, why would they do that? It's so frustrating. You already have a bunch more than I do I tell you, I get so aggravated, I get I get exasperated. But maybe you do too. But when you watch the news and you see this waste of money in the government And we're working our tails off to try and pay m pay our taxes and try and get boy, get a little behind. They are all over you And then you look and you're spending they're spending a half a million dollars for a party or something. You follow what I'm saying? And that is so frustrating because they're all they're already wealthy And you and you hear um uh you know big businesses and and and these great m uh wealthy people and when you hear of corruption and that it's just so frustrating 'Cause you've already very, very wealthy. Now not all politicians are corrupt, and uh that's true. And not all wealthy people are corrupt. I'd say it's probably a minority. A lot of wealthy people worked hard and and you know and they earned it But when you see that in that in those areas, it is especially frustrating because they already have it. And it's especially frustrating for a second reason, I believe, and that is this, because you can't hardly do anything about it You know, the government is investigating each other for years and years and years and years and years and nothing nothing's ever done. Um, you know, wealthy people, and they they're corrupt, they do something wrong, and and they're able to get out of it somehow. It's just like it's so frustrating, you can't do anything. These people are ripping us off, we can't do anything about it And that makes it so frustrating. And particularly those two characteristic two categories of people. The cause of their frustration is rich and rulers that are dishonest. And then notice he gives us a caution. Curse not the king, know not in thy thought, verse 20, curse not the rich in thy bedchamber. Then here's the caution: don't curse them. For a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter Initial reaction is, now maybe you're different than I am, and I don't do this, but this is the instinctive reaction, is I see some corruption in some area like I described, and one of the first things is I want to curse them. You say, oh preacher, you don't curse them. Well I don't money I don't use bad words. At least not out no, I don't. But the word curse there has this idea. It means to speak dishonorably of them. Or to use words that bring them down, say bad things about them How many people how many how many people ever did this? And I'm I think I've just confessed it. How many people ever did this? You saw some corruption on the news in some government or something, and uh and and you s and you without thinking you said something like this. What a crook. Amen. Oh, what an idiot. That's the n the term used here, that's what we're doing. We're cursing them. We're saying disp we're saying uh negative things about saying critical things that we're we're saying that. And he cautions us not to do that. Don't don't speak dishonorably of them and and talk them down. And he tells us two areas we should not do that. No, not in thy thought. In other words, in your thoughts, how many times are we guilty of this? There used to be a cartoon. I don't remember what it was. It was an old guy. And uh he was like a hillbelly. And um he'd always go around muttering. Anybody remember that? Maybe I dreamed it one time. And he'd walk around and he was always griping and complaining. He never really said anything, but in his mind he was just complaining and criticizing. Anybody do that? I feel like I'm out on a limb here a little bit. But something happens and man, you just start hashing that over in your mind. He says, Don't do that in your thoughts. Don't think that way. And then he says there, he says, um uh curse not in your only in your thoughts, but in privacy And curse not the rich in thy bedchamber. Privacy, there where nobody else will hear you, maybe you and your spouse. Or maybe somebody, you know, just uh uh you're in the back and you're private and say, man, these guys and talking about it and say these terrible things about them. And the reason he cautions that is these things have a way of getting back. to the people we're talking about. Now I'm not going to raise your hand, but I wonder how many times, and this has happened to me, I hate to admit it, I wonder how many times we said something critical or negative about somebody and somehow it got back to them. And I'm telling you, it it you feel terrible. And you feel like a heel. I was reading about Zig Ziggler. Anybody recognize that name? Motivational speaker. He wrote a lot of books years ago. He's a pretty good guy. I believe he's a Christian. And uh he said he was golfing with a business fellow and uh the guy was huge. And he said he had a real unusual way and uh You know, he got up there and he did all this gyration stuff with his golf club and he s and uh while he was doing that, Zig Ziglar was standing off on the side watching him and he said to his buddy beside him He goes, this guy couldn't golf his way out of a paper bag. And the guy smacked the ball, and lo and behold, it landed right on the green. I mean, it was like a perfect shot. And when the guy came back and put his golf club down in the uh the bag, he looked at Zig Ziegler and he said, I heard what you said. And he said, I felt like two cents. He said, I want to crawl under a rock. I felt so bad. Here's this business guy, and I'm trying to be respectful, and I said something stupid, never thinking he'd hear me. And he said, I just just felt like a total heel. And then the guy went on and said this, I heard what you said last year at the conference when you spoke And I tell you, it was such a blessing to me, and it really helped me. So we had to be very, very careful. What we say. Now this I was trying to think, alright, how does this apply to you and I? I think that's what these verses are talking about. I thought, alright, how does this apply to me? How does this apply to us And I think what it is, if anything, we'd take this away, we need to be very, very careful what we say, how we think and what we say. Because things have a way of getting out that we would never dream and we would never imagine. I thought about Jonah How did Jonah Jonah would have never thought in a thousand years that he would get exposed by a couple sailors throwing casting lots? And that's what exposed this sin. Who would have ever dreamed that? And I tell you, things get found out. Things we say We think nobody knows it gets found out. When I was youth pastor, in fact it's happened several times since I've been pastor here. When I was youth pastor, I used to find notes That the kids would write and they'd somehow fall out of their Bible or their pocket and after his uh activity is over I'd go through and there's these little notes left behind and I learned so many things about those teens. Now you're laughing. I found some notes in the pews here. I learned a lot about husbands and wives in notes I've found. Kathy's mom used to tell her, my mother-in-law told Kathy when she was young, she said this, if you don't want anybody to know what said, don't write it down. Said don't write it on paper. It'll get caught. Hey, can I suggest this? If you don't want if you don't want uh people to know what you said, don't send it on Facebook. Don't send it texting and messaging and all of that. I'll tell you what, that has ways of getting out. How many people put stuff on a computer and then oh no and they take it off but it's too late. It's out there. We have to be very, very careful. And I came to this conclusion. If you don't want anybody to know what you said, the best thing to do Is what? Don't say it. Cause a little bird has a way of getting things out there Don't write down if you don't want it to get out. Don't say it if you don't want it to get out. I have an assignment for us this week. That's my message. Ed The night Edness is the night we have a short message. Don't tell them. Here's the assignment. I would like for us all to work at memorizing James chapter 1 and verse 5. Would you try and memorize that this week? I know we got our regular memory verse. James 1 and verse 5, it says this. If any of you lack wisdom, Let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally and abradeth not, and it shall be given unto him. We need wisdom, don't we? There's a lot of corruption in the world. There's corruption in every strata of society. And we need wisdom to react to that in a right way. How many folks are going to try and memorize that verse? Really work on it. It's a good verse. I found the longer I'm in the ministry, the more I'm praying that, claiming that verse, asking God for wisdom, wisdom, wisdom. And as we go into a new work week, um Maybe we just want to kneel at an altar and say, Lord, give me wisdom this week and how I use my tongue, what I say, what not to say, and how I deal with things in life. Amen. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to take these simple little thoughts from a somewhat obscure passage in the Bible Probably few of any of us have ever given consideration to these verses, but I pray we take heed to the lesson taught here. Now we be careful of the things we say and uh how we say and what we say. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, I'm preacher, I'm going to ask God for wisdom and the use of my tongue. And my dealing with with things in life. Anything like that, I'm going to ask God for wisdom. Sure, all of us would do that. Father, bless our invitation now and prepare us tonight. for this coming week to serve you and witness for you and live for you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation