Romans chapter twelve, verse number one. Romans twelve, verse one. I'd like for us to read verse one together. Romans chapter twelve, verse one. Everybody have it there all together. Read it with me. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice. holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. I want to speak this morning on a living sacrifice. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, We bow before you this morning with very grateful hearts. Lord, the music this morning has especially blessed my heart and encouraged me, and I thank you for it, for the folks that have sung and provided the music. And uh Lord for your Holy Spirit uh speaking in my heart through it and helping me. I thank you, Lord, for the folks that we've been able to fellowship and chat a little bit with and laugh and joke around a little. And now, Lord, as we have our Bibles open before us, we are asking that you, through your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, would speak to each and every one of our hearts. Lord, I believe this is a significant passage uh as all of scripture is, but especially so here. And I pray that you would apply this verse here to each of our lives, and that those of us that know you as Savior, we really would be, in every sense of the word, a living sacrifice for your glory And I pray, Lord, by chance any that would not know you as Savior do not have the assurance of sins forgiven at home in heaven. I pray your spirit would pierce that heart and prick that heart That they would believe and be born again. God forbid that anybody under the sound of the Word of God this morning would uh walk away unsaved And so we're asking you to help. Lord, I present my body anew to you. I yield my will to yours and with all my heart I pray, Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I like the book of Romans. It's a very significant book in all of Scripture, as all of Scriptures. I've often thought Uh if I got stranded on an island and could all have only one book, I would like a book on how to make boats to get off the island. But if I could have that, I would like to have I could only have one book of the Bible, is what I'm getting at. If I could only have one book of the Bible, I think I would want the book of Romans. I think I would want the book of Romans. And I think it's significant in our fingerprint scripture assembly ministry that we assemble the book of Romans. And put it in people's hands. The Book of Romans is a tremendous book in the Bible. Of course, the author of the book of Romans is who? God is the author of all of Scripture. And so God is the author of Romans, but it's very clear that God used the Apostle Paul to pen the book of Romans. Paul is the penman. It was written to the church that was at Rome, and that church there in Rome was consisted of both Gentile and Jewish believers. And we see that through the book. Paul addresses both groups that were within the church there. I think the book of Romans has one of the most thorough Teachings or explanations of the gospel in all of literature. In fact, in all of Scripture, you're not going to find a more thorough doctrinal explanation of how to be saved, of what the gospel is, then you find in the first 10, 11 chapters of the book of Romans. Tremendous book. The book of Romans, like most of Paul's writings in Scripture, most of the books that we have, of course, were letters written by Paul to local churches. Um and he had a distinctive style. I'll just try to give some background to the book here. He had a very distinctive style. Paul would, the first section of nearly every one of his letters, he would address doctrinal issues. They were very doctrinal, very teaching. on various important doctrines from Scripture. Then the second section of his writings, he would deal with practical living. And how to live out those truths, how those truths should affect our lives. And that's true here in the book of Romans. In fact, Romans chapter twelve Verse 1 and 2 is the division part, I believe, in these two sections. Chapters 1 through 11 is very, very doctrinal, very uh particularly the gospel, doctrinal teaching. Then chapter 12 on to the end, then it's more practical, and how do you live out those those teachings? Now I think there's a principle behind that. So uh if I can have everybody's attention, I think there's a principle behind that. And this is important for all of us. And that is this Biblical Christianity must have two important ingredients for it to be biblical. First of all, there must be doctrine There must be doctrine. What does the Bible teach? The word doctrine means teaching. What does the Bible teach about God? What does the Bible teach about life? What does the Bible teach about our spirit, the spirit world? What does the Bible teach about after death, heaven and hell? And so doctrine is vitally important in the life of a Christian and in the well-being of a church. Every church ought to teach and preach Bible doctrine. Now that's a vital ingredient in biblical Christianity. There's another vital ingredient in biblical Christianity, and that is this, practical living. How to live my life? What does God expect from me? How am I to behave in this world? How were we designed to live? And then live that way. And so, doctrine and practical living. Doctrine is not an end in and of itself. We don't learn facts about God just so that we know facts about God. Everybody understand that? We don't study what the Bible teaches about prophecy and the second coming. just so we can be eggheads and know all about prophecy and the second coming. There is to be a practical side of that. How does that affect my life So doctrine and practical living. Doctrine is not an end in itself, and my practical living must be governed by my doctrine. How I live my life needs to be governed by what is true about God and about life and about what the Bible says is right and wrong. How many people are following what I'm saying here? Are you with me? There needs to be clear doctrinal teaching, what the Bible teaches about these various subjects, and then there needs to be a practical living out. How those doctrines affect my life must be lived out. Neither one of those is an end in and of themselves. There's churches and Christians that have the practical end down. They're trying to live out practical Christianity, but they push doctrine aside. And what happens there is they tend to become very socialistic in a lot of ways. They tend to put aside the message of heaven and hell. They tend to be very temporal here and there, and they get practical and doing all that, but they f but they fail on the the truth and reality of what goes on in the world I I'm thinking of a church in particular uh years ago I knew of that um was very, very doctrinal. Man, they were straight as an arrow. They had their doctrines down. You couldn't find one They were, as far as doctrine was concerned, they were squeaky clean. They absolutely had it right. But nobody was living for the Lord. Cold and dead and No souls, not witnessing, no joy of the Lord there. Doctrine, but no practical living. And then some you have all this practical, do this, do that, do that, but it's not grounded in doctrine And so, Paul, in nearly all of his writings, you're going to find doctrine, practical living. Doctrine, practical living. This is the idea because of what the Bible teaches about God's holiness. Therefore, that's going to affect how I live my life. In fact, there's a verse Peter says, Be ye therefore holy, for he is holy. And so there's a basis for why we do that. The doctrine of the deity of Christ affects how I live my life, should affect me. The doctrine of the love of God Should affect how I love others. The doctrine of heaven and hell should be governed how I live my life. Listen, the Bible clearly teaches there's a place called heaven, there's a place called hell. The Bible clearly teaches that of if a person dies in their sins, unsaved, unforgiven, they die in their sins without Christ That person is separated for all eternity from God in a place called hell, eventually a lake of fire, no escape. How many people agree with me? The reality of hell ought to affect how we live our lives. Sure. The reality of heaven. Knowing that that's true, that I can be saved. I can have my sins forgiven. I can have a home in heaven, be with the Lord for all eternity. I don't have to go to hell That ought to affect the way I approach Christ and the way I I look at life. And so doctrine and practical living. Doctrine and practical living. The doctrine of Jesus is coming back again someday Very clear teaching in Scripture. Jesus is coming back. And that ought to affect my life. I ought to live every day in light of the fact that Jesus Christ might come back today. I wonder how many of us, now let me just throw this out there, I wonder how many of us, if we knew for certain, absolutely no doubt we knew absolutely for certain, Jesus is coming back at 3. 29 this afternoon. I wonder how many of us could go home and do some things differently, uh change our schedules a little bit if we knew for sure he was coming back there. How many people think we'd probably adjust some things if we knew that for sure? Let me ask you this, how do you know he isn't? Doctrine is designed to affect our living. And we see that all through, as I said, all through Paul's writings. He has doctrine, and then he says, look at verse Uh look at verse uh chapter twelve verse number one he says I beseech you what's that third word? Therefore We're going to look at that here in a minute. So our doctrine is the basis of our duties. Our creed is the basis of our conduct. Now we come to chapter 12, verse 1 and 2. This is introducing the practical section of the book of Romans. We're going to focus this morning on verse number one, particularly that phrase A living sacrifice. A living sacrifice. Here's my first thought for this morning. Number one, I want us to notice the plea For a living sacrifice, the plea. Just mention it, but let's look at it again here. Verse number one, chapter 12. I, what's that second word? Beseech you, therefore, brethren I beseech you. And people agree with me. God is the final authority. Period. You agree with that? God's the final authority. Nobody has more authority than God. He is King of kings, He is Lord of Lords. He is sovereign God of all the universe. He is the ultimate authority. And as God, with absolute authority, he has every right, he has the absolute authority to command us what to do and not to do. Do you agree with that? God has every right, stepped to Dennis Leatherman and said, Dennis Leatherman, I command you to do this. Total authority. I could not argue with that. I could not back off of that. I would have to accept. He has authority to command me as God. God has all authority to make demands of us. He is the supreme authority. And with that in mind, I find it interesting what he says here. He doesn't say, I command you. He doesn't say, I demand of you. He says, what? I beseech you. He pleads with us. God Almighty, through the writings of the Apostle Paul, comes to you and I, and he says, I am asking this of you. I am making this request. I am pleading with you to do this. I got studying that. I got thinking about that. That boggles my mind. That God, God would make a request of me Now, all through scripture, we do it all the time. We make requests of God. We ask God, God, I'm pleading with you. God, I'm asking you How many people already today ask God to do something for you? Anybody here already today? I asked God, sure I did, many times throughout the morning. We ask God. Here it's reversed. God Is coming to you and I and saying, I'm beseeching you. I'm beseeching you. That tells me this: this matter of a living sacrifice is something that I voluntarily do. It's my choice, my decision. I can present my body as a living sacrifice, or I can withhold it. I can fulfill God's request, or I can deny God's request. He gives me that option. And so this plea is an amazing thing. I want you to notice the intensity of this plea. He uses an interesting word here to make this request. He doesn't say I ask of you. He doesn't say I request of you. He uses a very strong word. It is the word I beseech you. It is the same word that is used in the Gospels when you have a leper is eaten up with leprosy, he's going to die a horrible death And if you study what leprosy is, we don't have it much, at least in our our nation, and other parts of the world they have it a good bit, but leprosy is a horrific, horrific disease For parts of your body die and break just break off ears and fingers, and it's a horrific disease And on occasion you have where Jesus Christ comes in the proximity of a leper and they find out Jesus is there And they come and they beseech the Lord Jesus, falling down at his feet and begging Jesus, please have mercy on me. And make me well. There is an intensity to their request. There is an intensity to their plea. Desperation. Jesus, please make me well. I beseech you. That is the word that God is using For you and I to present ourselves as a living sacrifice. He is pleading with us, intensely pleading with us. I don't know about you, but that's an amazing word coming from God to you and I. Now, I I don't want to be irreverent here in any way, shape, or form, but if you study this. You get the picture of God falling down on his knees before us and pleading, I beseech you, I'm begging you. Present your bodies a living sacrifice. Now that's the concept behind this. Very, very strong word, amazing word. The intensity, I beseech you. So, how many folks here this morning? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. God is asking. No, let me scratch that. God is pleading intensely for you and I as believers to present our bodies to Him a living sacrifice. I beseech you. I beseech you. Pleading with you. Next thing I want us to notice is the motive behind this plea. Now, this is what I touched on a moment ago. He says, I beseech you, notice that next word, therefore. Now, as taught in Bible college, anytime you see the word therefore, you need to consider what it's there for. Therefore, I beseech you, therefore, because of all that was previously stated What is it that God wants me so desperately to do that He is pleading with me to do? He wants me to present my body, a living sacrifice. Why does He want me to do that? because of all the truth that he's already stated in the first chapters of the book of Romans. Now let me just throw this in. I think it's pretty clear chapter 9, 10, and 11 are a parentheses. In the book of Romans. And so this is my take on this as I study this. I believe that therefore comes back to the first eight chapters of the book of Romans. Because of what we are told, because of what is true and stated in the first eight chapters of the book of Romans, I am pleading with you, I am beseeching you. Present your body a living sacrifice. Now, what are we told in the first eight chapters of the book of Romans? Well, come with me if you would to chapter 5. He used the word therefore, because of what was previously stated. Now we could, I could give a very, very extensive list. I just want to pull a few out here. Romans chapter five, and look with me at verse number twenty-four. I'm sorry. In chapter three, verse number twenty four Listen, you all can sit there in a pew and turn to the wrong reference and nobody in the world knows it. I turn to the wrong reference and everybody knows it and you laugh at me. Romans 3 and verse 24. Now, why is God pleading with us, so intensely beseeching us to present our bodies a living sacrifice? Well, therefore, because of look at verse twenty-four of Romans three, it says, being justified freely by his what Grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Can I tell you one reason, one motive God has in beseeching us to present our bodies to living sacrifice? Because He saved us by His grace. Now, for an unsaved person, that might not mean much. Person that doesn't think about the value of their salvation, that might mean much. But I'll tell you, that is an amazing, amazing thing. That God Almighty, the holy, pure, blindingly holy God, would freely, graciously forgive my sin And give me eternal life. Give me a home in heaven. What an amazing thing. What an amazing thing. The word justified there means To simplify the definition, is just as if I never sinned. God looked down on May 7, 1979, a messed up, sinned, wretched, depraved teenage boy Who bowed his head by faith and accepted Jesus the Savior and God just freely, by his grace, says, I'll forgive Dennis. In fact, I'm going to view him and consider him as if he never sinned. Justified. I'm going to treat him that way. I'm going to view him that way. He's going to be have a relationship with me as if he never sinned once. I tell you what, to an old wretched sinner, that means something. That means something. He says, therefore, because You've been fully forgiven, fully saved, and justified just by grace of God, because I've done that for you. I beseech you. Present your body, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God. There's a motive behind this plea. Come with me over to chapter 8 and verse number 1. I mean we could just go through this is full of reasons. Full of reasons that would motivate God to plead us like with us like this. Look at chapter 1 and verse 8. There is therefore now no what? Condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. No condemnation. I'll tell you, he says, listen, I freely and completely forgive you. I'll treat you and uh and put you in a position as if you've never sinned. And you will not be brought under judgment for your sin. No condemnation. Ever at all. Not only does God save us by grace, but he keeps us saved. We're secure in Christ Listen, I cannot lose my salvation. There is no condemnation. I'm in Christ And God says, because of that, I'll save you, I'll forgive you, I'll secure you, I'll keep you saved. Therefore I beseech you, present your body a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God. Come with me to verse 28, Romans chapter 8. There it is, great verse. Great verse. Boy, if you don't if you're not familiar with this verse, you don't have it underscored in your Bible. This would be a good verse to memorize and highlight. Look what it says. And we know That all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. God says, listen, I'm not going to let anything come into your life as a believer That I cannot work some good out of that. God is in total control of my life. I am in the total protection of God. And he says, therefore, because of that. I'm beseeching you. I'm pleading with you intensely. Present your body, a living sacrifice. Let me give you one more. And again, we could look at so many. Look at the end of chapter 8, verse 35. Let me read these last several verses of 8, chapter 8, verse 35. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. For I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature Shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. He's saying, because my love for you is so intense, my love for you is unfailing, my love for you is unending. Therefore, I beseech you. Present your body as a living sacrifice. Do you ever think about this? There is nothing that I can say or do that would stop God from loving me. God that created this universe, this God of all power Loves me. Loves me. And he says nothing's going to separate that love. Hey Parents, you're making a terrible mistake if you say this to your kids. You better be good or Jesus won't love you. That's a lie of the devil. If that was true, Jesus wouldn't love anybody But he loves us. God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You say, oh how do you if uh if God loves me so much, why is why are so many things in my life messed up? If God loves me, why in the world do I have to deal with all this? I'm telling you what, you're missing the love of God You want us know you wanna you want to know whether God loves you or not? Look at the cross. God loved you and me enough to suffer hell for our sins, take responsibility for every filthy word we've ever said, for every lie we've ever told. For every impure thought we've ever thought. Jesus Christ said, I'll take responsibility for that. Judge me in their place. I'll suffer hell in their place. Because he loves us. And he says, that love, therefore, because the intensity and unending, enduring love of God for you and me, therefore, I beseech you. Present your bodies, a living sacrifice. So we have the intensity of this plea. I beseech you. The motive of this plea is all these truths we've been presented earlier in the book And then consider the objects of this plea. Who is he pleading with? Come back to chapter twelve. Look again at verse number one with me. I beseech you, I am begging you, pleading with you. Therefore, because of all that is true, what's the next word? Brethren. Who is he making this plea to? Who is he asking so intensely? To present their body, a living sacrifice. It's the brethren. Question, who's the brethren? Saved people. People that have trusted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Hey, listen carefully. He is not asking unsaved people to present their bodies living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto God. It's not who he's pleading with. You know what God's plea is to the unsaved? Come unto me, all you that labor and heavy laden, I'll give you rest. Call upon me. Whosoever call upon name, the Lord shall be saved. If you're here this morning and you don't have it settled in your heart and mind that when you die, you're going to heaven, not to hell. If you're still in your sins God is pleading. God is doing everything he can to get your attention and calling you Turn to Him and trust Him as your Savior and find full forgiveness and know for sure that when you die you go to heaven, not to hell. That's God's plea to the unsaved And by the way, if you study Revelation last chapter carefully, that's the church's plea to the unsaved also. Come, whosoever will, drink of the waters of life freely. God's calling you. God's pleading with you. Trust him. Trust him. Come to Christ. Accept him as your Savior. Don't go on in your sins. Don't risk dying, unforgiven, spending eternity in hell. Don't do it! God's pleading with the unsaved to trust Christ as Savior. It's the only way. Listen, you can't get saved by joining a Baptist church or any other church You'll never get saved in baptism waters. That will not do it. Only by accepting Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, will God forgive your sin, give you eternal life, guarantee you a home in heaven And secure you from ever going to hell. So this plea to present our bodies, a living sacrifice, is not to the unsaved, it's to the brethren. To those of us who have experienced salvation, those of us who have experienced the blessings of being a child of God Fullness of forgiveness, uh, a home in heaven, a new life here and now, the peace of God down in my heart, purpose and meaning and fulfillment in life, all that salvation does for me And God says to me, I'm beseeching you that have received this. You're the one I'm begging To present your body, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto the Lord. So the objects of the plea, the people who he's pleading with are saved people, you and I. I asked this a little bit ago. Let me ask again, how many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. Saved according to the Bible, sure, settled in your heart. The Holy Spirit, bearing witness in your heart, you're saved. God is, so to speak, on his knees beseeching you, beseeching me. Present our bodies to him, a living sacrifice. Holy, acceptable unto him. And then consider the basis of this plea. I beseech you, therefore, brethren. Look with the next statement. By the mercies of God. The mercies of God. The basis of this is God says, listen, all the mercy I've shown you. Now here's the question: what is mercy? We have a little simple definition we've used over the years here at Mountain Lake for grace and mercy. And it's a little simplistic, but I think it's accurate. Grace is God giving to me something that I do not deserve In fact, about everything I have is by God's grace. We understand that, right? Everything is God gives us what we do not deserve. That is grace. God giving me something I don't deserve it. But God gives it to me. Salvation is by grace. I don't deserve to be forgiven. I don't deserve to be a child of God. I don't deserve to be adopted into God's family. I don't deserve to be a, have a home in heaven. I don't deserve to be forgiven. I don't deserve any of that. Yet God freely offers and gives that to me Mercy, on the other hand, grace is being given something, receiving something I don't deserve Mercy, on the other hand, is having something withheld from me that I do deserve. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. What I've earned by sinning against God, what I deserve for taking God's name in vain, for lying. For uh stealing, for dishonoring my parents, for lusting. Will you name any of the commandments God is giving, any that I've broken, what I deserve What I've earned by sinning against God is death, separation from God for eternity in hell. That's what I've earned. That's what I deserve. And mercy is God saying, I'm going to withhold that condemnation. I am not going to pour on you the judgment that you deserve. I withhold that. Oh, I'm glad God's mercies are new every morning, aren't you? You say, Preacher, I know I'm saved, but man, I messed up yesterday. Can God ever have mercy on me? Oh, his mercies are new every morning. Ah, it's a new start. Praise the Lord. How many folks are glad God gives us a new start over and over and over? That's mercy. That's mercy. Mercy. And he says, the basis of you giving your life to me as a living sacrifice is the mercy I've shown, the mercies of God. The mercies of God. God has every right in the world. God has every right in the world to make this request of me Somebody says, who do you think you are, God, to ask me to give my life as a living sacrifice? What right do you have to make that request of me? I'm here to tell you, God has every right in the world to command us, but he doesn't. He requests us He requests us. He's been so good to us. I'm telling you, how many folks ever catch yourself complaining? I don't mean in the last ten minutes. I mean just in It's too cold. It's too hot. It's too much snow. Man, we didn't hardly get any snow. I can't wait for summer. Oh, I gotta cook grass I'm telling you, we got it pretty good. We got it pretty good. Does anybody here ever have somebody do something for you that was over the top? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Somebody was so good to you and did so and you say, man, why would you do this for me? This is over the top. And anybody down inside your heart, somebody did something for you, down inside your heart, you say, boy, you know, I owe them And I owe them. I'm telling you, we owe God big time And when he makes this intense plea, when he beseeches us to present our bodies to him, a living sacrifice, he has a solid basis for making that request. He's done an awful lot for us. He's been awfully good to us. So the first thing I noticed in this verse here is the plea for a living sacrifice. Then the next thing I notice real quickly is the presentation of this living sacrifice. Notice what he says. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies A living sacrifice. The presentation. Now what he's asking us to present is a living sacrifice What is a living sacrifice? What is he talking about? The word sacrifice is very common all through the Old Testament Uh well just finishing up the book of numbers in my personal daily Bible reading list. I think I read chapter thirty-three this morning. thirty through thirty-three, something like that. And man, sacrifice this, sacrifice, bring this sacrifice, bring this offering, sacrifice, sacrifice. Oh, here's a sacrifice, bring that sacrif Vicei, uh here's her sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice It's all through the Old Testament. So when he's writing to the church at Rome, and the Jews in the church particularly, he brought up that subject sacrifice. Bingo, they're connecting. Now, in the Old Testament, throughout the Old Testament, with very few exceptions, the sacrifices always involved violence Blood and death. If you saw a fella heading into to the temple mount, to the temple, and he's got a uh a lamb with him You know what he's going to do with that lamb, right? That lamb ain't coming back He is sacrificing that lamb. Its neck is going to be cut. There's going to be blood everywhere. There's going to be thrashing and wailing around. That thing's going to be cut up. It's going to be offered as a sacrifice Throughout the Old Testament, sacrifices nearly always involved the death. Of that which was being sacrificed. Violent! Bloody death. So the Jews understood when he said sacrifice, they understood a sacrifice That's the end of something. It goes to the temple, it ain't coming back. It's over for that one. You think of sacrifice, we think of the Lord Jesus Christ. He, on the cross, he died. A violent death, a bloody death for you and I. He suffered the judgment of our sins for us, and his body was broken, and the blood was shed. Of course, Jesus rose again. But when Paul, the inspiration of God, is writing to the believers and he says, I'm beseeching you, I'm pleading intensely with you to present your bodies A doesn't say a sacrifice, that would have meant the end, the death, it's over. But he says a living Sacrifice, a living sacrifice. What is he saying? He's saying, I'm asking you to present your bodies To present yourself, get this, to live for me. God's not asking us to die for him. He's asking us to live for him. Now, I'd like to believe I'd be willing to die for Christ. How many folks here would like to believe, how many folks here that are safe? You'd like to believe that if the government turn on us and they're going to execute Christians, how many of us would like to believe that my faith and commitment to Christ is strong enough that I would be willing to die for him? How many people would like to believe that's true? Now we don't know that. We've not had to face that. But I surely would like to think my faith is strong enough, my commitment is strong enough, I'd be willing to do that. But that's not what God's pleading with us to do. I'm not asking you. I'm not pleading with you to die for me. I'm pleading with you just to live for me. A living sacrifice, breathing, functioning, but a sacrifice unto the Lord. God's not pleading with us to die for him. He's pleading with us just to live for him. Notice this presentation that we present your bodies That word present there is again as a reference to an Old Testament sacrifice where the the the Israelite would bring uh the lamb or whatever it was he was offering, the ram or whatever And he would present that to the king. He would say, Here, this is my lamb, it's m- and I am presenting it to be sacrificed. I am presenting it, I'm giving it over. I'll never get it back. I'm giving it over permanently to be sacrificed to the Lord for my sins. And that's the idea that word presents. It is a It is a one-time, permanent decision made that I am giving my life over. I am presenting, I am giving my life The Lord Jesus Christ not to be mine ever again. My dreams, my plans, my hopes, my desires, every aspect of my being. Because of what God has done for me, I give it all over to the Lord. A permanent presentation of my life and who I am and what I am. I present it to the Lord. It's a permanent presentation. It's a practical presentation. I present your bodies. Now, why does he use the word bodies there? I think because our bodies is what we live our lives in. People are living your life in your body. I've had people say, preacher, and just recently I had a guy, preacher, I'm not going to be there Sunday, but I'll be with you in spirit. To be honest with you, I don't really want a whole lot of spirits floating around here. We don't want these pews filled with spirits, we want them filled with what? Bodies! What's he talking about? He says, well, I beseech it therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present One time, once for all, everything you are, your body, what you live your life on, your practical everyday living, what you see through, what you hear through, what you function with I want you to give your life, your everyday, practical living. Present it to me. A living sacrifice. Living for Him. Speaking for Him. It's a practical sacrifice. He's not asking us to present ourselves in theory But to present ourselves in everyday practical daily living. Beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies. A living sacrifice. Then he says it must be a pure presentation. Look again. Present your bodies a living sacrifice. Then he puts two can two qualifications here. Must be holy It must be acceptable. Again, the Jews understood that completely. The Old Testament That old Jewish fella, he did something, maybe he got mad at his neighbor and he took the Lord's name in vain. He says, Oh, oi, vei. He says, I've got to take care of this. I've sinned. He doesn't go out into the sheepfold there and just, well, that that sheep there is sick as a dog. He's going to die any day. I'll take that one and sacrifice it. And I'll give that one. Would that be acceptable? No. God was very clear. If you represent something as a sacrifice, it has to be without what? Without blemish. What was he saying? It needs to be holy. It needs to be acceptable. Now here's where I think, and this has probably been true all through the history of Christianity, but I think in our day and age it's especially an it's a especially a factor, and that is this. We've gotten our ideas That I can just give to God any old life I want. That I can be a dedicated Christian. I can be a good Christian. A God can be pleased with me and just live however I want. He goes, no, no, no. Because of all I've done for you, because of all that I've paid for your salvation, and all I've done for you. I'm pleading with you. Present your bodies, a living sacrifice, but present it holy. Must be acceptable. Kid, we got this idea, well, just you just serve God however you want. Serve God in your own way. That's not biblical. I don't serve God in my own way. I serve God his way. We worship God His way. And we don't grab the things of the world and the And uh I got a book, I was uh reading a review of a book yesterday about uh the music that's flooding into our churches. And the guy made this statement, and um he's an independent fundamental Baptist, he made this statement, he says the world, he he he referenced a Michael Jackson concert of all things A little video clip of uh people screaming and hollering and dancing and the music blaring. And he made this statement. He says, they know how to worship. We need to learn from them how to worship My thought was, that's not worship. And by the way, they are worshiping Michael Jackson, but we don't worship God the way the world worships perverts. It's acceptable. It has to be holy. I just, well, you know, I just, I'm just doing my thing for God. Now we're all individuals, and God gifts us in various individual ways. But we come to God, we present ourselves to Him holy. It must be acceptable by his standards. Now, this is where folks start writing me off. You know why? Because we want to serve God, but we want to serve God our way. I want to live for God. I want to be a Christian, but I'm going to be the kind of Christian I want to be. Listen, we don't get saved how we want to get saved. We get saved the way God tells us to get saved. And we don't present ourselves, we don't live the Christian life the way we want to live our Christian life, we live our Christian lives the way God wants us to Now that may come across harsh and you say, preacher, you're just judgmental. I'm not judging anything other than what the Bible says Jesus told the woman at the well. She said, you Jews say that Jerusalem, the Lord has to, you have to worship at Jerusalem. We say in this mountain. Jesus said, I say this unto you, the day cometh. They who worship God must worship him in spirit and in truth. What is he saying? He's saying according to the word of God. And so this presentation, God is pleading with us, I've done so much, all the mercy I've shown you, because of salvation and all the love I have for you. I'm pleading with you. I'm begging with you. Present your bodies, a living, practical sacrifice. Live for me, but live for me in a way that is holy. And that is acceptable. That's why I've got to study my Bible. That's why I've got to yield myself to the Lord and say, Lord, let your will be done in my life. Not my will. Not my will. We want to serve God, but we want to serve God our own way. And the only acceptable sacrifice to God is a holy sacrifice. And then last of all, I am with this the propriety of a living sacrifice. Look again at verse 1. Since your body is a living sacrifice, holy acceptum of God, look at this, which is your what? Reasonable service. The word propriety means this: proper, appropriate. The word reasonable there has this idea logical or rational or that which is proper. What's he saying? He's saying this. After all that God has done for me, how good he has been for me and the horrendous price. Last Sunday night we had Lord's Supper and we stopped and paused and remembered the horrific price that Jesus Christ paid for our sins. And God is saying to us through the pen of Paul, that's your reasonable service. To give your life over to me, your hopes, your dreams, your plans, your future. You just put that all in my hands. Present it to me as a living sacrifice. You know what? That's just proper. It's reasonable that I would ask that of you. That's the reasonable service. Suppose you're drowning and you're going to die. You're drowning. You're going under the third time. There is no way in the world you are going to live. And you know it. Your mind is processing. I am going to drown and die. And at the last second, somebody reaches their arms in and they pull you out. And they resuscitate you and they save your life. And you say, I owe you my life. I want to repay, I want to somehow express to you the gratitude. The appreciation I have for what you've done for me, it's only proper For what you've done for me that I did this back. And God is saying, listen, that's reasonable that you would give yourself to me You know I found out I lived nineteen years for the devil, for myself and the devil, and for a good period of time the two were indistinguishable there. Living for myself and living for the devil. That was a Lame attempt at being funny. You know what I found out? Nineteen years living for the devil I wouldn't trade one minute of living for God for the nineteen years I had living for the devil. You say, what in the world kind of life am I going to live if I present my body a living sacrifice? I'll tell you what kind of life you live: a life filled with joy, unspeakable, full of glory. Fulfillment, purpose, peace. I'm telling you, it's worth it to dedicate my life to Christ. It's worth it. God wants to use you and he wants to use me to send a message to this world. This is what God does. For a person that's fully committed to me. This is how I bless them. This is how I use them. This is what their life is like. But you and I have got to present ourselves. We've got to take our hands off and say, Lord, I'm laying myself on that altar. It's not mine anymore. It's yours. And God fills us and uses us for his glory. It's kind of like suppose I had a big chalkboard up here, and let's say Xander had a piece of chalk. And I'd say, Xander, I need that chalk. I want to rend a message to the whole church. I want to write out a statement to the whole church And Xander would say, all right, well I got the chalk, and he would come over and I'd ask him, present that chalk to me, a living sacrifice. Don't break it all up, don't destroy it. I want it in peace so I can use it. Present it to me So that I can write this message and Xander say, okay, and he hands it to me, but he doesn't let go And he holds on to that chalk and he comes over here and he's hanging on, and I'm trying to write, and he's holding on to it the whole time. Would I be able to write a legible message to the church? Yes or no? No. He's got a what? Let go. That's what God's saying to you and I as Christians. Listen, quit trying to run your own show. Quit living your own life. Present it to me, a living sacrifice. Let go And boy, you read on what amazing thing God does. Living sacrifice. Are you saved? God's pleading with you. He's begging. Present your life, a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable to God. It's your reasonable service. If you're not saved, God's calling you to be saved. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, I ask that you would take this truth, this passage, and challenge us as Christians to no longer live unto ourselves, but live unto you who died for us. Lord help us to see this the way Paul did in Galatians 2. He says, I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live yet not I, but it Christ liveth in me. The life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many this morning say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. But God has stirred my heart. I want him to have my life. I take my hands off and I'm present it to him as a living sacrifice, his to use and direct and lead as he sees fit, no longer mine. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. My heart's stirred. I want that to be true in my life as a Christian. Any like that by the uplifted hand. I want my life to be his, to be lived for him. Fully, a living sacrifice. God bless you, hands all around. Now maybe you've never come to your point as a point in your life as a Christian where you said, I'm making this definite once-for-all decision to give my body I life, everything I am, to Christ, to be His. I urge you this morning, make that decision. God, from here on out, I'm yours. For me, it was August 25th, 1985. On an altar, God, I'm yours I'm presenting my body to you. And you hear this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. You can't honestly say you have that assurance. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to go to hell. And God doesn't either. He's pleading with you. You'd say, preacher, pray for me and I can get this settled. I can know that God has forgiven my sins and I have a home in heaven. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has saved me and forgiven me. Any at all? Any at all? Now, Father, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. I pray you'd help us to see that this is just reasonable, all you've done for us. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation hymn. How about it? And an old fashioned