Genesis 22. Fellow went to this boss and said, I need a raise. There are three other companies after me. And the manager, the boss said, uh, is that so? What other companies are after you? He said, the electric company, the telephone company, and the gas company. I need a raise Some of us can relate to that. Uh do you know why the little coffee bean didn't go out with his friends Saturday night? He was grounded. So I like that one. Genesis chapter twenty-two. Just want to read verse four is where we're going to go this morning. Genesis twenty-two verse four. Then the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off I want to speak a message this morning entitled A Long Walk. Let's pray and ask the Lord to have His way. Father, we do ask your blessing on the message this morning. Lord, I'm so grateful for folks that have come out to church on this cold January day. And Lord, we're grateful for the facilities you've given us. We ask now that you would bless now as we look into your word. Open our hearts and minds to the truths that you have for us. Help us to apply to our homes, our lives, our marriages, our testimonies, the principles that are given here in this passage. And Lord, I ask that you would take me and fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present, I yield my will to you, present my body anew, and I pray that you would be the teacher and the preacher in this hour. Lord, let this be more than just a message from Pastor Leatherman. Lord, let it be a time of commitment and growth. And uh stronger love for you as a result of what takes place here. Again, bless us, I ask, Lord, in Jesus' name Amen. Genesis 22 is in my mind a fascinating event I believe what we have here, and I had Brother Pat read an extended portion of this just to get the whole story, the whole context. But what I believe we have here is one of the greatest acts of faith in all of Scripture. When Abraham takes, in obedience to God, takes his son to offer him up as a sacrifice. The most important issue in all of life is having faith in God. Learning to have faith in God, trusting him. And that is so important. In fact, having faith in God is what brings salvation. It is my faith in God that saves me. Are you familiar with Ephesians 8 and 9? For by grace are ye saved through what? Faith. And that not of yourselves. It's a gift of God, not of works. Lest any man should boast. The Bible is very, very clear. We are not saved by the things that we do We are not saved by our obedience to God. We're not saved by our deeds or actions. We're saved simply by putting our faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. What he did for us on the cross, he comes in our life, he forgives us, cleanses us from our sins, and gives us a home in heaven Salvation is by faith. I like saying this. We try to make it very, very clear. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save one soul. And by the way, neither can any other church We do not save ourselves. We cannot save ourselves. The church cannot save us. The baptism cannot save us. It is faith in Jesus Christ that saves us. So the most important issue in life is this matter of faith, having faith in God. It is faith in God that gives purpose to my life. So I trust God and believe what he says and obey his direction. God gives me purpose. He gives direction in my life. I tell you, a verse we all ought to be familiar with is Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not into thine own understanding. In all thy ways, acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. What a truth. What a passage. Trust God. Have faith in God. Follow his instructions. Do what he says. And God will lead you and direct you and give purpose and direction in your life. Matthew 6. 33 tells us that faith in God provides for our needs. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. and all these things, all the things necessary for life will be added unto you. We just trust God. Put him first. Do what he says. And God says He'll take care of us. Faith in God is what protects us from bad decisions. Now, I don't want to get too personal here a little bit, but I wonder how many of us in our lives have ever made bad decisions. Anybody here ever make a bad decision? At least one? Sure we have. And you know, if we would learn to trust God. Would uh if we would learn to trust God, it would help us avoid making those bad decisions. I heard Dr. Lee Robertson preach years ago, and I agree, and I I've used this statement since then a number of times. The greatest mistake I ever made in my life was not trusting God. Not trusting God. Not putting my faith in God. So in Genesis chapter 22, we have an example from the Old Testament of Abraham's tremendous faith in God. God instructs him to take his son, his only son, the son he loves, go on a three-day journey to Mount Moriah, and there build an altar, place his son upon that altar. Kill his son and burn him as a sacrifice to God. And Abraham obeys God. That flies in the face of everything. That flies in the face of what we understand God to be. It flies in the face of what Scripture clearly teaches. It goes against the natural understanding of a father and a son, and yet Abraham trusts God. I've preached on this passage a number of times over the years. I think I went back looking through uh my notes and records, I think two years ago I preached the message on when God asks too much. And I think in many of our minds we could say that's asking too much to kill my only son And we learned some principles from that. There are so many scriptural principles for life that are given in this passage that we could spend months on it. But verse 4 stands out in my mind. I shared this with the deacons a couple weeks ago in a meeting, and uh it's just been on my heart for the last couple weeks. Verse number four. Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place, the place he was to sacrifice his son in obedience to God, he saw the place afar off. Traveling three days. I think I read in one of my books that uh it's about a 45-mile trip by foot. He's traveling. Now think about this with me for a moment. How many folks are glad you came to church today? Amen. I know it may be I mean I'm warm, but it's uh it may be a little cool out there. I was looking on the temperature thing And what happened was I was trying to run the heat pump, and when it's 95 below zero, those things really don't do so hot. So I had to switch over to electric. And so, but there's a lot of hot air coming out here in a little bit, so I'm sure it'll warm up here in a little while. What was I talking about? Put yourself In Abraham's shoes. You have now he had his other son and Ishmael and but that was convoluted and illegitimate and And no doubt Abraham loved them, but God gave Abraham's son Isaac. Miraculously, Sarah in her old age gives birth. This son Abraham loves. I mean intensely. As far as the promise and God's future for Israel is concerned, this is Abraham's only son. And God appears to him and says, Abraham, I want to take that son of yours. I want you to take that son of yours And I want you to travel a 45-mile trip to the space Mount Moriah, and there's significance about that, we can bring out another message. And there I want you to take your hands, put a knife in your hands, and I want you to kill your own son. Now put yourself in his shoes. Not only does Abraham obey God, but Abraham has to travel by foot for three days. Now I don't know about you, but I go out for walks periodically and I you can tell by looking at me I work hard at staying in shape But I go out for a walk spirituality. And you know, I found that when you go on a walk, it's a good time to do thinking. Anybody agree with me? You really think things through. You got something heavy on your heart, boy, you can just kind of do that. Sometimes you get something on your mind and boy, you start dwelling on that Now I say again, put yourself in Abraham's shoes. Imagine how heart-wrenching this would be. This is, without a doubt, the hardest thing anyone in the Bible has been asked to do. And for three days Abraham is walking, his ch his son by his side. They've got the wood, fire, everything, a couple of cistons, and he's thinking about this, and thinking about this. thinking about this. Sometimes somebody or we can be in a situation where we're asked to do something and we do it right away and get it done, then afterward we think Man, why did I do that? I should have thought that through. Anybody here do that real quickly, spontaneously, do something, then afterward you throw, well, I think it Abraham, God approaches Abraham, as we said. He gets up immediately. Look at verse 2. It says, and um, actually, verse 3, and Abraham rose up early in the morning. I mean he hops right to it, but he doesn't sacrifice his son that morning. It's not right away. It's three days later. Are you getting what I'm trying to say? This is dwelling, this is going through this mind for three days. Uh I could see uh you know him getting up and doing it and doing all that and then by the end of the day thinking, man, what did I do? Why would I have done that And so he's having opportunity to turn back. He has opportunity to change his mind. He has opportunity to re-evaluate whether he's really going to do this carry this through or not. Knowing. Three days walking. Knowing he would have to do the most difficult thing in his life. Now, I study this and there's a lot of questions come to my mind about this whole scenario. And be honest with you, there's a lot of questions come that I don't have the answers for. But there is one question that I want to try and answer this morning. And that is this. How did Abraham persevere those three days without turning back? How did he stay at it? How did he stay the course? For three days. He had ample time. I mean, that's three days. No doubt they spent three nights out camping out on the way. He lay there at night, mind working. I changed my mind. I'm not doing this. But he didn't. He carried it through. I think there's some principles here we can apply to our lives. I studied this and prayed about this and looked at this, and I think I have three reasons why Abraham was able to persevere. Now Let me say this here. The Christian life is not an overnight thing. Salvation happens in an instant. The moment I trust Christ, God forgives me, saves me, gives me a new life, new purpose, and a home in heaven. But living the Christian life is a long-term thing. I I came to the conclusion years ago when I first came here as pastor and I had in my mind what was going to happen and the growth of the church and And I had these certain mileposts set up in my mind that we'd get to this so many years, this would be true, and this many years and this would be true. And you know what I found out? Though God blessed tremendously and we give God the glory for all of it Not all of it worked out the way I saw in my mind. And finally, God taught me something That a church pleasing God and having an influence in the world and in its community doesn't just happen overnight. It takes years and years and years of just faithful Sticking with it, pressing ahead, going forward when the sun's shining, when the sun's not shining, when it's 85 degrees, balmy, nice. cool breezes, sunshining and flowers and birds, and when it's sub-zero, everything's frozen solid and you're all the animals are dead My wife. Uh forget it. Um But it's a long term type thing. The Christian The successful Christian is one that stays faithful to the Lord years and years and years and years. How many people like fireworks? I like fireworks. I like to go, ooh, uh Fireworks are beautiful, but they last about ten seconds, if that. Nobody no no sailor out in the ocean has ever charted a course by fireworks. Because they go up and they're over. Boy, they make a lot of noise, they get a lot of attention, but they're not very good for charting a course by The old North Star doesn't make any noise. Doesn't get a lot of attention. But for thousands of years, people have charted courses by that North Star. It's right there every night in its place, doing what it needs to do. Now that's what I'm trying to get across. What Garrett County area needs, and I'm not talking about the other church, we have to answer to God for ourselves. And what I'm saying is what Garrett County needs is a church that just stays a course, stays at it day after day after day after day after day. What your family needs, Daddy, is a man that's a Christian, a godly Christian, day after day after day after day. And five years from now, Daddy's just as strong as a Christian as he was five years ago. Or stronger. Follow what I'm saying? Not up and down, on and off, a little while, then out. But just staying at it. You say, yeah, but it gets hard sometimes. Put yourself in Abraham's shoes. Three days. I'm telling you, that was one long walk. Forty-five miles, that's not that far. But when you're carrying a burden like Abraham was, that's a long walk. How did he do that? How are we going to be long-term Christians? Well, we need to be saved, first of all, but uh let me give you some thoughts that I that uh stand out in my mind here. Number one The first thing I notice is Abraham's total submission to God. Total submission to God I read this and read this and read this and read this, and I can find no record of Abraham offering up any questions or any arguments about what God was asking him to do. I don't see why. I don't see the question why. I don't see the question how. I don't see any arguments. I don't see Abraham saying, God, this goes against your commands, and Lord, all this. No arguments at all. It's a lot of questions Abraham could have asked. The fact that God was asking him to sacrifice his son, murder, in a sense, his own child. That is a violation of God's own commands. Thou shalt not kill. And yet God's asking Abraham to kill his son. That violates a father's love and care for his own child. No father would want to kill his child. And just the thought of somebody demanding of me to do that in my mind would raise up uh rebellion against that and say, No, I'll not kill my son. By the way, it wouldn't hurt if we had some fathers that cared a little bit more about their sons. It flies in all this, but yet Abraham doesn't question He doesn't argue. He offers up no defense. In fact, I see no word out of Abraham's mouth. He doesn't say a word other than God initially approaches him. He says, Here am I, the Lord. God says what to do? Abraham doesn't say a thing. Just goes about. Start doing what God said. Total submission to God. Faith in God. God has instructed me to do this, I'll do it. No argument, no question, no debate, I'll just do it We ruin our lives when we refuse to submit. We ruin our lives when we refuse to submit to God. We ruin our testimonies as Christians when we decide to take things into our own hands. And God says, do this, and we say, all right, I'm not going to do that, I'll do this instead. God, you're asking too much, I'll not do that. And our testimonies are destroyed. Some Christians put in Abraham's shoes would have said, No, I am not doing that, God. I'm not going to do that. It's amazing, as pastor, how Christians in our day and age Refuse to do things God clearly instructs that are far less demanding than what God's asked of Abraham. I think today perhaps the vast majority, if not the majority, of Christians would say, no, I'm not going to do that, God. I'm not doing that. Some Christians put in Abraham's shoes would maybe say, All right, God, tell you what, you want me to offer my son, my only son, as a sacrifice to him? Burn them for you. Uh that's a little much, but I want to be a good Christian and I don't want to completely disobey you. Tell you what, I'll take my son and I'll just put him in a cage for a while Partial obedience is disobedience. And we're very good at taking what God says and then Ration, rationalizing away. What uh complete obedience and kind of working in our own understanding and kind of negotiating and trying to come up with some happy medium. But you don't find that with Abraham at all Listen, the only way Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is going to stay strong for God for a long period of time is if we just completely, totally submit to God. We're not going to alter the instructions. We're not going to negotiate. We're just going to do what God says to do and keep on doing it and keep on doing it and keep on doing it. So the first thing I noticed how Abraham was able to persevere over this was the simply total submission to God. The second thing I noticed was Abraham's wisdom in responding to God. Again, and we'll not take time to read through this again, although it would be great. But if you'll notice here, Abraham does not go and seek Sarah's advice. God says, Abraham, I want to take your son, your only son, Isaac, offer him up for a sacrifice. Abraham perhaps could have went to Sarah and said, Sarah, what do you think about that? Now, knowing what we know about Sarah, what do you think she would have said? There ain't no way. What are you nuts? Now, don't read into this, fellas. But I think Abraham might have learned his lesson because he had listened to Sarah before, and man, that ended up bad. So he doesn't counsel with Sarah to get her opinion whether he ought to do what God says or not. He doesn't go to any of his counselors or any of his assistants there in his huge household he had and say, listen, uh, we're calling a meeting together, call the deacons in. Uh listen, fellas, what do you think? God told me to do this. What do you think I should do He doesn't look for any counselors or anything like that, advice. It's clear what God instructed him to do. Doesn't matter what anybody else says, he was to do what God said. And that was his wisdom. Now, there is a world of difference between blind faith and simple faith This was not, I've been accused, and maybe some of you have also, by unbelievers, I've been accused of exercising blind faith. When I went off to Bible college back in 1980, then 81 I moved to Tennessee and transferred to another school down there. I had family members came to me and they said, Dennis, they called me Denny. Don't you dare call me Denny. They said, you're ruining your life. You're wasting your life going off to Bible college. And they would make statements like this. You're just blind faith. There's a difference between blind faith and simple faith. Blind faith has no basis for what it's doing It's just acting on somebody's word or something. There's no basis. Simple faith has a basis. Abraham had God's word that this was what he was to do. It wasn't blind faith. Does anything I'm saying make sense? Everybody out there? How many people think it makes sense? Raise your hand. How many people have no idea what I'm talking about? Raise your hand All right, very good. So we don't have blind faith. We have God's Word. I can very confidently say I know for sure that when I die, my sins are forgiven, I'm going to heaven. Somebody says, how can you know that? That's just blind faith. No, it's not just blind faith. It's not just wishful thinking. It's not just, well, that's the way I think. No, I've got scripture for it. 1 John 5. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that you have eternal life. It's not blind faith. I knocked on the door one time. In fact, this happened several times. Introduced myself, person came the door as a fellow in this situation. Introduced myself. No, this was a lady. In fact, I don't know what it was. But um they and I introduced myself and went for a little spiel. I asked them, do you know for sure if you died right now you'd go to heaven and not to hell? And they said, Oh yes I said, really? That's uh interesting. I don't get that response a lot. Uh, how do you know? What makes you sure? What do you base that assurance on that you're going to heaven and not to hell? And they said this: I have faith That's very good. Faith in what? What do you mean you have faith? What is your faith in? What are you depending on? Trusting it. Oh, I just have faith. You know what they were telling me? That is blind faith. It's not based on anything There's nothing. Oh how do you know that? You can come to the bank and say uh uh say I'd like to make a withdrawal. Okay, how much money do you have? Uh a million dollars Well we don't have any record that you have a million dollars. Well I just believe I do. Boy, that'd be great, wouldn't it? I wouldn't stop at a million. Well, I just believe it. Listen, just hoping something is so or thinking something is so doesn't make it so. We need a basis for it. Are you with me? We can know for sure, we can know for sure that God has forgiven us all our sins. We can have absolute assurance that when we die We are going to heaven and not to hell, not just because it's a hope-so wishy feel-like think so, but because the Bible gives us solid so uh um solid What's the word I want? Assurance. Assurance that that's true in our lives. And so we need to go to the Word of God. We need to get what God says and make sure we're in line with the Word of God, then we have that confidence. That we don't exercise blind faith. Abraham was not just outdoing what he thought he should do. Where are you going, Abraham? Sacrifice my son. What? Why are you doing that? Well, I just think it's something I should do. What are you nuts? You must listen to talk radio or something. Uh uh No, it wasn't that way at all. Somebody, Abraham, where are you going? Sacrifice my son. Oh my word, what are you talking about? Yeah, God told me. God made it very, very clear. This is what he wants me to do. I can't believe that. I know, but I've got to do what he says It's not just blind faith. Abraham exercised wisdom. God made it very, very clear what he should do. And he didn't go to anyone else for their advice. And by the way, he didn't try and find some other versions of Scripture. God had made it very clear. He didn't need another version. He just needed to obey God. And in his wisdom, he didn't go to advice. Listen, the Bible says ye must be born again. The Bible says, except ye repent, ye shall likewise perish. The Bible says, Whosoever's name was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. The Bible very, very clearly says that if a person has not trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, they are lost, they die in their sins, they're separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. Now listen, the Bible's clear on that. I don't need to go to somebody and ask them, do you think I should be saved or not? I don't need to go to my friends and neighbors and say, well, the Bible says I should do this or I'll die without Christ. I'll be separated from God for all eternity. What do you think? Doesn't matter what they think If God has declared that, then my wisdom is to simply trust God, obey Him, and do what He says. Amen? So, Abraham was able to go on for three days with this burden, going through his mind, no doubt. But he was able to do that and carry it through, number one, because he was totally submitted to God. Not my will, but thy will be done. Not my understanding, but his clear instructions. Second of all, because he exercised wisdom in responding to God. He didn't go and look for advice. He simply trusted God, based his faith on what God had said, and went forward. Abraham did not allow others to talk him out of what God had clearly instructed him to do. And you and I must never let others talk us out of doing what God has clearly instructed us to do. Person gets saved, the very next thing they should do is they ought to be baptized. Most important thing, not to stay saved, certainly not to be saved, not to stay saved, but as a testimony. So a person gets saved, said, boy, you know, I ought to be baptized. Somebody says, ah, you don't need to be baptized. You can still go to heaven. That's true. But God says repent and be baptized. Every one of you. And so try and talk somebody out of it, and people try and talk us out of it, this, that, and the other. Rather than doing that, it's the best thing. Just do what God says. Amen? Just do what God says. And the third reason I think Abraham was able to persevere And by the way, let me back up there a little bit. Now, I know this is conjecture on my part. I'm just imagining this. But I think it's a realistic I would imagine the Bible doesn't say this happened, so I'm not going to fuss with you about it. But I can see on those three days some of his servants coming up and saying, Hey, Abe Yeah. Tell us again what you're gonna do. Uh we're gonna go up there and worship and sacrifice my son. You really think that's a good idea? You really think that maybe you ought to reconsider. Let's sit down and talk about it. Again, I'm reading into this. I can see Abraham saying, it's nothing to talk about. What's to talk about? God's made it clear I know what I need to do. Number three, the third reason I think he was able to persevere. Now, I've used this word deliberately. So I'll need to explain what I mean. But I notice his enthusiasm in this whole thing. His enthusiasm. Now look with me, I'm going to read the first couple verses again. And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt. Now, don't let that word tempt throw you. It means simply God gave them a test. God did tempt Abraham and said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here I am. And he, God said, Take now thine son Thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee to the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I shall tell thee of. Now look how Abraham there's the instruction. That would floor us. I mean just floor us Now, with that word enthusiasm in the back of your mind, let me read the next verse. And Abraham rose up early in the morning. Saddled his ass, took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, claved the wood, chopped it up, claved the wood for the burnt offering, rose up, went unto the place which God had told him. Now, I don't know about you. You remove, you take verse 3 out of that context and put it in any other context, and it looks to me this guy's excited about what he's doing. It sounds like it sounds like Tom getting up to go deer hunting. Man, he's getting up early in the morning. He's packing his stuff up And uh cutting the wood up for it and getting the knife sharp and boy, he's getting everything. And I I kept reading verse three and kept reading verse three and I thought, man, this looks like the guy's enthusiastic about it Now, we can't imagine that he would be enthusiastic about offering his son for a sacrifice. We can't imagine that. But you look at that, and that's the picture I get. Now, how do you explain that? I believe Abraham had reached a level of faith. Now get this. Abraham had reached a level of faith that he could obey God for an extended period of time with impossible demands. And yet do it with hope and enthusiasm. If God said this is what he should do, Then Abraham was confident that this is the best thing in the world that he should do. And when it's all said and done It is going to be a good thing that brings glory to God and advances Abraham in his standing with the Lord No matter what the demand was, if God demanded it, it was good, it would turn out all right, and he could go into it with enthusiasm Man, what a level of faith. I received an email letter this morning from our missionaries to Inner Mongolia, northern China, the Van Royans. Remember the band royal just took them on. They've been there, I think he said six months now. You should read that letter. I almost had Charlie read it this morning, Sunday school. Instead of the one we had. He is fired up. He has left the security and the prosperity of the United States of America, took his beautiful wife and their beautiful little daughter, went to Inner Mongolia. And you know what he said? We are having more fun. And our lives are fuller now than they had ever been in any point in life. Now for a lot of us if God said, alright, I want you to leave your job, sell your house, take your family, and go to Inner Mongolia, it would floor us. We'd say, are you nuts? But the Van Royans said we'll go. Went on deputation, and they're over there, and they are fired up. The level of faith, getting to a point where our faith is so strong that no matter what God asks of me I can obey that with hope and enthusiasm and excitement, knowing Knowing that however difficult it may be to do what God wants me to do, nevertheless, on the other side, it is going to be good, it's going to be alright. Did you notice what Abraham told the servant? The son and I will go and worship, and we will return again. Abraham knew it was going to be all right. He didn't know how God was going to work it out. He didn't know what all God had planned on the other side. But if he would just do what God said to do on the other side, it would be good. It would be great, it would be exactly what God intended for him. And so he could get up early in the morning He could put everything together, throw it in the pack, take his son by the hand, and walk enthusiastically to some degree to the Mount Moriah and there offer. And even when they get there, if you read later on, there's no hesitation. There's no arguing. I don't read anywhere where Abraham is bawling while he's tying his son and crying. Doesn't say that at all. Why? Because Abraham knew God was good. And God was not asking something that God could not turn around and make exactly the way it ought to be. Now let me give you some scripture for that, and I'll end. Turn with me if you would. I want us to go to two verses, and that's the end of the message. Romans chapter 4. We have a New Testament commentary on Abraham's faith. God gives us a little insight into his thinking, how he could do this. Romans chapter 4, and look with me if we will. We're going to look at verse 18 and jump down to a couple other verses. This is speaking about Abraham. Romans chapter 4 and verse 18. Who, against hope, believed in hope. Now, just think about that statement for a moment. Here Abraham is going to kill his son. That's what hope is there in that? I mean, you're going to kill your son. God promised this son to you. He said through this son you would have tremendous offspring and you're gonna kill him. But against hope he what? Believed in hope. He knew that even in a hopeless situation God could bring that thing out and work Then we come down to verse 20. Speaking of Abraham, he staggered not at the promise of God through un belief. God had promised through Isaac he would have tremendous offspring. Then God says kill Isaac. Abraham didn't stagger at that Didn't faze him. If I kill him, God somehow still gonna keep his word. He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief. But was strong in faith, giving glory to God and being fully persuaded that what he had promised, he was able also to perform. Abraham had reached the level of faith that even when God asked him to do something that went totally against the grain, that went totally against human understanding. He knew God was in control. He believed God was all powerful, and he could do that, and on the other side, everything would be just fine. Now I may be talking to someone this morning God is instructing you from His Word, through the Spirit of God, to do something you don't want to do. You do something that's very hard in your understanding And I'm saying to you, if you will trust God, if you will believe God and obey him, when you come out the other side, everything will be good and in fact be better off than if you not obeyed him Make sense? Let me give you another scripture. This is the second one, last one. Come over to Hebrews chapter 11. Hebrews chapter 11 is often called the Hall of Fame. I like to call it the Hall of Faith of God's men and women of God. These people exercise tremendous faith in God. Hebrews chapter 11, we go down through there and God references Abel and Moses and Esau and all not Esau um uh Noah and uh who's the guy that Enoch and um he goes down through this then he gets to Abraham and he extent and he spends an extended portion of this chapter talking about Abraham's faith More so, I believe, than any other individual. And when you get to verse 19, we find something fascinating. Hebrews 11, verse 19. Well, let's go back to 17, get the context. By faith, Abraham, when he was tried, Genesis 22. Offered up Isaac. And he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son, of whom it was said that in Isaac shall thy seed be called. Now, how could he offer up that son, knowing that through that son, his seat he was going to have more offspring? Verse 19 tells us. Accounting that God was able to what Raise him up even from the dead, from whence also we received him in a figure. That tells us something about why Abraham was to able to carry on for three days, knowing he was going to have to kill his son. Abraham was convinced that God would raise him up after he killed him. Because God had promised that through Isaac he would have offspring. And he can't have offspring through a dead son. So if God told him to kill his son, the only solution would be that God would raise him up. And Abraham was so convinced of that. He could obey God almost enthusiastically. Now listen, that is an example for you and I. To trust God, obey Him, do what God says We could give, I could give, I could stay here for the rest of the afternoon and give illustrations. In my 25, six years in a ministry Of people who refuse to obey God because it was hard. There's something God wants me to do. That's too hard. I can't do that. And you know what the end result was? Their lives were ruined. Destroyed. They married the wrong person. They moved to the wrong place. They failed to get in the right church or ministry that God intended for them. And they ruined their lives. Ruined their lives. I remember when I was in Indianapolis, just the last month or two I was there, I'd resigned and probably the last week or two. Somebody had preached, it wasn't me, and I was at the altar counseling. And one of the older church members, a fellow, very dignified man, and I didn't know him that well. It was a pretty big church, but I I knew him. Very good if I may he came and he was just weeping and weeping at the probably late sixties I would guess at this time. In his sixties. Somewhere. He's just weeping hard. And I knelt down beside him. I said his name. I said, can I pray with you? Is there something I can help you with? Can I pray with you? And he's weeping. He looked at me and they called me Pastor Dennis. He said, Pastor Dennis, he said, when I was a teenage boy, God called me to preach. And he said, I refused. I knew God wanted me to preach, and I refused. And he said, I've been through several divorces. He said, I feel like I've missed God's will for my life. He said, I wish so bad I could go back and Obey God. Obey God. And that Sam, I can give you story after story after story of that God says this is what God makes it clear in his word what his will is. But we don't trust him. We don't believe him. We think it's too hard. We fail to realize that God is good. He loves us. And if we will just trust him and do what he says, in spite of the fact that it appears hard, when it's all said and done, it will be good. It'll be right. We used to tell the kids a little story when I was traveling at Evangelism with Neighborhood Bible time. We used to tell the little children a story about I just kinda we had the story, but I changed it and made the do the little doggy's name was Scruffy the dog. And since half the guys in our church are the level of Free slowers, I'll tell the story now. Particularly the deacons. But anyway, we used to tell the kids this little story. A little boy got a puppy. For his birthday. He was so excited. He named him Scruffy because he had all this scruffy hair all over him. And his mother said Tommy, uh you need to you need to teach Scruffy how to obey Obey. That's the most important thing you need to teach your doggies how to obey. They lived in the city. And so day after day after day, little Tommy would scruffy out there, and he would put Scruffy down, he'd say, sit, and push his behind down and he'd work on him and work on him and work on him and finally got Scruffy where he'd say, Scruffy, sit, and Scruffy would sit. Then he wanted to teach them to come to him when he called. And so he put Scruffy over there. Scruffy, sit! He'd sit. So he had some treats in his pocket. He'd come over here. And he'd say, Scruffy, come here! And he'd snap his finger. And Scruffy would Come run over and he'd give him a little treat. And he did that over and over and over. Then he started withholding the treats. And finally, over several weeks and several months time, he had got struffy where all he had to do was just go. And Scruffy would come running. Sit! He'd sit down. Scruffy, come here! Shh! And so he was very proud of Scruffy and told him to do this. Well, summertime. They lived in the city and there's a busy street out in front where cars traveled quickly. And Scruffy was outside playing, the boy wasn't paying much attention, and to his horror He looked and scruffy was curled up in the middle of the road, just laying there. All curl up, you know how little doggies do curl up The middle of the road. He looks up and here comes a truck just barreling down. Scruffy's sleeping in the road. A little boy yelled out, Scruffy, come here. And Scruffy immediately jumped up. Flying over to the boy. Obeyed him immediately. And it saved Scruffy's life. What if Scruffy would have said, but I'm comfortable What if Scruffy would have said, I don't feel like it. I like it here. This is nice and warm on the road. The asphalt's warm. Scruffy would have debated. Scruffy would have been a pancake. Right? Now that's what God is teaching us in Genesis 22. Obey me. What I ask you to do may make no sense, maybe seem like the hardest thing in the world for you to do. But if you'll trust me It'll work out in the end. It'll save you from a destroyed light. I've often thought if Abraham would have withheld Isaac and said, No, I'm not giving him, he would have ended up hating his son. Because it would have come between him and God. Him and God. Father, help us to trust you and obey you. And Lord, when the walk seems long and it seems like You're asking us to do something that's hard and we have opportunity to back out and turn away and give in. Help us to have faith in you and trust you. Now, I don't know what God's Holy Spirit may be speaking to your heart about this morning. But if God's dealing with your heart about something very clearly in your heart and mind, and God's saying, this is what I'm wanting you to do. This is what I don't want you to do. God is directing you. And he does that. That's what the Holy Spirit does. Takes the Word of God and directs us. I said Say this morning, trust God, obey him. Do what he says. His word is clear. Let's trust him. You say, yeah, but it's inconvenient, it's not easy, it's this, that, and the other. No, no, no. We trust God. We obey Him