19, I'm going to read down through verse number 7, and I'm going to be totally honest with you. If I'm ever honest with you, I'll be sure and point it out And uh so I am being honest with you tonight. I my complete intention as I began studying this and and uh putting this together was to cover all seven verses tonight. I was just going to touch on different thoughts And I got studying and we might get verse one done. So I'm telling you, my intentions are are are good. Look at verse 1, the Bible says, And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should do what? Kill David. And Jonathan, Saul's son, delighted much in David. And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul, my father, seeketh to kill thee. Now, therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself, and I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where thou art And I will commune with my father of thee, and what I see, that will I tell. That I will tell thee. And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David. Because he hath not sinned against thee, because his works have been have been to thee word very good. For he did put his life in his hand and slew the Philistine And the Lord brought a great salvation for all Israel. Thou sawest it and didst rejoice. Wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood to slay David without a cause And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan, and Saul swore, as the Lord liveth, he shall not be slain. And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all these things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence as in times past. I see in this passage here two instances of loyalty. And one is what I'm referring to, what I've labeled toxic loyalty. And the other is true or healthy loyalty. And so let's pray, and then I'll try and explain what I mean. We're not going to get to both of them tonight, but we will get at least most of verse 1. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God and how relevant relevant it is to us today And as I read and study, it just seems like it applies to the my world that I'm living in today and the issues I face. And so we ask now that your Holy Spirit would take these Old Testament events that you preserved as an ensample for us, and that you would apply them to our lives that we could be the Christians you saved us to be, that we could live the lives you uh created us to live. And so I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray that you would teach us tonight You said that the you promised the disciples the Spirit would come and he would teach them all things. And I pray you would do that tonight, Holy Spirit. So fill me, I ask, as I yield my will and present my body anew, and help us to benefit from this. In Jesus' name. Amen. How many people know what a touchstone is? Anybody you've probably heard the term a touchstone. Does anybody know what that is? I've heard it many times. Came across reading it this week and I got looking it up. A touchstone is an interesting thing. A touchstone, the literal physical touchstone, is a small tablet made out of some sort of dark stone that has a little bit of a texture to it. And what they do is if they have gold or some sort of precious metal, they will scrape it across that touchstone And it'll leave a mark, and they compare the mark that the gold that they're testing, they will compare the mark that that gold makes with a mark that genuine gold makes. You follow what I'm saying? They'll find some legitimate, valuable gold, they'll scratch it on this touchstone, leaves a mark. Then they take, somebody comes, says, hey I got some gold here. They say, well let's t check it out. How genuine it is, how pure it is. and they'll scrape it on that touchstone and they'll compare the two colors. I think sometimes they put a little uh different types of chemicals on and how it reacts on there, they'll determine uh the value, the quality of that precious metal. Well, this was used hundreds and maybe in some cases thousands of years ago. They used it as a criteria to determine the quality of something or the um uh how genuine something was Well, it became a term that they would use for anything that would be a criteria to determine the legitimacy of something. So anything could be a touchstone. It may be a term that refers to the criteria used to determine how genuine an object is, like gold. Maybe how genuine a theory is. Somebody comes up with a theory. Well the touchstone for that theory would be the facts that we know are true. Then we take that theory, we compare it to the facts. And it determines whether that's a legitimate theory or not. For instance, evolution. Evolution is a theory Right? It's a theory. It's an idea. Nobody was there at the beginning. Nobody saw anything evolve. Nobody saw the world created. Right? So evolution is a theory that unbelievers have as to how we came about. So what we do is we our touchstone for that theory is what are the facts we have in hand? What do we know are true? And again, this isn't a message on evolution, but I have to take a swipe at it every chance I can. Well, what we know to be true, facts are that there is design. Phenomenal design, complex design in everything. We know that there is life And we know for a fact life does not come from non-life. It's impossible. So that theory, the touchstone for that theory, is the facts that we have in place. So evolution would want. Creation would be something. We have the Bible teaches creation. Now, to me, that's not a theory. It's the Word of God. It's as sure as God Himself. And we can take creation and we can compare it to the facts we have, and lo and behold, it falls together beautifully. We have no contradictions there. And so the touchstone for that is the facts we have in hand, what we know to be true. It may be, and what I'm getting at, my subject here tonight, is friendship. What is the touchstone? What is the criteria that determines the credibility of a person's loyalty What is the touchstone? What's the criteria that we use to determine if someone is a genuine true blue friend? That is going to be loyal. Anybody want to take a guess? What do you think would be the touchstone, the criteria, the true test that's going to determine whether this person is loyal or not? Question 46. Okay, so their actions would be actions would be one of the Great loyal. Okay. That's lining up a little bit with my thinking. If they're honest, okay, that would be characteristic of loyalty. Ah, now you're getting close to my thinking. They'd be willing to give up my lives a a friend uh greater love with no man than this, a man lay down his life for his friends. This is this is Integrity would be a characteristic of loyalty. Let me tell you where I'm thinking, and y'all are right around there. Y'all are almost right. If someone agrees with me, they're right. This is what I think is the touchstone to determine a person's loyalty is adversity. When adversity comes to my life, does that person stay loyal to me or do they abandon me? Remember the prodigal son? Man, he lived it up, he went to far country, riot his living, but when the money ran out, what happened? So did the friends. When the money ran out, the friends ran out. That was not loyalty. Oh, as long as he as long as he had money, as long as the bills were paid, as long as we're having a good time, boy, well I'm your buddy, I'm your friend, I'm right there with you. But brother, when the money ran out and the f and the party ended The loyalty was gone. And we can see that all through Scripture. And I believe the touchstone for a friend, for a family member, for an employee. Or an employer, the loyalty, the criteria for their loyalty is how do they respond when adversity comes? You have a loyal employee and hard times come and boy that business is struggling and they say you boy you know I'm gonna have to uh you'll have to trust me on the paycheck. I'll get it to you in maybe another week That if that employee is loyal, it's there, I trust you, I'm loyal to you, I'm going to work away, we're going to help you dig this thing out and get it back on the ground, we're going forward. Right? A this loyal employee would be one that's already sending out resumes. Now I don't know all scenarios and I'm not saying that's always the wrong thing, but what I'm trying to illustrate is this When adversity comes to a family, to a friendship, a relationship, to a business relationship of any sort, when adversity comes, That's going to prove, that's going to test, that's going to be the touchstone as to who is loyal and who is not. Now, as I look at these seven verses here, I see loyalty. And as I said at the very beginning, I said I see some toxic loyalty, and I'll explain, that's what tonight's going to be about. And then I see some true loyalty. Healthy loyalty. And we'll have to talk about that in another time. Come back with me. Now don't lose your place here. Just come back at chapter, actually. 18. And I want us to look at the first three verses of chapter 18. And you'll remember this. We went spent a good bit of time on this. Verse 1. This is right after David has taken care of Goliath. They've slaughtered the Philistines. It was a phenomenal victory. It came to pass, verse one, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul that the soul of Jonathan Was what? Knit with the soul of David. And Jonathan loved him as his own soul. Man, what a powerful statement. This level of love and attraction of Jonathan to David is uh is significant. Then come down, if you would, to verse 3. Then Jonathan and David made a what? A covenant, because he loved him as his own soul. Now, a covenant, as we m mentioned before, pointed out before, is much different than a contract. A contract says, as long as you're scratching my back, I'll scratch yours. Right? It's conditional As long as you uh as long as things are going good, then I'm with you, I'm for you. But they didn't make it. There wasn't a contract. Their friendship was not a contractual friendship dependent on the behavior of the other It was a covenant relationship. It was a covenant friendship that I will be loyal to you, thick or thin. And so that covenant, that loyalty that was established, particularly on Jonathan's part towards David, that was established in chapter 18 and verse 1, 2, and 3. That loyalty that was established there in chapter 19 is now being tested. Is Jonathan going to be loyal to David? Man, everybody's singing his praises. Everybody's saying David slew his ten thousands. He just killed the he just killed the the champion of the Philistines. He just he is a national hero. He is a Warrior par excellence. Oh, I'm man, that's my man. I'm loyal to him. Now we have a whole different setting and that loyalty is going to be tested and going to be severely tested. Now let me give you my little outline of these seven verses here. Like I said, we're only going to get the first one First point, but let me give you. I got I I noticed three things here. The first thing in verse number one, I noticed Saul's demand. And we'll look at that tonight. The second one I noticed is Jonathan's devotion. And that's verses two through five. Jonathan expresses his devotion, his loyalty to David. And we're going to look at that in the future. And then the last one, and I put this, verse six and seven. How many people, when uh you read that when I read that phrase, the last part of verse 6, as the Lord liveth, he shall not be slain. How many people smirked a little bit when I read that? How many how many people maybe you didn't say it this way, but you thought in your mind, yeah, right. This is my third point on verse six and seven. Um and this is a real word. I looked it up. Saul's dubiousness. If something's dubious, what does that mean? Doubtful. Questionable. I don't think that's legit. I think every one of us when we read that, and I'm I want to think in the back of my mind, several of the people standing around when Saul said that thought, yeah, right. So it's dubious there. Let's look at the first one. Saul's demand, verse number one. And as I said, I see in this here two categories or two types of loyalty. Toxic loyalty, I see in verse number one. Saul's demand. Look what it says. And Saul spake to Jonathan his son and all his servants that they should kill David. This animosity in David on Saul's in Saul's heart and mind towards David has just reached a whole new level. I mean this is coming out. This is no longer a personal issue with Saul. It has now become a nationwide campaign. Saul is bringing the the armed forces of Israel into this personal vendetta. He has against David. The first thing under Saul's demand I notice here, first of all, it was an an emphatic demand. I got looking up the word as I always do. I got looking these words up, and the word spake caught my attention. Saul spake unto Jonathan. That word spake is used in uh various, it's translated various ways throughout the Bible Some places it's translated commanded. Another definition I came across I thought was interesting, it was it was this, one of the definitions of the word, Hebrew word that it's translated from. uh has this idea to pronounce as a threat. So we get this little subtle insight into what's taking place when King Saul spake to Jonathan and to his servants. He wasn't just it wasn't just, oh, I wish David was dead. That guy gets on my nerves. I wish somebody would choke him. Wasn't that way. Anybody and you're not going to admit it, but anybody ever say something like that, oh I wish he'd fall over or something. That guy gets on my nerves. We don't really mean it You know, it's just we're frustrated, we're angry, oh I uh I wish uh did you ever say this, oh I'd like to choke that guy. You know, you guys never do. Now we don't mean it. We uh we we're not meaning that, we're just saying that. However, when King Saul said Kill that guy. He wasn't just expressing a desire. He wasn't just wishing ill on David. He was being very, very emphatic here. He was telling Jonathan, you are to kill David. He was telling his servants, I am telling you, kill David. And I want to suggest to you, Jonathan, which is obvious here in a little bit, and the servants, there was no question in their minds. Whether Saul was serious about this or not. There was no doubt in their minds what Saul was talking about or where he was getting it. Nobody scratched their head and said, You mean you really want us to kill him? Saul made that absolutely clear. Everybody knew exactly. This was an emphatic demand on his part He spake unto them. He made this statement, the implied threats going behind it. A command So it's an emphatic demand. Then the next thing I notice, and I put it this way, an extensive demand. And by that I mean this. He includes not just Jonathan in on this demand he's making, but he's bringing his servants, and I think by servants there it's implying the leadership in his administration. And um Jonathan is his son. Now why what do you think? Now think with me here a little bit. What would why would Saul think that Jonathan Would perhaps be on board with him killing David Oh, he's heir to the throne. This is the king's son. Now, this is a lot of speculation. I'm reading into it maybe. The Bible doesn't tell us this, but knowing human nature as it is. And seeing how King Saul has been playing people to try and using people and manipulating people to try and accomplish what he once done. I can see very, very easily, Saul thinking in his mind, well, of course Jonathan's going to support me on this because David is a threat to his his uh his throne I think he was appealing to Jonathan's pride. Man, who wouldn't want to be king? King of Israel And uh sit on that throne and command the armies and you know and be uh uh adored by people and Saul is projecting, I think, Saul is projecting onto Jonathan his own mindset. Because we know from earlier Saul's interaction with Samuel, when God said, I'm through with you, I'm going to take the kingdom from you, give it to another. Saul was desperate to retain the kingdom. The most important thing in Saul's mind was him remaining king, at least one of the most important things. And so he's projecting, I think, he's projecting into Jonathan's mind, he's projecting there, Jonathan surely is thinking the same way I am. Do you ever notice that people when they get messed up in their thinking, they think other people think the same way they think And then they're shocked when they don't. Do you ever have somebody come and say something ridiculous to you? They're serious. They say the most ridiculous thing. And you say, what in the world are you talking about? And they're dumbfounded that you you you don't understand. You follow what I'm saying? I think that's where King Saul is. And so this is extensive. He's bringing Jonathan in on this, appealing to his pride, appealing to his ambition, but then he brings in his servants. And again, the Bible doesn't say this, and this is speculation on my part. But I think he's when by the servants, it's not meaning the guy that shines his shoes and cleans the restrooms and that type of stuff. I think he's talking about uh cabinet position type people Leaders in his administration. And as I said a few moments ago, this is no longer a personal issue between Saul and his hatred for David. This he is making it a national campaign. This is he is declaring in so many words David is public enemy of Israel, number one. And so it's become a national campaign. Now, this is where it gets interesting in my thinking. As we read on And we see how the servants particularly, now we're going to see how Jonathan responds. We read it and we'll look at it in depth a little later. But it's interesting to me how the servants respond To Saul's demand. As we read on in the following chapters, what do the servants do? Here's my question. Are the servants loyal to Saul or to David? They're loyal to Saul. They join in and they they assist King Saul in his attempts To root out, find David and kill him. There's going to be several chapters of Saul chasing David all over the place with his army. And they're standing beside him, guarding him, and all of that. There's no insurrection. There's no coup d'etat. To overthrow King Saul. This is ridiculous. We're not doing this. David is our national hero. David is a warrior. David is the most popular man in our country. And you want us to kill him? Are you crazy? You don't see any of that. They just line up with King Saul. And what I see here in this one statement and then in the following chapters I see an expression of loyalty to King Saul that is absolutely toxic. Um, David is a national hero. David is extremely popular. In fact, we just read. Look at verse 30 of chapter 18, the last phrase. David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul, so that his name was much set by. What did we say that means? Highly respected. The servants of Saul, the administration under Saul, respected David tremendously. They knew who he was. They knew what his integrity was. They knew what his behavior was like. They knew what he was like personally. But here's what I'm getting at. Their loyalty to King Saul overrode their integrity towards David. And when my loyalty to my loyalty to someone supersedes my loyalty to what is right. That is toxic loyalty. That is dangerous. The servants loyally assisted King Saul in pursuing David. Uh loyalty, how many people agree with me? Loyalty is a good thing. Right? We ought to be loyal. We ought to be loyal to one another as brothers and sisters in Christ. We ought to be loyal to family. How many people believe family ought to be loyal? Oh, blood's thicker than water. We ought to be loyal to family. We ought to be loyal to our employees. An employer ought to be loyal to his employees. An employ The Ido be loyal to to his employers Loyalty is right, loyalty is good, but loyalty can be misplaced. And as I said a moment ago, when I am more loyal to an individual person than I am to my Lord, Then that is toxic loyalty. That is unhealthy loyalty. I put a few uh list the things here about what I consider to be uh loyalty is toxic when, number one, when integrity must be compromised to maintain my loyalty. If I have to lie for someone to be loyal to them, that is unhealthy loyalty. Amen. What's the Ten Commandments say? Thou shalt not bear false witness If I have to compromise my integrity, if I have to do wrong to maintain my loyalty to somebody, then that loyalty is unhealthy. Unhealthy. My loyalty must be to the truth. When sinful loyalty is toxic, when sinful actions have to be defended. If I have a friend and they are sinning against God or whoever, right? And I have to stand up and defend their sinful actions. That is unhealthy loyalty. Um, sin is never to be defended There's only one thing the Bible tells us very clearly what we're to do with sin. We're to confess it, forsake it, and then forget it. But never defend it. Not in my life or anyone else. And there's a real danger there when we get so loyal to someone and they're sinning and they're doing wrong and they're sinning against God and say, well, you know, it's not that big a deal. Well, you know, they're my friend, and it's alright. No, it's not alright. Um toxic uh loyalty is toxic when godliness has to be abandoned. Um Young person. You my friend? Yeah, I'm your friend. You're loyal? Yeah, we're loyal. We're we're friends. We're loyal. Alright. You're coming to the drinking party Saturday night with me, right? Uh I don't know man, that's that's ungodly stuff. I'm not going to that party. They're serving bic uh uh bicker and leer. I mean liquor and beer. No, loyalty, that's a toxic loyalty. If I'm going into an ungodly situation, I'm going to engage in ungodly activities to maintain my loyalty to a friend. Number one No friend, real friend, would want somebody to do that. And number two, my loyalty must be to godliness, number one. If I have to, loyalty is toxic when biblical convictions must be violated to maintain my loyalty. Every Christian ought to have biblical convictions. I mean, biblical convictions, things that I am convinced from the Word of God this is right. and this is wrong, it is a conviction of mine. There's a difference between a conviction of something and a preference for something. Alright? Some people prefer something. There's no biblical precedent or principle anyway. It's just they prefer that and I prefer this. I mentioned, I think it was last week, a fella It was a little uh operish music, wasn't sinful, was godly, was just beautiful, it was a little operational, and this guy didn't like it. There was no biblical convictions there, there was no contemporary imitating the world or bringing in sensual type stuff. It's just a preference. And so I can I can deal with a preference. Somebody likes something that I'm um some people like kind of bluegrass type music. I'm not a big fan of it, but You know, it's whatever. That's a preference. But somebody says, hey, we're going to a rock and roll concert Saturday night, I'm sorry. I don't care how good of friends we are, I don't care what loyalty is, I'm not going to that thing. Amen. Now I know a lot of you really struggle with going to rock and roll concerts by the crowd, I can see that. But the principle, I hope you understand the principle I'm trying to meet. So there's a toxic loyalty. I look at these servants and I think, what in the world are they doing? They're following in right behind their king. This is wrong. If you would, I think the Lord touched on this. Now, I may be reading in, I'll allow for that, but come with me if you would back to Luke chapter 14. Jesus made some very strong, and I would say some strong some striking, surprising statements. Uh maybe some difficult statements in Luke chapter 14 But I think the Lord was addressing what I'm trying to address this evening. What I kinda see here, I'm pulling out from that uh what these servants, how they're responding to King. Luke chapter 14, and look with me if you would at verse number 27. Or I'm sorry, verse number. Let's start at verse 25. Luke chapter 14, verse 25. Look at these statements the Lord makes here. And there went great multitudes with him, and he turned and said unto them, now listen to what the Lord says here. If any man come to me and hate not his father and his mother, his wife, and his children, and his brethren and his sisters, yea, and his own life also. Look at this next statement. He cannot be what? Cannot be my disciple. He's not talking about salvation here. He's talking about discipleship. It's a difference. But did you catch what he's saying? How many people agree with me? That statement bothers me a little bit. It's like, what do you mean? Hate my father, my mother, my brother, sister, my wife, my children, my own life? Hate it? Then he goes on. And whosoever doth not bear his cross, what do they do with what there's one thing you do with a cross? What's that? You kill people on it. Death. So if you don't bear your cross, if you don't die to yourself, look what he says. You cannot be my disciple. Come down to verse 33. So likewise, whosoever he be that forsaketh not all that he hath, forsaketh all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. Now he's not saying you can't be saved. We're saved by faith, putting by faith and trust in Jesus Christ by grace, by leaving on the Lord Jesus Christ. That'll save my soul. He says, but if you want to be my disciple Then you take up your cross, you're gonna hate father, mother, brother, sister, wife, children, your own life also. You're gonna forsake all that you have. Now is he tell now is he saying I've got to literally have malice and hatred in my heart towards my family. No, obviously not, because we're told other places were to love them. Uh does he mean that I have to actually nail myself on a cross and die? No. He's He's he's making a point. He's trying to uh uh he's trying to teach us something. I think in the context of what I'm pulling out of verse one of First Samuel 19, I think this is what he's saying. Your loyalty must be to me above everything else Family, possessions, and even your own will, your own life, your loyalty must be to me above all of that. Because if my loyalty is to family or friends or to possessions or me, my own self, if my loyalty is all that is above my loyalty to Christ, then that is toxic loyalty. And the Lord says, I cannot tolerate that. You want to follow me and be my disciple? The loyalty is to me, your God, your creator, your savior. Loyalty to me. And so I see some loyalty on the part of these disciples that are not the disciples, I see some loyalty on the part of the um uh Saul's servants. That is not a healthy loyalty. And we're going to see that what King Saul was saying was not to what he was asking them to do was to murder an innocent man. Now, my loyalty ought to never be so great that I'm going to murder an innocent person in order to maintain that loyalty. Now maybe I'm reading too much into those servants thinking, but I'm telling you in the next couple chapters, they are doing exactly what King Saul is demanding of them to do. Well, though I don't see any, there's no record of any resistance on their part. Well, it's possible. You know, they may just be we're going to get whacked if we don't. So that could be a factor in there. But uh the Lord said, you know, uh uh there was a statement It's funny you said that. There's a statement in the news recently, and I didn't really read the article, so I can't comment on what it all means. But somebody, apparently it's running for president, said you don't look back for greatness, or you can't find any greatness looking back. I don't know if anybody heard that statement. Yeah, somebody running for president. I don't know exactly what he meant by that, but I'll tell you Our ancestors, our Baptist ancestors looking back, there was some great men and women. We can find greatness looking back. Crazy probably, that sounds like something he would say. But my point is this. My point is this. We have men and women in our Baptist ancestors. Who were so loyal to Christ that they would be burned at a stake before they would forsake or do something wrong, deny Christ or do something wrong. And not only were they willing to do it, they rejoiced. Their loyalty to the Lord was so thorough, so genuine That their life meant nothing to them. Their family. There was one instance, I think it was John Bunyan in prison. His daughter was blind. She'd come outside the prison begging him to give in and let him have it so you can get out. And he said, I will not That's loyalty to the Lord. And so I can't answer for these servants, but I do know this: there is a loyalty that is unhealthy. I want to show you one other. Now this might I don't know. Come over to 1 Corinthians chapter 7. I think this could easily be misinterpreted what I'm going to say, but uh to me it very clearly teaches. 1 Corinthians 7. That our loyalty is to the Lord above anyone and everyone else. 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse number 13. Now he's addressing the church at Corinth. We studied this. Let's see, this is chapter 7. This was about 14 years ago. Probably wasn't that long, but we've been in here forever on this book. And he's addressing men and women in the church that are married to unsaved people. Uh actually come up. Look at verse 13. And the woman which hath a husband that believeth not, so she's saved, he's not saved. And if he be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him. Your husband's unsaved, he's fine with you living for the Lord, you know, and being a disciple of Christ, he's okay with that. Good. Don't leave him. You stay there. You stay faithful. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Else were your children unclean, but now are they clean? That's another subject. But now look at verse 15. But if the unbelieving, the unsaved spouse, depart, make sure you go with them. Is that what it says? What's he say? Let him depart. Let him go. Can I say this? I don't think I'm reading into it. He's saying, don't you sacrifice your loyalty to the Lord. even to maintain a relationship with a family member. Let him depart. And he says He says, a brother and sister is not under bondage in such case, but God hath called us to peace. So what are we saying? We're saying this. There is a loyalty That is misplaced that there can be a loyalty to that is misplaced and become unhealthy. I tell you, I've been doing this a while. And I've seen over the years, I've seen somebody, I'm thinking of one young couple, it's been a number of years ago. We were out soul winning, he trusted Christ. I think the boy genuinely got saved Came to church for a little while, he was uh got baptized. Uh his fiance at the time was not safe He was witnessing to her, talking to her, and if I remember correctly, she made a profession of faith. I don't believe I baptized her. I might have. I don't remember But once they got in and got a little bit of preaching and Bible, and she was having none of it. She was having none of it. This is not for me. This is not where I'm at. I want nothing to do with this. She goes, I am never going back there or anything like that again. And the old boy went with her. Now I'm I I don't want to be hard. You know, they got married. You understand what I'm trying to say? That's a hard thing. I know what I'm saying is not easy. It's hard. But I I see him every now and then. He's nice to me, but I can't drag him into church. I don't they're not going anywhere. Raising kids, no Bible. No God, no Jesus, no salvation, no nothing. That's a hard thing, right? But where's our loyalty? I've seen it over the years with parents and kids. Parents have kids, they're small, boy, they're bringing them to Sunday school and church. We're teaching them verses, teaching what's right and wrong, what the Lord wants. Make a profession, they get baptized, grow up, and as they get older, you know what happens? Sometimes those kids start to drift. From the the commitment and the Christianity that the parents had, what they understand the Bible to teach and preach, and the kids start to drift off And I've seen it. I've seen it. I've seen this happen. Where the parents begin to abandon their own convictions. their own standards and what they know that book teaches, and they follow the kids, and everything's a mess. Everything's a mess. I've had parents I've had parents defend the most wicked sin of kids, defended them because it was their kids doing it. Now listen, I think we ought to love our kids and we ought to be loyal to them, obvious obviously, but not to the extent that I compromise biblical convictions and what I know is right and defend sin. Listen, I can love my child, but yet not approve of what they're doing. Right? I can love my spouse and not necessarily approve maybe whatever. You follow what I'm saying. This is an important principle. And I think in a and we live in a day and age Where the Lord has been pushed aside and everything else is so important to us and the loyalty to the Lord is on a back shelf and a loyalty to myself and what I have and people and others has taken over everything. And we have a Christianity like that, and that is not biblical Christianity. Oh, and by the way, let me throw one more out and I gotta quit. I know it's really warm in here. It was snowing Monday, right? Today it was 70 some degrees, right? I want to see you try and regulate the temperature when it's doing that. But I've seen it this way also. Can I throw one more out? If Helen's warm, then you know it's hot in here. And if Pastor Matt's cold, then you know it's freezing in here. But um what was I talking about? Loyalty. Church. Let me let me give you one more. I've seen you know churches sometimes drift. Sometimes churches go liberal. They'll bring other versions, they'll bring in other things, they'll quit preaching the gospel, and they'll just go bad. Churches will go bad. Denominations will go bad. And I've seen it over the years. I've seen it. Or somebody's in maybe a good church at one time. The power of God's on their souls being saved, missions. They're preaching and teaching the Bible. And they drop the buses. A more revival meaning to no invitations. Missions goes down to nothing. Start using other versions. They bring in music, worldly music. And somebody says, but this is where grandma and grandpa went to church. This is where mom and dad went to church. They're buried in the yard back there. I'm going to be loyal to my church. And I'm telling you, that's unhealthy loyalty. Now should I should we leave a church over every little thing we don't agree with, every little thing that you know, every little hiccup that comes along everything? No, no, there's loyalty there. But when significant things, when when scriptural principles are being violated and they are disobeying God, then that becomes an unhealthy loyalty. Alright? I probably beat this thing to death tonight. But that just got me when I saw those servants. None of them, as far as we can tell, stood up and said, Saul, you're asking us to murder an innocent person. I'll not do it. They were loyal to a man that was asked to do wrong. I told you I won't even get through the first verse. And then the last thing I put was it's an extreme demand, and I basically already said it. He's asked them to murder. He's asking them to murder David. And by the way, if you look at it very carefully, he gives no justification for murdering David. He doesn't say, oh, he's conniving behind my back, oh, he's a traitor. He doesn't say any of that. He just says, kill him. Gives no justification for it because there isn't any. It's murder. It's murder. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help, Lord, to help us be loyal. Help us to be loyal friends. Help us to be loyal family members, spouses, church members. Help us to be loyal employees and a loyal employers. But Lord, I pray you'd help me and all of us. To not allow any earthly loyalty to supersede our loyalty to our Creator, our God, and our Savior. And Lord, you would enable us and give us that backbone and that wisdom to know where to draw the line. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed.