2 Samuel chapter number 3. I'm just going to read verse number 1. 2 Samuel 3. 1. The Bible says, now there was a long war. Between the house of Saul and the house of David. But David waxed stronger and stronger, and the house of Saul waxed what? Weaker and weaker. David's house, David's administration, his army, his people, they got stronger and stronger. House of Saul, which was of course Abner and uh the his son, uh Saul's son, they got weaker and weaker and weaker. I've entitled the message. I just took the title from that first phrase there, Long War A long word. Let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us tonight. Father in heaven, we have our Bibles open here before us, Lord. We believe that this is your word, and so we're asking you, Father as the author of this word, this book, that you would teach us what took place here, what this is all about, and Lord, how it applies to our lives. I believe I speak for all of us, Father, those here and online, myself certainly. Lord, we want to be better Christians. We want to be stronger in our faith. Lord, we want to be more effective in our witness in this old sinful world. And so, Holy Spirit of God, please challenge us, encourage, direct us. Teach us tonight. I yield my will to you and I present my body anew. And every time I speak, Lord, I pray with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. And it wouldn't just be me here talking, but it would be your Holy Spirit helping us and and uh uh exhorting us. So please bless now. Have your way in our lives. Help us to be responsive to what you uh uh say to us. And I ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Verse number one here of chapter three, we start this chapter off with a one of Israel's, the first of several civil wars. That Israel experience uh throughout their history. It's certainly not the last one. See, there's several of them through there, of course the big one being right after uh Solomon dies. nations split in half, the Northern Kingdom, Southern Kingdom, and pretty much finished out their biblical history, record of their history that way. But uh was starting out here in Israel's uh first civil war. Now To me, and I think all of us probably agree to this, it's always a tragedy when God's people fuss with each other. Right or wrong? That's a tragedy. When God's people go to war with each other, uh when God's people um uh fuss and fight with each other, I'll tell you this, I believe And we can see it in in Israel's history. They had a lot of things they did and things that hurt them spiritually. But I think probably one of the most damaging things to the cause of Christ and to the body of Christ is when God's people get fighting with each other. I believe that's brought more fuss, more divisions to the cause of Christ than false doctrine Or uh immorality and any of these other things, and they have caused damage, no doubt about it. But division among the people of God. As I studied this and got reading it, I thought, what a tragedy. The house of David What a good man. The house of Saul, anointed of God to be king. David had such respect for the position Saul held, and I think to an extent to the man himself. And yet here they are, with a long war fighting one another. The Christian life Is a life of peace of mind. How many people since you've gotten saved, you have more peace of mind than you did before? I know I do. Goodness The Christian life is a life of joy, the joy of the Lord. I tell you, I wouldn't trade one evening of the joy of the Lord with ten years of the pleasure of sin. There's no comparison. The Christian life is a life of peace of mind. We can have peace of mind even in the midst of confusion. We can have the joy of the Lord. But the Christian life is also a life of conflict, a life of spiritual warfare. Whether we like it or not, and whether we even recognize it or want to admit it or not, those of us that know the Lord as Savior, we are in the midst of a spiritual warfare. We really are Uh we are, well, I put it this way in my notes, we're in the midst of a spiritual civil war. I never really thought of it this way before, before I got looking at this. But when God initially created all things, of course Satan was created. You know Satan's a created being, right? Jesus is not a created being. Satan is a created being. And by the way, I was reading Brother Mike Barden's prayer letter came yesterday or today. I think it came yesterday And uh he always puts a little no to Mormonism. Uh the Mormons are wrong when they say that Satan is Jesus' brother They teach that Satan is Jesus' brother, his spirit brother. That God the Father had Jesus and Satan by one of his spirit wives, one of God's wives. It's all just ridiculous. But when God created Satan and God created the universe and all there is, for a period of time, and we don't know the length of that time, I don't think it was real long, but For a period of time, uh creation existed in harmony with God before the fall of man, before Adam and Eve Sin, before Satan fell, I should say, there was a period of time when the created world was in harmony with the Creator. And then pride stepped in in the heart and mind of Satan, Lucifer, as he's referred to in Isaiah And brought division. And Lucifer prompted, now this is maybe I'm stretching a little bit here, but Lucifer prompted a civil war in God's universe: Satan against God. Right versus against wrong. And now for those of us that know Christ as Savior in the church age here in particular We have a civil war in our own heart and soul. And it would be the presence of the Holy Spirit versus what? The flesh, our old sinful nature, Galatians chapter 5. The spirit lusts or wars, desires against the flesh and the flesh against the spirit. How many people have experienced that civil war in your own heart and soul and mind? Jore, that battle there. Whether we like to admit it or not, or whether we recognize it or not, you and I are in the midst of a civil war The great apostle Paul, perhaps we refer to him sometimes as perhaps one of the greatest Christians that ever lived. He's if you read Romans chapter 7 very carefully, he knew exactly what this civil war was all about when he said something, again I'm I'm paraphrasing here in my own words, but he says something to this effect The things I want to do, the things I know I should do, the right things I desire to do, I find myself not doing. And the things I know I shouldn't do, and the things I know that is not pleasing to God, I find myself doing them. It says, I'm in this battle. I've got this civil war going on in my heart and soul. How many people here ever said or did something or thought something You know you shouldn't, but you went and did it anyway. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody here ever have something you know the Lord wants me to do this? I know this is pleasing the Lord, I know this is right the Lord, but then we don't do it. Anybody Yeah, it's that civil war going on, that spiritual warfare. And so we are in a spiritual warfare between let me take the terminology from verse one here and Adapt it to what I'm trying to say, between the house of God and the house of Satan. Between the things of God and the things of this world, the things of the devil And so we come to this record here of the house of David in a long war with the house of Saul. Now, I don't want to go off on this too much, but if you think about it, and I'm going to get to this a little bit, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but uh, if you think about it, you have the house of David is coming from the position of being in the will of God. God had anointed David to be king. Saul was dead. David had waited on the Lord. He uh uh God led and directed him to come back into the uh uh tr tribe of Judah at least, and they anointed him publicly as king. He's in his position that God had as a young man anointed him to be in David is in the will of God when he is on the throne of Israel at this point. Now, the house of Saul, under the leadership of Abner, Saul's chief of staff, the captain of his host. They are out of the will of God. We're going to look at this a little bit. And Abner is being prompted, not his motive and his actions are not based upon the will of God, but the will of who? Abner. He's doing what he wants to do. And he's drawn the house of s of Saul into his into his uh scheme here, here, his agenda. And so I think you have a picture here. Again, I don't really want to go off on this, but I think there's a picture here of the war between the new nature that we have doing the will of God and the old flesh, the old nature that wants its own will. We talked about that here just in an introduction. So, we don't know a whole lot about this war. Let's come back to our passage. We don't know a whole lot about this war. We're not told much. In fact, this is pretty much all of it. We'll see how it ends. We're told how it ends But we're not told much about this war here. But I noticed three things in verse number one about this long war. that David finds himself in. Number one, my first observation is this. This is a protracted war. A protracted war. What does it mean if something is Protracted. It is what? Talk to me now, y'all. I gotta keep y'all awake one way or another. Drawn out, dragging out. This is a protracted war. If you would look back at chapter 2 and verse 11, it tells us how long this war is, about. Chapter 2 of 2 Samuel, look at verse 11. And the time that David was king in Hebron, that's the tribe of Judah, over the house of Judah, was how many years? Seven years and how many months? Six months. So we look at that and we come to the conclusion that uh this war was about seven seven years and six months, give or take a little bit, because at the end of that period, then David ultimately eventually becomes king of all of Israel. And so for seven and a half years approximately, this war is dragging out. Now, I noticed a few things about a long war. How many folks here? Which would you rather have? A short war with someone or a long war? Short war. Uh short wars are if you're gonna have war, a short one's better than a long one, generally speaking. Now what are some things about a long war? The first one I put down, long wars are difficult. A long war is a difficult war. One of the difficult aspects in war is when it starts dragging out. Getting longer and longer and longer and longer. And one of the difficult aspects of the Christian life One of the difficult aspects of the Christian life is this lifelong struggle that you and I have with our enemy. And we have a threefold enemy. Somebody help me. What are the What's the threefold enemy that we face according to 1 John? The world? The flesh? And the devil. You mark it down. Those three, the world, my own sinful nature, my quote-unquote flesh, refers to my sinful nature in me. And the devil himself, those three are not a friend of grace. This whole world is not out to help you and I be a long-term, faithful, successful, victorious Christian. It's out just the opposite. The devil is not helping us live for God. How many people understand that? Sure. And the tough part in the Christian life, one of the most difficult aspects of the Christian life Is maintaining a long term consistent walk with God I'm looking at a lot of folks, uh many of us here have been saved for an extended period of time. Some pretty long. Some of y'all have been saved maybe longer than I've been alive That's a pretty long time now that I think about it. But um uh I I I'm telling you one of the hardest parts is being consistent. When I was uh down at in Bible college and uh I was working in the bus ministry And uh that was pretty much a full-time job. I was under uh Brother Tommy Sexton. He was a dear friend, he was the director of the bus ministry at the time And uh we got talking one time, we were in the bus office there, we got talking, and I just said this to him, just kind of I don't remember what the context of our conversation was, but I remember him making this statement, I particularly remember his response I said, Brother Sexton, how in the world do you live a con a person live a consistent Christian life? Just be consistent. And he looked at me and without hesitation he says, When you figure it out, you tell me. You know what that said to me? It's not easy to live a long-term, consistent Christian life. Take your Bible, if you would Go to keep your place here. We're going to come back to this, but go to Mark chapter number four. And we see this illustrated here. The Lord Excuse me, I dropped my thing. Uh come to Mark chapter four. We see this illustrated in a parable that the Lord gave the disciples explaining why some people uh would follow the Lord for a little bit of time. They would seem to be a good Christian for a period of time. Then they'd drop off. They'd be a little Christian for a while. Then you didn't see anything of them. Then others would Man, their whole life they lived for the Lord and very, very effective. And he's explaining to them in this parable about a fellow that's sowing seed. And he mentions that the seed falls in various types of ground and how the seed responds to the ground it falls in. And he's in our passage in our Reference verses we're going to reference here, he's explaining this parable. Look with me at verse number 14. I think most of us perhaps are familiar with this parable, but I want you to notice the Lord's explanation here, particularly In this idea of a long war, a long Christian life being successful and fruitful for the Lord. Look at verse 14. The sower soweth the word. And these are they which uh these are they by the wayside when the word was shown, but when they heard Satan cometh immediately and taketh away the word that was sown in their hearts. Alright, some people hear the word of God, and Satan has such a grip on them, such an access, they just snatch it away, it has no effect on them All right, look at verse 16, or verse uh 16. And these, second group, are they likewise, which are sown on stony ground. Now look at this. Who, when they have heard the word of God, immediately do what? Receive it with what? Oh man, they're excited. They heard the word. They heard the gospel. Amen. That's what I want. And they received it with gladness. I mean these people are fired up. This is the person you they you invite a visitor to church, you bring some somebody in on the bus route, or some visitors come in Preacher preaches, gives the gospel, invites folks. Man, they come come forward, they get saved, they trust the Lord, or in Sunday school and children's church teams, whatever. They trust the Lord, man, they're excited, they're fired up. But look what happens They receive with this, verse 17, and have no root in themselves, and so endure, but for what? A time. Doesn't last. This is a very short war. In their life, but look what happens. Afterward, when affliction or persecution ariseth For the word's sake, there's that spiritual warfare, the world's after him, persecuting them. Look what happens. Immediately they are offended. They get their beat, they're whooped. And these are they which sown among thorns, such as hear the word, and the cares of this world, deceitfulness of riches, lust of other things enter in, choke the word becometh unfruitful. And then the last group, those on good ground. They hear the word, they receive it, they bring forth food, fruit, some thirtyfold, some sixty, some a hundred. And uh I take away from there where he says they bring forth fruit. I never yet I like to plant some stuff in the spring. I'm not a great gardener, but I enjoy it, tomatoes and stuff, peppers And uh I have yet put a seed in there and the next day I have a full plant full of peppers ready to eat. Never happens that way. It takes what? Time. And so I take it from that fourth group there, these have endured for a long time. And their life is bearing fruit. But the point I'm trying to make is this. A long war is difficult. It is difficult. Come back with me, if you would, to our text in 2 Samuel. A lifelong struggle with the world, the flesh, and the devil is uh is not easy. Some people last 30 days, some people last 30 weeks, but you give me the Christian that lasts for 30 years or more. And that's the one that's winning the war. That's the one that's uh that's enduring. So long wars, I put number one, are are difficult. Uh warfare is a series of battles, and when you have a long war You have a series of battles for a long time. How many people here ever made this statement? If it wasn't for one thing, it's something else. Anybody ever make that statement? Anybody here ever say this? It's just one thing after another. Uh, welcome to the Christian life. Welcome. If anybody told you when you got saved that it's going to be smooth sailing, no troubles, no battles, the rest of your life, you've got it made, they were lying to you. Because the Christian life is one thing after another. Anybody here ever struggle with something? Maybe you go to a revival meeting or church service or whatever you have in your devotions, and man, God speaks to your heart. And you got victory over that, and you said, Man, praise the Lord, God help me with that. And the next thing you know, you're being whooped some other area. And then it's like, oh man, you try and put that fire out, and you get that taken care of. Then oh, it's something else It's a lifelong struggle. So long wars, number one, are difficult. I put this down, long wars, number two, are destructive are destructive. The longer the war is, the more things get destroyed. Do you understand what armies, the response what you know what the job of the military is? Is to destroy things and kill people Boil it down. That's what they're supposed to do. And most successful armies are very good. And so if you're going to have a war, stuff gets destroyed. And the longer the war, the more things get destroyed. And the longer the war, the more resources are used up Spiritual warfare. I put this down. I thought this was a little clever. The spiritual warfare is a war of attrition. Now that word attrition means this, just wearing down the resistance You'll study the history of World War I. Many times World War I will be referred to as a war of attrition. They knew they could the two sides in World War knew the two allies and and Axis uh two enemies, they could they knew they couldn't just wipe out the other, so their their tactic was to just wear it down, just wear it down, just wear them down. A war of attrition. And the spiritual warfare is very similar to that. The devil Doesn't come walking into a church service and say, hey, uh I'm the devil, I'm here to destroy this place. You know what he does He picks here, tax there, tax here, and just wears it down and wears it down and wears it down and wears it down. And that's what he does for you and I as Christians. A long war is difficult to to uh to win and be victorious in, and it's uh very destructive. Uh Satan, the world, the flesh and the devil, they just keep coming at us and they just keep coming at us and they just keep coming at us. I tell you, there's a few things I respect about the devil. The few things I respect about the war in my own sinful sinful nature, there's a few things where I take my hat when I take my hat off, I salute him. And one thing about the devil I respect is this: he does not quit. If we could get Christians as tenacious as the devil is, we might accomplish something in this whole world. Uh the world doesn't quit. I mean they just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. This old sinful nature. You know, I I I've said this before. When uh I first got saved, one long, I realized the old the old Denny was still ticking. I had to deal with that old nature. I had to accept that. And finally the Lord was leading me to go to Bible college. I thought, man, Tennessee Temple School preaching, it's all Christians studying the ministry. I'm gonna get down there and no more fighting with the devil, no more struggles with the old Zoom. It's gonna be awesome when I get down there And I got down there and they gave me my dorm room and gave me my roommates, and I found out that one of my roommates was the devil himself. He was there in school with me in my room. And the old sinful nature was there and the world was still. I thought finally I graduated after uh after uh packing four years into six, I finally uh got out of there And I thought, man, I got a position in Indianapolis. I was pastor Dennis. I thought this is going to be great. No more struggles, no more devil, no more world, no more flesh. I'm the pastor. Pastors don't have any struggles. They don't ever sin. And guess what? I showed up and guess who was in my office waiting for me? And I learned something. This whole world doesn't quit and the old devil doesn't quit. Doesn't matter what your title is, doesn't matter where you're at or how good the church is you are in. They just don't quit. They just don't quit. Long wars are difficult. Long wars are destructive. And I put this down, long wars are deadly. Generally speaking, more people die in long wars than in short wars. How many people that makes sense? More people die in a long war than they do in a short war. And I thought when the house of David and the house of Saul were fighting each other in this long war, I wonder how many people died. I wonder how many people died because Abner was out of sorts with David and with God. That said, then I got thinking about the church in general. Christian world that we live in. I wonder how many people die in their sins without Christ, never hearing the gospel Because a Christian is out of sorts with a brother or sister in the Lord, or a Christian is out of sorts with God, they bring damage to the cause of Christ. And a gospel preaching church divides and is shut down, or a gospel preaching ministry, or a faithful soul winner. Long wars are difficult to win. And you and I are in a long war that's called the Christian light. We've got to stay close to God. We've got to stay humble before the Lord. We've got to keep short accounts. And uh they're difficult to win, and they're so destructive. If we let if we give the devil an inch, he's gonna take a yard every time. He'll take a mile. And they're so deadly. They're so deadly. Satan means business. The world's not playing. The world is out as an enemy of the gospel, as an enemy of God. They're not playing. And this old sinful flesh of mine is serious And whether we take serious our walk with God or not, whether we take seriously our spiritual well being, whether we take it seriously or not, I'll tell you this, the devil's taking it serious, the world's taking it serious, and this whole sinful nature's taking serious uh serious to bring us down. And the Christian that plays with their Christianity is the Christian that gets defeated. Every time. And so this long war, we must be, I put three things, we must be spiritually aware, not ignorant, of the devil's devices, of the world's tactics, of the presence Of my own sinful nature. We must be armed. Ephesians chapter 6, put on the whole armor of God. Be honest. Stay close to God. Stay in his word. Pray. Exercise faith And we need to be attached. And by that I mean to Christ. He said, without me, you can do nothing. I cannot beat the devil of my own efforts. I cannot withstand this world. I cannot crucify my own flesh and my own power. Think of this: the flesh will never deny the flesh. I need the power of God. I need the presence of Christ. I need the filling of the Holy Spirit. I need to abide in Christ. So that I'm enabled to fight this long war. So my first observation here about this war, this long war between the house of Saul and the house of David. It's a protracted war. Let me real quickly give you two more observations. We're not told hardly anything about the war other than this one verse here. But I noticed this the participants in this war. Now I touched on this a little bit. But we have the house of Saul is fighting against the house of David. Now, it's not the Philistines against the Israelites. It's not the Ammonites against the Israelites, it's not the Midianites, it's not the Mennonites, it's not the Babylonians. By the way, the Mennonites weren't part of that. I just added that in there It's God's people fighting God's people. Man, what a tragedy This is the house of Israel. This is God's people. And you got the house of David and the house of Saul. Two good houses in and of themselves. And they're fighting each other. What began as one man's sinful ambition progressed into an extended civil war. Abner could not take David's rebuke. Abner's out after revenge. I have no doubt about that. And Abner knows that God has anointed David To be king of all of Israel. He knows that. He admits it in the next chapter. But yet he's fighting the will of God. Self. Self-will, the flesh, that is the root of all conflict between God's people. It's the root of all conflict Pride is the root of all comfort. Take your Bible, if you would. Turn with me. Now keep your place here. We're not quite done here yet. But go to Proverbs 17. Abner gets out of sorts with David. He's out of sorts with God. By the way, I think there's Saul's influence on Abner can be seen here also. Abner is acting very Saul-ish in his behavior here. So he was King Saul's captain of his host. He was the captain of King Saul's host. And so I have no doubt King Saul had tremendous influence. And I'm wondering if King Saul didn't stain Abner's attitude towards David didn't corrupt his thinking about the man that God anointed to be king of Israel Did you ever find do you ever notice this? Somebody says something negative about another Christian, and every time you see that Christian, you think about what they said about them. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I I've got a preacher. He's a good f he's a good fellow. I met him. I talked on the phone. I don't know him personally real well, but I mean he's a fine fellow. But I had another preacher a number of years ago Say something critical about him, something negative. And you know what? Every time I see him or hear him, I think about what that person said critically of them. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Anybody yet? And I'm thinking, you know, he's a good guy. I don't I I shouldn't I shouldn't think this way. But I was influenced that thought, that seemed thought was placed there by the words of another preacher against this preacher, and they're both good men, gospel preachers. I tell you, we have to be very, very careful what we say about other people because it has influences. I would never have thought anything negative of this guy if he hadn't said something about it. And so I've got a sneaking suspicion. In fact, that's a pretty strong suspicion, that Abner's attitude found its roots in Saul's attitude towards David. And he is out after revenge, and he is rebelling against the will of God, and he is worked up and out of sorts. Look with Proverbs 17 with me, and look with me at verse number 14. The beginning of strife, all right, there's that war, the beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water. Now get the get the picture in your mind what he's how he's illustrating this. He said the the beginning of strife, when a fuss starts, a war starts, a fight begins It's just like when you let out water. Now, out at the hunting club where I hunt, they have a pond there, and the beavers love to dam up that pond. I hate beavers. But um uh and they'll damn that thing up. And you know, uh we'll go down there every time I go out well uh uh last year they drained the whole thing, but anyway, every time I go out there That beavers have that thing dammed up. They'd be running over the road there, up on the road, and just causing a problem. And I'd go and start pulling that thing apart. You know what I found out? When you just pull a little bit, you just let a little bit water, boy, that gets moving. And you lit a little bit more, and you know what f happens after a little bit? That water starts tearing it all apart. It's like do you ever remember that story, I forget, the little boy in Amsterdam or somewhere he stuck his finger In the dike that was leaking and he couldn't leave because if he left it out, the whole thing. Anybody remember that story? That was back in the last century we used to tell that story. Seriously, it was And that's what he's saying here. He's saying when the beginning of strife is, is kind of like when water gets a little break in a dam or in a in a tank or something, boy, that thing starts uh working its way and it gets more and more and more and more. Look what he says. The beginning of strife Is as when one letteth out water, therefore I circled the next two words. Therefore, what? Leave off contention before it be meddled with. Well you see that little issue come up, that little revenge David said that about. He publicly embarrassed me. Well you better leave off. Before that thing gets meddling and growing and turns into a war. I circled that word leave off. I got studying it. In the margin of my Bible, I wrote this: walk away. You get worked up, somebody says something, best thing to do is just leave off of that. Just walk away from it. Don't deal with it. with it. I was this is um you're gonna be greatly disappointed. You're gonna I'm gonna reveal to you the fact that I'm not perfect. Great disappointment and shock waves through the world I was at the NBA yesterday. And I'll be I'll be honest with you, the lady was as nice as can be, but there's a few things and things I didn't know and stuff and man uh everybody's listening now. I can nobody's sleeping right now Uh man, I got ticked. And I didn't say any bad words, honest. I didn't. But uh I was short with her. And then and she was so sweet, bless her heart. And afterward, um Uh after I got convicted right away. And so finally I said, ma'am, I'm sorry. I said, I apologize I must apologize fifteen times to her. I said, I'm sorry for getting short. It's not your fault. I didn't know and da da da and going on and um I walked out of there very humbled. The best thing to do is when you get anybody know what I'm talking about? When it starts swelling up in there, the best thing to do is just leave off. Devolve. And um I apologize, apologize. And the worst part is when I was done I turned around and Linda Sines is sitting right behind me. And so uh my plan is tomorrow if I can, I want to take some cookies by and give it to that lady and try and make things up. Leave off, walk away from it. I wonder how many ministries have been damaged because somebody got out of sorts And let it grow and progress into an extended long war. I wonder how many ministries are divided and damaged and destroyed When pride came in and flesh flared up and rather than walking away from it, we indulged it What began as one man's sinful ambition, Abner, his revenge and his rebellion against God progressed to the next Extended civil war. And as I was thinking of a long war, I wondered how many of these dear young men of Israel died in a war that was meaningless? That should not have even took place. Yet they died, husbands, children, sons. Was one man's ambition progressed in the open civil war? I hate to even think this, but I wonder how many people are in hell today But some church or some ministry, some Christian, didn't leave off. The old flesh came in. They let it become a war. The gospel wasn't preached. People died in their sins. Sobering thought. Sobering thought. This long war, number one, the it was a protracted war. Number two, the participants in the war, house of Saul, house of David, people of God. And thirdly, lastly, I notice the progression of this war. If you look at it carefully as you come back here, David did not initiate this war. Abner did. David did not retreat from this war. He knew he was in the will of God. He knew he was Exactly where God wanted to be. He waited on God. He sought the Lord. God directed him. God anointed him initially. And so he stood his ground. But he didn't initiate this. Listen, we don't have to go looking for trouble with the world We don't have to go out looking for God. We don't have to deliberately do things to provoke the world to turn against us. Brother, all we got to do is do right and do the will of God, stand on the word of God. The world's going to raise up its own problem. We don't have to initiate anything with the devil. I don't have to initiate anything with the flesh. Listen, the flesh is there. What I need to do is get in the will of God. Stand on the Word of God. Stay faithful to the will of God. And the old world and the flesh and devil, they're going to come after me. No need to initiate it, but I should never retreat from it. We should never compromise what we know the will of God is to appease the world. Amen or not? But we shouldn't go out and flaunt anything. We shouldn't go out and deliberately provoke the world, but neither do we retreat from the world. The progression of this war. I had a when I first came here there was a little preachers fellowship I would go to over in West Virginia. I'm not against them, but you gotta be Careful which ones you go to is some of them are just a mess. There was one I went and uh got to be know some of the fellows and they were good guys. So please don't misunderstand me. But there one fellow there was I just something didn't seem right. And one time he was speaking and he made this statement. He says, I don't he says, I just want our church to be quiet off the scenes And lay low so we don't get the devil upset and he leaves us alone I thought, what kind of attitude is that for a church that has been given a great commission to take the gospel into all the world? If our motivation, if our motivation is to keep the devil from fighting us. Then we're never going to accomplish anything for God. Never accomplish anything You know what happened? That fella ended up leaving his wife for his secretary in a church and stayed pastor of the church. You know what I thought? I thought devil didn't leave him alone, whether he's doing the will of God or not. So the progression of this, David didn't provoke it, he didn't retreat from it, he fought it. But notice the progression, how this thing played out. But David waxed stronger and stronger. Anybody know what that word waxed means? Did you ever hear someone say something like this, oh, that's a waxing moon? Or a waning moon. Anybody ever hear that? Anybody at all? What's a waxing moon? It's getting what? Larger, bigger, it's getting more and more. And it's usually, if I think of it or remember correctly, it comes from the right to the left. It'll start getting more and more. And then once it gets that full moon, then it's a waning moon. And it's getting less and less and less And the Bible says: in this war between David in the will of God and Abner and the sons of the house of Saul rebelling against the will of God, David waxed stronger and stronger, David's house. And the house of Saul waxed what? Weaker and weaker. And what I take away from that is this. You can't fight the will of God and win. And I'm glad when it's all said and done, and we get to the end of this long war that we're in spiritually, in the end, Satan gets whooped. And the world is destroyed, and this old sinful nature is gone when we get our new bodies. How many people are glad the devil loses The world's taken care of. This old sinful flesh is put to death finally once and for all. It wasn't the size of their armies. David's army was probably smaller than the house of Saul's army. It wasn't the strength of the armies that determined the outcome. Saul's, again, David's house of David was probably weaker in the initially than the house of Saul. They had the full Full-blown army. That didn't determine the outcome. What determined the outcome was this, who was in the will of God And David was in the will of God, and he came stronger and stronger and stronger. House of Saul, out of the will of God, they got weaker and weaker and weaker. A Christian in the will of God, the battles of with the devil and the world and the flesh will make us stronger. I got thinking about these United States and World War Two. Monday was when uh Japan bombed Pearl A Harbor this past Monday, the seventh. They thought that America was awfully weak, and they thought by attacking us, provoking us, that uh they could get our resources. Boy, they were wrong. And shortly after they attacked us, the emperor made this statement. He says, I'm afraid we've awakened a giant. And the Christian in the will of God, the Christian who's walking with God, in the will of God, trusting the Lord. The attacks of Satan, the attacks of the world, and even our own sinful flesh, if we're right with God, if we're in the will of God, respond properly, it'll make us stronger. We'll be stronger in the Lord. You look at the Christians been around for a while that have been fighting and living for God and fighting the devil and fighting sin and fighting the flesh, you'll find some awfully strong Christians. But you find a Christian that gives in and constantly surrenders and constantly compromises, you've got an awfully weak Christian. It was a long war. They're difficult. They're deadly. They're destructive. And uh it was between God's people. That's tragic. But the one in the will of God is the one that comes out stronger every time. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us To be in the will of God. Help us to wait on you and trust you. And when the world and the flesh and the devil fight us throughout our lives, I pray you'd help us just stay true to you. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder if there's any listening in or here in the service that would say, Preacher, you know, I s I feel this war. I see it. Oh, I've I I'm I see I'm in the middle of it. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll stay close to God, that I'll get every year of my life as best I can in the will of God. I'll stay true to Him. I won't re- I'm not going to provoke any spiritual warfare, but I'm not retreating either. I'm going to do the will of God. I'm going to trust God. Is there any like that, preacher? That's where I'm at. And I need the Lord to help me. Any like that? Now maybe that daily Bible reading is getting slack. I tell you, if you're going to be in this long war, you better get that settled. Daily devotions. Prayer. Faith in God. Spiritual armor. Ephesians 6. Read it. We need that if we're going to get stronger in this spiritual war. If you've never trusted Christ as Savior You're right exactly where the devil wants you. You need to turn from that. Come to Christ, trust him, forgive, and cleanse your sin. He died on the cross, buried, rose again Trust him and put your faith in what he's done. He'll forgive you, give you a new life, and you'll be on the winning side. Father, bless now, we ask. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.