Chapter number nineteen is Dave I do not have my cordless mic. I do not know where it is. I think the missionary thought it was a donation when I handed it to him. Thank you, Shirley. First Samuel chapter 19, we're going to read the first oh seven verses. I'm sorry, we're going to read verse four through seven. And we I'm going to try very, very hard to get through all of these Tonight. We started these. Was it last week we started this section, I believe? And um We're going to try and finish out this section. Notice in verse number 4, 1 Samuel 19, and Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father. Wait a minute, that's not correct. We need to start on verse 1. Let's start at verse 1. And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son and to all his servants that they should kill David. But Jonathan, Saul's son, delighted much in David, and Jonathan told David, saying, Saul, my father, seeketh to kill thee. Now therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning And abide in a secret place and hide thyself. And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will commune with my father of thee, and what I see, that will I tell thee And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David. Because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been to thee word very good. For he did put his life in his hand and slew the Philistine And the Lord brought a great salvation for all Israel. Thou sawest it and did rejoice, didst rejoice. Wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood to say to slay David without a cause? And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan, and Saul swore, As the Lord liveth, he shall not be slain. And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all these things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence as in times past. We're looking here, I noticed here. The loyalty of two different people, one's a group of people, and the other is Jonathan individual as an individual So I've called it a loyal friend. Let's pray. I'll briefly cover what we did last week and then we'll cover some new ground. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the testimony of David So we study his life and so much to learn from how you've used him and God uh how he behaved himself, particularly in these early years. So I pray you'd give us open hearts and minds. I pray, Holy Spirit, that you would apply to our individual lives these principles from David's life and these observations we make. That we could be better Christians, our faith in you would be stronger, our witness would be more effective, and Lord, that uh you could be glorified in our lives. So I yield my will to you, I present my body anew, Lord, and I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord, and teach and speak through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. If you remember, I outlined these seven verses this way. The first thing we noted last week was Saul's demand, particularly in verse number one. It's so Saul spake to Jonathan. And we pointed out that word spake there has the idea of a command. with a hint of a threat behind it. So he's not just wishing that David was dead. He's not just hoping that someday David is dead. He is telling his servants and his son David needs to die. Kill David. And so he makes this demand. We said it's an emphatic demand, an extensive demand, and what we meant by that was he's including his own son into his scheme now to eliminate David. He gets his servants on board, and if you remember, we pointed out, at least I noticed here, the toxic loyalty of his servants. Now, I'll allow for the fact I may be reading a little bit too much into this, but I don't find any of his servants standing up and protesting the instruction to murder an innocent man. Not only that, but to murder a national hero. A man has been a tremendous blessing and benefit, not just to King Saul personally, but to the entire nation. And not one, it's not recorded anywhere, that one servant stood up and opposed King Saul. There was a loyalty here. Now their motive could be various things, as pointed out. Maybe they were scared for their life I don't know what it was, but nevertheless, a loyalty to a person that requires or includes sinning is a toxic loyalty. And we spent a good bit of time talking about that. We gave examples of toxic loyalty. And now tonight we get to verse number two through five, particularly, hopefully get all the way through the end. But I noticed Jonathan's devotion. Look with me again at um at uh verse number two. But j but Jonathan Saul's son delighted much in David. Notice it doesn't say anything about the servants here. Jonathan Saul's son delighted much in David, and Jonathan did what He told David. He went immediately to David and he told David this. Now, what we had with the servants, nobody spoke up, nobody went and told David, nobody responded in any resistant way at all to Saul's wicked, wicked command to kill an innocent man. None of the servants respond anyway, at least not that we have record of Now you contrast that with Jonathan's response, and here you find in Jonathan not a toxic loyalty to a wicked king. But you find a true and healthy loyalty, and we're going to notice Jonathan's loyalty is to two people here. Loyalty is first of all, obviously, to who? Who is Jonathan loyal to here? To David. That's the obvious, and that's the first one that's mentioned. But we're going to notice in a little bit that Jonathan is actually loyal to somebody else. Who would that be? To his father. To his father. And we're going to take notice of his response to King Saul, his father, and notice he is very, very loyal to his father in even though he does not. approve or cooperate with his father's sin. It is possible to be loyal to someone yet not in not associate with their sin And we're going to try and point that out here in a little bit. So we see Jonathan's uh uh his loyalty is true and healthy loyalty, and as I said it's displayed in two ways First of all, his loyalty to David, I want you to notice that Jonathan informs David of Saul's demand. He informs David. He goes and he gives this information. Now before I look at this too much, I gonna I want to stop here and pause. I am noticing here the providence of God. Now, what do we mean when you hear a preacher or somebody talk about the providence of God, what are they talking about? The providence of God. God is in control. God is uh intervening here. God is uh is acting I don't know about you. Now, some groups take the providence of God to extremes that are unscriptural. But I am glad that we have a God that is in control. That's where I would say amen if I was in the audience. Let me try that again. I'm glad that we have a God that's in control. Amen. God is in control. And I believe God's providence is acting on our behalf many, many times. Often we don't even take notice of it. Where God may work. We talked about, I forget where whether it was in the service or just someone was talking, um we were talking about how sometimes you might have a delay in traffic or something. And boy you get all aggravated and worked up about that. But I'm wondering if we don't get to heaven, look back, and God will show us, hey, I was protecting you from something there. I was delaying, holding you back, or misdirecting you. Uh Dad and I went out for lunch today. We went to the lake. Anybody drive 219 today? They got one lane backed up 17 miles. It reminded me of the beltway around Washington, D. C. It was awful And um but you never know what God might be doing when he puts us something like that. Well I see here, I don't know, I see here, at least from a human perspective, I see God's providence in having Jonathan loving and being loyal to David. From a human perspective, if Jonathan was not loyal to David David could have been ambushed by these servants. David could have lost his life. But here's what I'm trying to get at. God had the right man at the right place at the right time And how many times do you see that through Scripture? Where God is in control and He has those people right there. Had Saul not included Jonathan in his scheme, David may have never been found out about it Who knows, humanly speaking, David may have been murdered. And we're going to see this over and over in David's life where God intervened. God intervened And so just a hint, we see God's hand here, I think, a little bit, keeping his promise that David would be king, nothing's going to happen to him, and God is using Jonathan in this time to make sure that takes place. But uh I notice here uh there is a clear act of loyalty on Jonathan's part towards David. First thing I notice about that loyalty is Jonathan delights in David. Look over there again. But Jonathan Saul's son delighted much in David. Delighted much in David. Now, what kind of attitude could Jonathan have had? Saul calls in his staff, calls in his administration, he calls in his son, the king to be, the heir to the throne, and he says, I'm telling you what I want. This is what I'm telling you to do. Kill David. Makes it very clear everybody understands. As far as we can tell what we're told the servants are all yes, sir. And they go out and they do whatever they're going to do, make preparations or whatever However, Jonathan doesn't respond that way, but Jonathan could have responded differently than the way he did Jonathan could have done what? What are some options Jonathan would have had? He would have been able to what? He could have agreed with it, went in, said, Yeah, I'm for you. He's a threat to the throne. Well, that's obviously not going to happen because Jonathan loves David But there's another option other than what Jonathan did. Anybody want to think of uh what's some other option he could have chosen? This is what I thought of. He could have simply said, hey, I ain't getting involved in this. I'm not getting involved. I'm not going to fight David. But I'm not going to oppose my father either. I'm just stepping out of this. You all do what you need to do. He could have simply said, I'm washing my hands. I'm not going to be a part of this. Now let me ask you a question. Is that a bad thing all the time to not get involved? Is there ever a time when it's appropriate to not get involved? Yeah, sometimes. Let me give you a few verses. Let's try and just stop there and uh look at what the Bible says about that. Turn with me if you would. Now stay keep your place here. But go to Proverbs chapter 26. I love Proverbs. You know ever notice how often we end up in Proverbs? Man, what a book. Proverbs chapter 26, and I want us to notice verse number 17. Proverbs 26 and verse 17. Proverbs 26, verse 17. Now, if we pay attention to this verse, it might save some people here tonight some heartache and some difficulty. All right, look at Proverbs 27, verse, uh 26, verse 17. He that passeth by, and what? Metaleth, excuse me, meddleth with strife. Look at those next phrase. What's that next phrase say? Not belong uh what's it say, belonging not to him. He that passeth by, he sees some strife going on, it has nothing to do with him. But he meddles into it, he gets his nose in it, he gets involved, and what is he like? He's like one that taketh a dog by the ears Now what happens when you take a dog by the ears? You get bit Take a dog by the ears. Uh that dog's coming after you. That dog's gonna let you have unless he's just a snowflake dog. Um uh he's he's gonna get mad. You're gonna have a you're gonna have a mess on your hands And I put in the margin of my Bible beside this verse, I put this down. Mind my own business Did anybody here ever get involved in something that really wasn't your business and you regretted it afterward? Nobody's going to be honest and raise their hand. Oh, I'm and we get involved in something that's none of our business, and we end up getting burned. So there is a place. I put this down. Not every situation requires my involvement. In fact, I took it another level. Not every situation even requires my opinion. Right? It doesn't have anything to do with me. It doesn't, uh it's none of my business. Uh the best thing is keep my nose out of it and keep my mouth shut. And mind my own business and do my own thing. We live in a society, particularly it seems like on social media, everybody wants to give their opinion about stuff that has nothing to do with them Everybody needs to get involved. Oh, we're not staying for this. They don't even know what they're talking about. So there is a time and place where we don't get involved. There is a time and place say I'm not getting involved in that There is a time and place, so I'm not even going to express my opinion about it. That's what has nothing to do with me. In fact, I got looking at this and working on it. Did you know that Jesus even did that There was an instance where Jesus Christ said, I'm not getting involved. Now you don't have to turn there. Let me just read it to you. But it's found in Luke chapter 12. And I got it marked here, so I'll be able to find it not as quickly as I thought I would. Luke chapter 12, and listen to verse 13. Um Luke 12, 13. And one of the company said unto him, Jesus, listen to this. Master, speak to my brother, that he divide the inheritance with me. And he, Jesus, said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you What was Jesus saying? Jesus saying, that's not you settle that. That's your business. You take care of that. Now I don't know about you, but it's surprising to me when Jesus hears a fuss going on and Jesus says, you guys work it out. I'm not getting involved in that. Do you think Jesus could have had the best solution to whatever that issue was? Sure, he is wisdom himself. He could have said a word and solved the whole thing. But he didn't do it. He didn't get involved. And so I think it behooves us, myself included, to be very, very careful that we be careful that we don't get involved in things that have nothing to do with us. That we don't get involved in issues that aren't related to us. So Jonathan had that option. He could have said, I'm not getting involved, I'm not going to be a part of this. But that wasn't what he that he wasn't going to do that. Why? Because he loved David. He delighted much in David. And Jonathan, if he was anything, was a loyal friend. And David was in danger, and David was needed somebody to stand up. David was Jonathan's friend, and Jonathan was not going to allow his friend to be murdered without doing all that he could to defend him. I like what Proverbs 18, 24 says. It says, There is a friend that sticketh closer than a what. Brother. You know what that's saying? That's saying that true healthy loyalty is thicker than blood. Is thicker than blood. What does that mean? What do we mean when we say loyalty is thicker than blood? What are we talking about? What's that? Yeah, it's thicker than family. If I if I'm gonna be loyal to the truth, and we talked about this extent at ex extensively last week If I'm going to be loyal to the truth, I'm going to be loyal to somebody who is right, what is right in someone's life, that loyalty is going to be stronger than even my family relationship Jonathan is willing to betray his father's scheme for his friend because his father's scheme was wicked. was sinful, it was murder. And Jonathan was not about to say, hey, listen, I don't care what he does. That's my father. I'm going to stand by him thick or thin. No, that is not true loyalty. That is Toxic loyalty. Jonathan doesn't go along with his father. Jonathan doesn't defend it. He doesn't excuse it. He immediately goes to David and informs David about what's going on. Loyalty is thicker than blood. Integrity is thicker than blood. My loyalty to what is right must be greater than any other loyalty. Here's the great thing about being loyal to the Lord. I don't have to ever worry about having defend something wrong to be loyal to my Lord. How many people are glad for that I can be totally loyal to the Lord and never have to worry about having to confront or excuse something. So first thing Jonathan does was he informs David of his father's scheme. He's loyal to his friend. He delights in him. The next thing I notice here in the second part of verse 2 and 3 is Jonathan directs David on what he thinks he should do. Look what he says here. Jonathan saw his son delighted much in David, and Jonathan told David, saying, Saul, my father, seeketh to kill thee. How many people think that, how many folks here think that David was not sure what Jonathan was talking about? You know exactly what it was talking about. You couldn't say it any clearer than what he did. I doubt seriously that David really like to hear that his king, that he had risked his life for, that he's been so loyal to, that he's acted wisely on, he's married his his daughter, he's now his father-in-law, wants to hear that he's out to kill him. That wouldn't be a message David would want to hear. That wouldn't be something that would he'd be excited about. And Jonathan knowing that this is very disturbing for David Does not whitewash it, he does not water it down, he does not uh try to minimize it, he comes straight up and says, Hey, listen, my dad's out to kill you Something I find about healthy loyalty is it just tells it how it is. It just says, listen, this is the situation. He doesn't minimize it. He doesn't any. Loyalty tells the truth. Healthy loyalty tells the truth. I wish there were more preachers around that were like Jonathan that would tell the people that they love, that they delight in, their church members, they would tell them the truth. About the Word of God, about reality, about heaven and hell, about sin, about the way to be saved. Today we have such a society within Christianity where everything is watered down and muddled and unclear. And I think America could use a good dose of preachers and soul winners and Sunday school teachers and church workers who would just straight up and say, Hey, listen, this is what the Bible says. There's certain sins that our society embraces and celebrates. Wicked, abominable sins that our society celebrates. And yet we're afraid to say, hey, listen, Satan is out to destroy you with that sin. There's certain sins that are taboo. You can't preach on that. You can't talk about. In fact We're losing our First Amendment rights, our freedom of speech, because of certain sins are so embraced by society. Am I right or wrong? I tell you, I look at Jonathan, listen, no preacher is loyalty to his people or to his Lord that does not preach the Bible right the way it is. You say, what if there's somebody, what if uh preacher's preaching, let me just uh preach your own gossip? What if you got some people in the church that are real bad gossip? You're not going to preach on that. You might offend them Brother, that's why I'm going to preach on it. Right? And Jonathan just, I just, I got looking at that, I thought, man He just goes to David. He loves David. He delights in him. He's loyal to him. And he's not going to water this down. David's life is in danger. He needs to know the truth. Healthy loyalty tells the truth. I don't know about you, but I want a doctor that is loyal to me and tells me the truth. He gets some tests done. He does x-rays and cat scans and uh um dog scans and other scans, all these scans they do. And the doctor looks and says, Oh, there's a dark spot there, there's a mask, but if I tell him it's going to upset him I love them too much. I care too much about them to tell them about that mess and upset them. I'm not going to tell them. Question, is that loyalty? No, that's a sorry doctor. A doctor says, listen, there's something here that needs to be addressed. There's something here that's wrong I tell you what's going on. The problem in our country today is preachers aren't willing to look at our country and say, hey, there's something wrong here. Sodomy and all this garbage is taken over, and we're losing our First Amendment rights. I'm telling you, we will lose our rights, and persecution will come to America because of sodomy You mark my word. That is the sin that will give, take away freedom of speech in our country. I'm confident of that. And so, um I want a doctor that tells the truth. I want friends that tell me the truth. Your life is in danger. I want a preacher that tells me the truth. Not unkind, not hateful, not in anger. But just true to the Word of God and loyal to the Word of God and knowing what is best and then what the answer is for it also. So he can he goes dire he goes to David, he informs David that his father is out to kill him, he tells him very, very plainly, he says, Listen, my dad's going to kill you Then he directs them in an appropriate way. And I notice this, and this kind of stood out to me. Verse number two, he says, Now therefore I pray thee. Now, Jonathan doesn't get arrogant here, and he's not unkind to David. He's his friend. And so he says this in an appropriate way. He says, I pray thee, take heed to thyself. Until the morning. And he's not coming saying, David, I'm telling you what to do. You need to do this. Now he could have done that, and I think David would have probably responded okay with it But Jonathan's very gracious. Jonathan's very kind. He loves him. He tells him the truth straight up, but he says, Listen, I pray thee. And he's trying to get David on board. He's offering more as a suggestion rather than a demand. And he understands that if this plan that Jonathan had is going to work, David has to be on board with it. David has to be uh uh cooperate along with it. And I got thinking about that. I wonder if Jonathan was a little concerned. about how David would respond to the information that his father-in-law is out to kill him. I wonder if he doesn't come about this. Listen, my father is is uh is is going to kill you, is out to kill you. Now listen, I pray thee, listen to me. Here's what I think you should do. This is my suggestion. Take heed to yourself to the morning. Hide yourself in a secret place. And I'm wondering if Jonathan isn't thinking, man, when David finds this out, he's going to go kill Saul. When David finds this out, he's going to react and respond and I don't know what David's going to do. I know he killed a giant. I know he killed 200 Philistines just a day or two ago. I know he killed thousands of Philistines pr before that. What's he going to do when he finds out the king's out to kill him? And so I don't know what's going through Jonathan's mind, but he's being very, very cautious here. He's being very, very appropriate here, and he's saying, Listen, I pray thee, this is what I believe you should do. But then he's also practical. Look, he says, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, abide in a secret place and hide thyself. And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field, where thou art, and I will commune with my father of thee, and what I see I will tell thee. And I notice he's being very, very practical here He doesn't just warn David that he's going to be killed, but he offers some suggestions. He says, I'll get involved in this David, I'm going to step in and I'll intercede for you. I'll stand before my Father on your behalf. I will take action. And a loyal friend, one thing loyalty does, it does more than just talks. Loyalty gets involved. Would you agree with me? Jonathan's putting himself on the line here If King Saul is so bent on killing David, how is he going to respond when somebody stands up in defense of David? And I tell you, greater love hath no man than this. Than a man does what? Lays down his life for his friends. And Jonathan is putting his life on the line here. And he doesn't just come and say, hey, David, listen, daddy's out to kill you. You better hide yourself and take care. I'm out of here. Don't tell him I told you. I don't do that always. He says, David, I'm going to step up on your behalf. I'll stand on your behalf. How many people here think that sometimes when you stand up for somebody, there's a real risk of getting burned Yeah. Listen, if you don't want to ever get hurt and you don't ever want to ever ever you don't ever want anybody to hurt you or do something uh that uh that would hurt you, then don't try to be loyal to anybody. But when you step up and stand up for somebody and put yourself and say, listen, I'm going to take the heat for you, I'm going to put myself between you in danger, sometimes the one behind you turns around and stabs you I thought it was I was preparing this. I thought of the situation a number of times in the ministry where I went to bat for somebody. I stood up in front of the church and defended somebody. Several years later, that person turned around and made false accusations against me. I ain't never doing that for nobody again. No, you get up and you go on, you do it again. Amen? Loyalty. Loyalty. And so Jonathan's putting himself on the line here. This isn't just talk on Jonathan's part, oh yeah, I love you, David boy. I delight in you. I'm telling you uh daddy's out after you. But he it's the real deal. This is healthy loyalty, and he says, Listen, I'm gonna stand, I'm gonna stand between you and Daddy. I'm going to take action, do what I can to defuse this whole situation. He says, take heed to thyself, verse 2. That means be on guard, be alert, be aware. He's given David a heads up. Now my personal opinion is, and all that Jonathan did was good and it worked for a while. But I think the best thing Jonathan did was just simply telling David what was going to happen. I guarantee you, David can take care of himself. David could handle this. There's no doubt about it. And so I think the best thing Jonathan did was just giving David the information. Jonathan's loyal. Jonathan loves him. He says, I'm going to do more than that. I'm going to give him the information, but I'm going to get involved. He says, hide thyself. He says, take heed, hide thyself. And then the last verse there, he says, um I will go out, verse 3, I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will commune with my father of thee, and what I see, that will I tell thee. I think he's saying, listen, uh uh just hang in there, David. Give me a little time to deal with this. I think the thing I notice here is Jonathan doesn't fly off on his father either. He doesn't flee from his father. He gets involved. He doesn't uh just go along with his father, but he doesn't go off on his father either, screaming at him and yelling at him and saying, What are you gonna do? This my friend, you're gonna kill him and holler and yell and throw and things He doesn't do that at all. Jonathan doesn't fly off. He does two things, I believe, deliberately. And this is very, very helpful. I believe this is very helpful for us. When we're in a situation where there's an issue that has to be dealt with, can I give two suggestions I find that Jonathan uses here? Number one, give it some time. Give it some time, he says. Listen, you hide yourself, you take heed, you hide yourself, you hang in there, give me a little time I'm gonna go and talk to daddy. How many people here ever had something come up and boy you flew off the handle, you felt like I need to take care of this right now And brother, that thing blew up in your face. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know what that's called? That's called making a mountain out of a molehill. I've tried in my ministry over the years to take mountains and make them molehills, not vice versa. And I appreciate Jonathan, and I learned a lot from this. He said, listen, you take heed You hide yourself. You hang in there. Let's give this a little time. So, two things when an issue comes up: number one, give it time. Don't react. Boy, it's when we react to things. That's when we get in trouble. Now, let me throw a disclaimer on there. I don't think we should always give it too much time. The other side of that is to say, then not deal with it. Oh, Jonathan's going to deal with it, but he's going to sleep on it overnight. He's going to think this through. What am I going to say? How am I going to approach him? What's this going to be done? I tell you, if we just stop, give it a little time, spend some time in prayer Calm down our emotions, think it through a little bit, let the Lord have a chance to direct me. That would solve a lot of problems So number one, give it time. Number two, the second thing I notice Jonathan does here is he talks it over. Do you see what he said? Says, um, I will go and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will clobber him over the head with a hammer. He's going to do what? He's going to talk to him. Let me commune with my Father. Let's talk about it. I said to somebody recently, talking is good. If there's an issue, sit down, give it a little time, calm down, give it a little time, and talk about it. Let me just reason with my father. Let me just tell him. Let me remind him of a lot of things he already knows Before we draw our swords out, before we start pulling triggers, before we start killing people, let's talk this out and think this through And I'll tell you, giving it time and communing and talking and listening are huge things that can save so many relationships and can solve so many problems without that thing blowing up. How many people here believe I could get in a fight with a skunk and beat the skunk? Couple people think I could do that. I'm pretty confident I could whip a skunk. If we were locked in a room, I could choke that skunk. Do you read about that guy a little while ago choked a mountain lion, attacked him, he was jogging out in Colorado? Choked the mountain lion with his bare hands, killed it Man, that guy's my hero. I saluted the picture when I saw him. Fortunately, he's unrecognizable now. Yeah, he's shredded now. He's he never looked the same, but uh he killed the lion. The point I'm trying to make here is I could probably, and any one of you guys, and probably most of you ladies, could whip a skunk. However You're going to walk away smelling like a skunk. And I tell you, now this isn't necessarily the case here, but I tell you, some fusses and some issues are best not to fly off. A couple years ago, uh for whatever reason, I guess the boys were small and I was just wanting to catch some animals, they could see it just for experience. So Stuart Harvey gave us a box trap and we put it out where the barn is now, the barn went there and we set it up, I put some donuts or something in there, and uh we were going to catch a raccoon. We were gonna show it to the boys, maybe be a little baby, try and domesticate it. Uh we went out there Sunday morning and it wasn't a raccoon. And it wasn't a possum, and it wasn't a squirrel, wasn't a rat, it was a stunk. Sunday morning. So I walked out there. Whoa! I backed up real quick. And um I said, I'm gonna give this a little time. And I'm going to think this through how we're going to approach it. So church came, Stuart Harvey was driving the bus in. I said, Stuart, I've got a situation. He said, What is it? I said, I got a skunk and a box trap out there And I don't know what to do. He goes, I'll get it when we after church. So he drove, came out. He had some donuts left over from Sunday school. Old Stewart, that stinker Skunk stinker, get it. And uh he opened that thing up just a little when he went and that little skunk came out, he picked it up and held it and everything, and uh took it and let it go. He's a skunk whisperer. And he talked to that thing and he took his time. And I think that's kind of Jonathan dealing with this. He says, You sit tight, David. You just sit tight. Give me a chance. I'll get involved. I'll put myself on the line for you. You just sit tight and wait. I want to do two things. I want to give this a little time, think it through, and number two, I just want to talk to daddy first. And whatever I find out, I'll let you know. And we'll see what happens. We'll see what happens. I don't know what issues you're dealing with. I don't know what situations going on in your home or at work or in your life. But David is in dire straits. He has the king of a nation, and all his administration, all his resources are out to kill him. He's got one friend. That friend steps up and says, listen, let me intervene. Give it a little time. Let's talk. Let me talk to him a little bit and see if we can't turn this around. Now here's a spoiler alert. Jonathan's scheme worked for a little while But it bought some time, and God used it, I believe. So calm down, don't react, give it time, think it through, talk it out, and see what God might do. Rather than blowing off. Blowing off. Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray you'd help us to learn from Jonathan here. What a loyal friend he was to David. Lord, we'll see here in another couple weeks what a loyal friend, what a loyal son he was to his father, and how that played out. But I pray you'd help us, Lord, to live by faith and to respond to issues of life by faith. trusting you, not reacting, not rushing, the Lord waiting on you, and the Lord having opportunity to try and work it out in a gracious, kind, Christian way. yelling and screaming and throwing stuff and doing damage. So I pray you'd help us, Lord. Help us, Lord.