We're back to studying our life of David, first Samuel nineteen And we're going to read the first seven verses. We started this, it's been some time ago, our missions conference and different things, and uh we're gonna pick up here And uh we're talking about loyalty. We're noticing here particularly Jonathan's loyalty both to David and to his father. And uh I tell you, uh tonight's lesson, I don't know, uh in studying it for myself, um, is very, very helpful to me, and uh I trust it'll be helpful to others. 1 Samuel 19, verse number 1 The Bible says, and Saul spake unto Jonathan his son and to all his servants that they should kill David Uh Saul already tried once, didn't work. He's scheming around, nothing he's tried so far has worked. Anybody want to take a guess why nothing that Saul has tried to kill David with has worked 'Cause God promised David's gonna be king. So he's beating his head against the wall. He's he's uh so but anyway But, verse 2, Jonathan, Saul's son, delighted much in David, and Jonathan told David, saying, Saul, my father, seeketh to kill thee. Now, therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself. And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will commune with my father of thee, and what I see, that I will tell thee. Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul, his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David. Because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been to thee word very good. For he did put his life in his hand and slew the Philistine, and the Lord brought a great salvation for all Israel Thou sawest it and didst rejoice. Wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood to slay David without a cause? And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan, and Saul swore, as the Lord liveth, he shall not be slain. Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all these things. Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence as in times past. I want to look at Jonathan's loyalty here. Let's pray and we'll look at some things. Father, I'm grateful for David and the impact he's had on this world, and Lord, how you've used him as testimony. All these thousands of years impact millions and millions of people. And so I ask now, us that have gathered together here and are looking at this passage, that your Holy Spirit would speak to our hearts, that you would direct us and help us, challenge us. Lord areas maybe we need correction. Help us to be willing and humble to allow you to correct us. And Lord, areas that um maybe you're you reinforce and strengthen. Let it help us, Lord, to do that. But we want to be good Christians, Lord. We want to please you with our lives. So we're asking you to use your word tonight and help us. I yield my will to you. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray, dear Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. First thing we noted when we started in here was Saul's demand. He demands that his staff and his son kill David for him. And of course we pointed out that his servants, the staff he has, and it's probably probably referring to his administration, They are loyal to Saul, but we I used a term. Does anybody remember? It's been a couple weeks. Anybody use the term I use I ha anybody remember the term I used to describe is servants' loyalty to day to Saul? Toxic loyalty. And whenever we are so loyal to someone or some organization or whatever We're so loyal to it to the point that we are willing to sin and do wrong in order to maintain that loyalty. That's a toxic loyalty. And uh for whatever their motives were, these guys were unwilling to stand up and say, this is wrong, this isn't right. However, Jonathan is made of a little different fiber than most other people And uh Jonathan, we noted Jonathan's devotion uh both to David and to what is right and uh even to his father. And we saw that there, and we pointed out the first thing Jonathan did was he told David of Saul's demands, what was going on, what Saul was saying. And uh then he gave David some directions. He told him, listen, you just stay here. And we ended our last study with this statement. I'm going to kind of build on it a little bit tonight. But um we ended on this. Um uh whenever we have to deal with something, a situation, uh two good actions to take whenever there's some sort of conflict And Jonathan is in conflict now. His father wants him to kill David. He knows David is innocent, that what his father is demanding of him is wrong. And um Jonathan wants to do right. Uh David is his friend. Uh David is innocent. And so he's in this conflict. What's he gonna do? Is he gonna Listen to his father and do what his father says, though it would be sin, or is he going to stand by his convictions? So whenever I'm in a situation where I'm in conflict with somebody, we suggested two things we ought to do. Number one, we ought to give it a little bit of time. And he says, listen, you hide yourself to tomorrow. Jonathan didn't blow up and go storming in and react at the moment at the spot. He gave it time. He's saying you wait until tomorrow. And I may be reading in a little bit here, but what's another way of saying? He says, you wait until tomorrow. What's Jonathan wanting to do? He's wanting to sleep on it. That's a good advice. Anybody here go to bed at night all worked up about something you sleep on next morning, you kind of have a little different perspective on it. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And uh if we're strong growing Christians, the first thing we do in the morning is what? We read our Bible and pray and start the day with the Lord. And so I think that's great practice on Jonathan's part is uh is to put that off to tomorrow. Let's sleep on it a little bit. Let's Let's take a little bit of time. And then the next thing he does, and again, we've pointed this out, and I want to reiterate it here, is he talks it over. He doesn't go charging even though the next day. He doesn't go charging into dad and throwing accusations around and calling him names and you know he could have he could have called him a murderer. He could have accused him of all kinds of stuff and he would have been correct. But Jonathan doesn't do that. This is his father. He loves his father unconvinced. And he is loyal to his father. He's honoring his father as we're instructed. And so he comes in, he's going to talk it over. He's not going to react, he's not going to scream, he's not going to throw stuff, he's not going to respond in kind, but he's going to talk it over and reason here a little bit. I believe, now I want to get to some fresh ground here. And we have uh Jonathan is interceding now for David. I believe let me let me ask this question. Can anybody hear, anybody here, can you think back over your life and can you think of some Particular people that stand out that had a significant influence on your life. Anybody think back. Some people had a significant influence on your life Usually it's just couple three people that stand up, right? If you're thinking I I've got some names going through my mind, people that have profound influence. on my development and my Christian life. How many people think? Maybe two or three people. You're thinking of that? I believe that this time frame that we're looking and studying David's life, this period of time that we're we're reading about here and and focusing on. This is a developmental time for David. He is not king yet. He's not a child anymore. He's He's been has he's a little seasoned in warfare. He's had some leadership uh positions now. Of course he was a leader with the sheep as a young boy, but he it's uh this is how they say it these days. It's getting real Right? It's getting real. And um he is uh he's he's he he's uh he's being developed. And I'm convinced, the more I study, I'm convinced that God is using Jonathan in a profound way to develop leadership characteristics in the life of David. The more I study Jonathan, Jonathan, Jonathan was solid. This guy, he had something to him And it's not a coincidence that he is showing up in David's life at this period of time. Jonathan's not going to be king. That is never going to happen. It's impossible. He's not going to be king. Now, whether Jonathan's aware of that or not, I think we'll see in a coming chapters. If he's not aware of it now, he will be shortly. It's going to become obvious. He probably knows. But God is using Jonathan in a profound way to influence David and to, in some ways, model for David. What a leader does. Um It's it's nice to be taught something to sit in a class and have somebody teach you this is how you do it. In Bible college they told us all about church and Ministry and all that, this is do this, don't do that, this that. But it's a whole nother thing when you get out there and you watch somebody do it Right? It's a whole nother thing to see that model. This is how it plays out. And watch that. That's what Jonathan, I believe, is doing for David And very, very significant. Very, very significant. And another thing I want to say about Jonathan before we start breaking this down a little bit. is it's almost like God, and this dawned on me preparing this part of this message, it's almost like God is highlighting Jonathan's strained relationship with his father. And have no doubt Jonathan's relationship with his father is very, very strained. Before this point, it has been. We'll see some instances. And so it's like the Bible is, it's like God is drawing that out in his word and drawing that to our attention, this tension between King Saul and his son Jonathan. And how Jonathan responds to that, of course how Saul responds to it, that pattern's pretty set. But we're seeing now Jonathan responding. And it's very, very fascinating. I see no indication in Scripture that Jonathan was afraid of his father. I I don't see that. Um in several instances we could give uh situations where Saul made unrealistic demands of his son, in fact, almost sinful. Well here it was a sinful demand of his son. And Jonathan doesn't cower in fear. I don't see anywhere where Jonathan is in And afraid to be in his father's presence, even though his father is extremely irrational at this point. And so that what does that tell you about Jonathan? He's very what? He's a very confident young man. He's very secure. He knows who he is. He knows where he stands. He's got a relationship with the Lord, I'm confident, that is very, very secure and very established. And so uh I see no indication of fear on Jonathan's part. I see um uh a clear indication that in many ways, in fact a lot of ways Uh Jonathan is more mature than his father is. And we're going to see that coming up. So Jonathan is not afraid of his father. He's in many ways more mature than his father. And I'm convinced of this. And I may be hard-pressed to give a chapter and verse on this. But I'm convinced Jonathan loved his father. I believe he loved his daddy. And I believe in the sense that a son does for a father, he respected his father. I'm not convinced he respected his actions, but he respected him as his father. And so that's significant. As we see when Jonathan when Saul now makes this this wicked, wicked demand, it's not a request, it is a demand of his son to kill His best friend, who is innocent, murder his best friend. And how Jonathan responds to that with respect, but with resolve. That's not going to happen. I'm not going to do that. And it's fascinating. So as I looked at this, I jotted down, I just kind of went through and jotted down some observations about Jonathan's Um intercession for David when he's demanded to kill him and how Jonathan responds to that and how he re-re how he reacts to that with his with his father. Uh I just put a list down. Number one, I put this, and we already touched on this, but he takes his time. He takes his time. He doesn't blow up. Anybody here ever somebody said or did something? It got you, you got mad, you blew up And you said and did things and afterwards you thought, oh, that was bad. Can I get a witness? If you didn't raise your hand, you're probably lying. And Jonathan, as we've emphasized, he didn't rush in, uh he didn't react to the situation. That's what gets us in trouble when we react. And so number one, he loved he respects his father He knows what he's asking of him is wrong, what he's demanding of him is wrong, but he doesn't react, he doesn't blow up, he doesn't start throwing stuff, he doesn't go charging in He catches his breath, he sleeps on it, and takes a little bit of time. Then number two, I notice here, and we got that from verse number two. Then first part of verse number three, notice what it says. It says, and I will go out and stand what? Beside my father. And that phrase, beside my father, has this idea. He's going up there right beside him. I mean he's getting up. Close to him. But notice he stands where. He says, he went, I will stand where? Beside my father. Now if somebody's ticked, boy, they're mad at somebody, they go, where do they stand? When they go up and approach someone, where do they get Yeah, what do we say? We say getting in his face. Right? My son puts it this way, man they're getting in my grill Get up in the face. But Jonathan doesn't do that. He goes and stands where? Beside his father. Beside his father. I put this down, my second observation. He gets close to his father. but not in a aggressive way. He gets close to his father, but not in um in a That's another word I want, aggressive or a in a confrontational way. It goes up, this is the way I picture it. Now this is my imagination. So my ma- and by the way, my imagination is not inspired. God's word is mine is my imagination isn't. But this is the way I imagine it. They're out there, Jonathan says, maybe, hey dad, I got I need to talk to you. Okay. And let's go out here. Okay. So he's getting him out there where David's hiding, you know. So and he goes up and he just kind of stands beside his dad, and I just kind of see them looking out over the field or whatever. the city there and uh the neighborhood and he's just kind of standing beside his dad. He's not up in his face, his eyes aren't bulging out. He's just standing there. So what's he doing? He's establishing a calm atmosphere. He does not want this to escalate. He doesn't want this to turn into a fight. He knows what his father is like. He knows his father blows up. And he I think he's doing everything he can to keep this thing on a civil level that we can talk about this So he gets close to his father. It's hard to influence people that I'm not with. Right? It's hard to influence people if I'm not in their presence. And Jonathan needs to influence his father. He needs to change the way his father is thinking. That's what he's out to do. He cannot, um, by the way, you and I, we cannot force somebody to think differently. Right? Now when a little child you use some corporal punishment helps them think, D ever your mom ever say this to you? You better change your attitude or I'm going to Little child maybe, you know, we discipline him and help him. But two adults, an adult son, adult father, he he's not gonna force his daddy into thinking another way. So he's making an appeal here in a sense. And uh it's hard to influence people, hard to change their life if I'm not in their presence, if I'm not there where they are. So he needs to get with his dad and talk to his dad. Making eye contact, I think, is important. Here's when when I'm talking to somebody, especially if it's a situation that uh like this, there's a conflict here, there's something I need to confront I think it's important people are able to see our facial expressions. Because that's part of our communication. It's possible to say something in one way, but if the person doesn't see you, misinterpret their motive or what they mean by that, right? Um So I think there needs to be eye contact. He's trying to make eye contact here, maybe. There's facial expressions going on. How about this? The tone of voice. Just how you say things. I could read what Jonathan said here in one tone of voice and would convey a completely different attitude than if you read it in a different tone of voice. And so all of these things are think, I think, are part of Jonathan coming up. And he wants to be with his dad. And uh here's what, do not do this, please, and I I I don't do it. Every now and then I'll get sucked into it, but I try really, really hard. If there's some issue that needs to be dealt with, don't deal with it texting That is the worst way to deal with an issue or a situation. They don't know what you mean. It's just a cold, hard statement there. And it doesn't move me. And I say this sometimes different people, they'll go, oh, oh, I'm going to text. No, no, no. Call them up at the least. Call them up or go see them. in person because man you have so much there's so so much potential for misinterpretation there's so much inter uh potential there to escalate a an issue and make a mountain out of a molehill. And so just that one thing is get with them, go see him. I'm going to go up and I'm going to stand beside my father. I'm going to get close to him and we're going to talk this thing through. The third thing I noticed here Is Jonathan communicates with his father. First of all, he took his time. Second of all, he got close to daddy. Now he's communicating. He's talking with his daddy. Look at verse 3 again. I will go out and I will stand beside my father in the field where thou art. And there's a little word here I think that's significant. It says, um, I will stand Where am I at here? Verse 3. In the field where thou art, and I will commune, what's the next word? With My father. That one word with, what does that tell us about this commu communion going on, this communication taking place? It's give and take, it's two ways. He's going to give his father opportunity to be a part of this conversation going on. There's a world of difference between talking with someone and talking at someone Right? The world difference. He didn't say I'm going out there and I'm gonna talk at my daddy. I'm going out there and I'm gonna tell him how it is. I don't know. You know who's going to end up dead? Jonathan, probably. No, no. He's communing with them. He doesn't talk at him, he talks with them. Um and th that brings out this, and I think I touched on this in a previous thing. Jonathan's loyalty to his father and his respect for his father e uh does not equal cooperating with his father's sin. Alright? Well the um uh what's the saying uh Is thicker than blood. Blood is thicker than water. That's what it is. Hey, I'm going to tell you this. Blood is not thicker than what's right. And so Jonathan is not gonna compromise what he's doing. Well, that's another thing. In fact, that we're going to see that here in a little bit. I'm going to bring something up along those lines. It makes uh there's a legitimate question to how much Saul loved Jonathan We know who Saul, we know Saul didn't love God. We know Saul didn't look didn't love, we know who Saul did love. Yeah. Saul loved Saul. And that was his whole problem. But Jonathan, he's I'm going to talk with my daddy. Now don't confuse that. Don't confuse the fact that he's going to involve his father in the conversation. Don't confuse that with the thought that Jonathan is somehow okay with his daddy, what his daddy's doing. Respect, loyalty, honoring someone does not equal endorsing or supporting everything they do. We love here's an old saying, and it's true. It can be misapplied, I think. There's an old saying, we love the sinner but hate the sin. There's a lot of truth to that. There's a lot of truth to that. And so he's going to engage his father. His father is going to be engaged in this. And so um so Jonathan loves his father. I believe he loves his father. He respects his father. loyal to his father, but that does not equal going right along with whatever his father wanted. Now, the Bible tells us about another fellow that was a friend And he would have claimed to be loyal, but it was phony. If you would go with me over to Uh 2nd Samuel chapter 13. This gets interesting. 2 Samuel chapter 13 Now here is a friendship, a loyalty of sorts, but it is Not loyal to what is true and what is right. 2 Samuel 13. We have this is jumping way ahead in David's life. David is now king, he's got numerous kids. And um he has one boy named uh Amnon. How many people are familiar with Amnon? I'll be very honest with you. The first few verses of chapter 13, I like Amnon. There's some things about Amnon I think are highly commendable. Let's look at it. And it came to pass after this that Absalom, the son of David, had a fair sister whose name was Tamar. And Amnon, the son of David, loved her. Now that's another issue, and that's not what this message is about. But look at this, verse 2. And Amnon was so what? Vexed. Not that that tells me he had a bit of a conscience. Abnon knew that his feelings towards his sister were wrong. And it vexed him. It bothered him. It was eating him up. I think he was under what? Conviction. Or even thinking this way. So that tells me he has a conscience. There's something commendable at Amin on here. He has a conscience. And then look what it says. For she was a v uh that he fell sick for his sister Tamar, for she was a virgin. And Amnon, look, thought it hard for him to do anything to her. He had some convictions. He had a conscience. It bothered him that he was thinking and feeling this way. He had some convictions. I can't do this. This is wrong. I have convictions against this, obviously. So he's got a couple things going for him. But Amnon had a what? A friend. Right. Whose name was Jonatab, the son of Shimeah, David's brother. So Jonathan Jonad Jonadab was what to Amnon? His cousins. They're cousins. And Jonathan was what? Very subtle man. Now let me say something else about Amnon here, and I know this series isn't about Amnon, but I'm trying to prove a point. I think Amnon was also a very faithful man. Because in the whole process leading up to him deceiving his sister to come in where he rapes her, the whole process leading up to that, nobody questioned Amnon's intentions. Sister had no problem going into the bedroom back there with him, bringing the meal back. It wasn't like I ain't going to no room with that guy. You know, and his father said, well, get her, you know, he went along. And so Amnon was a faithful man, I believe. He had a pretty good testimony, I believe. He had convictions. He had a conscience, but he also had a friend. And that friend undid his conscience, his convictions, and his testimony. The influence Of a person in our lives is powerful if we let it. And this is a sneaky guy. And so John so uh uh Jon Adab comes up with this scheme that enables Amnon to rape his sister. That is not loyalty. That is not a friend. And I thought of him when I thought of Jonathan The exact opposite of that. Here his father is wanting to do something just as evil and sinful as what Amnon was lusting for, just as wicked. Jonathan stands up in between his father's desires, wicked desires, and the fulfillment of it I preached a message some time ago on being a wall, putting up walls between our lusts and the opportunity to fulfill them, convictions. That's what Jonathan was. Jonathan was a wall between what David wanted, what Saul wanted And the accomplishment of what he wanted. Jonathan wasn't a wall, he was a what? A bridge. He enabled it. So I appreciate Jonathan here that he's willing. He's going to, I'm going to communicate, I'm going to commune with my father. It's going to be back and forth. But don't think for a moment that that means he's going along with what day what s uh Saul was wanting to accomplish He is intervening here. So uh so number one, he takes his time. Number two, he gets close to his father. He gets up there in his presence and And number three, he communicates with them. It's back and forth. I put this one down, number four, I think it is. He reasons with his father. He doesn't come up and just tell daddy that hey this is how it is, you're a you're attempting murder, you're a murderer, you're this, and going on. No, he he he appeals to reason here. Look at verse 4. Oh, I've got to get back here. Chapter 19, verse 4. And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David, because he had not sinned against thee. Because his works have been to thee very good. And he had put his life in his hand and slew the Philistine, and the Lord brought a great salvation for all Israel. And then he throws this in. Thou sawest it yourself. You saw it, Daddy. And you were glad, you rejoiced along with everybody else. He's reasoning here with him Saul viewed David as a threat. And Jonathan is reasoning and when you reason with somebody, what are you trying to do? Here's somebody, they've got an idea, that idea, you disagree with that idea, and so you're going to reason with them. What am I trying to get them to do? Change their mind, change their thinking. He needs David, he needs Saul to change the way he's thinking. And so he starts reasoning with them. He says, David hasn't sinned. He's been good to you. He's risked his life. He slew Goliath. You saw it. You rejoiced in it. You'll never change somebody's actions until their thinking is changed. Never happens. You're never going to change someone's actions, not in any not in any lasting way. Until they change the way they think. They change the way they think. You know, I have certain convictions, I believe, that from the Bible have studied that I kind of hold to in various different areas. I just think You know, this is what the Bible says. This is right and this is wrong. And when I was started in the ministry, I had the idea, well, I'm just going to beat everybody over the head with the Bible until they agree with me. You know what? It didn't work. You know what I found out? I need we need God to change people's hearts. We need God to change the way people think. And then their actions will change. Then the behavior will change. And I tell you, God's pretty good at renewing people's minds. God's pretty good. If you just give a chance, if they open their heart and mind to the Word of God, God can change things. But if we're stiff-necked and hard-hearted, we don't let God change the way we think, then there's not going to be any change in our behavior. And I found if you keep doing the same thing, you keep getting the same results. And so he's trying to change. He's reasoning with King Saul and he's trying to change the thinking. Let me give you my last couple here. He's truthful with his father. He's saying the truth. He's not altering the truth. He's not exaggerating. Sometimes people will sometimes people will play loose with the truth in order to get a certain result Right? I want this result, so I'll inject this and I'll leave this out and I'll add this and they'll play with the truth. You know what I found out? It's best let the truth decide what the results are Let the truth determine the results. Don't try and manipulate the results with untruth. And so he's just true. He's straight up. He says this daddy, listen, this is the way it is. You saw it. You rejoiced in it. Next one I put down, he questions his father. And I don't mean like that, what are you doing? But he his appeal is in the form of a question. Look at the last part of verse 5 He says, um, thou sowest did rejoice. Wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood to slay David without a cause? Question mark. He's asking the question. When he's asking a question, what is he innate what is he having Saul do? He's having Saul come to his own conclusion. He's trying to get his daddy in his own mind to come to this conclusion. Jesus asks a lot of questions. Did you notice that in the Gospels? Jesus never asks a question to gain information. He always asks questions for people to come to their own conclusions so they can see it. Think this thing through and see it correctly. And that's exactly what Jonathan is doing And uh it's so impressive. He's saying, Daddy, think this through. It's a reasonable and logical defense. He's not yelling, he's not exaggerating, he's not throwing stuff. And then last of all, I put this down, he gave Saul the opportunity to respond properly. He just left it an open question. Just left it there. Alright. I gave my reasoning. This is the way it is. What do you think? Uh um Wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood and slay David without a cause? Why would you do this, Daddy? Why would you do this? And it had a profound impact. It had a profound impact. I got looking at this And you know what it looks like when I got studying what Jonathan was saying to Saul, and then how Saul responds? You know what it sounds like? It sounds like Jonathan is the father. And Saul is the son. It sounds to me the way a father would talk to a son that's about to make a terrible decision, doing something stupid. So, in a lot of ways, Jonathan was more mature than Saul. In fact I think Jonathan was a more like a commander than Saul was. We got a couple minutes. Let me show you something that I think is fascinating. Real quick, come back with me to chapter number 13. First Samuel, or chapter fourteen, I'm sorry. 1 Samuel chapter 14. Now look at this, verse 1. It came to pass. This is before David. This is they're out on the battlefield. Jonathan's there with his dad. They're leading the commanders. Now look what Saul's doing. Now it came to pass on a day when Jonathan, the son of Saul, said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, let us go over to the Philistines. Garrison that is on the other side, but he told not his father. So he's there. Alright, let's go check this out. We're at battle. These are enemies. They're over there. Let's assess the situation That sounds like something a commander would do, right? Find out where the enemy is, what they're doing, what their strengths are. Let's assess this situation. Look what Saul's doing, verse 2. And Saul Tarried in the uttermost part of Gibeah, where? Under a pomegranate tree. What in the world? He's sitting back eating pomegranate juice. And then come down to verse number six. And Jonathan said to the young man, they've won over, they've assessed things a little bit. Tom, let us go over into the garrison of these uncircumcised. It may be that the Lord will work for us For there is no restraint to the Lord to save by many or by few. And his armor bearer said unto him, Do all that is in thine heart, turn thee behold, I am with thee according to thy heart What's Jonathan doing? He's taking what? He's taking command. He's taking leadership. And he has faith in God and he's inspiring those people around him to trust God and take action and go on out here and let's Let's do this thing. And Saul's sitting under a tree drinking pomegranate tea, watching Netflix So I look at Jonathan and I'm just, uh uh man, my hat's off to this guy. I've learned so much in this lesson about Jonathan, the character, the maturity. The faith, the confidence of this man is an amazing thing. And then, and we won't look at this, we'll wrap this section up, but then we see Saul's dubiousness. Saul's demand, uh Jonathan's uh uh defense and his devotion to David, and then Saul's dubiousness. Let me just read verse 6 and 7. We already read it. Let me read again And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan. All right. What Jonathan did worked on the surface. And Saul swear. Well, he's pretty loose with his vows, isn't he? As the Lord liveth, ye shall not be slain. Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him these things, and Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence as in times past. You know what that tells me, Jonathan Took his daddy at his word. That's that's respect. Now I want to believe in my mind that in the back of Jonathan's mind he's thinking, boy, I hope daddy means this. I hope this is legit, but I'm going to give him the benefit of the doubt. I'm going to take him at his word, and he brings David in. Jonathan's uh King Saul's now get this and I'll end with this. King Saul's words were changed. But his heart and mind wasn't. Nothing internal changed. And we can talk and we can put on a show and we can say all these flowery things, but if our heart and mind isn't in tune Then we're not in tune. The heart is where things take place. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us, Lord, to learn from Jonathan. And uh just his interaction with his father and how he dealt with uh a serious, serious threat. And the wisdom he used, and the tact and the restraint and the maturity of this young man challenges me. And I pray you'd help us, dear Lord, to incorporate our lives Some of these characteristics and that when inevitable conflicts come up and we live in a sinful world, help us, Lord, to be wise and gracious. But true and strong and firm. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if someone say, preacher, you know, I got a situation going on. God knows about it. There's some things here from Jonathan I can learn, I can apply these, and the Holy Spirit's touched my heart, and I can see some areas, I can incorporate this And it would help in my situation. Is there any like that? The Lord used this to help me in some ways. God bless you. Several hands around. Father in heaven, just bless now where we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James