Beginning in verse number five, it says, If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally, and abradeth not, and it shall be given him. Very emphatic statement there But, now here's the qualifications. Here's some qualifiers here. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and toss. Now look at verse seven. And this is what caught my attention as I was studying this. For let not that man think that he shall receive what? Anything of the Lord. Wow, you ain't getting nothing. Then look at the next verse. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. There's so many truths here in these verses, but I want to pull out the one tonight. A major hindrance to prayer. A major hindrance to prayer. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Lord, as we look in this passage of Scripture God, we need to learn to pray. We need to have our prayers answered. We can't function, Lord, as we ought to without you answering our prayers. So challenge us this evening. I pray you'd convict us, encourage us, direct us, teach us. I ask you to fill me with your Spirit, that you would speak through me, open our hearts and minds to your word. And God, I pray of nothing else. We could be a church of prayer uh that believes in and sees you answering prayer. And so help us, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. The book of James, I like the book of James, and for uh several reasons. One is it's a very practical book I mean James is just straightforward. And uh he says he's if he's going to discuss prayer, his his his statement is going to be pray. If he's going to discuss the tongue, it's going to be keep it under control. And boy, he'll just go and give the theological things behind it and the truths leading up to it and scriptural Old Testament. James just says, hey, this is what God says, this is the way it is, we need to do this And that appeals to me. Book of Proverbs is that way. Just straightforward, concise statements dealing with issues. James never beats around the bush. You're not wondering what he's talking about for the most part. In our text He's talking about prayer, particularly prayer for wisdom. And you remember the first several verses, they're going through trials and they're supposed to count it all joy and They need to be patient as they're going through these difficulties the Lord's sending through. And in that patience, they need wisdom. They're going to need to know how to respond to what God is allowing in their life and how God is molding them and changing them. And he says, if you lack that wisdom, uh you need to ask God for it. Now I just want to throw a word of caution out. Um when we ask God for something, now are you listening? When we ask God for something, we better be sure we really want it. Because sometimes we ask God for something and we don't fully comprehend what all that entails. And sometimes we get more than we really anticipated. For instance, how many folks here, and I hope I hope a lot of hands go up on this one. Be honest. How many folks here have ever prayed for revival in our church? You've ever asked God to send revival. I pray all the time. God, we need revival. We need revival. I think we have a good church, but I think we need revival. Continually. Now wait a minute. Do we really want what revival will bring? Revival, when God sends revival, a lot of things change in our lives, our homes, our lifestyles. When revival comes, sometimes things are put aside, other things are added And so when we come to God and ask for something, we pray for something, we need to stop and think, is that really what I want? We pray for direction in our life. Lord, I need you to lead me. I need you to direct me Now what happens when God says, okay, and He directs me in a down a path I really wasn't anticipating? And God calls me to a ministry or God leads me to be involved in something that really wasn't what I had in mind. Lord, I wanted you to direct me, but not that way. And so when we pray for things, we need to be very, very careful. Now, I want to talk about this matter of prayer in the hindrance. A very simple outline tonight I want to encourage you to jot it down. I think it will be helpful down the road. Number one, the simplicity of prayer. The simplicity of prayer. Look at verse 5. And I know we've already preached from this, but I want to tie it all together. If any of you lack wisdom, what's the next five words? Let him ask of God. You want to know what prayer is? Right there. Asking of God. Let him ask of God. Prayer in its simplest form is simply asking God for something. It's simply asking God to do something. Now, I want you to answer this question in your own heart and mind, between you and the Lord, just personally in your own heart. What do you really, really want God to do for you? What is it? If God would call you into his office and set you down and say, all right, what is the one thing that you really want me to do for you? What would it be? Some of us, something comes to mind immediately. It's been a burden, a need on our heart for many, many years, and we've been seeking God and asking God. And uh God says prayer is simply taking that thing that I need from God, I need God to do, I want God to give me perhaps, and asking Him for it. That's what prayer is It's simply making a request. There's nothing very complicated about it. There's promises all through Scripture that God will answer prayer. Over and over and over and we could take an hour and and uh go through many of you have been memorizing these scriptures. By the way, uh our missions conference and track month disrupted our award ceremonies each month for our scripture memory. So at the end of May we're going to get everybody caught up. So keep saying your verses. We're going to do that. But many of you are memorizing verses. We put eight, ten, maybe fifteen verses in there that every Christian should know about answered prayer, ought to have memorized. So God promises all through Scripture that He will answer prayer. You ask something of me, I will answer that prayer In fact, he rebuked the Pharisees very sharply in Luke and in Mark when they would put make long prayers. And they would have these long, showy prayers that they would put on in front of people. And boy, they just made a big deal and they were very They were very great oratory in their prayers and oh it was so impressive. And when they were done, people would walk away and say, oh, what a beautiful prayer And Christ rebuked them. And he says, that's not what praying is, putting on some big show and being very elaborate in your wording. Prayer is simply asking God for wisdom. Asking God to give me direction, asking God to help me in this or do this for me or meet this need. Prayer is very simple. It is asking from God. It is asking God for something. I thought in the uh I was thought it was about a year or so ago. Chuck was getting uh some things with the MBA and getting some things worked out. Some of you know he was telling us about it And uh, I mean God did some amazing things. And he was telling us about how he was telling me about how he was praying that God would correct this, that, and the other, and some stuff with the And I don't know about you, but I pray for the MBA, but I'm not going to tell you what I pray that God will do to them. Send down fire. No. But uh after it's all said now he's telling me, man, this and this happened and this happened. I mean it's just no nothing short of miraculous. And I'll never forget, Chuck made a statement. I think we're back in the fellowship. He said, this is the way it is That's what he did. This is the way it is. He says, You just gotta ask. You know what I say? Amen. You just gotta ask. Now he can do it cooler than I did, but uh Any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God. Simplicity of prayer. Then I put this down: the struggle of prayer. Now, here's a this is kind of ironic. Prayer is so simple. You just gotta ask. But we struggle so much with it. Why is that? Apparently, these twelve tribes that were scattered abroad that he addresses in verse number one, apparently they were struggling with prey. They were struggling with just simply praying. We have this passage here we just read, verses 5 through 8. Come over to chapter 4. And he addresses this matter of prayer again with them. Now there's only five chapters in this book. It's a very short letter. And in chapter 1 to verse 5 through 8, he's addressing their need to pray, and he puts qualifications. And in chapter 4, look at verse number 1. From whence come wars and fightings among you. So apparently they were having problems getting along. Come they not uh and come um from among you, come they not hence, even of your uh lust that war in your members, you lust and have not, you kill and desire to have and cannot obtain. You fight and war, yet you have not. Then look at that last statement. What's he say? Because ye what? Ask not. Here he says you're not praying. And then he goes on and he elaborates. Look at verse number three. You ask, ye ask, and receive not, because you ask amiss That you may consume it upon your lust. These Jews, these twelve tribes that were scattered abroad, these were believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. These were saved people. And they were suffering persecution because of their faith in God. They lost their jobs. They lost their homes. Many of them had been forsaken by their families because of their faith. And they're out there in these strange lands that they that was new to them. And man they're struggling. And he says, listen, you all aren't praying. And when you do pray, you're not praying right. Then come over to chapter 5. And look at verse number 13. He brings up the subject of prayer again. Apparently, these New Testament Jews, these believing Jews, were struggling with this matter of prayer Look at verse number 13 of chapter 5. Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. I circled the word prayer. Is any merry? Let him sing psalms. Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them Pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up. If he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults one to another, and Pray for one another, that ye be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. Elias was a man, subject to like passions as we are, and he Prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months. And he prayed again and the heaven gave uh gave rain and the earth brought forth her fruit. What's he doing? He's urging them saying, listen, you guys need to pray. You need to pray. You need to pray. You need to pray right For some reason, we have such a hard time in our prayer lives. We just struggle with this. These these uh These Jewish believers apparently struggle with this. Why do we have such a hard time in our prayer life I don't know about you, but I have never, I've been saved now, uh, as of last Wednesday night at 1030 It was 35 years ago, this past Wednesday night at 1030, that I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. I've been a saved man for 35 years. And to this day, I am still not satisfied with my prayer life. When I prepare a message like this on prayer, when I'm done, I'm disappointed in myself in my prayer life. I read sermons, I hear a message on FBN about prayer, and I hear that, and I think, why in the world can I not get to the point in my prayer life where I'm satisfied? How many folks here would testify that's the way I feel in my Christian life? I'm not anywhere near ought to be a prayer life. Why is that? We have such tremendous promises from God. And it's such a simple little thing. And yet we consistently fail in this matter of being earnest, faithful prayer warriors before God. I think the disciples struggled with the same thing. I mean, they were with Jesus Christ three and a half years. I mean, right there in the inner circle, being tutored and mentored personally by Jesus Christ. And one point they see Jesus praying and they approach him, and you know what they say? Lord, teach us to pray also. They don't say, and I mentioned this recently, but they don't say, teach us how to pray. They got convicted. Just seeing the Lord's prayer life brought such conviction to their hearts, they said, you know, we're not even praying. Lord teaches just to do it. And for whatever reason, we struggle and we struggle and we struggle and we struggle with getting our prayer life like it ought to be. It's very simple. The simplicity of prayer. The struggle of prayer. My third point is this. The suppression of prayer. And by that I mean what is it that hinders our prayer life? What is it that keeps us from not just Not praying like we should, but even when we do pray, keeps our prayers from reaching heaven. How many people know what I'm talking about? You understand what I'm saying when I say, sometimes I've prayed and it seems like my prayers aren't going past the ceiling of my room. Anybody know what I'm talking like? It's like, man, God doesn't even hear. It's like I'm just talking to a stump. And why is that? Why is there uh why is are our prayers uh suppressed like that or hindered? There are certain factors, if not dealt with. will hinder our prayers, will keep our prayers from being answered. Some of us here tonight, many of us perhaps Maybe more than we care to admit tonight, do not have our prayers answered like they could be and should be. Because some of these factors are true in our lives, and our prayers are being suppressed, they're being hindered. And that one thing that we really need from God, and we really want from God, we're not seeing happen. Because our prayers are being suppressed. There's several factors. I'll just list them here real quickly for you. One is we already noticed in James chapter 4 is wrong motives. James tells us here, and we'll elaborate on this, and we get to that portion of this book, but selfishness hinders our prayers. If I'm praying to consume it upon my own lust, he says you're not going to hear your prayers. Your prayers aren't going to be answered. If you are selfish in your life and in your Christian life, in your prayers, You will not have your prayers answered. Why do I want God to do this? What is my motive? Behind this request to God. Is it so I can look better? Is it so I can get by easier? Is it so people think more highly of me? Right motives, I hope you'll get this, right motives are extremely important to God. We're talking about music, him history tonight. Um I believe, and I'm and I believe that we do here, uh try very hard to do this, I believe when a person gets up to sing a song, they ought to do their very best. Amen. I think I get up to preach a message, I ought to do my very best. I think we do a ministry for the Lord, we ought to do our very best. But I'll tell you this, I would far rather have somebody stand behind that microphone and sing a song, maybe not as As glorious as it could possibly be sung, but have tremendous motives behind that, sing bringing glory to God and gratitude to God for good uh for his goodness to them and singing out a heart uh out of a heart of joy to have a person sing it perfectly beautifully every note everything exact and doing it for their own glory Follow what I'm saying? Motives are very important to God. In fact, part of the judgment seat of Christ, the major aspect of the judgment, are the works we're doing and what sort they are, the motive that was behind them. And so God says that one of the reasons our prayers are not answered because our motives are selfish. Another thing that suppresses, another factor that suppresses our prayers is unrepentant sin. Now we talk about this a lot. Let me just quote a few verses. Psalm 66, 18. If I regard iniquity in my heart, listen to this. The Lord will not hear me. Listen to Proverbs 28 and verse 9. He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer shall be an abomination. In other words, if I'm not going to do what the Bible says, if I'm going to turn away my ear from what God tells me to do, God says, I'm not going to answer that prayer. It's not going to make it to my ears. That's suppressed. Isaiah chapter 59, listen to verse 1 and 2. Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save. Neither his ear heavy that it cannot hear, but your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you that he will not hear. Why is it that many times we do not have our prayers answered? One reason is our motives may be wrong. We may be very selfish in what we're asking them for. Another factor may be that there's unrepentant sin in our life. There's something there. We know it's wrong. We know it's not right. We know it's not pleasing to God. But we will not correct it. We will not repent from it. We will not make it right. God says, oh. Prayers suppressed. There's another reason in 1 John 5, verse 14, that another factor that suppresses our prayers is if it my request is outside of God's will Listen to what he says, and this is the confidence that we have in him that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. God is not going to do for me something that is contrary to his will. What did Jesus pray in the Garden of Gethsemane before he went to the uh to the cross. He said, there by himself, he's sweating as it were great drops of blood, and he said, Lord, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, what's the next part? Not my will, but thy will be done. And what happened? Did the cup pass from him? No, one God's will. It was God's will that Jesus Christ go to the cross. And Jesus, and this is hard for us to comprehend, maybe it's difficult for me at least to explain. Jesus, in his humanity, recoiled. At what he was about to go through on the cross, and uh he throws he makes this bliss, this prayer up to God, and God let this cup pass from me. But it wasn't God's will that that cup passed from. He says, Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. And God did not answer Jesus' prayer. To remove that cup. You know what I say? I'm glad he didn't. Can you imagine if God would be willing to answer prayers that are not according to his will? If God would have answered Jesus' prayer to remove that cup from him, though it was not his will for that to happen, you and I would be lost on our way to hell. Nobody would make it to heaven. I am glad that the will of God is a condition for my prayers to be answered. I look back over my life and I see so many prayers I answered that God did not answer. And I look to heaven and lift my hands and say, Thank you, Jesus, for not answering that prayer. Because afterward I look back and see. That it wasn't his will. It wasn't his will. Um and then the major hindrance That keeps our prayers from being answered is here in James, and that is unbelief. Look at verse 6 and 7 with me again. James chapter 1, verse 6 and 7. But let him ask in faith Nothing wavering, for he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. I believe the greatest hindrance to prayer in my prayer life is a lack of faith. The greatest hindrance in my Christian life is a lack of faith. Why do some of us not go forward in our Christian life? Why are some of us not growing in our Christian life like God intends for us. Why are we not getting closer to the Lord? Why is our ministry and our witness not more effective? I'll tell you what the problem is. It's a lack of faith on our part To trust God and take that step forward in faith. He says, let not this man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. I believe the greater my faith is, the more effective my prayers will be. The greater my faith is, the more effective my witness will be. The greater my faith is, the more active the Lord will be in And as I've grown in my faith, and many of you can testify the same thing, as I've grown in my faith, and I've learned that I can trust God In so many areas, every area of my life, and it still struggles, but as I learned, I grown. You know what I say? I see God more active. I see his hand in my life in more and more ways As I've grown in my faith. But let him ask in faith. Nothing wavering For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. Let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. And so a lack of faith and unbelief suppresses my prayers. Now there's one last verse here that I want to touch on. And that's verse number eight. And this ties all in together. Asking of wisdom, enough wisdom, let him ask of God. God will give to him abundant uh give to all men liberally, abrade it not, it shall be given him. Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. Let not that man that wavers think he's going to receive anything of the Lord. Then look at what he says in verse number 80 kind of makes a summary statement A double-minded man is unstable, not just in his prayer life, but in what? Always ways. And that is, my fourth point was this, a statute for life. In other words, a principle of life. A double-minded man Is not just going to have his prayers suppressed. Being double-minded isn't just going to hinder my prayers. I'm going to be unstable in all of my life. If my mind is if I'm double minded. Now what does it mean to be double minded? There's a lot of definitions I came across and But I think what he's talking about here, what he's saying here is being double-minded is being heavenly-minded and then also earthly-minded. Being worldly and then being spiritual. Living in the flesh and for the flesh, and then trying to live for the spirit and then the spirit It is moving back and forth, back and forth. We talked about this in a previous message. Wave of the sea He says, there are nothing wavering, for he that wavereth is like the wave of the sea. Doing this and then doing that. Over here, over there, over here, over there. Sunday morning, praising God, rejoicing in God, giving glory to God, Monday morning, cursing my neighbor Singing the hymns and rejoicing in the hymns on Sunday, and then rocking out to Rolling Stones on Monday. Unstable, double-minded One or the other. And he says, would you read that together with me out loud? Verse number eight. Let's read it together. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. I have got to come to the point in my Christian life where I am all out for God. Amen or not? I've got to get to that point. As long as I'm wavering, as long as I'm double-minded, it's one, this, it's my will, and then it's God's will. It's my trust myself, then I'll trust God. I'm in, then I'm out. So long as I'm doing that, I am not going to grow. My prayers are not going to be answered. I am not going to be effective Christian. And when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ, I'll have nothing to offer Christ There is a principle in the Christian life that if I am going to be, if I am going to grow, if I am going to be stable in my Christian life, I must not be double-minded, but rather I need to be single-minded. Single-minded. Enough of this back and forth. I got this as I was studying. I came to this conclusion. The quality of my prayer life Is a good indicator of the quality of my Christian life. If my prayer life is not what it ought to be, then according to this, if I understand this correctly, My Christian life isn't what it ought to be. Because a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. What we do is we try and juggle the world and self and the Lord. We try and work my schedule around God's schedule, and I try and work my will around God's will, and I try and work my understanding around God's clear word. And I'm trying to juggle all this God says that doesn't work. And as a believer, I've got to come to the point in my Christian life where it says, all right, no more juggling. No more double-mindedness. It's Christ and Christ alone. It's single-minded for the Lord Jesus Christ. And I tell you, that clears up so many decisions. There's so many decisions I don't have to make anymore once I become single-minded for Christ. I was talking to Lee Bowman. I think most of us here know Brother Lee Bowman. Dear friend. Great, great man, one of the most pure, innocent, godly men I know. And some time ago, this was back years when he was in evangelism, he had we were talking and uh talking about how the Lord had worked in our lives and different things, and he said that he was a policeman. I called him this week and it sparked my thinking. Um he said he was a policeman down in Prince George County outside of Philadelphia. Rough. But he was working his way up the ranks and he was doing pretty good and they bought a house. And he was saved, and they were in church, and he said, we were faithful to church services, and we were involved in witnessing and all of that. He said, but I really wasn't single-minded for Christ. It was just kind of I was working God in around my schedule and kind of doing my thing and doing God's thing and He said we had an open house for the house we had just bought, him and Tam, and we said we bought this New house, so we invited church folk over. We're having an open house. Everybody's talking, they had little snacks around. He said everybody's talking, and as it happens sometimes, there just came a a lull in the conversation. Everything just kind of got quiet, not deliberately. It just kind of worked out that way. And he said I was reaching for uh there was a a tray of peanuts there. I was reaching for a handful of peanuts and Dr. Creed was there and Dr. Creed said, Lee When are you going to be all out for Christ? When are you going to be all out for Christ? And he said that statement smote his heart. I talked to him this week and he says I was being double-minded. It was me and Christ. Me and Christ. I was working Christ around me and I was doing what I wanted. Nothing sinful, it just was double-minded. And he said that smote his heart. He said he didn't act on it, and I didn't know this until I talked to him uh recently. He didn't act on that immediately, but God convicted him. He said it was a month or two later, some short time later, they were getting ready for church or something, and his wife was there, and uh she said, Lee, when are you going to be all out for Christ? It's not the exact same wording Dr. Creed said, but very similar. I said, what'd you say? He said, I got mad at her. He said, I told her, be quiet. You ain't the Holy Spirit. And he told me this. He says she isn't the Holy Spirit, but the Holy Spirit was speaking through her to his heart. And he said he came to the point where it's all right, no more juggling, no more double-mindedness. It's going to be Christ and Christ alone. He said, I submitted to that. And he said I started seeing God doing great things. And God's using them in great ways now. We all respect him tremendously. Now listen, being single-minded doesn't necessarily mean God's going to put you in the ministry. It does mean this. You're going to be in a position where God can lead you and bless you and answer prayer and use you and use me in ways we never dreamed was possible. But we've got to quit playing. That play church They're just kind of doing their thing and just kind of fiddling around and playing around. Listen to me. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the most valuable thing in the world. You don't play with it Either I'm serious about reaching the world with the gospel and living for God, or I'm not. And Christ says, we need to come out. He that is double he that is double minded is unstable in all his ways We were little, my mom's down, we'd just reminisce. She's got so many memories. And we used to go camping down at Ocean City, New Jersey. Anybody know where that is? You guys know. And uh and uh w there's a wildwood I think over there and an Atlantic City up there, all that section there. We used to go camping down, they have campgrounds just off the beach. We go down two, three weeks at a time. And that was when you can't you didn't have air conditioning and T V satellite dishes in your campers, Paul. And um Pat told me one time. I I bet don't say it okay. Um Somebody was going to go camping one time and they said we can't go camping and the air conditioner doesn't and the camper doesn't work. We can't go camping. That's not the kind of camping we did. We can't And um we would go out on the beach and we'd spend all day on the beach as a little kid, get sunburned, blistered, unbelievable. And I learned something back then. You can't trust waves. You cannot trust them. And that wave would be way out, may just all be washing up, and I'd be way up here, and I'd say, good, I can build a sand castle. And I'd get working on that thing, build that thing up, have my back to the water, and I'd build that thing up and hear a noise Look back. And that's what God's saying. He is like a wave of the sea, a double-minded man, and it kills our prayer life. And I I don't really mean this the way I'm saying it, but it's almost like God can't trust us. We're like that wave. You don't know what you're going to be one day to the next. Don't know whether you're going to be there or not. And God says this limit. We need our prayers answered. If we're going to grow, if we're going to be what he needs us to be, we need to be single-minded, all out for Christ. And that's a decision we make. Sweet aside. Is that what I'm going to be or not? And I hope God will challenge us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I want to be single-minded, Lord. I know. How short we fall in this. The old flesh and that world is such a lurement. I pray you'd help us just to side. We're going to be out and out for Christ. We're not going to be double-minded, no more juggling. We're going to believe you, we're going to trust you, and we're going to sell out for you. I pray you'd make that true in so many of our lives. It's not easy. Some will choose not to be, just go on. I pray some of us you'd stir our hearts. And maybe this Mother's Day evening we decide, single-minded for Christ, prayers answered, witness effective, life makes a difference. How about it? Heads bowed, eyes, close, how many to say, preacher, that's where I'm at in my Christian life. I want to be out and out for Christ I want to be single-minded for the Lord Jesus and the gospel. How about it? Any like that, preacher, pray for me. God bless you. I hope we mean that Maybe just going old-fashioned older, maybe just renewing that commitment, refreshing that that decision, or maybe it's a first time. Say, Lord, here I am. No more playing I want to be out and out for you. Bless our imitation, I ask, Lord in Jesus' name. Let's stand