Matthew chapter 12, if you would, notice in verse number 10. Jesus is in the synagogue. Verse 9 tells us he's in the synagogue and people are assembled there. And verse 10 it says, And behold, there was a man which had his hand withered. I want to, with the Lord help me, I want to preach on a man with a withered hand. A man with a withered hand. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you again in this hour, and we've assembled, Lord, we've assembled together as a church in your name. And we've come to praise you through our songs. We come to fellowship and encourage, exhort one another with our interaction one with another. Lord, we've come to give of ourselves and our service to the church here in various ways, and then of our resources. We give our tithes and offerings in a bit. And Lord, we've come to hear from you. And God, our Bibles are open before us. And Father, I recognize that you are the author of this book. Not me. And so I ask that your Holy Spirit, as the author, would fill me and speak your word through my lips to all of our hearts. And so I pray your Holy Spirit would guide my thinking as I speak, and the words that are used, and the statements that are made. And Lord, I pray that it would be more than just a lecture. I pray it'd be more than just information, but Lord, I pray it would be the power of God be upon this message and that our hearts would be stirred to live for you Lord, maybe some of us need to fall back in love with you. God, some of us need encouragement. Lord, some of us need direction and wisdom. And Lord, whatever the need is, you know. I pray you'd use your word. this morning in this next few moments to help us in our need. Maybe some need salvation. Some need maybe need restoration, whatever it may be. I pray. That you use your word to accomplish that in every one of our lives, whatever that need is, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Every week goes by, I study this book and I thoroughly enjoy it. And as I study the Bible and look at the Bible, I think about how God's word has so profoundly changed my life. Many, many years ago, and then through all these years, how the Word of God, this book, the truths, the information in this book, how it's impacted my life And then as a pastor, I sit on the platform here and I look out and I see people in the church. And I see people that the Word of God has had a profound impact in their lives. I see how lives are changed and many, many here, I look when I first met you, uh, and then what God has done in your life over the years through the Word of God and uh impacting you and changing you. Do you know what I'm talking about? The power of the word of God, the change of life, the whole direction of the life. And not just change the direction of life, but the power of the word of God to alter What I am. I mean from the core, from the heart. Change my heart. Bible says, if any man be in Christ, he's a what? New creature. That's accomplished through the the Word of God. As I receive it, believe it. And then the Spirit of God and Christ. Use his word to change our lives. And then how the Bible speaks to our hearts. I hope you have I know I probably overdo this, but I hope I hope you have a habit of every day spending some time alone with God in the Word of God in prayer. And it's an amazing thing. It amazes me as how I read this book, how it'll speak to my heart. And how often I'm going through a situation or I'm dealing with an issue or maybe I stumbled in some area of my Christian life and I come to the Word of God and God's word is like a living book. It addresses my situation uh my circumstances right where I'm at like if it was written that morning. Does anybody have any idea what I'm talking about? Anybody? This is a what I'm trying to say is uh this is an amazing book It is the Word of God. And I mentioned I think I mentioned this last week. I have a lot of books and we're redoing the office and I'm gotta find a place to stack all my books, but I'm telling you, this is the greatest book that has ever been penned in all of history. The Word of God, the most powerful. It is the only book authored by God. Now listen, it doesn't need to be rewritten. We just need to get back reading it, right? We don't need new versions. We need the old version to have its way in our heart and life. And so I just want it for a moment this morning stand in awe of the Word of God. the Bible. It's a powerful book. We're in chapter 12 of Matthew. And um little context here. Chapter 12 records events that take place in the middle of the ministry of Jesus Christ. We know very little. We're given just a little bit of snippets of the early life of Christ when he's about twelve years old. We have one event recorded, his birth of course But other than that, we know nothing of the first 30 years of the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. We infer some things by statements, but we're not given any specific events other than his twelve year old as a twelve year old boy one event. But then for three and a half years, about the age 30, Jesus begins his public ministry. John the Baptist recognizes him, introduces him to the world as the Lamb of God that takes away the sins of the world. Jesus is baptized by John and his ministry begins and lasts about three and a half years, of course, ending with his crucifixion, burial, resurrection. And then shortly after his ascension. So Matthew chapter twelve is panned right in the middle Of that three and a half year ministry of Jesus Christ. It's right in the middle of that time. He's known to people now. He's been out for 18 months. He's been out preaching. He's been doing miracles. He's been teaching. He has another about 18 or so months until he's betrayed and crucified. So he's in the middle of this three and a half year ministry of his life, and Matthew chapter twelve is recording a turning point. In the ministry of Jesus Christ. There's a transition taking here, taking place here. And we don't have time to look into this in specifics, but if you look at the first eleven chapters, particularly at Jesus' ministry, it's primarily, he's doing miracles, but it's primarily teaching and preaching. I mean just straight up preaching doctrine, teaching doctrine, uh, teaching of the Lord, of himself, mankind. It's just teaching and preaching. But after chapter twelve, up until his Garden of Gethsemane, his public It changes, his public ministry changes from teaching and preaching, it becomes primarily telling parables It's changed. His approach, his public instruction changes after chapter twelve. And He begins using parables to communicate spiritual truth. Come over to chapter 13 and notice with me, if you would, verse number 10, just a chapter over. And look at verse ten. And he tells this parable of the sower went to sow, and some fell on the wayside, some fell on stony ground, some fell on among thorns, some fell on good ground. We're familiar with that. Most of us are familiar with that parable. This is a parable. He he doesn't come out and directly say what he me what he's talking about And notice in verse 9, he says, he that hath ears to hear, let him hear. He that hath ears to hear. And the disciples, verse 10, come and say to him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables? You didn't before. Why all of a sudden now you're using these parables of selling seeds and stuff? And notice how the Lord answers. He answered and said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom, who's the you he's talking to? It's the disciples, yeah. Verse 10. The disciples came to him. So he's alone with his disciples. He's not talking out to the public, he's not talking to the Pharisees and the scribes. He says unto you, because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom, but to them it is not given. Something's changed. For whosoever hath to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance. But whosoever hath not from him shall be taken even that he hath. Therefore, I speak to them in parables because they seeing not and hearing, because they seeing, see not And hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. He goes down on. He says, And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, says Isaiah, which saith, By hearing ye shall hear and shall not understand. And seeing ye shall see and shall not perceive. For this people's heart, the people out there that he's talking the parables to, this people's heart is waxed gross. Their ears are dull of hearing. In other words, their heart is hard. They won't listen. Lest at any time they should see with their ears and hear with their uh see with their see with their ears. Um that's the Leatherman version there. That's about as accurate as some of these other versions out there Lest at any time they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and should understand with their heart and should be converted, and I should hear them. But blessed are your eyes. For they see. And your ears, for they hear. What's he saying? He had been up to this point, he had been teaching and preaching very clearly. Very directly. Powerful sermons. Sermon on the Mount. It's very clear what he's saying. No question about what he's saying. And now, after chapter 12, now he's doing parables. And the disciples say, Why are you doing parables? Nobody's understanding what you're talking about. And he says to them, basically, saying, listen, they won't listen. I've taught, and I'm ex I'm extrapolating here a little bit, but he said, I taught very clearly, I preached very clearly. And they wouldn't hear, they wouldn't listen to me. They saw what I was saying, they understood what I was saying, and they refused it. And if they won't receive what I give to them clearly, then I'm going to stop giving it clearly. I'm going to give it in parables. Something changed. Something changed. So what happened? What what happened that caused Jesus To transition his approach, his method of communicating truth from clear, simple, straight up teaching and preaching to now parables Well something happened to the crowd, to the Pharisees. They they they won't listen. They harden their hearts They won't receive what I'm giving them. So what took place? So you get looking at it, and again, we don't have time to go to do the look at this in detail, but prior to chapter 12 The Pharisees and the leadership of Israel had been progressively increasing their criticism of Jesus Christ. As Jesus' influence increased, I mean he's preaching powerful messages. They're learning things about God they didn't know. They're seeing in Christ the power of God in ways they'd never seen before. And as his influence is increasing and the crowds are getting larger The leadership of Israel, the Pharisees, the priests, and the scribes, their criticism of him is increasing. They're becoming more and more critical of him. They start questioning his authority. Come back to chapter 9 real quick and look with me at verse number 3. And this is prior to chapter twelve, of course. And uh They brought to chapter 9, they brought to Jesus, this man sick of the palsy, and Jesus forgives his sin. And look at verse 3. And behold, certain of the scribes, this is the leadership, said within themselves, this man, what? They're criticizing him. He doesn't have authority to do this. He's blasphemy. They begin criticizing his associations. Look at verse 11. Same chapter, chapter 9. Come down to verse 11. And when the Pharisees saw it, they said to his disciples, Why eateth your master with publicans and sinners? They're criticizing his associations. They're casting a shadow of doubt over him. Well, listen, look who he's running with. Who does he think? He's blaspheming God. He's hanging out with sinners and publicans of all people. And we see this increasing as his influence increases. They challenge his lifestyle. Look at verse 14 of chapter 9. And then came to him the disciples of John saying, Why do we and Pharisees fast often and the disciples fast not? Well, we fasted, the Pharisees are fasting, why aren't you? Look how you're living. And so up to chapter twelve, we see this criticism of Christ, this questioning his authority, this challenging Of him is progressively increasing, it's intensifying. And then chapter 12 is like the tipping point. Look with me, if you would, at verse twenty-four of Matthew chapter twelve Now notice notice the intensity of their criticism. Now look what they accuse them of being blasphemous, they hanging out with sinners. Look at verse 24. But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub, the prince of devils. Who are they associating him with now? Satan himself. This is a whole nother level. This guy is not of God, he's of the devil. And the criticism after chapter twelve becomes intensely personal. Again, they're accusing him of of uh being of the devil of all things, the son of God. They're accusing them, they become open in their hostility of them, their rejection, and leads me, if you would, notice verse number chapter 12, and notice with me if you would. Verse number fourteen. And I think this is the point where Jesus changes his approach. Then the Pharisees went out and held counsel against him, how they might what A decision has been made on the part of Israel, particularly its leadership, that we're not tolerating this man anymore. They questioned his authority, they've criticized his lifestyle, they criticized his associations, they've challenged his teaching. And now they come to the point where we say, we're done. And they begin to plot his death, his murder. And Jesus changes his approach. And he says they won't hear. I've preached, I've taught, I came unto my own And my own what? Received them not. Received them not. He says, okay. I'm going to do parables. Now he explains the parables to the disciples. But the Pharisees have hardened their heart. And so I said all that to say this. Chapter 12 is a significant Chapter 12 records a significant period of time in the ministry of Jesus Christ where there's a real, like I said, it's a turning point. Things are different after the events of chapter 12 than they were before. Jesus' ministry is different after chapter 12 than it was before. The Israel, under the leadership of the Pharisees and all of them, are responding to Jesus differently than they did before. It has intensified to the point of of of uh uh uh decision to destroy 'em. We're destroying 'em. Their minds are made up Their hearts are hard, their ears are dull, their eyes won't see who he is, what he's doing. They've hardened themselves. And so it's a turning point. Chapter 12 is a significant chapter in the Gospels. And right smack dab in the middle of this transition is a man with a withered hand. Of all things. This is intensifying. This has been escalating to this point. Crowds are getting bigger, criticism, and it gets to this point. And this guy walks into the synagogue with a withered hand. And things change. Now, I have some observations I want to make about this man with a withered hand. I have five observations. I'm going to look at them and we'll go through them very, very quickly. I notice, first of all, the attention that is drawn to this man with a withered hand. We'll see that in verse 10, the first part. Then how Jesus' adversaries use this man with a withered hand to try and accomplish their purposes. They're just using them. And then we're going to notice verse 11 and 12 Jesus' appraisal of this man with a withered hand, in other words, how he values, how he sees this man. And then we're going to notice quickly Jesus' absurd instructions to him. He tells them to do something that's absolutely absurd. And then we're going to notice, last of all, very briefly, the world's attitude towards a man with a withered hand. Number one, the attention that Jesus draws to this man with a withered hand. Uh if you would notice in verse number nine, this is the context, this is the setting where this man with a withered hand becomes a a part of the di part of the account Verse 9, and when he was departed thence, he went into their synagogue. Now in the Old Testament economy The Old Testament environment, they would assemble, the people of God would assemble together in person, they would assemble together initially at the temple. On the Sabbath, the seventh day, which we understand to be Saturday, they would assemble on Saturday, on the Sabbath, on the seventh day, they would assemble uh initially at the temple and they still did later uh later on but then at one point they started having sab uh having um synagogues I think that started, I may be a mistake, but I believe that started during the captivity. They started meeting in synagogues. So whether it was at the temple or in the synagogues, on the seventh day. The people of God would assemble together in these locations as a group, as a body, as an assembly, and they would worship the Lord, they would praise the Lord, saying and have Message is not exactly the way we do, but something along the same lines. They would worship God. That was the Lord's day in the Old Testament setting We get to the book of Acts. We get to the New Testament at the ascension of Christ, and we see a change takes place. In the New Testament environment, the people of God, now the church, Israel's been set aside for the some of the reasons we touched on. Israel's been set aside as far as God's Economy is that during this period of time, now the church is established. And the church doesn't assemble together on the Sabbath. The church doesn't assemble together on the seventh day, Saturday. Now The church assembles together when? The first day. What we call Sunday. You say, why did they switch? Why did they change? Because Jesus rose from the dead on the first day of the week. And the first day now has become, and it's referred to in Scripture as the Lord's Day. Every time we assemble together as a body of believers on Sunday We are recognizing the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so this is still under that Old Testament economy. The Lord is obviously hasn't been crucified and resurrected at this point. And so they're meeting together. But I found it interesting that Jesus, though he's the Son of God, he still faithfully assembles together with the people of God on the day designated that they are to assemble together. Amen? I am of the firm conviction, to me the Bible is very, very clear, that God's people ought to assemble together. On the day God designates as his day. In fact, if you look at the book of Acts, they assemble together numerous times throughout the week, very, very faithfully. So I find it interesting that the Son of God recognized the importance of the assembling together, the people of God, to exhort one another, to praise God, to worship God, to serve Him, to encourage and lift up each other. And so that's the setting of this man with a withered hand. He comes into the synagogue. They've all assembled together on the seventh day, and Jesus is there, and this man with a withered hand comes in. And I notice that Jesus draws attention to this man Look there in verse 10. It says, and what's the second word of verse 10? Behold. The word behold has the idea of hey, hey, look at this It has uh the word behold has the idea of, hey, turn your attention here. Behold, behold This man with a withered hand walked in, and behold. It has the idea of take note of this. This is significant. Behold, there was a man which had his hand withered. Now, I think it's I find it interesting that Jesus doesn't draw attention to some great king. That comes into the synagogue. Behold, King Herod is in the synagogue today. Woohoo! Whoa! You don't see that at all. He doesn't say, behold, some powerful centurion that has been a hero of wars of rope. And he is in our service today, a great military leader. No, not at all He doesn't say, behold, hey everybody, look, look, here's a very, very wealthy businessman. This guy's a billionaire. He owns companies and businesses all over the world, and he's here in our synagogue today. Woo! Look at that! In fact, you don't find Jesus doing that at all. Ever drawing special attention to some great man of the world What Jesus is doing, he's drawing attention to a man with a withered hand. It was significant to Jesus Christ. That this man was in the service. That he was there. Now, knowing us what we are We would be boy I tell you if the and and I know uh don't don't get worked up over politics, but just follow my illustration. If the mayor of if the uh Governor of Maryland would come in and sit here, we'd be like, whoa, whoa. Governor would say. No. Listen, y'all just cool down. Chill out I have as many opinions as you do. I'm trying to illustrate something. Brother, this is a tough crowd, Cletus. This is a tough crowd. But you follow what I'm saying, right? You all get the point, right? Do I need to talk in parables or what? But if we you know if somebody significant come in, somebody very popular, somebody very what you know who we it'd be on it'd be on social media. Oh, we had so and so in our service today Nobody puts on and says we had a man with a withered hand in our service today. Nobody says, oh, look at this. Here's a guy with a withered hand. Oh, whoa, look at that. Nobody does that. Except Jesus. He paid attention to this guy. A withered hand. What in the world is a withered hand? Well, it means his hand was dried up. It's what the word withered means literally dried up. You know, we're our bodies are a lot big percentage of it is liquid. And a withered hand is a hand where that liquid is gone. It's just dried up. It means to be shriveled. It's used sometimes to refer to a paralyzed hand, where there's little or no circulation, there's no muscle movement, there's no nerve control. It's just paralyzed. A lot of time a withered hand would be very stiff, very thin and weak. A withered hand is unusable. A man with a withered hand is of very little use to anybody. What can he do? Can't can't drive a horse, he can't work a hammer, he what can he do? A man with a withered hand Is unusable, of no use to anybody. It's no benefit to have a man with a withered hand as an associate in business. In this culture, a man with a withered hand would have been stigmatized by society. There's something wrong with him. He doesn't fit in. He's weird. He would be an outcast. He would be what might call a misfit Now I got thinking, why I wonder why did he have a withered hand? What caused that? Was he born that way? Very real possibility. People are born with physical handicaps, right or wrong? Yes. They have no control over it just by The wisdom, the providence of God for his purposes, often known only to him, he allows people to be born with physical handicaps. Maybe this man with a withered hand And the synagogue was born that way. It's a very real possibility, maybe a likelihood. Maybe it was an accident Maybe when he was a kid he tripped in front of the horse or something, the mule and stepped on his arm and cut off circulation and uh paralyzed it and it over time shriveled up and come stiff and useless. Maybe it was sin. Maybe he got involved in some sin Maybe he made some sinful decisions, and it had consequences physically on him. I know a fellow, one fellow in particular, that lost a limb because of drunkenness. Drunk, got in a motorcycle wreck, he lost his he lost his leg. Because of sin, because of a bad decision. I just, this isn't the subject, but I want to throw this out. Just kind of take a back-handed slap at sin. Sin will never help you or me. It hurts, it harms. And in some cases, it will handicap. So I don't know why this man had a withered hand. We're not told, but he did. He was most likely came into the synagogue alone. We don't read anybody else with him. Like I said, he was most likely by society has been Ostracized, stigmatized, and set aside. But Jesus recognizes them Behold, hey, look at this. A man with a withered hand is here. I can hear people in the crowd say, pfft, so. We see him around all the time. What's he had to offer our synagogue? Well, how will he benefit us in any way? He's a withered, he's a man with a withered hand. Jesus says, Oh, I want you to pay attention to him. Jesus, never, I can't ever find anywhere in Scripture where Jesus exalts or draws attention in a special way to people who are big shots in the world. It's always the outcast. It's always the woman at the will. It's always the widow that brings a little might Everyone else noticed how much the rich were putting in. Oh, the wealthy, oh, they're putting in thousands and thousands, million dollars. Whoa, look, behold, look at their offering. Jesus says, Oh, behold that little widow. She put one night in all she had. I believe Jesus has a special place, a special affection for misfits. I believe Jesus has a special affection for those with withered hands, withered bodies. I believe Jesus has a special place in his heart for those that have withered lives. Lives that have been withered by sin. We've made decisions, we've taken actions, we've done things that have hurt us and have cost us dearly, and we're living with the consequences. Of sinful, foolish actions. And we think God has written me off. And I'm of no value. I've blown it But Jesus says, ah, behold. I believe Jesus has a special affection for withered hands, withered bodies, withered lives, withered hearts. The Bible talks about widows and how God has a special affection for them and the fatherless. How the Lord has a special affection for them, special care over them. I'm glad my Savior loves misfits. Because that's exactly what I was when he found me. Just a sinner Nothing in the eyes of the world, nothing as far as the world's praise is concerned, just an old sinner on my way to hell. And God saw a withered teenage boy, and he said, Behold. Aren't you glad God loves old sinners? Aren't you glad that when we wither ourselves, we find ourselves withered, whether through grief or heartache? or our own stupidity, or maybe things we can't even control, that God still pays attention and cares about us. I've noticed the attention the Lord gives to this man with a withered hand. Second of all, I notice the adversary's use of this man with a withered hand. Look with me, if you would, again, at verse 10, the second part. Says, Behold, there was a man which had his hand withered. And they, the leadership, the Pharisees, scribes, they asked him Jesus, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day? Why were they asking that? Were they asking Jesus that so were they asking that question so that he would heal this guy? Jesus, this guy is a withered hand. Please, can you at least do this on the Sabbath day? That was not what they were doing. They were not asking that question because they cared about a man with a withered hand. They weren't asking that question because of something they could do for this man, or somehow be a blessing to this man, or somehow help him. You know what they were doing? They were using him. To try and discredit Jesus Christ. And I'm here to tell you, that is all the world ever does. It just uses people till it's done with them, then it throws them out. Remember the prodigal son? He got his father's inheritance, he goes to the far country, and he was he wasted his uh living with riot he wasted his Uh money with riotous living. And when he ran out, what's it say? Nobody would help him. You know what he ended up? He was a withered man with a withered hand. He ruined his life. He withered his life away. And nobody cared. All they wanted to do was use them. Oh, I got some pegs, you can feed them. I can use you. No, they weren't they nobody cared about helping him. These Pharisees were just using this man, just using this man. I'm here to tell you, young and old. Do not get enamored with the world. Don't fall in love with the world. This world will never love you. It will only use you till it's done. And then go on. Their whole focus was on themselves. Their whole focus was what They perceived as a threat to themselves. Jesus was a threat to their authority. Jesus was a threat to their position. Here's a man. We can use this man to try and discredit Jesus Christ because he's a threat to us Everything was about them. Too often people value others only for what they will benefit them. What will this person do for me? If they have nothing to offer me, then they're of no value to me. How can this person bless me? If they cannot bless me in some way, then they're of no value to me. How can I use them? What can he do for me? What can she do for me? Girls, if you've got a fella that you've got your eyes on, And he's trying to tell you that if you really love him, you will do things that you know are wrong. I'm telling you, he does not care about you. It's all about him. And vice versa. These adversaries didn't care about this man with a withered hand. They're using him. They're using him. I hate to say this, I really do. But I'm afraid I look at the church situation in our country, our world today. And I'm afraid your average church anymore has little concern for people with withered hands, has little concern for anybody with a withered life. Somebody that ruined themselves by sin and destroyed. Your average church is only worried about whether we can have a great offering or not, or whether we can get this out of people, or get that out of people. Little concern for the unsaved, little concern for those lost in sin. Little concern for those without Christ. You hear the statement, it's us four and no more. I could give illustrations and ministries I've been in in previous years before coming here. Where if that person did not benefit our church, then we're not interested in them. And I'm here to tell you, that is wrong. That is unchristlike. For many, I hate to say it, but I'm afraid for your average church, soul winning and reaching the lost is just too inconvenient. It interferes in my life too much. It costs too much. So no benefit to me to go out in the community and give to missions and go on mission trips or even give myself to me. It's too inconvenient. I'm not willing. Doesn't do anything for me. And that's where these adversaries were. They're using this man with a withered hand for their own selves. Then I need to quickly notice Jesus' appraisal of this man with a withered hand. Now this, man, you could park it here, and I'm not going to And he said unto them, verse 11, What man here, what man shall there be among you that shall have one sheep? And if it fall into a pit on the Sabbath day, will he not lay hold on it and lift it out? And the obvious answer to that question would have been what? Of course we would do that. It's a sheep. It's valuable. It's part of my income. It's an investment of mine. This is how I make my living. Off a sheep, of course I would rescue that sheep on the Sabbath. Look at verse 12. How much then is a man better than a she? Wherefore is it lawful to do well? Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the Sabbath day. What he's saying, he says, your sheep are more important to you than this man's soul. Your possessions, your investments, your money is more important to you than the salvation of a withered man's soul, the healing of a withered man. To Jesus Christ, this man was more important than any possession anyone could ever have. The Pharisees were willing to do for a sheep what they were not willing to do for a man In Mark chapter 3, we won't turn there. Mark chapter 3, verse 5, we have Mark's account of the same event. And there it says Jesus got angry. Uses the word angry. You want to know how to make Jesus angry? Care more about stuff than you do about souls. Care more about your possessions than you do about people. And according to Mark chapter 3, verse 5, that made Jesus angry. Mark 8, verse 36 says, What does it profit a man that gains the whole world and lose his own soul? Let me let me and I'm not that's God's word, so please don't misunderstand, but let me let me adjust that to apply what we're talking about. What does it profit a Christian? To let people die and go to hell. I gain the whole world, but yet I do nothing to keep reach people with withered lives, withered hearts. What does it profit a church if we have the biggest budgets and the most beautiful buildings and the most wonderful programs, but we do nothing? To help reach people with withered hands. How's that going to benefit us? We stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Oh, here's a crown. You guys had beautiful offices and you had wonderful activity centers. Here's a great crown I want to give you. You don't find that anywhere in Scripture Is it wrong to have nice houses? No, but that's not our value. And so Jesus' appraisal of this man with a withered hand, he's worth more than a sheep. It's worth more than all the world. And then I need a quickly Jesus' absurd instructions to this man with a withered hand. Look at verse 13. He says, Then saith he unto the man, stretch forth thine hand. Are you kidding me? Stretch forth my hand? That's ridiculous. I can't stretch forth my hand. It's impossible. I have no doubt that this man had on many, many times, maybe alone, maybe with his wife or whoever, family, whatever he had, if anything, he would try, alright, I'm going to do it. I have no doubt in my mind he had tried and tried and tried to get that hand useful. Somehow, get this thing. And it would not, he could not, it was impossible, it's ridiculous to ask me to stretch forth my hand. It's absurd. What kind of instruction is that? But something in the words of Jesus stirred his faith. And made him believe that he could do something that was absolutely impossible. Jesus said, Stretch forth thy hand Something in those words. Something in the words of Jesus prompted him to have enough faith to do something that was absurd. It was ridiculous. There's no way. But Jesus said Romans 10, 17 says, Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by what? The Word of God. He heard the words of Jesus, and he believed. He believed. I wonder how many times if this man was born this way, let's suppose he was born this way. I wonder how many times his mother said to him, Levi, stretch that hand. Come on, stretch that hand out. I can't, Mama, I can't. Somebody go back, give me your hand. I can't. Jesus says, Stretch forth your hand. Huh. Huh Ah I'm telling you, this book is a powerful book The word of God, those words came off the lips of Jesus, and it prompted this man to believe. It produced faith in his heart, it stirred his heart to believe God. God instructs us in his word that to do things that many times seem impossible. But something in his heart stirs us to trust him and believe. Somebody says, I can't be forgiven. There's no way. There is no way. It is impossible. It is absurd that God would ever forgive me for what I've done. Jesus says, You confess your sins. I'm faithful and just. I'll forgive you. Huh? Lord, I'm a sinner, God, I've sinned. And God forgives me. He does what seems impossible He says, go into all the world and preach the gospel. Lord, we're just a little church up in Garrick County Mountains of Western Maryland. How can we go into all the world? Just trust me. Do your faith promise. Get missions involved Get involved in God of it. And lo and behold, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has a worldwide ministry. Through the internet, through the radio, through our missions. Listen, we're not the biggest. We're not the same. We're the biggest or best or anything, but I'm telling you, God's done something. And if he says something that seems impossible, our hearts are stirred by his word and we believe him. And we stretch forth our hand. So I see this absurd instruction. Ed Wilt came to Mount came to Garr uh to Oakland, Maryland back in 1962 and started winning souls and And one here long, he told me this personally. I heard him from his own lips. He told me so after we'd been here a little while, people started coming to me saying, Brother Will we'll help you pack up your stuff So what do you mean I just got here? We said, yeah, we know. We'll help you pack it back up. He said he had multiple people tell him, you will never ever have a Baptist church in Oakland, Maryland. That was 65 years ago or something like that. It was absurd, but he believed. He believed. And then I gotta end with this. Notice the attitude of the world. Verse 14, then the Pharisees went out and held counsel against him, how they might destroy him. That's destroy Jesus. Jesus knew how the Pharisees were going to respond, yet he healed them anyway. He knew it was going to stir up a controversy. He knew it was going to lead to a decision that would mean his crucifixion, but he healed the man anyway. This whole world doesn't care about sinners, but Jesus does. You say, well, it'll upset the family. If I get saved, it'll upset the family. If I get saved, it'll do this. If I go to missions, it'll u Jesus knew it was going to stir things up, but he did it anyway. He did it anyway. I did a youth rally, it was a Bible time rally up in Springfield, Massachusetts. Pastor Howe was his name. Back in 1986, previous millennium. And they bringing in buses, they ran buses. There was like 400, I think we had four hundred bus kids came in on buses to this church. And uh the after the first day, Monday, we did a day rally. Uh so I preached in in the morning, did the rally and uh and then afterward the buses left, all the kids are gone. I'm looking around. These are all inner city kids, so I mean rough And so I'm looking around for the pastor. I'm down in the basement area and there's bathrooms there. I look and he's in there plunging the commodes. Every one of the commodes is backed up. He's there plunging away. So Pastor, can I help you? I got it. I'm good Okay. Trying to think much of it, it's just something happened. The next day I'm looking for him. Lo and behold, he's down there again. Every commode is plugged up. He's there plunging him out. Said, Pastor, let me help you. And so we worked and got him Oh that's weird. Two days in a row. The third day, Wednesday, I'm looking for the preacher. Anybody want to guess where he is? He's down in the bathroom, the men's room, plunging the bath I said, what in the world's going on? This is three days in a row. He says, Yeah, I know, those kids come in here and they throw stuff in the commode and they deliberately plug it up You know, he wasn't mad. He wasn't all worked up. He was just plunging them out. He could have got somebody else. He could have told me to do it. But he was so thrilled that young people who needed Jesus so desperately, even though they were naughty. Even though they were withered. And he had to unplug the commodes. He was thrilled. They were coming in and learning about Jesus. I'm suggesting you that's the mind of Christ. That's the heart of God. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to take this message. I went long again, Lord, please. But I pray you'd help us be a church that loves people with withered hands. Lord, we are withered people and you loved us and you healed us. And we struggle and we still wither up sometimes, and you help us back. I pray you would you work through us and use us to help others, to love others that don't fit in, that are Costly, that don't benefit us. But Lord help us to love them and care about them more than our sheep. More than our stuff. We care about souls and people. I wonder with heads bowed eyes closed. I don't know how God may have spoken to your heart. But this morning he said, preacher, God stirred my heart. And I want to care about others and get my eyes off myself. Care about others. Or anything like that. I need God to help me. God bless you. Hands all around. There's people need Christ. They're withered. They're awkward. They don't fit in, but Lord, I want you to use me and love them through me. What if there's some, and this was between you and God, so I want to be careful. But maybe there's some here that say, preacher, I'm I've got withered myself a little bit. I know the Lord is Savior, but I've withered my testimony My walk with you is withered up. Maybe your heart's broken over some things, and you say, Preacher, I'm withered. I need the Lord to touch me and help me. Is there any maybe some like that, preacher, pray with me? God will help me. God bless you. And I know that may be very personal. But I'm here to tell you God loves you. You don't have to be a superstar, you don't have to be a billionaire, you just be an old withered sinner. Jesus pays attention, he cares about you, help you. Is there some here this morning to say, preacher, I'm not saved? I need to know that God has forgiven me and given me a new life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I need God to help me get that settled. I don't want to die and go to hell. And you know, Father, bless now our invitation And uh help us to respond in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together