We're glad you're here and uh I believe the midweek prayer service, most important service we have of the week. So I appreciate you coming out and uh being faithful. It's good to have uh as I mentioned, Pastor Koblenz here, his family. And uh up here, uh I don't know if it's vacation or their second home, but they uh uh have a place up at the lake. He pastors down uh the uh Pioneer Baptist Church in Thermond Thurmond, Thurmont, Mar Maryland. And so uh it's good to have you here, brother. Good to see you again. A couple times a year they show up. And uh we're good to see us around. Chip and Vicky are back in town. How about that? We have to re m we have to vote them back in as membership. But uh now I'm getting getting good reports. I got a good report from Kentucky, the preacher down there, Brother Williams, uh got a message from him and uh And they're saying good things, so we praise the Lord for that. How many folks need a prayer bulletin? Is there anybody that did not get a prayer bulletin, slipped your hand up? And uh the ushers are you ready to get one to you? Down front and on my left, and uh Uh anybody else? We shouldn't be out of these yet. I don't think so. One more down front here on my right. I'm waiting for someone to come up and sing a special. I guess Ronnie is oh In that case, if you would, take your Bibles. Our second name for our church, we're the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, our second name is Sign-Up List Baptist Church. And I have another sign up list to send around. So if I can get one of the guys to come up here and help me get this, it is for Tuesday night of our Sword of the Lord conference. Sandwiches. And so there's a pen on there. If you're able to uh uh make some soup for that evening or sandwiches, yeah, fill it out there and put on there what you're making so we don't have everything the same. And the idea behind all these different things we're doing is we like for the preachers to come in and their church folks and people from out of town. And rather than having to go down to a restaurant and they can stay here in the fellowship hall we have some good food for 'em they can uh fellowship together and uh try and make it a little more affordable for some of these pastors of small churches. It's difficult for them to get out sometimes and so we try and do everything we can to help him out. If you would turn in your Bibles to Zechariah, second last book of the Old Testament. A lady, very elderly lady, walked into the church and um The usher was in the back greeter at the door and uh he helped her up the flight of steps and she was kind of very fragile and he said where would you like to sit? He asked politely, and the elderly lady said, I would like to sit in the front row Please. And the usher said, You really don't want to do that. Our preacher is really boring. This was another church, it wasn't our church. And the lady said, Do you happen to know who I am? And he said, No. She said, I'm the pastor's mother. She said indignantly. And the usher said, Do you know who I am? And she said, no. He said, good, and he left. And so You gotta be careful what you say. Zechariah chapter two. I'm gonna read verses one through five. Zechariah two, one through five. Uh while I'm thinking about it, Kathy needs a keyboard for the Teen Girls Sunday School class if anybody has one to donate. So So if what's that? So she would like to use a keyboard. If you have one around, Kathy could use it, see her use it down in the teen class. She started it Chapter 2, verse 1, I lifted up mine eyes again and looked, and behold a man with a measuring line in his hand. Then said I, whither goest thou? And he said unto me to measure Jerusalem, to see what is the breadth thereof, and what is the length thereof. And behold, the angel that talked with me went forth. And another angel went out to meet him. And he said unto him, Runs. Speak to this young man, saying, Jerusalem shall be inhabited as towns without walls for the multitude of men and of and cattle therein. For I, saith the Lord, will be unto her a wall of fire round about, and will be the glory in the midst of her. I've entitled the message, A Man with a Measuring Line. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, thank you for the Word of God. And Lord, I'm so grateful to be a part of a church that has a midweek prayer service. that understands the importance of prayer, corporate prayer. Lord, as we look into your word now to begin our service, I ask you would speak to our hearts. I ask you would open our hearts and minds to what you have for us. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I ask you to fill me with your spirit. That you would be the preacher that That uh you would have your way in our lives. Help us, I pray. Bless the teens downstairs. And I pray for the nursery and the workers there and the little children that you touch their hearts. Have your way, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Zechariah was a young man, if you remember. He was called of God, perhaps in his mid-teens, late teens at the most. And uh he was he he uh preached to the People of Jerusalem, and if you remember, as we've been studying this, just a quick reminder to get us caught up to what's happening here God had allowed, stirred the heart of the king of Babylon to allow the children of Israel to come back to Jerusalem after 70 years of being in captivity in Babylon. A bunch of them came back 50 to 70,000. That sounds like a lot, but you're thinking of an entire city, and you're thinking of probably several million Jews. That perhaps were in Babylon at the time or several hundreds of thousands, I should say. So it was actually a minority that came back to Jerusalem. As soon as they got back there, under the leadership of Zerubabel and Nehemiah, they rebuilt the foundation. of the temple, they built the walls, got all that up, but after about five years their interest in rebuilding the things of God their interest faded And uh they dropped off the building of God's house and they focused on building their houses. And for about 15 to 17 years, they completely neglected the things of God and work t and work completely on rebuilding their businesses, getting their houses back up. And so the house of God was in shambles. God raised up Agai and Zechariah to be prophets. To get God's people stirred up and get back to working on the things of God, getting their priorities back in line. And as we mentioned a number of times before, that's a real danger for us as Christians. And uh what regardless of how long we've been saved, sometimes you get a new Christian, somebody that gets saved, and boy, they're fired up about the thing And they're fired up about church, and man, they're gonna read their Bible and they're gonna pray, and I want to be a witness, and all this, and praise the Lord for that. Amen. But they lose that first love, they lose that wonder of the Christian life, and they get going and doing other things and fade out. If we're not careful that can happen Sometimes it happens later in the Christian life. You have Christians who have been saved for years and been faithful to the Lord for years and active in the ministry of the Lord for years, but for whatever reason That zeal wears off that commitment, and we get caught up in the things of ourselves. Well, that's what happened here. So Zechariah is stirring things up. God gives him a series of ten visions. Now I believe in studying this, it appears that they all took place in one night. Each vision was complete and independent of itself, but the message of these visions all were uh closely related. Uh they were uh to the same subject And we noticed so far in the first three visions we looked at that there is a two-fold message has appeared. And that's this. Number one, and this is still revealed. Jehovah is jealous for his people. We notice that in the first three visions. God loves his people dearly. And he chastened them by allowing them to become slaves in Babylon, but his purpose was not to destroy them, his purpose was to chasten them. Now, what do we mean by chasten? We know what we're talking about, right? What are we talking about? Correction, discipline. God chastens his people. Now that is one of the facts of life. God disciplines his children. And thank God for that. I tell you, some of the sweetest times in my Christian life has been when God has intervened. and brought some discomfort, some unpleasant things in my life to keep me in line, to keep me from getting too far out of way. And I tell you, when you get disciplined, when God disciplines us in love, it's a very sweet time in the Christian life. I've used this illustration a number of times, and uh my son's not here, but when our one son was real young and uh we had to exercise some discipline, we applied the Board of Education to the C And um of course there was weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth and all that going on. But when it was all said and done, we all reached we just hug them at all his level, we have a word prayer and afterward I was holding it was real small I was holding it he was just clinging to me and he said this he said Daddy this is the best part Just holding on, loving on each other. And that's true in the Christian life. God's discipline, God's chastening of us. How many folks here could give witness? I'm not sure answer me too, but you could give witness to the fact that God chastens his children. I mean you know what I'm talking about. We do wrong, we get out of whack and God takes takes uh God intervenes. All of that, God does that not because he hates us, not because he's mean or he wants us to suffer. God does that because he loves us. Just like a parent loves their child, they discipline and teach them so that they're safe from the dangers of disobedience. And God in love chastens us. And that's what he's doing to Israel. And these visions that Zechariah's having communicating the term is He says, listen, I did all that to you, that suffering in Babylon and the slavery, all that was because I loved you. I had to correct you. So that's one of the messages that's coming through in these visions. The second message is this: God will mercifully restore his people. He's saying to them, I'm not done with you. The city is in shambles and your lives have been completely uprooted for a long time, but I'm not done with you I will restore you to the land. And he tells them that he will restore them in two ways. One by rebuilding the temple. Now, of course, we understand from a prophetic view that that temple will be rebuilt when? When is God going to rebuild the temple in Israel? What what I hear a lot of mumbling. What when? During the millennial period. How do you feel that's what you were trying to say? Thought so. After the Lord comes back, after the battle of Armageddon, the judge of the nations, Israel's going to be restored, and Ezekiel tells us the temple's going to be rebuilt. The temple represented the presence and the blessings of God. The fact the temple is there represented that Israel was in communion with God. When because of their sin and disobedience that Communion was broken, the temple was destroyed. God says, I'm going to rebuild it. I'm going to restore you. The relationship I intended for the nation of Israel to have with Jehovah, God says that will take place someday. In spite of the fact you've been dispersed, in spite of the fact of uh of uh chastisement and slavery, I'm going to restore you. And so that was an important message. So his restoration was going to be evidenced by the rebuilding of the temple, but also by restoring Israel to the land that he promised Abraham. Go back to Genesis, you have what's called the Abrahamic Covenant. And God made a promise that someday His offspring, his descendants would dwell within very specific perimeteries. Israel has never possessed, never inhabited all the land that God promised Israel. God is saying through Zechariah, and he touches on it in Hagi also, he's saying someday you're going to have all that land I promise. And this is what he's telling them. My promise is still good. It's been a long time. Circumstances look otherwise, but my promise is still good. And the application for you and I is this. We may come to the Bible and we may say, I don't see how God could possibly Nothing appears that way in my life, nothing looks like that promise is even possible. But nevertheless, God's promise is still good. What looks impossible to man is possible to And so God promises these things. Now we come to this fourth vision. Zechariah, in his mind's eye, no doubt, we don't know that he's literally observing this, but But in his mind's eye, perhaps in his spirit, he is seeing this vision. Apparently he's asleep at night. And in this vision, he sees a man with a measuring line. Now I want us to first of all consider the individuals who are involved in this vision he has. There's four mentioned Notice verse number one. I lifted up mine eyes again. Alright, so who is the I? Zechariah. This is a young prophet. Ah, he's a young prophet, and he's given a great honor. Now we touched on this, but I want to touch on it again. Zechariah, this young man, was given the honor of delivering God's word to God's people. Now stop and think about that What an honor it is for a person to get a word from God and to have the privilege of taking that word and sharing it. With other people. That was Zechariah's privilege. Here he is. He says, I saw this vision. God was giving me his word, and I was given the honor of passing that word on to God. I'm telling you, there's no greater honor than to be able to deliver the Word of God. Now, whatever you think of the individual holding the office of president right now, the fact of the act The fact of the matter is, the presidential office is a great office. And can you imagine if the president, regardless of the individual, would just Bear with me. Then the president himself would say, I want you to take this message from me and bring it to these people in this country. And give them this message, would that not be a tremendous honor? He could choose. Would it not be an honor? Man, he would choose me. Wait a minute. The God of heaven and earth, the creator of everything, has given you and I a message, just like he did, Zechariah, to be delivered people. What an honor that is. I'm telling you, sometimes we have in Christianity we have this song, I don't believe it's so here, but I hope not, but some have this idea that if somebody is out there a soul winner And they're not giving the word of God out that there's something wrong with them. They're out of bounds, they're a little bit crapped. The fact of the matter is, the people who are giving out God's Word, they're They're the ones that come that I consider to be hold of positions and be doing something of a great honor, healing out God's word with people. And so Zechariah has this vision. And he says it. So he's the one individual here. By the way, it's not just an honor to deliver God's word, there's a great responsibility. To give out God's word. Can you imagine for Zechariah? God gives him this message through the vision that he wants the people of Israel to have in Jerusalem. And he takes that, it's a great honor, and he neglects it. And the next day he gets up and rather than going out and deserves, he says, Well, you know, I got some other things I gotta take care of. first. And he goes and works his garden, he goes and paints the house and he goes fishing for a while and he says man God gave me that message. I've got to get that message out. I've got to do this other stuff And can you imagine if he would just put that off and put that off and put that off? Do you think God would hold him responsibly? I believe that God, now this is Dennis Letterman here, but I think I can support it. From scripture. I believe that we will be held responsible at the judgment seat of Christ. God will hold us responsible for what we did with His Word and how we delivered. Delivered it not just in our community but around the world. And God has given us an honor, but it's a great responsibility. And I think some of the most severe judgment at the judgment seat of Christ. It's gonna be on Christians who had the Word of God, who had the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and did not deliver. So Zechariah is one of the individuals involved in this vision here, and he's given a great responsibility. to take this vision, this word, and deliver it. And so we have the first one here is I, the Zechariah. The second individual, look with me again at verse 1, says I lifted up, I lifted up my eyes again and looked And beheld, and behold, a man with a measuring line in his hand. Alright, so now we got this man with the measuring line. I was reading and studying this, and there's various suggestions by different Bible scholars who as to who this was. Some have Is the angel the same one as in verse uh down to verse number three? And behold the angel that talked with me. Some suggested, I think I'm No, I'm not. Some suggested that uh uh this man with the measuring hand is what I call the interpreting angel, the guy that's with Zechariah through all of these, and that it's one and the same I don't think that's possible because they're talking to each other. Another one suggested that this man with a measuring line is just uh uh their word was a mere figure Who had no significance. It was just some guy that he saw in this vision. There's no significance to him. He's just out there with this measuring line measuring stuff. Well, I don't think that fits the context here either. As I study this, I believe the correct understanding who this man is with the measuring line is the fact that it's the Lord Jesus Christ. And the reason we hold to that is, is he's using this measuring line. We're going to talk about that in a moment. But the purpose of the measuring line was to measure out, lay out an area if you're going to build. It was a key part in the in the construction industry back then It would be much like uh, what is it called, a transit you use today, and you kind of get a measurement, get things level, and that was the idea here And I believe when he sees when Zechariah sees this man with a vi with a measuring line in his vision, I believe he's seeing the Lord Jesus Christ because Hebrews chapter 3 verse 3 tells us that Jesus Christ is the master builder. And the whole context of this vision is God rebuilding Jerusalem, God re-establishing the nation of Israel. God re-establishing his temple and his relationship with them in the millennial reign. And anytime something is built for God, Jesus Christ is always behind it. Now let me say this. God has been good to our church. Amen. Brother George and I were talking a little bit, God's blessing on our church. We're talking before service. But the fact of the matter is, men do not build churches. Jesus Christ builds churches. Jesus says, the gates of hell upon this rock, I will build my church. If a church is built, Jesus is the one building it. Now he uses people as they yield to him and obey him and follow his instructions, but he's the builder And so when Zechariah sees this man with a measuring line in his hand, and he's preparing, measuring the land, to have it rebuilt, to have Israel re-established. It fits in the scripture that this man would be the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, some people have a problem with this being Jesus because he's referred to as a man. Now listen, Jesus is God. Amen? 100% God. Just as much God as God the Father is God. Not an iodoless, both equally and completely and individually God. But Jesus also became a man, and throughout the Old Testament, he is often in a pre-incarnate appearance. is appears as a man. In fact, in chapter 6, turn over to Zechariah chapter 6, we find a reference that is obviously speaking about the Lord Jesus. And he is referred to as a man. Look at chapter 6 and verse 12. Zechariah. And speak unto him, saying, Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts, saying, Now look at this next phrase. Behold the what? The man whose name is what's the next two words? The branch. Do you notice anything unique about those two words? The branch? Capital letters. What is that referring to? It's referring to God, the man, God, who is the man who is also God. It's Jesus Christ. Nobody doubts that that phrase there is referring to the Lord Jesus Christ. Nobody that believes the Bible uh re uh identifies the branch as anything anyone other than the Lord Jesus Christ and he's referred to as a man there. So I rest my case I believe the man with the measuring line is the Lord Jesus Christ, and the significance of that is just as I said, anything that is ever built for God Everything that was built for God is Jesus Christ is behind it. The Lord built the nation of Israel. The Lord will re-establish them. The Lord established the church. The Lord builds the church. We yield to him and we obey him and he builds the church. Third individual in this vision here is verse number three, the angel that talked with me. Now, if you notice, if you've been paying attention, we go through these visions, this guy's referred to a number of times. The angel that talked with me. The angel that talked with me. He is what I call the interpreting angel He is assigned by God to be with Zechariah throughout these visions. And if you'll notice, every vision goes through the same Process, I guess. He sees the vision. Zechariah asks the question, what in the world is this? Not worded exactly that way, but he says something to that effect What is this vision? And the angel who talked with me begins to elaborate and explain the vision. So this angel was given to Zechariah by God throughout these visions to explain and help him understand what God's trying to say so that he can go to Israel and declare God's word. Then the fourth character, individual involved here, in verse number three, and behold, the angel that talked with me went forth. And another angel went out to meet him. So apparently there's a second angel involved here And as you study down through here, my conclusion is that this other angel, the second angel referred to, is actually assisting the man with a measuring line in his hand And the way I picture this in folding is Zechariah has this vision. He sees a man with a measuring line in his hand. He says, the angel, what does this mean? The angel, the interpreting angel that's with Zechariah, he goes over to address the man with the measuring hand line in his hand to ask him, what does this all mean? As he's going, verse 3 says, Another angel came out and met him. The interpreting angel says to the angel assisting the man with the measuring line in his hands, What does this mean? The man, the other angel, look what it says, verse 3, the other angel went out to meet him and said unto him, and so the other angel That's assisting the man with the measuring line's hand says to the interpreting angel, verse 4, run, speak to this young man, saying, Jerusalem, and he goes and gives him the message Now the question is who's the young man in verse 4? That's very simple. That's who. That's Zechariah. So there's four individuals here. So we're trying to picture what Zechariah is seeing here Man with a measuring line, he's out there measuring stuff. What in the world does this mean? Angel says, I'll find out. He goes over, tell the angel, hey, what's all this mean? He says, you go and tell that guy And he gives them the message. So that's the scene that's taking place here. He sees a man with a measuring line asks the question, the angel goes to the man, the other angel meets him, first angel gives instructions. So Zechariah, uh uh the other angel gives it the other angel, and you understand what's happening, right? Perfectly clear Amen. That was a good place to say amen. Second of all, I want us to notice briefly the instrument. in this. Alright, which all we uh we see clearly exactly what transpired. Now, let's look at this measuring line. What in the world is a measuring line? A measuring line was a reed that was used to measure stuff. Makes sense But they would measure distances with it. The length of something or the distance. They would use a measuring line. If you read Ezekiel, You find a man with a measuring line in there. He's measuring everything. The porch, the ceiling, the this, that, and the other. He's measuring stuff with a measuring line. It's what it's a type of yardstick, basically. And it wouldn't measure distances. Now, why is what what in the world is this measuring line for? Well, it's not being used so that God can figure out how big the place is. Think about this. God never has to seek for information God never has to. Anytime God asks a question, he's not trying to gain information. He's setting things up to give information. So Jesus is out here with a measuring line, this tool to measure distances in length, Jesus isn't out there trying to figure things out. It's not the purpose of it. The measuring line was not so God could gain information, but rather so that God could communicate information to the children of Israel. He has something he wants them to understand, and so he uses this measuring line and goes through this series of measuring things so that they can understand what he's trying to say. It's an object lesson. God doesn't need a measuring line. Isaiah chapter 40, verse 12 tells us that God knows how much water is in the oceans without measuring it. That same chapter tells us that God knows the distance of the universe from one end to the other. To the other. From one end to the other. I tell you, there ain't a measuring line in existence that can measure that. God doesn't need a measuring line. The Bible tells us that same chapter tells us How many dust that God knows how many dust particles make up the earth? Now think about that figure. That's got to be somewhere around what our national debt is, somewhere in that same range. That same chapter, get this, that same chapter tells us that God knows how much the mountains weigh. Without a measuring line, without a scale. God knows it. We could just go on. Jeremiah 33, 22 tells us God says to Abraham, I know how many offspring you're going to have. Nobody in the world knows how many Jews have lived and will live, but God does So Zechariah sees Jesus, this man with a measuring line out there. God's not trying to gain any information. That measuring line is an object lesson, is a tool that God is using to help simple man understand something God's trying to say. Much like we use object lessons for children. God's using the object lesson, the measuring line, to illustrate an important truth to his people, and brings me a third and last point, and that's this I want us to consider the interpretation of this vision. We have the individuals, we have the instrument, now the interpretation. What is God saying? What is God communicating through Zechariah to his people in Jerusalem at this time? Number one, God is saying and telling them that there is a day coming when God will prosper his people. They've been rough. Look at verse 4 with me. And he said unto him, Run. He's saying to the assisting angel is saying to the interpreting angel, run, speak to this young man. saying, Jerusalem shall be inhabited as towns without walls, for the multitude of men and cattle therein. God is going to prosper his people. That's what he's saying. To the returning Jews, now think about this. We It's very difficult, I believe, for us to picture in our minds what the city of Jerusalem looked like when these 50,000 Jews showed up. For seventy years. How many years? Seventy years this city has set empty Now when they left it, they didn't leave it with buildings standing and walls in place and buildings in place and roofs on and nice streets. When they left it, that place was in shambles. It was like it was like uh World War II. So you picture some of these towns after the bombing raids in World War II, just in rubble. You can't we cannot imagine the the devastation of the city. And then it sets empty for how many years? Seventy years. In fact, there's areas in the Bible where it said the wild beast were roaming the streets and animals had moved into the city and trees and stuff were growing up through the living rooms and and the buildings were used to be there. And I mean this city is nothing And the people of Israel come back and they rebuild the walls and they try and get the foundation and they're trying to eke out a living and build their own houses and they're discouraged and they've lost interest. And the things of God. And God saying, listen, I want you to understand, there's a day coming. I'm going to rebuild this thing. You're going to prosper. Can you imagine the children of Israel scratching their heads? What? Were you crazing them prosper? Look at this place. And God is reassuring them That the best days were not behind them, but their best days were still ahead of them. Well, what a way to live. I tell you, if we could get a hold, now let's make application to you and I, if we could get a hold of the fact that our best days are not behind us But the best days for God's people are still to come. Can you imagine getting up every day? My best days are still ahead of me. Now I'm not talking about some positive thinking, Joe Osteen type smile, everything, something good's going to happen to you. I'm talking about a God in heaven who loves his people and says Someday is a day is coming when devastation will be over, when heartache will be over, sickness will be over, defeat will be over, the battles will all be over, and I am going to bless you and prosper you in ways you cannot imagine. Now that's for truth for us as Christians. Israel's best days are yet ahead. You read your Bible very carefully, you find that Israel in the millennial reign will prosper in ways Solomon never dreamed of. They will have victories that David never dreamed of. Israel's best days are yet ahead. I'm 49 years old, been here 16 years. In two weeks, it'll be 16 years we've been here. One of my greatest fears is that as pastor, our best days are behind me. I don't want that to be true. I want us to go forward. I want us to do greater things. I look forward to the day we get churches established in Kazakhstan. Look forward to the day Mike can stand up here and say we got John R. Rice sermon on every door in Garrett County. I look forward to the days we baptize uh two and three times more than what we are. Listen, I don't want my best days to be behind me as in the ministry. You don't want your best days to be behind you in your life. Listen. And God says if you believe my word, if you just trust me The day's coming when the battles will be. Hey, our best days will be when we get raptured out of here. One of the greatest things I think about getting to heaven. Of course, seeing the Lord, that's everything. But I tell you, one of the great things I think about getting to heaven is having this old sinful nature removed. Isn't that going to be a day? No more struggles in my heart, no more thoughts to have to deal with, no more temptations. Every thought of the mind, every desire of the heart is pure and holy and good and godly. Won't that be a day? And God says to the nation of Israel, your best days are still ahead. Don't lose sight. Don't give up building the temple. Don't lose sight. Don't lose hope in my promises. They're going to come through. May be tough now. Things may be meager now, but there are better days coming. In fact, the best days are coming. Look what he says, how he's going to bless them, how he's going to prosper them. Uh verse four. Jerusalem shall be inhibited as towns. But then he puts a little phrase there. Without what? What does that mean? A town without walls. Why did the cities back in the old days build walls around them? Protection. Because the enemy would come in, they have some form of defense. So the implication here is that when God does this, there's not going to be any more what? There's no more walls because there's not going to be any more enemies. There's nobody need for them. They're going to be saved. But the idea here also, a city without walls, not only did those walls keep the enemy out, but what did it do? Kept them in. It restricted their growth. So rather than being able to expand, they had to build on top of each other. In fact, they would build houses up against and on top of the walls. And God says, I'm going to bless you someday in such a way, I'm going to prosper your real estate. And look, look what he says. I'll build a town without inhabited as towns without walls. In other words, in the millennial reign, Israel is going to prosper and prosper and prosper and they're just going to expand. As no other nation has. He's going to prosper them with real estate, but he's also going to pop uh prosper their population. Look what it says: town without walls for the multitude of men. Israel is going to be they're just going to reproduce and be so populous. The Jews, God's people. And he's gonna pro he's gonna prosper them in their real estate, he's gonna prosper their population, but also he's gonna pro prosper them economically. You say, where in the world do you come up with that? Look what it says. The multitude of men and what Cattle thereof. Israel for the most part was a what? Agricultural, aggregarian. Is that right? We talked about this before. Was it? Agrarian economy. Brian went to Bible college. He knows all those big words. In other words, they're dependent upon agriculture, farming. And when God says, I'm going to give you so many cattle, you won't even have to build walls. They're just they're just going to blow. You know what he's saying? Your economy's going to be green. There's not going to be any needs. You're going to have cattle multiplied cattle. I'm going to bless you economically. I'm going to bless your families and the population. I'm going to bless your economy. So God is telling them through this vision a day is coming when God's going to prosper his people. But God is also telling him, I like verse 5, the day is coming where God will protect his people. For I, verse 5, saith the Lord, will be unto her, Israel, a wall of fire round about. I think verse 5, and will be the glory in the midst of her. I think verse 5 is one of the most beautiful promises in the Old Testament for the nation of Israel. He will be a wall of fire about them. We already touched on this, but he's saying there's a day coming when there's going to be no more battles. God says, I will be your defense. Not King David and his warriors, not the shields, not the um uh Who were the guys could sling a throw uh stone and uh hit a hair's breadth? Remember those guys in the Old Testament? And um how many people have no idea what I'm talking about? It's in there, trust me And all these great warriors, that's not going to be Israel's security. God says, I'm going to be your security. Not your armies, not your horses, not your shields, not your engines, not your swords. I'm gonna be a wall of fire around you. And Israel's security, their protection, will be God Himself. Now listen, Israel's security and our salvation's security are based upon the same thing: the person of the Lord God. Our how many folks here you're saved to know it. Say amen. Amen. Alright, folks are still with me. Alright? If you're saved, you know it. One thing we know for sure, our salvation is secure. Right? There is no way. You can get mad if you want. There is no way we can lose our salvation. The security of our salvation is not based upon how strong of a Christian I am. The security of my salvation is not based upon how many Bible verses I have memorized. The security of my salvation is not based upon how faithful I am to church or how honest I am or how good of a person I am. Now let me ask you a question: Should we be good people? Christians should be good people. Should we be honest? Good grief, Christians should be honest. Should we memorize Scripture? Yes, we ought to study and memorize and learn the word of God. Should we be strong in the Lord? But none of those things are what keep us secure. One thing and one thing alone keeps us secure. The promise and power of Jesus Christ. He keeps us secure. He's the one that keeps us safe, and he's telling Israel, the day is coming. I will be your protection. I will be a wall of fire around you. Thank God it's not dependent upon us. It's on the Lord, and he's trying to communicate that to Israel. So he promises the interpretation of Israel of this vision: days coming when God will prosper his people, the days coming when God will protect his people, and last of all, thirdly, The day's coming when God will promote his people. Look at verse five. Last part. And I will be glory in the midst of her. Glory in the midst of her You know what run Israel down so low? When the temple's destroyed, the walls are shattered, the whole city is in ramp shambles, they're slaves to these perverse, ungodly Babylonians. You know why all that was so? Because God had removed his presence from Israel. Why did God remove his presence from Israel Because they lived in disobedience. They lived in sin. And all through the Old Testament, God sent prophet after prophet after prophet after prophet. calling them to repentance. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray, seek my face, turn from my wicked ways, That turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven, then will I forgive their sin and uh and heal their land. And because of their stubborn rebellion and incessant disobedience to God, God withdrew his presence. And they were destroyed. The most devastating thing that can happen to a person, a Christian Is for God, for God to withdraw his hand of blessing and presence from that Christian. Now that's that doesn't mean they lose their salvation. Israel never lost their position as God's nation, but they sure enough lost God's blessing and God's presence. And God withdrew his presence. And the farther they got from God, the worse their condition became. And God promises to Israel that he will restore his presence, his glory. In the midst of her. The lowest position a man can be in is to be separated from the presence and glory of God. If you study your Bible very carefully, that is exactly what hell is the absolute absence. Of the presence and glory of God. Of course, the fire and all that. But in hell, what did Jesus say on the cross? My God, my God, why hast thou Why have you left me? Your presence has gone from me. And when that took place in that darkness on the cross, Jesus Christ was suffering hell. The judgment of God, God removing his presence for every man. I'm telling you, what our church needs more than anything else, we need the presence and glory of God on this ministry. Am I right or wrong? You know what we need in our homes? We don't need our individual lives. We need the presence of God. We need the hand it out. We don't need bigger budget. Thank God for He's blessed us. God has blessed us materially. But I'm saying what we need is the presence of God. In our services, in our homes, in our daily walk. Tell you what, you get a man or a woman that has the presence of God on their life, and they walk into the workplace, people know it Something different. Presence of God. Have you ever been around someone and it just you could sense the presence of God in their life? Anyone know what I'm talking about? God says someday you are going to have the very immediate presence of God. My glory will be in the midst of you. Now I'll be honest with you, we can have some of the presence of God, but we ain't seen nothing yet. There's a day coming when we will literally. Be in the very presence of Jehovah God. In his very presence. And God's saying to Israel, that will be true. The highest, the lowest position a man can be in is to be without the presence of glory of God. The highest promotion a man can experience is to live, I put it this way, to live in the undiluted presence and glory of God. Now we can have some of the presence of God now as we yield our hearts to Him As we walk with him and submit to him and live in his word and serve him, we get a little taste of the presence of God. But I'll tell you, it's diluted. It's diluted by our own sinful nature. It's diluted because of the sinful atmosphere we live in. But there's a day coming, all of that's going to be gone, and we'll be in the very undiluted presence and glory of God. Our God. What a day that will be. In the meantime, let's walk with the Lord. Let's not forget His promises. Let's seek to have His presence in our life. Let's seek to live in His presence. Obey Him and trust Him in the little areas and see what God will do. Father, bless us, Lord. I thank you for this vision you gave Zechariah And the message you convey to your people through it. Lord, the application we make to our situation, help us to walk with you, to trust you. and obey you. Lord, when we mess up, help us to confess it and forsake it and get back into fellowship with you. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need to focus more. I need to work harder at living in the presence of God. I need to examine my heart and my attitude, make sure I'm yielded to the Lord. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. There's areas in my Christian life that really need attention. That I can live in the very presence of God and have his glory in my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around. That's the Holy Spirit deals with us. The Holy Spirit shows us these areas. And then we yield to Him. We trust Him. Agree with him and we obey him. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Have your way, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.