Three passages, Proverbs chapter fifteen. We're going to look at two verses in Proverbs fifteen, then in one verse in Proverbs seventeen. I love the book of Proverbs. And I read a chapter every morning. One of the first things I do when I get up, I read a chapter from Proverbs, and if you read uh I say this often, but if and and this would be a good thing for a new year Just uh each day of the calendar, read a uh chapter of Proverbs for that day. Today be the twenty-fifth, Proverbs twenty-five, and just do that throughout the year. It takes, I don't know, three minutes, four minutes maybe to read uh thirty verses or Whatever the chapter is, and uh I'm telling you, it is good stuff, good stuff. Look here with me. Chapter 15, look with me at verse number 13. The Bible says, a merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance. But by sorrow of the heart, the spirit is broken. A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance. Come down, if you would, to verse number 15. Same chapter, chapter 15, verse 15. All the days of the afflicted are evil, but He that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast. A merry heart hath a continual feast. How many people would like to have a continual feast? Wouldn't that be something we it's hard to diet when you're doing that? Come over to chapter 17 with me, if you would. And notice with me verse number 22. Chapter 17 Verse 22. The Bible says, a merry heart doeth good like a medicine, but a broken spirit drieth the bones. How many people today you said At least one time you said to somebody, Merry Christmas. Anybody say that? Anybody say it this past week? Ever say anybody, Merry Christmas? Some of y'all haven't said it. You're just not going to raise your hand. But uh, Merry Christmas. I want to talk about what it means to have a merry heart. A merry heart. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our message tonight. I pray you would challenge us and help us. Lord, in our very hearts, that we would have the joy of the Lord And we would have a merry heart, as Proverbs speaks about here. And so, Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I pray with all my heart. That you fill me with your spirit, speak through me, Lord, and help us to finish out this Lord's day, uh this Christmas day With a merry heart and uh a good testimony as we go out into the world. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I have in my hands here an article from Time Magazine And it is dated 1951, October 22nd, 1951. The article is actually referencing a court case that was in Waterloo, Iowa in 1939. And what had happened, this article explains here, what had happened was there was an eye doctor, he was a wealthy eye doctor, his name was uh Dr. William Smith And uh he was extremely wealthy. He was a Christian man, and he passed away. And in his will, as they got his will, and they read his will to distribute his estate. He had put in there that he wanted his wealth, and it was a significant amount of money, he wanted it given to all the Christians that lived in Waterloo, Iowa. Well, they got to saying, how do we how do we uh carry this out? How do we determine who's a Christian or not? And it became such an issue, and it ended up being such a fuss that it ended up in the courts of uh trying to determine who were Christians in Iowa, in Waterloo, Iowa, and who was eligible to get this inheritance, these tens, hundreds of thousands of dollars, a large amount. And so um it went back and forth. Before it was over, every church, nearly every church And every denomination represented in Waterloo, Iowa, ended up in court trying to make a case that they were Christians and that they were eligible to get some of this inheritance And the question before the court was this, how do you determine who is a Christian? How can we tell who the Christians are? How do we identify someone as a Christian? Um I don't know how the court case turned out. It doesn't give the conclusion, but it does say it was a huge issue, a big fight, and even the Unitarian church got in on it And they denied all the tenets of the Christian faith. He did qualify in his will that it needed to be, it had to be someone Let me get the quote here. It was to be distributed to persons who believe in the fundamental principles of the Christian religion. And so, how do you identify someone as a Christian? Let me ask you this question tonight. If you were drawn into court and you were accused of being a Christian, Would there be enough evidence to convict you? Would be able would people look and say, yes, they're absolutely a Christian How do you identify someone that's a Christian? Well, there's a number of things the Bible tells us that will identify a person as a Christian. One of them is a person needs to confess Christ. Right? Person doesn't confess Christ, they're not a Christian. Amen or not? Thou confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, believe in thy heart that God hath raised them from the dead, thou shalt be saved. And so if someone says, no, I'm not of Christ, no, I don't believe in Christ, no, I'm not a believer in Jesus Christ, well then we could safely say they're not a Christian, right or wrong So, number one, you have to confess Christ to be identified as a Christian. I would put this down. Now, we're talking about identifying someone, in this case, in a court. Whether they're a Christian or not. I would say their conduct would be a factor in identifying someone as a Christian. How many people here believe a Christian ought to act like a Christian? Yeah. And so our conduct communicates the message, hey, I'm a Christian. I behave according to the principles of Scripture. What Jesus said a disciple does. That's what uh I do. He said what a disciple does not do. That's what I don't do. Our conduct communicates to this old world, and in a court case, we communicate whether we're a Christian or not. I don't know how many times I've said over the years people in different situations and fussing or whatever, there's a little issue needs to be resolved. I've said it this way, hey, let's be Christian about it. How many people know what that means Let's just be Christian about this. So, number one, thing that identifies a person as Christian is they confess Christ. Number two, their conduct as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. I put this one down. How about compassion? Christian ought to be compassionate. Someone claims to be a Christian and they're hateful and mean, they don't help anybody, don't do anything for anybody. It's all mean, mine, they're in love with themselves. Would you agree with me? That'd be a the very best that would be a poor testimony for a Christian. So there ought to be compassion So I'm on the stand under indictment for being a Christian. Person confesses Christ. All right, that would identify them as Christian. They conduct themselves like a disciple All right, that would identify them as a Christian. They have compassion on others. That would identify them as a Christian. And I put this one down. This might not be the most popular, but contribution I believe a Christian, if I'm going to be identified as Christian, I ought to give and give generously. Amen or not? God loves a Cheerful giver. And uh Christians uh uh ought to be very generous in our time and efforts and our resources and helping others and advancing the cause of Christ So confessing Christ, my conduct as a disciple, my compassion for others, and my contribution of my resources Would identify myself as a Christian. I put another one down, and that brings us to our message tonight, and that is this the condition of my heart The condition of my heart. I can confess Christ, and yet in my heart still be uh still be uh uh not right with God, right or wrong. Anybody here ever meet someone claim to be a Christian and in their heart they had a terrible attitude? Grouchy, mad, hateful, unhappy old time. Um conduct, I can go through the motions of a disciple. I can give all my gold away, but if I have charity, if I don't have charity, I'm just a tinkling brass sounding symbol To the condition of my heart. The heart is the control center or the command center of my entire being. My heart, it's where my emotions, it's the source of my emotions come from my heart. My decisions, my will, my, the term is volition, my will It's my heart that determines my decisions and what I desire and don't desire. The heart controls my emotions. My heart controls my thinking or my attitudes. It's all rooted in what the Bible describes as our heart. I've been studying Proverbs for years, as I said, reading it. And studying, looking things up, I found over the years, I found that 78 times the Bible, uh the book of Proverbs references the heart 31 chapters, 78 times, Book of Proverbs references the heart. I think our level of wisdom is very much connected to the condition of our heart. My heart, if I'm going to be wise, I need to have a right heart. If I'm going to be wise. Twenty uh three times, I'm sorry, three times. Proverbs mentions the merry heart. And we read these in our text to begin our message tonight, the merry heart. Three times it uses that term directly. Now there are a score of other times where it indirectly references a merry heart with something like such and such has a rejoicing heart, rejoiceth the heart. So he talks about a merry heart at least three times he mentions it. I think a merry heart, and this is what I'm getting at, a merry heart ought to be a visible characteristic of a genuine Christian. Christians should have merry hearts. How many people like to be merry on Christmas? Yeah, Merry Christmas. I want to suggest to you As Christians, we ought to be married on December 26th and December 29 and January 4th and February 19th. In fact, every single day of the year for the Christian, we ought to be merry. Have a merry heart. What does the word merry mean? Well, it simply means this, joyful, glad, rejoicing. Now I don't think the Bible's telling us, and I'm not suggesting that every day all we do is Just laugh and chuckle, oh, every day's just wonderful. But I think in our heart there ought to be some joy there There ought to be some gladness, some rejoicing. I asked tonight our testimonies, how many people have something you rejoice in? You rejoice in. That is part of a merry heart. To have something to rejoice in. Christians should be merry year-round, not just on Christmas. If you would, keep your place here in these texts, but come back to chapter 12 of Proverbs and verse number 25. He compares what I believe the saved with the unsaved. Chapter 12 of Proverbs, look at verse 25. He says, Heaviness and the heart of man maketh it stoop But a good word maketh it glad. The unsayed do not have a good word. In fact, I can only find one positive promise in Scripture for an unsaved person. Anyone want to take a guess? What would that one Promise, positive promise for an unsaved person be. Yeah, if they call on the name of the Lord, they'll get saved. They believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, they'll be saved. There are no other promises for the unsaved other than that. God makes no promise to an unsaved person that he'll meet his needs. God makes no promise to an unsaved person that he'll protect them, or they have the presence of the Holy Spirit. There's no promise to the unsaved that have a home in heaven The only good word to the unsaved is that the fact that Christ loved them and died for them rose again, and if they'll come and trust them, God will forgive them and save them. And once we make that decision, once that decision is made, boy, then we have a flood of good words coming from God. Amen or not. And we have the presence of the Holy Spirit. We have eternal life. He'll never leave us nor forsake us. If we seek him first, all these things will be added unto us. And we have all these good words, and notice what he says here in Proverbs 12, verse 25. It says, But a good word maketh it glad. That word glad comes from the same word as Mary. So we come to the Word of God as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. I've got a lot of good words to give me a merry heart. I believe every Christian ought to read their Bible every single day. It'll affect your attitude. It'll affect your heart. My dad's years ago, this was many years ago. I was still in Bible college, I think. And I was home one time and he had a little notebook. I've got boxes of his little notebook journals he kept for year decades. And he had one one year, at the end of the year, he had written down every promise of God that he came across in his daily reading. He wrote it out, full verse, wrote it out in this notebook. And he had a notebook full of promises that he had found in the Word of God in his daily reading. I'm telling you, you read promises from God every single day, it'll affect the condition of your heart. A good word maketh it glad. A good word makes it merry. We have a lot of good words from God. We got a lot of good promises from God. I'll tell you what a tragedy is: is too often The world out there living in sin, unsaved, still in their sins, unforgiven, they come across a whole lot a whole lot happier than a lot of Christians who've been forgiven and have eternal life. It's a tragedy when the world appears happier than those who are children of God. When the world is rejoicing more in their temporal materialism. And a Christian is in their eternal life and the blessings of God. I believe a Christian ought to have a merry heart. Christian ought to be rejoicing in their Savior. Proverbs gives us three truths about those with a merry heart. If you would come back to chapter 15 and look with me at verse number 13. It says here verse 13, we read it a few moments ago. It says, A merry heart maketh a what? Cheerful countenance. I put it this way: those that have a merry heart have a cheerful countenance. It's the way I put it. It's the way the Bible says it. What is a cheerful countenance? Well, I looked it up and studied how it's used, different places. And it means this, that they have a pleasant or attractive aura about them. It talks about their countenance, often talks about their face, but more than just the it's not talking about the physical features of someone's face. Whether they have a big nose or a little nose or big lips or thin lips. It's not talking about the size of their ears or how wide their eyes are. We were talking about our cat today. Our cat has weird eyes. I mean the one eye. They don't line up. It's not talking about whether your eyes line up or not. It's talking about your demeanor. A merry heart. Have a cheerful countenance. It's the demeanor. How many people know what I mean by the aura that is around that person? Did you ever get around somebody and it's just pleasant to be around them? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Do you ever get around somebody and it's just um the opposite of that He says if a person has a cheerful countenance, they're pleasant to be around. You enjoy being in their presence. A merry heart. Make it a cheerful countenance, a cheerful demeanor, a pleasant, positive, attractive. It attracts people, regardless of physical characteristics. And I say this often, and I try to emphasize it with the young people in particular, but don't let this world be uh convince you, or can get don't let this world convince you of the lie That your appearance determines your value. You don't have to look like a Hollywood actress to be of value to God. And by the way, the way most Hollywood actresses dress and act is absolutely shameful. Don't believe that lie. Our value is not based upon our appearance. And personally, praise the Lord for that, speaking of myself. But if we have a merry heart, it doesn't matter what our physical appearance is, we can still be attractive. I've seen some folks who are physically very attractive But they were miserable to be around. And I've seen some folks that were kind of homely, but I tell you, I sure enjoyed them. I sure like being around. Nobody here, of course, but um a merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance, a cheerful demeanor. A person with a merry heart is more attractive. Than a person with a miserable heart, regardless of what their physical appearance may be. I put it this way: a merry heart is a blessing to those who meet it. Just enjoy being around them. Just enjoy they have a cheerful countenance, a cheerful aura about them cheerful atmosphere around them. Remember the um cartoon uh peanuts? Anybody? Does anybody still read the Sunday uh comics? Anybody remember that the Sunday paper Did he even make Sunday papers anymore? And uh years ago when the boys are small, right after church we would go down to one of the stores bo uh um uh sheets or somewhere, we'd get the Sunday paper and while Kathy was getting lunch together, the boys and I would sit there and we'd get the comics out and we'd read down through the comics. Anybody remember doing that? Those are good old days And in there they would always have peanuts. Anybody remember Charlie Brown? And there was that one guy that everywhere he walked, there was a cloud hanging over his head, and it was always raining on him And it was lioness. Well, Big Ben, he had the mud and the dirt all over him. And he just they don't want to be around him I think Christians ought to be attractive. I think we ought to look as nice as we can, but beyond that, we ought to be attractive in our countenance. You say, well, how do I do that? Get a merry heart. Dear merry heart. It'll give you a beautiful countenance. It'll give you a cheerful countenance. Now go look at verse 15. It says chapter 15, verse 15. All the days of the afflicted are evil. But look at this. But he that is of a merry heart hath a what? Continual feast, this is the way I put it, a merry heart hath a continual feast. You like my creative points here? A continual, a continual feast. What is a continual feast? It means what it sounds like. Just an ongoing banquet. A never-ending banquet. The ladies on their ladies' trip went up to Shady uh what's the name of Shady Maple Restaurant. Anybody been at Shady Maple Restaurant? If I remember correctly, Seven Buffets In one restaurant. You talk about a continual feast. It's not talking about food. Continual feast is like a perpetual party. Person has a merry heart. The idea here, I think, is this. They have a joyful, grateful contentment about them. No matter what they have, no matter what their circumstances are, no matter what's for lunch, oh, it is great. A continual feast. Beans and cornbread. Are a bigger feast to a merry heart than stake and caviar is to a miserable art I tell you, I I can take you to people who are eating rice and beans and are happier and rejoicing and have a bigger feast. That's all they have, maybe is rice and beans down in some of the little homes in Dominican where we were. That's all they have to eat. And they are as happy and rejoicing. And as merry as you could ever meet, and we could go to one of these fancy restaurants out here at the lake, and people are eating state and caviar and drinking their champagne, and they're absolutely miserable Let me ask you a question. What's the difference? I tell you what the difference is, the heart. A merry heart. A merry heart Doesn't matter what my circumstances are, regardless of physical circumstances, a merry heart rejoices and appreciates what it has. Some people, it doesn't matter what they have, it is not good enough. And I tell you, here in America, we are, and I keep hounding on this, and I'm including myself in this, we are so spoiled. We are so accustomed to the best of everything. And if it isn't exactly what we want, the way we want it, the w uh the when we want it, rather we are miserable. I'll tell you, that's the great thing about these mission trips. You go and meet Christians that have a tenth of what we have and are absolutely happy and rejoicing in the Lord. A merry heart has a continual feast. Say, preacher, all I'm going home to is beanie uh we uh beanie weenie uh uh what is it beanie weenies? Beans and hot dogs, beanie weenies Say preacher, all I got is beanie weenies. I tell you what, a merry heart says, Oh, these are the best beanie weenies I've ever had in my life. It's a continual feast A merry heart. What's the difference? It's the heart. It's the condition of my heart that determines my satisfaction, not my circumstances. Everybody can be merry on Christmas Day when you're opening presents and eating all this wonderful cookies, uh chocolate chip cookies, and you'd everybody can be merry there. But a merry heart on Tuesday when the bills are all have to be paid and all I got are beanie weenie says, Oh, I'm still rejoicing in the Lord. It's a continual feast. It's a condition of the heart. It's not my circumstances. It's a condition of my heart, not my physical characteristics. Boy, if I just looked a little nicer, that's what the first verse was saying. A cheerful countenance. Boy, if my nose wasn't so big, boy, then I'd really be happy people would like me. I tell you, it's not the size of your nose that's turning them off. It's the condition of your heart that's turning them off Say, oh, if I just had a bigger house or fancier food or uh uh if I had a nicer car, boy then uh no no no, it's not the physical condition you're in, it's the condition of your heart It's not our song. Let me look at one more and we're going to quit. All God's people said. Look at chapter 17, verse 22. We're familiar with this. This is a pretty well-known verse. 1722. A merry heart doeth good like what? Medicine. I think what he's saying here, regardless of physical condition, a merry heart has a pleasant spirit. I don't know how you are, but It is hardest for me to be pleasant when I don't feel good. When I'm physically sick, when my arthritis is there or whatever physical pain It's difficult to be pleasant when we have physical pain. Am I right or wrong? Is it just me or is there anybody else that way? I'm sick, I got the flu, it's like, ugh, how you feeling? Don't talk to me You know? And he's saying a merry heart can overcome that. Even in when we're physically not well, we can still have a pleasant spirit. A merry heart doeth good like medicine. Regardless of my physical condition, a merry heart has a pleasant spirit. Anybody like this, I mean anybody like this in the morning, don't talk to me till I drink my coffee. Anybody know? Anybody ever hear that? Say that? Really? Never mind. Sometimes I anybody hear like this? Sometimes I wake up grouchy. Sometimes I let her sleep and um a merry heart, ma merry heart, Kathy, and um I tell you, it's not easy when we don't feel good, have a pleasant spirit, but if our heart is merry, we can. Does a good leg. You say, well if I get a merry heart, then I won't ever get sick. I don't think that's what it's saying. Now I think a merry heart will enable us to recover better. I think it's good for us physically. It helps us physically, our health But there's no promise that we won't get sick, but it does say this. If I have a merry heart, even when I am sick, my spirit is such as if I was well. And such as if I was well. Do you ever meet someone and they're just as pleasant as can be and later on you found out something about them that they're really sick They're eat up with cancer and they fight pain every day and meeting them you never knew it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's a merry heart doeth good like medicine. Doeth good like medicine Merry Christmas! Yeah, everybody can be merry on Christmas. But as a child of God, we ought to be merry all year round. We have so much to be grateful for. Am I right or wrong? We have so much to rejoice in. We have so much to be glad about. I don't want to take the time, we go to the Gospels. There's a number of times when Jesus made this statement: be of good cheer. Saying, have a merry heart. Let your heart be merry. Be of good cheer. Thy sins are forgiven thee. I think the basis of a merry heart is God forgiving me and saving me and accepting me as his child through faith in Christ. We have so much to be grateful for. We have so much to rejoice in. We have so much to be glad about. There's no excuse for grumbling. There's no excuse for fussing and fighting. We ought to have a merry heart. I want us to leave here tonight. This is my goal. I'd like for us to leave here tonight with a merry heart. I'm just going to decide. God's been too good for me to be miserable. God's been too patient with me for me to be impatient. I'm just going to rejoice. I'm going to be glad. I'm going to decide what the condition of my heart is. And then I want us to maintain that throughout the week. About Tuesday, the bills start showing up. It's like, oh, that Merry Christmas business bore out pretty quick. Oh, it can go on if we know the Lord. Amen or not Right about a marching band, they were in a parade, they were making their way down the street, and one of the people, one of the band members, was in there and they were completely out of rank, they were out of sync They weren't marching when the others were marching and I mean they just was obvious that they did not fit in. Nothing made sense. Finally the band leader pulled him aside and said, What in the world? And he noticed that he had little earbuds And he was listening to a different tune than what they were marching to. And he just didn't fit in I want to suggest to you, as Christians, we can have a merry heart, and we don't have to be like this world. We can march to a different tune of the Lord Jesus Christ and not fit in this world. And when the world is grousing about Joe Biden and everybody's griping about Fauci and everybody's mad about the Chinese and everybody's all worked up about Ukraine and all those things are no doubt serious. We can march to the tune of a different song. And we can have a merry heart even when the world around us has fallen apart. That's my challenge tonight. Let's pray together. Father in heaven. I ask you to help us to follow Solomon's instructions of wisdom. Now we could have, just decide, I'm going to have a merry heart. Just decide. I'm going to rejoice. I'm going to thank God. I'm going to do it on purpose. Wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many people here would say, preacher, God spoke to my heart. I want to be a merry-hearted Christian. Any like that? Uplifted hand. Sure, it's a decision. We just decide. Father, bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.