Well, praise the Lord. I'm glad to be here this morning. I'd a lot rather been in heaven like that guy said, but I I didn't I'm not didn't not gonna make it today. Maybe later. I don't know. I'm going to make a prediction this morning. The rapture is going to happen. Amen. But I'm not going to be dumb enough to tell you when it's going to be. Now, in light of all that's been said this morning, I was not going to do this. Because I have my message in 1 Samuel chapter 17, a very familiar passage of scripture to all of you. But I just I just really feel led and these missionaries, they've not heard it. You have. But I just feel led to to give a an example of faith promise. And I pray that uh that maybe this will touch somebody's heart. A few years ago, I left the country of Senegal on the west coast of Africa, and I flew to Ivory Coast to hold a series of meetings. And I'd preached all day on Sunday about four or five times. And the missionary told me that night, he said, now we're going across town, across Abbey John And we're gonna pre- you're gonna preach one more time, but tonight you can preach in English, which I had not done in four years. And I said, brother, I'm just too tired. I don't even want to go. Just let me stay here at the house and you go ahead and go. And I said, it's raining outside. And Baptist, if it's a Baptist church, which it was, you know they won't come when it's raining. And he said, No, he said, I promised them you're coming. We went across town, I'll make it a long story short. And uh here was a little group uh it was about as big as this platform here, a little tin building down at the bottom of the hill. It was pouring down rain and I could hear 'em all the way uh singing all the way to the top of the hill. And they were from Liberia, an English speaking country, and they they were refugees. They'd come across the border to get away from the war that had broke out. And by the way, that country is still in turmoil to this day. And uh so here are these people, some of them professional people, they've been meeting uh in that little tin building, dirt floor, uh the rain, you couldn't hardly hear anything at all in there, and then the rain stopped and And uh but you know I got the feeling so bad that they these people were so full of joy. And yet some of 'em being professionals, doctors and everything, they were sleeping on bamboo mats on the floors at night. They couldn't speak the language of Ivory Coast. They couldn't get a job. It was a miserable situation. And uh So I got under conviction before I ever got in the pulpit and got up to preach and I chose a message out of Corinthians on why God's people suffer. And I began to preach that message, and this young man was standing over at the doorway, and I motioned for him to come in. He sat down right beside the pulpit And I had no idea what what was going on, but uh there was no place else for him to sit. I began to preach that message, and I'd look over there, and boy, the tears were just flowing down his face And uh and so at the end of the uh end of the message I said, Thank you, Lord, for sending somebody here that's going to get saved tonight. I gave the invitation, not one person came forward But I went outside and he was waiting for me. And he said, Brother Bragg, he said, Pastor, he said, let me give you my testimony. And he said, my father has a large school over in Ivor, I mean over in Liberia. He said, we have one of the largest Baptist churches in the whole country. We have a dispensary. We have a Christian school. We have a seminary where we train preachers. And he said, I was working back between two buildings one day. When the soldiers marched into the compound and they locked the door and they had these lists of people And he said, I saw my mother, my father, all of my teachers, the people that I had loved, their names were called out, and they were made to bow down before those soldiers And but one by one those soldiers took out those big uh uh bacas they call them, machete knives, and he said, I saw every member of my family Everyone that I ever loved in my life murdered before my very eyes. He said, I went over the wall into the jungle, and I walked across the border to the Ivory Coast. And he said, tonight, he said, I was on my way down to the river to take my own life because I didn't think I had anything to live for. And he said, I heard the singing from the church, and he said, I'll go into one more church service. He said, my dad trained me to be an evangelist. But he said, everything I love is gone. Then he began to quote me scriptures. He said, tonight I was going to take my life, and I heard the singing. And you know, I think about that situation That I did not even want to go to. I did not want to go across town to try to reach some people for Christ because I was so tired. And yet somebody back here in the United States of America put some money in a faith promise envelope And put it in an offering plate in Baptist churches all across the country, just like this one, that bought me a plane ticket to fly to Ivory Coast. To be there and in place for that young man who is still preaching the gospel to this day. And here's what he told me. He said, Brother Bragg, he said, I forgot Who I belong to. I forgot that even though my family and my father and mother are gone, they're in heaven That I belong to the God of the universe, Jesus Christ, save my soul and called me to be an evangelist. And I was about to take that opportunity away because I was in such despair. Over what I'd seen with my eyes. But he's still preaching tonight. Because someone gave a faith promise Now you say, well, what if you hadn't gone that night, Brother Bragg? Hey, I want to tell you something. God would have laid that burden on some other missionary's heart and he'd have been over there in place for that young man I'm saying there's some somebody around the world right now that's waiting for you to do something for this thing we call missions. They're waiting for you to do. But hey, as we read in these passages of scripture, there's all kinds of giants out there that want to stop you from doing what God wants you to do. That was such a simple thing. And you know, uh getting in that car and driving all the way across town, and yet here was one young man That needed the message that I had. Because God worked in some people back home. He's still going. Folks, never underestimate the power of one You are one, and you can make a difference somewhere in this world. 1 Samuel chapter 17 Let me read you some things that I know is I just put down just to bore you. 200,000 people in the world die every day. A total of 73 million folks per year die and go out into eternity. The entire Christian church movement barely wins 5% of that total number to Christ each year. God sees that each year that he delays his coming, 75 to 90 percent of the people who die are going out into a Christless Eternity without Him and no hope. Concerning the first institution that God established, God sees out of every thousand marriages in the United States Almost 700 of those are going to end up in divorce. And I saw a TV program the other night. Now it's not even necessary to get married. Hey, I want to tell you something. God honors marriage, and if you're living together for what it's worth, you need to get married. Amen. God sees our children watching six to eight hours of TV per day and barely ever looking at a Bible The average Baptist, now this was interesting to me. The average Baptist in all of their offerings Give $170 per year for missions, their tithe, for everything. That's the average That's sad. That's sad. David says here, is there not a cause? Is there not a cause? Is what we're doing today and this week foolishness? Let's read a story that you've read to your kids since they was able to understand anything at all. Chapter 17 and verse 2. And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together and pitched by the valley of Elah and set the battle in array against the Philistines. Saul was king for 32 years, and for 32 years he fought the Philistines. They're about to go at it again in the valley of Elah. Now that word means boundary of blood. It was a place of continual warfare. Fifteen miles outside of Jerusalem, a valley about a mile wide To this day they call it the Valley of Blood. Verse 4, and there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines named Goliath. of gath whose height was six cubits and a span. Now you remember me telling you that I'm not really overweight. My doctor tells me I'm supposed to be nine feet, seven inches tall. Uh I'm not overweight. I'm just too short. That that's what he tells me. Nine feet seven inches tall, and we watch basketball today, and really today that's not really that tall. But he was a genetic freak. To say the least. I think a Robert Wadlaw died in 1982. He was eight feet eleven inches tall. I think of a Chinese woman in 1940 that was eight feet one inches tall. Can you imagine going to Walmart and buying a dress for her or a pair of hose? That would have really been a trip. I'm telling you the truth. But here in this passage of scripture, not only was he the Philistines' champion, he was a bully, and he was a bad-mouthed character Intimidation and fear was what he used on every when you walk out into a battlefield and you see one just like that, our I mean, hey, we just want to turn around and go the other way. And that's just exactly what happened in this passage of Scripture. He put fear and trepidation into the hearts of the people. It says he was armed with a coat of mail in verse 5 that weighed 5,000 shekels of brass. That's 125 pounds. And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and his spear weighed 600 shekels. That's 15 pounds. And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? Am I not a Philistine and ye servants to Saul? Choose you a man for you and let him come down to me, if he be able. And we say today, God, we know he is able. God is able to make all grace abound toward you, that ye always having all sufficiency in all things may abound to every good work. Here was this big bully leading the Philistine army and just thinking that he could walk out in the field of battle and everybody would run. And they just about did Verse 11, when Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistines, they were dismayed and greatly afraid. And then we know that Eliab, Abinadab, and Shemmah, the three elder brothers of David, they were also in this army. And David was the youngest of the of the crowd. But it says in verse 15, But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem. Here's little David, and he's going to offer his services. to take care and dispatch this giant. And we all know the end of the story. He does just exactly that Here was Goliath challenged. Who do you think you are? That you can stand up and that you can fight against me? David left the sheep that he was uh tending, and his father gave him some bread and cheese, and he said, Go and give this bread and cheese to your brothers and let me know how the war is going. And of course his brothers, they didn't want anything to to uh do with him He was just interfering. He was just a little shepherd boy. But you know, I don't see that he was a little shepherd boy. He was out there tending sheep One time a bear came on them and a and uh uh I mean a lion, he took care of them, and you know I'll tell you what folks, I I see David a as a pretty stout young fella and the only thing he had for a weapon he couldn't handle. He wasn't big enough for the armor of Saul that Saul was going to offer him a little bit later on, but he did have a sling and a pocket full of rocks. I went to Walmart the other day. I had a nine-year-old grandson and he had a sling shot And my wife is still nervous about that because I went and bought him a uh a box of those ball bearings, you know, to shoot and we don't know what's going to happen, but it's those things can be a dangerous thing, and certainly that was the weapon that he was familiar with. That was the weapon that he was going to use to kill this giant. Now wait a minute. Look at this. Tending sheep. He wants to see the fight. Let's read verse 28. And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men, and Eliab's anger was kindled against David. Here's that interference that intimidation factor, that fear factor coming from within, your own family, your own workplace. Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest thou down hither? And with whom hast thou left those sheep? Those few sheep in the wilderness, I know thy pride and thy naughtiness of thine heart, for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? He saw the army of God's people in absolute fear. He saw them running for their lives. And he said, wait a minute, I serve the God of the universe, and this should not be. We ought to take care of this fella. Is there not a cause? He says go into all the world and preach the gospel, hey, we've got a cause this morning. Verse 32, and David said to Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him, thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine. And Saul said to David, Thou art not able. He just flat told him the king told him, you're not able, you're just a sheep herder. Who do you think you are, David? Thou art but a youth, a young man. Verse 36, thy servant slew both the lion and the bear. And this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them. Seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God, David said, moreover The Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear, He will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go and the Lord be with thee. Here they're all afraid, his brothers are afraid, the king is afraid, and the only thing that they've got is a little unarmed shepherd boy, and they send him out into battle. Who are we? How much do we know about serving God? What do we know about the foreign mission field? Hey, it's all in this book, and if we follow his instructions, we are going to be victorious. Now He says, anybody that'll go, verse 26, I'm going to give him my daughter. I'm going to put riches on them and make them tax exempt. They won't have to pay any taxes. They've got my beautiful daughter and all my riches. Just go! But there were no takers. No takers. For who is this giant, David said? You see, David was God-focused. And the soldiers in that army, they were giant focused. Sometimes when the difficulties of life The hardships of life come our way. We're focused on those hardships and those giants, whether it be our health. Whether it be finances, regardless of what giant you may be dealing with today, don't get sidetracked with the giant. Get focused on Jesus Christ Opposition is going to come, and we've talked about that all week. And then, of course, David, he tells them about his past victories. Now, there's three things, three principles to live by. Number one, little battles prepare us for the big battles. Little battles prepare us for the big battles I was thinking of Brother Snow this week and giving his testimony about how God had supplied all of these things. You see, those are the little battles in our life One day he's going to trust God for a million dollars for a new building and God's going to give it to him. Why shouldn't he? He gave him all that he needed up to that point. Why would he deny him now? Well the economy's no good. Well everybody's out of work. It doesn't matter. God's work's gonna go forward. And if he gives you that million, I want twenty percent. Amen Little battles prepare us for the big battles. How is it today with your church attendance? A lot of folks here this morning that we never saw all week long. Hey, how is it? It starts out with the little things. Your church attendance, your Bible reading, your tithing. Your service to your community and your service to those in your church, these little things are going to prepare you for the big battles that are out there, and the giants are going to come. Mark it down. Private battles, number two, prepare us for public battles when nobody's around. Just you In your prayer closet, just you inside the four walls of your home, those private battles prepare you for those public battles that you're going to have to fight out in the middle of everything. It gets me, it really gets my goat when I get on a plane or in a restaurant And there's someone taking the Lord's name in vain, or someone cussing someone out, or getting I I'll tell you what that bothers me, and I just want us to get up and praise the Lord Hey, if they're if if they're willing to tell everybody who they work for, then I can tell people who I work for. But we sit back and we we won't even pray in a restaurant sometimes You're welcome. Private battles prepare us for public battles. Then past victories. Help us face present victories. Brother Snow, thou already gave my example first. Those things that God gave you victory over in the past are going to be the things that's going to carry you through these difficult days that we're going to be facing in the days ahead. Hey, I'm looking I'm not shunning it. I'm looking forward to it. Because we're going to have to be better Christians in the days ahead than we than we are right now. These young people, they're looking for some people out there that'll stand for Christ in this day. If we have carnal armor, remember he put on Saul's armor and why David couldn't even carry it. Saul must have been a stature of a man. Spiritual battles cannot be fought with carnal armor. Psychological warfare. But I want to take you to a verse that you've been quoting out of Joshua. And let's look at it. Verse 45. Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword and with a spear and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God, the The God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied, this day will the Lord deliver thee into mine hand And I will smite thee and take thine head from thee, and I will give the carcass of the host of the Philistines This day unto the fowls of the air and to the wild beasts of the earth, that all Mark it down, underline it, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel Hey, I want to tell you something. The point wasn't the giant. The point wasn't the the armies running away. The point was They had to know who God was. How can they hear without a preacher? How can the people know without someone being sent to preach the word? I say to you this morning, we've read the last chapter, we know that we're on the victory side of this thing. Why should we be so fearful? Now, I'm gonna prove that David was a southerner. Verse 49. Now you look at it, you folks from up north. And David put his hand in his bag and took fence a stone and slang it. Amen. You're not going to say that up here. You're going to say he slung. I don't know what you say up here. He threw it. But he slang it here in the Bible. And smote the Philistine in his forehead that the stone sunk into his forehead. So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him But there was no sword in the hand of David. David therefore ran and stood upon the Philistine and took his sword and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him and cut off his head therewith And then he did something so strange, and I don't understand this to this day. Verse 54 And David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem, and he put his armor in his tent. Why in the world would he want to he killed him? Why would he want to take his head off And take it home with him and put it on his nightstand. But he did. He did as a trophy to all those around him that would ever doubt the power of God David could not lay claim to this. God had to intervene, or David would have been dead. This was that trophy that was going to give a testimony to everyone around him. Hey, there is a God And he is in control. And he wants to bless his children. And he wants to protect his children, regardless of the darkest day that we might be going through. And it seems like I'm repeating that over and over and over again this week. But hey, I don't see it getting better in the United States of America. There's a day when you might be uh disallowed to come into this church building. What are you gonna do? I saw a Video. Now I think Brother Moreland. I think I saw this video of them baptizing in Russia. They came out to this lake that was froze over. They took a saw preacher and they cut a six by six hole in the ice. It was that thick. And those people walked out there on that ice one by one and were baptized in that freezing water I said, what a bunch of weenies we are. How soft we have become. If we can't push a button to get what we want, we don't know what to do. I'm trying to teach my grandkids how to work, and it's about to kill me with that chainsaw and cutting all that wood and Getting them out there and picking up rocks and just just hey uh God honors work and our kids today don't know how to work because mom and dad has bought them all this junk. That's not in my message, but that's good anyway. Second Corinthians 1, 9 and 10. We're gonna quit But we had the sentence of death in ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God which raiseth the dead Who delivered us from so great a death, and doth deliver, in whom we trust that he will yet deliver us. Past, present, and future. Now I come to my sermon. Right there it is. Five points. Winning against Goliath. I said it was going to quit, but I forgot I haven't preached my sermon yet. Number one, we've got to have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. If you're here this morning and you've never trusted him as your personal savior, Hey, I want to tell you something. This is the day. Your life is but a vapor. You have no guarantee that you're going to be alive this afternoon. A personal relationship with Jesus Christ. David had that. Number two, God will deliver me From whatever I'm going through. He will deliver me from whatever giant, but Izzy. Is he? You're facing a giant. Are you being delivered? Number three, he had a cause. He had a cause. If you don't have a cause, then get one. You got these missionaries here? Their cause. Help them get to the mission field. Help them get, Brother Doug, get all that literature. uh printed out and those Bibles printed out so I can hand them out all across Africa. That takes a lot of money and time. Let's get it done. He had a cause He had past experience. He remembered his victories. And then lastly, he gave all the glory to God, every bit of it. Missions is not an option to be debated. It is a command to be obeyed. Is there not a cause? And why that all the earth may know that he is of God. Amen. That's our responsibility in this life. With whatever years we got left, that's what our responsibility is. Now he's going to feed us and he's going to clothe us and he's going to give us what we need to get that purpose done. Let's pray. I appreciate so much y'all sticking with me this week and Listening to me rant and rave and all these missionaries that are here, they're all good preachers. I hope we can hear from them tonight. Do you know him today? Are you facing the giant of despair, despondency, discouragement? And you just can't seem to get victory anywhere? Set your sights on Jesus. Get your focus back on Him. And the giants will flee. You can be a giant killer today. But if you're not saved Then you're at his mercy. You need to settle that question before it's eternally too late. Let's all stand to our feet, heads bowed, eyes closed. Our invitation will not be long. The piano is playing. This altar is open. Are you saved? Do you know Jesus as your Savior? Are you facing a giant? Maybe some habit. Maybe your workplace. Maybe your family, a wayward child, a heartache, the death of a loved one, and you just can't seem to get back on the right page with God. This altar's open. Give God a chance Give God a chance. And He will intervene.