Judges chapter number six, and we're going to begin reading. I just want to read one verse. I know Pastor Matt read this just a moment ago, but um verse number twelve Verse number 12. The angel of the Lord appears to Gideon, and he says, This: He said unto him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. Thou mighty man of vow. I read this in my devotions a week or so ago. I just underlined that phrase, the Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. I want to talk about Gideon just a bit this morning. The mighty man of valor. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, we thank you for the church. I thank you for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Lord, my heart has been blessed this morning and just so grateful for your presence here in this body of believers. sometimes so evident that you're here with us. And I pray that in this hour, God, you would make your presence known I pray that every person, the lifelong church member and Lord, maybe the first-time visitor, that we would sense that you're here with us today. And I pray you'd speak to our hearts. I pray you'd challenge us. In our faith and in our spiritual condition. Show us, Lord, from your word, the mirror of your word, show us where we're at spiritually, personally. I pray you'd challenge us in that. Help us, Lord, to be open, as Pastor Matt prayed, that we'd be open to your word as it's preached. And Lord, that you would help us. Fill me with your Spirit is always my prayer, Lord. Yield myself. Lord, I want my mind and body and heart fully yielded to you, that you can use me for these next few moments. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The Book of Judges is a unique book in the Bible. Anybody here ever read through the book of Judges and scratch your head and say, what in the world? Um it it it is definitely a unique book. The book of Judges is what we would refer to as an historical book. In other words, it gives a historical account of the nation of Israel, this period of their existence. It actually covers a 400-year period of time, right around there, maybe a little more. 400 year period of time. So it's not, you know, this isn't happening in a couple years or a couple decades This is four centuries of history being recorded here and certain events, of course, God pulls out certain events, records them for our benefit, for our learning, for examples for us. And uh it extends that 400 period goes from the birth of, or the death of Joshua, I should say, if you would, just turn back chapter 1, just kind of get the setting here. And verse number one, it says, Now after the death of Joshua, it came to pass that the children of Israel asked the Lord, saying, You shall go up. So they're going forward. Joshua, of course uh was tremendous uh leader of Israel. He was a military leader. Uh he was Moses' assistant And finally, after they got out of Egypt and spent that 40 years in the wilderness, they come up to the brink of the Jordan River. They're about to enter into the promised land that God has been promising Israel for years and years, promised all the way back to Abraham, and they're right there, they're right on the brink And Moses dies, and God raises up Joshua, who was a, by the way, he was a tremendous second man. He was a tremendous follower. He could take commandments. He could take orders And I found those that are best at leading were first best at following. And Joshua fits the bill. So he takes Israel, and through the book of Joshua, we have the leadership of Joshua A godly man, a man who trusted the Lord, a man of tremendous courage. And he led Israel into the promised land and and uh following the Lord's leadership. Now they had their ups and downs But they possess the land. Now here's the problem. Here's where the problem comes in, and here's where it helps explain a little bit the book of Judges They did not drive all the inhabitants out of Israel as God instructed them. They tolerated They tolerated ungodliness and paganism of the worst sort. And we read this sometimes, we just kind of read through it in the Bible. We don't realize the depth of depravity. That was taking place in this pagan worship, in these pagan societies. And God had told Israel, his people, you drive them out. And you possess the land. This is your land. By the way, Israel is uh the land of Israel is still Israel's. Nothing's changed And so Joshua provides this tremendous leadership. He leads them in the land, they possess the land, but they don't drive out all the inhabitants. They tolerate. Paganism, they tolerate a certain element of wickedness. Joshua dies. Leadership is now gone. And for 400 years, Israel struggles and um uh with spiritual, moral, and political turmoil. Joshua was a great leader, but after he died, the conditions deteriorated in the land of Israel very rapidly and to unthinkable depths. Morally, spiritually, politically. Look, if you would, if come to chapter 2, and notice with me verse number 10. Kind of states what I've just been describing. Judges chapter 2, verse 10. And also all that generation were gathered unto their fathers. So that whole generation that took the land, they passed off the sea and they died. And there arose another generation after them, look at this statement, which knew not the Lord. Nor yet the works which he had done for Israel. And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord and served Balaam. Now again, That's that little statement, we don't think about it. The depths of depravity that was associated with the worship of Balaam, we don't realize. And they served Balaam. Look at verse 12. And they forsook the Lord God of their fathers, which had brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods. gods of the people that were round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked the Lord to anger. They forsook the Lord and served Balaam and Asteroth. Joshua's gone. There's a vacuum of leadership, godly leadership. And this nation, Israel, deteriorates into the perverse, ungodly, wicked worship of these false gods listed here. The primary reason, as I kind of stated, for this turmoil, this depravity that takes over the country, is a lack of godly leadership In fact, the book of Joshua makes that very, very clear. Again, if you would, come to chapter 17, or not Joshua, Judges, come to the chapter 17 of Judges. And notice a statement that is made in verse number six. If you want to understand all these bizarre Events that are described in the book of Judges, you need to understand Judges chapter 17 and verse number 6. Notice what it says. In those days, these days of judges, this period of time that this book is accounting here, in those days there was no king in Israel. Now look at this But every man did that which was right in where? Oh nice. If I think it's right, then it's right. If I want to do it, there's nobody can't tell me I can. My will is Supreme authority. What I want, I'm going to get. Would you agree with me? That type of thinking is heading for a train wreck. Everyone does what is right in his own eyes. If I think what you call evil is good, then it's good for me. Come over if you would to well notice there just verse chapter 18, verse 1. Kind of reiterates this a little more condensed. He says, In those days there was no king in Israel. Mab ruh. Every man doing what was right in his own eyes. Come over to chapter 21 And the very last chapter of the book of Judges, again we have this statement explaining the book of Judges to us. Chapter twenty-one and verse twenty-five. In those days there was no king in Israel And every man did that which was right in his own eyes. I tell you what, you take man's you take the depravity of man Our own hearts, and you remove any form of governor over that, any form of restraint from the sinful nature of man And you will fall into the depths of depravity so quickly. So quickly. Has anyone noticed? Hey, has anyone noticed? The more that we remove God and the Bible from our society, the more depraved our society becomes. Anybody notice that? It's exactly what's taken place in Joshua, except to a much greater degree, or judges, much greater degree. There's no one there to tell them what's right and wrong. There's no spiritual authority. To give guidance and instruction on what God says is right. By the way, what God says is right is right. Regardless of what man says. What God says is wrong is wrong, regardless of what man says. God is the holy standard of right and wrong. God is the holy standard of truth and lies. And you remove that standard. And lies become truth in the eyes of men. And evil becomes right. Wrong becomes right. And right becomes wrong. When you remove the standard, Joshua, the book of Judges is describing a nation for 400 years Doing right what's in their own eyes, doing what's in their own eyes. By the way, Proverbs tells us there's a way unto man, there's a way that seemeth right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of what? Death. Death So that's the book of Judges. And if you want to understand the book of Judges, you're looking at a nation. You're reading the account of a nation that, for the most part, has removed God. From their minds. Every man did that which was right in his own eyes. This lack of godly leadership developed a cycle. In the nation of Israel, that is repeated throughout the book of Judges. There's this cycle. You can see it very clearly. It goes like this. First of all, there's spiritual neglect. We noted that back in chapter 1. Joshua dies. They forget about God. They forget about what God had done. There is no spiritual authority. And they neglect their spiritual neglect. There is spiritual neglect. There's sin and idolatry creeps in. In other words, they're not careful. They get careless, they get reckless with their own spiritual well-being. And sin begins to creep in. First, no doubt, very subtly But once sin gets a foothold in the heart and mind, doesn't take long till it just takes over. And so there's spiritual neglect. They're neglecting their responsibilities to the Lord. They're neglecting their own spiritual well-being. Sin creeps in, and that sin takes over. And then which leads to the natural consequences of sin, which is chaos, destruction. Misery, anger, frustration, and ultimately death. Now remember, these are God's people These aren't these aren't the pagans that they were to drive out. These are God's people. He delivered them from Egypt. He cared for them. For forty years in the wilderness. He provided this uh promised land for them. And they allow they neglect their walk with God Sin creeps in, it takes over, the natural consequences of sin, you have chaos, you have depravity, you have hatred, you have anger, you have frustration and emptiness And they have the chastisement of God. Now, this is, as I said, this is God's people. And I'm telling you, anytime God's people allow sin, tolerate sin, engage, indulge in sin, if that is not dealt with God brings chastisement. And that's all through Scripture. I mean, if you want me to, I'll stop right here. We'll spend an hour. I'll talk to you about it. Read the Hebrews chapter twelve. God does not give his people a license to sin. And I'm s I'll tell you, I've heard, oh, you guys believe once saved always say you believe in a license to sin. That is a lie of the devil God does not give his people a license to sin. Good night. Now he doesn't take away our salvation, but brother, he sure can take us to the woodshed. And through the book of Judges, you find God taking them to the woodshed. It's the natural consequence of sin being tolerated in the life of a believer. Let me say this: if there's sin tolerated in the life of a believer, and there is no chastisement from God, You need to double-check your status as a believer. Hebrews 12. And so there's a cycle. First, they get careless in their walk with God, they get careless in their responsibilities to their Creator They neglect their own spiritual well-being. Sin creeps in, takes over, the consequences of that is devastation. Devastation. Holmes. Lives, futures, young people. It's devastating when sin is tolerated and indulged. It's devastating Read judges. You see it all through there. And then God's people come to a point and they say, This is crazy. We got to get right with God. We can't go on like this anymore. And we're being destroyed. And these wicked, vile nations would come in and attack them and take over them Finally, the next step in this cycle is they would humble themselves. They would say, God, you've got to help us. Oh, God, show us mercy. They would repent and say, God, we've sinned, we've done wrong, we've let all this stuff in, we've untolerated, allowed all this wickedness in our lives, God, we've done wrong. They would humble themselves and repent of their sin, cry out to God for mercy, which would lead to the next step in this cycle. God would show grace and mercy and restore them. He would bring them back. I'm telling you, God responds to humility It didn't matter how it didn't matter the depths of depravity that God's people went into when they humbled themselves. And they confessed it and repented. God, without hesitation, responded in grace and mercy. And he will restore them. He would raise up what they called judges, and that's where the book gets its name. When they humble themselves and repent and seek the Lord, turn from their wicked ways and pray. He'd raise up a judge. Mostly men, there's one woman, Judge, Deborah. He raised up a judge. And they would provide spiritual leadership. And they bring Israel, the nation of Israel, God's people, they bring them back into fellowship with God again. And they would experience the natural consequences of being in fellowship with God. And the natural consequences of being in fellowship with God is peace in the heart and joy and purpose and fulfillment and meaning in life. Meaning in life. And so they would experience this blessing of God. They're back in fellowship with God and they're worshiping God and they're doing right and they're walking with the Lord. And as time would go by They would get careless. And they would start to neglect their spiritual responsibilities And they'd neglect their walk with God. And they would low a little sin in here and a little sin in there. And before they knew it, that sin took over. And the natural consequences was devastating. And the enemies would come in and there was frustration and death and anger and unhappiness. They'd humble themselves and say, God, we've done wrong. They'd repent, Lord, forgive us, we sinned. And God would respond to their humility. And in grace and mercy, he'd raise up a judge and restore them back. And they had the peace and the blessing and the joy and the fulfillment of God again. Then they would get careless. They would neglect. You see the cycle? That's all through judges. Over and over and over. That same cycle. And you read it, and we think, maybe some of you all have done this, you read this, and you think, Israel, you knuckleheads, when you finally get right, why don't you stay there? What's the matter with you guys? You get your Bible, you shake it. Why don't you guys pay attention? What's happened? But you know what we find out? That same cycle that Israel went through is lived out in the lives of many modern-day Christians It's a lot of lessons we can learn from the book of Judges. There's a lot of lessons here, illustrations for you and I as believers in 2024 I wonder how many people I'm preaching to. You're saved and you know it. Say amen. There's a lot of lessons for you and I in the book of Judges, this cycle. We can learn from this. It can help us. Avoid that same thing. Here's what happens. Here's the lesson. Number one, do not neglect your walk with God. That's the starting point. You're saved, you know you trust in Christ, your sins are forgiven, you have eternal life, God's uh you know you have a home in heaven, you've been saved from hell. Listen, we must not neglect our walk with God. Our spiritual health and our spiritual well-being must be a high priority No, let me scratch that. Our spiritual health and our spiritual well-being must be the highest priority. In our life. Say, preacher, the most important relationship and priority in my life is my spouse and my family. Listen, you're making a mistake. I'm saying to you, your relationship with your God ought to be the highest priority. Because unless I'm in tune with God, I'm going to have a struggle with the family. Come on now. Number one, we must not neglect our walk with God. Daily, every day, walking with the Lord, trusting Him, claiming His promises, heeding His warnings, following His instructions. Number two, there's serious consequences when we allow sin to creep into our lives, into our homes. Probably, I would say most, maybe all of us could testify. There's been times in our Christian life since we've been saved where we've allowed. things into our hearts and homes and lives that ought not to have been allowed in And it hurt us. In some cases, devastating destruction. We cannot allow sin to creep in. And when it shows up, it must be dealt with immediately. It cannot be tolerated. It cannot be indulged. It must be confronted and confessed and forsaken immediately. Because I tell you, we give it a little foothold. I'm telling you, I've been doing this a long time. I've seen it firsthand. I see it all through scripture. It will take over. And destroy. And destroy. We cannot allow there are serious consequences when we allow sin to creep in. And sin of any form, it may be an attitude. We know that our attitude is not right, but we tolerate it. Number three lesson, third lesson. Through humility and repentance, get this. Through humility and repentance, anyone can come back to the Lord. That's where I say, praise the Lord. Amen. Anybody through humility and repentance can come back to the Lord and find restoration. Say, preacher, if you knew how bad I blew it, you know I could never come back. I can never be restored. That's a lie of the devil. Doesn't matter how far you may have fallen, it doesn't matter how bad you may have messed up. Still a child of God. If you've been saved, you're still a child of God. We'll bring you back home and set you back on your feet. Read the prodigal son in Luke. Father's out there watching, waiting for him. I've I'm convinced Sunday mornings. I'm convinced eleven forty-five Sunday mornings Up in heaven is looking down, watching that prodigal son that somehow that prodigal daughter showed up in church, far from God, not right with God, they know it They're just watching for a step to come back to the Lord, just watching for a step towards humility and repentance. And boom, God shows up and said, Let me bring you on back. You with me? For repentance and humility, anyone can come back to the Lord, no matter how far they've gotten, no matter how low they may have fallen. You can be restored. You can be restored. Humility and repentance is the key. Then another lesson we learn, there's joy and peace that comes with being right with God. Brother, I've been on both sides of this. Many of you, uh I've been on both sides of this. I've been uh out of the I've been out of fellowship with the Lord, and uh y'all are looking at me like, what in the world? I've been there. Come on now, y'all so pious. You've been there too. I tell you, know what it's like to be in fellowship with God I'm here to tell you, there's nothing this whole world has to offer the Christian that comes even close to the joy and peace and blessing that God gives to his people. The most miserable person in the world is a child of God, out of the will of God, living in the world, living in sin. And the happiest person in the world is the child of God, submissive to the Lord, walking with God, living for Him, trusting Him, obeying Him. That's where the joy and the peace and blessing is. Can I get a witness? Y'all know what I'm talking about. The joy and peace that comes with being great with God is far greater than any pleasure offered by sin and this whole world. You mark it down Don't let listen, don't let this world sell you a bill of goods. Oh, you drink this, you drink this, you'll be happy. You do this, you dress this way, you go there, you do this, oh, all you need is love Father, the most miserable people in the world are people who are running after their own sinful desires. Don't buy this lie. That what is right is wrong and what is wrong is right. Don't you buy into the world. I'm telling you, the peace and the joy and the purpose and the fulfillment is found in walking with God. Amen. And then the fifth lesson from this cycle we read in Judges they're going through, maintaining our walk with God is an ongoing lifelong endeavor. I think the follow-up to getting right with God is just as important as the leading up to getting right with God In other words, Christians backslides or however you want to describe it, they're away from God, they're out of fellowship with God, they're not walking with God, they're angry and frustrated and miserable. Finally, they say no more. They come and they humble themselves before God and they repent of their sin and they come to the Lord and say, Have mercy on me, God, restore me. And God comes and brings restoration and grace and mercy and brings it back up. What I'm saying is, now once I'm in that condition again, I need to work at maintaining that. And not letting myself become careless again, not letting myself become negligent again, work at maintaining that walk with God. And that's where Israel failed. They would get careless. They'd get lazy, spiritually lazy, and they'd go right back. They'd go right back. In each cycle that they would go through this, God would raise up a judge. And he would provide the leadership to bring Israel back to the Lord. He would provide the he would be the delegated authority by God to declare the word of God and the things of God to the people so they would Live for the Lord and walk with him. Then that judge would die and they'd go right back. They'd go right back. They would do good until the judge died. Now, Gideon. Tell that because to Gideon. Gideon's one of these judges. Unassuming fellow, just farmer. He's trying to do what he can under the judgment of God on them. Israel was far from God at this point in Judges chapter 6. They were uh, and God touches, approaches this man Gideon. He is arguably, at least in my mind, one of the greatest judges in Israel's history There was a number of them through the book of Judges, but Gideon was, he wasn't flawless, but he was a man of tremendous character. He was a man of tremendous faith in God. Some of the judges, though they were good men and God used them, their faith wasn't that strong. Their character wasn't always that great. And again, Gideon wasn't flawless, but there's aspects of Gideon that remind me of Joshua. There's aspects of Gideon that remind me of David and his heart for God and the blessings and things of God. I think my assessment, one of the greatest judges in all of Israel's history. In our text here, Israel is under the constant assault of the Midianites. If you would come up there verse 2 of chapter 6. And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel. Because of the Midianites, the children of Israel made them dens in the mountains, in caves, strongholds. They're hiding. The Midianites are wreaking havoc. Now the Midianites were nomads They didn't have any particular land that they called their own. They would just kind of roam around And pillage. They had perfected. One of the historians I was reading said the Midianites had perfected the art of pillaging. You want something pill you want a uh a city pillage? Call the Midianites. Triple A pillaging, call us. I mean that was their thing Uh look at uh verse three there. It says, It was so when Israel had sown, all right, they sow their crops. That the Midianites came up, and then the Amalekites got in on it with them, but it was primarily the Midianites. And the children of East, even they came up against them, and they encamped against them and destroyed the increase of the earth. That's their crops. Harvest time. Till thou come unto Gaza and left no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass. For they came up with their cattle and their tents. Look at this. They came as what? Grasshoppers for multitude. They didn't look like grasshoppers. But what they did to the land was what a plague of grasshoppers would do. Just devastate it. Nothing left behind. Both they and their camels were without number, and they entered into the land to destroy it. God compared them to grasshoppers because of how thorough their devastation was. What they would do, this was their tactic. They'd back off, and Israel or whatever city or nation they're pillaging. They they would back off and they'd say, Oh, I don't see any Midianites. So they'd go out and they'd plant their crops, they'd water them, fertilize them, great crops, huge great crops. They planted And um uh they would uh fertilize them and nurture it, those crops would grow, then get to the end of summertime and Boy, they start getting ripe and they're out there checking and boy, it won't be another week or so, and we'll be able to harvest this. And right when they were ready to be harvested, guess who showed up? Midianites. And they'd come in there and they would just devastate it. They took everything. Nothing. Barren land, scorched earth. That was their tactic. That's what Israel's dealing with for years. They were intensely violent and merciless. Anybody or anything that got in their way was mercilessly murdered, left for dead. So we have Gideon. I've got six minutes to tell you about Gideon. And I'll do it. I notice first of all the courage of Gideon. Look at verse eleven. Are you with me? There came an angel of the Lord and sat under an oak which was an ophra that pertained unto Joash the Abdrazite. And his son Gideon, look at this, threshed wheat by the wine press to hide it from the Midianites. I believe Gideon gets a bad rat. You hear much preaching on Gideon, they'll say, oh, Gideon, God called him mighty Van Bower. He was a coward. Gideon was a natural coward. He's hiding behind a wide press, threshing his weed. He's scared of the Midianites. I take issue with that assessment of Gideon. I suggest to you, he had tremendous courage to even be out there doing what he was doing. If there is going to be any harvest at all, somebody is going to have to have the guts, the intestinal fortitude, the courage to get out there and get some of those crops before the Midianites take it away. I suggest to you, Gideon was a tremendously courageous man. Tremendously brave man. He wasn't a frady cat. Just the opposite was true. He saw what needed to be done, and regardless of the danger and threat to himself, he went out and did it. And God recognized this courage. Did you see there in verse 12? The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of what? Valor! The word valor means mighty in courage. It means a giant of strong bravery. Some of the definitions I found for the word valor. God says, look down, all the nation of Israel. And he says, there's one guy that has some guts to do what needs to be done, regardless of danger. That's God's assessment. A mighty man of valor. I doubt there are many men in scripture braver than Gideon. Now there's some, maybe. Threshing wheat. Later on in chapter 6, we don't have time. He tears down the idols in his town. Now he does it at night because he's not stupid. He's not a coward. He's just not stupid either. You know, there's a difference between cowardice and there's a difference between bravery and stupid stupidry Right? There's a new word. Somebody write that one down. I'm making Leatherman's Dictionary. Then in it takes three hundred men to battle against tens of thousands Don't tell me Gideon was afraid he can. Courage is doing the right thing in spite of fear of consequences. Courage is trusting God in spite of fear or consequences. Obeying God in spite of fear or consequences God give us some Christians with some courage that are willing to do what is right And obey God and trust God, no matter what the consequences are. Courage is absolutely necessary to live the Christian life. You and I will never live a victorious Christian life as cowards. We need to establish some spiritual backbone. We need to establish some spiritual courage as a church and as individual believers to stand for what is right in a world that is wrong. To do what God says to do, no matter what the consequences are. Our church history. Study church history. All through church history, men and women of tremendous courage stood up to the established church Stood up to pagan governments, stood up to worldly, ungodly societies, and they said, No, we will not disobey God. We're going to do right if it costs our life. Burned at the stake, run out of town, families turn on him. Courage, courage. I'm afraid courage is a missing character in much of our Christianity in 2024. We'd rather get along to go along than stand on the old book. Courage is absolutely necessary to make a difference for the gospel. Listen, my respect, my hat is off, my salute to our missionary family. I'm telling you, it takes some spiritual courage to pack up and go to a foreign country, some of them incredibly dangerous for Christians, and plant their feet there and proclaim the Word of God. And win souls, establish churches. I'm telling you, cowards don't turn into missionaries. Courage. If we're going to make a difference this world with the truth of the gospel, we need some courage. We need some courage. Courage is absolutely necessary to please God. We need Christian courage in our homes. We need Christian courage in our pulpits, our churches, in our nation. workplace. I'm going to challenge you. Just get you a big old get you a gigantic King James Bible, family Bible, and walk, carry it to work. Just walk around. Go to Walmart, carry around a big old Bible. I told me one time, he said, uh uh when I worked at a meat packing plant, I mean they gave me fits. He says, Oh, you're just a scaredy little Christian. You're afraid. I said, Oh yeah? Here, you take this Bible and carry it around here in this place. See if you're I ain't touching that thing Frady cat, scaredy little heathen. Over and over, God tells his people, be not afraid, fear not, neither be dismayed, for I am the Lord thy God, I am with thee. We're not proud. It's the difference between being confident and courageous and being proud. It's not arrogant. It's a compassionate commitment to trust and obey God no matter what. And Gideon had it. We could talk about the concern of Gideon in verse 13. He says, Lord, where's the days we heard of? Lord, we want those blessings. We want that revival. We've heard of the miracles you've did. We've heard of what you did for your people in years gone by, and we want to see it again. And God, we want revival in our churches again. And we want a moving of your spirit like we read about in the history books. And we want to see souls saved and young people called to the mission field. We want to see lives changed, marriages healed. We want to see a supernatural work of God like we've read about in years gone by. Do it again, God. That was Gideon's burden, it was concern. He wanted to get back to what it used to be. And on the time we could see the conquest of Gideon He trusted God's word, he followed God's instruction, and God gave the victory. Gideon and 300 men miraculously defeated tens of thousands of the Midianites He got the job done. And God's the one that did it. Maybe this morning we need to ask God to renew our concern for our own spiritual well-being. Maybe some of us need to come back to the Lord. We've gotten away. Maybe some of us have allowed sin and creep in our hearts and minds, and it's there, and we know it, and we see it taking over. Some of us maybe need a humble ourselves and say, God, bring me back I'm asking our church. I'm asking our church to pray for an Holy Ghost, old-fashioned Holy Ghost revival to sweep across our body of believers. I mean the Spirit of God to move again when the Sunday school classes are filled and the buses are filled and the altar is wet with the tears of God's people and our streets are filled with soul winners Concern for God to do it again And I think if we'll trust God, stay at it. I don't know if God's going to send revival or not. I don't know if there's any hope. I don't know if America's going to come back or not. I almost said I don't know if there's any hope. As long as God's on the throne, there's hope. But I don't know if it's going to happen. Whether it does or not, I'm calling our church, let's be like Gideon and just stand right whether the rest of the world ever comes around or not. Let's plead with God to send the Holy Ghost revival. God, we read about it. We saw what you've done. We want you to do it again. We want you to do it again. There was a university did a study, I'll end with this. University did a study, psychology class did this study And they lined up a bunch of students, got volunteers. And what they did was they bring 10 into a room and on the whiteboard, or I guess nowadays uh it's uh smartboard, is that what it's called? Smart, they look dumb to me, but anyway, I'm joking. They had on the board up in front of the class, they had three lines. One line was eight feet long Another line was four feet long, and another line was two feet long. Simple, they'd bring ten people in. Just I'll bring them in. And they'd ask them a question. When I point to the line, you vote for which one you believe, you vote for which one is the longest. One's eight foot, one's four foot, one's two foot. Ten subjects. Which one's the longest? What they did, nine of those ten were set up. They talked to them ahead of time. They said, we want you to vote. For the shortest one, and say it's the longest one. And one dupe wasn't in on it. They're just sucker. So they got the ten there. He said, all right, everybody, you vote for the longest one. And he pointed to the top one, one hand went up. Pointed to the second line, no hands went up. Pointed to the third hand line, nine hands went up. And the dupe sat there, looked around, and finally went And they did this like fifty, sixty times. Totally different people. And they said almost without exception. The Duke went along with the crowd, knowing it was wrong. Knowing it was a lie. But everybody else did. But they did too. And I'm telling you, our schools, our universities, our business places. Our markets are filled with Christians who are afraid of what is right. And they'll just go along. Whatever the world is saying and doing, knowing in their hearts it's raw. But they'll do it anyway. Because being popular in 2024 is more important than being right I'm here to tell you there's a day coming when we're all going to find out being right more important than being popular. Father, bless our invitation. Help us, Lord, to learn from Gideon. Give us that concern. Help us to be careful in our Christian life. Help us to do right. Heads bowed, eyes closed. I don't know how exactly the imitation, maybe this. I wonder if how many folks say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart this morning. That's what I've been praying, that God would speak to hearts You said, Preacher, God spoke to my heart. In some area, this message, some item you touched on, God spoke to my heart. Any hand anybody like that, hands up raised, God bless you, hands all around. Young and old, saying, Yes, God spoke to my heart. I don't know what that may be. That's between you and God. But I'm here to tell you, listen to God. Trust him. Whatever he's addressed in your heart and mind, your soul, you agree with him. Let him have his way. And a good way to do that is to come to an old order and say, yes, Lord, okay, God, I'll respond. I'll do it. You show me. You help me, I'll do it. There's some here this morning who say, preacher, I don't know that I'm saved. I don't know for sure that God has forgiven my sins. I have a home in heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Is there any this morning? Say, preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. I don't want to neglect or be careless about my soul's salvation. Any at all like that, uplift in hand. Preacher, pray for me, and I'll pray for you, I promise. Any at all? Any at all Father bless now our invitation I ask, have your way in Jesus' name