The book of James. And um you didn't know we had uh one of the Bible penmen on staff here at the church. And I'd like for us to read together James chapter one, uh verse number fifteen Uh we want to thank I want to take a moment and thank everyone for your prayers for the team that was down in Puerto Rico this past week. We left very early last Monday morning and got back yesterday afternoon we had a great week down there. Uh Elizabeth Barrett went with us for the Kurt Johnson and um If you remember the Millers, Gerald Miller family that wa was friends with us here and for a while they're down at FBN. Two of his daughters went down with us, my wife. and myself and so we very much appreciate your prayers for us. We had a great, great week. I'll give a little more details tonight, fill you in on what happened, show you some pictures, and uh but we very much appreciate your prayers. James chapter one I would like for us to read together in unison verse number 15, James 1, verse 15. Would you read it? Now let me say this before we keep your Bibles handy. We're going to be looking at a lot of different verses I want us to see this morning what God says on this subject, not so much what I think about it, but what does God say about it. And uh so keep your Bibles handy. We're going to use them a fair bit today. James chapter 1, reading together verse number 15. Ready? Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death I want to speak this morning on the missing ingredient in the modern pulpits of our churches. Let's pray together. Father, I ask now you'd bless our study in your word For some of us, Lord, it's been a very busy week. And as we begin now a new week, Lord, we just want to shadow our hearts and our minds God, we're asking you to help us to push aside the schedule, the events, the coming days and the coming month. Lord, help us to open our hearts and minds. In fact, I pray you would, Lord, open our hearts and minds to the Word of God. We don't hear this much in our day and age. God, we are not confronted with this truth, as I believe we ought to be. And so I'm asking you, Lord, especially this morning, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. And I pray you would drive this truth home. Help us to grasp the severity of this truth, the importance and significance of it. Apply it to our lives. And bring revival is my prayer in my heart, in our church, in our community, our nation. And uh have your way, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I came across a book not long ago. I'd seen it many times over the years. I've never read the book. I don't know anything about the author, but the title and the thesis, I guess, of the book entreat me The title of the book was this: Whatever Happened to Sin? And the idea is, I just read the cover, the idea of the book is the concept of sin is a missing ingredient. In our society and even in our churches, we live in a society today that does not have a concept of sin. Just do whatever, and to think that something is sin is completely foreign. What Oakland, Maryland, desperately needs Is a new, a renewed concept of the reality of sin. Our town needs to understand what sin is In our businesses, in our government, in our schools, can I say this? In our churches Sin. One of the greatest needs, I believe, in our community is a renewed sense of sin. What do we need? One of the greatest needs in our pulpits. Is a preaching, a biblical, uh a preaching that is biblically based on this concept of sin. It's missing. You certainly hear, if you hear it at all, it is very, very little on our airways, any type of teaching or preaching on sin. Television I'm talking about. Many of our big mega churches make a very determined effort to avoid dealing with the concept of sin. We live in a society, we live in a version of Christianity in many ways today, where nothing is sinful. You've heard the saying: if it feels good, Irregardless of whether it's right or wrong. If you want to, if it's enjoyable to you, if it's something that appeals to you, it doesn't matter whether it's right or wrong. Certainly is it sinful? Just go ahead and do it. Just go ahead and do it. And that mentality, that value system. I want to say, I started to say has crept into our churches. It hasn't crept into our churches. It's kicked the doors open and came storming in. Nothing is wrong. A correct understanding of sin is the beginning point of any relationship that somebody's going to have with God. Now let me explain what I mean by that statement. If I am going to have a relationship with God, I must understand that I am a sinner. I cannot establish a relationship until I grasp that truth. That I am a sinner separated from God because of my sin. That is the beginning point of any relationship with God. An acute awareness of my sinfulness Charles Spurgeon, great preacher. I just think the world of him. And uh I read so many, I I doubt a week goes by where I don't read probably one or two, maybe three sermons of his And um he made this state. Uh he was he was criticized by one of his enemies. Listen to what this enemy said about Spurgeon. He said, Here is a man. Who has not m let me before I read that, let me explain. Charles Spurgeon pastored the Great Metropolitan Baptist Church in London in the late 1800s, uh 1860 up through 1890. I think he died in the 1890s, somewhere around there. Huge church, largest church of its day. This was here was the criticism. With that in mind, this is the criticism. Here is a man who has not moved an inch forward in all of his ministry. At the close of the 19th century, he is still preaching the theology of the first century. I say, Amen. This critic was saying he hasn't gotten with the times. He's still preaching that was that what was sin in the first century is sin in the 19th century. And I'd like to carry that another hundred plus years forward and say we ought to be preaching today the theology of the first century. If it was sin then, it's sin now. Before a sinner could be saved, in New Testament days, he first must see himself as a sinner. Before a person can be saved, in April of 2012, he must first see himself as a sinner. Nobody can be saved from sin in hell until they first comprehend the fact that they are a sinner. They can say a prayer, they can join a church, they can be baptized, they can be very religious, but if they do not see themselves as a lost sinner, undone, under the judgment of God, They cannot be saved. Nobody gets saved who does not see themselves as a sinner through and through. No one ever has. Hey, these modern preachers that say, listen, my ministry is not to deal with sin. I want to try and avoid the negative aspects of the scriptures. Those preachers are wrong. And they're not seeing people saved They may have big megachurches, they may have tens of thousands on their church membership, but nobody ever got to heaven who first who didn't first realize how sinful they really were. Sin. Luke 19, 10, Jesus said this to Zacchaeus, the wee little man. He said this, the Son of Man is come. To seek and to save that which was what? Lost. You can't be saved until you first understand you're lost You can't become a saint until you first understand you're a sinner. Take your Bibles with me if you would. And I I said we're going to use them a good bit. We're going to jump around both Old and New Testament. Would you turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew? Very first book of the New Testament, Matthew chapter number nine. I could very easily just read this passage to you or quoted out of scripture uh from scripture, but I want us to look at it and I want us to read it together. Matthew chapter 9 and uh verse number 12 and 13. Matthew chapter 9, verse 12 and 13. Find it there. And let's read it. If you don't have a Bible, maybe skewed over somebody beside you. Let's read this thing together in unison. Matthew chapter 9 and verse number 12. Read it with me. But when Jesus heard that, he said unto them, They that behold need not a physician, but they that are sick. Go ye and learn what meaneth, I will have mercy and not sacrifice. Here we go, for I am not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. In Luke chapter 5, verse 32, in Mark chapter 2, verse 17, he says almost the same thing. Jesus says, I'm not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. I've not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. I want us to first of all consider this morning the definition of sin. What exactly is sin? If we would go out on the streets and we would ask people, hey, do you know what sin is? I assure you, some folks would say, I have no idea. There are others, and I ask that question often when I'm out witnessing to people, folks will say something like this, well, it's doing something bad. That's generally the answer you have. I'm concerned with the Bible's definition of sin. Now, the first thing I did was I looked at just the word itself. What does the word sin mean? It simply means this: a transgression of a law or crossing over a boundary. It carries with it the idea of trespassing in a sense. It also means the word itself, just sin, means to violate a moral standard. In other words, if we're just going by the uh dictionary definition of sin, we understand this. That to sin Means that someone in an authority, someone who has some type of authority, has established a required conduct So to speak. And for the definition of sin is when I violate that standard that the authority has established for me, if I don't conduct myself as that standard requires. I am sinning against that standard. I am going outside the perimeters of what is acceptable So that's the literal definition of sin: to transgress a law, to cross a boundary, or to violate a moral standard. The Bible definition of sin takes it, specifies it a little more. When the Bible talks about sin, the Bible is talk about talking about not, and I'm going to give you a technical definition, I'll try and uh Explain a little bit. Uh the Bible talks about sin, talks about a lack of conformity to the holy character of God. A lack of conformity to the holy character of God. I mentioned at the beginning of the message, in fact, I titled the message, one thing lacking in our pulpits, and that is a preaching on the concept of sin. I want to, along with that, there is something else lacking, and this may be the root of the problem. There is lacking on the preaching on the holiness of God. Our God is a holy God. Now there was a day and age when you could assume that people understood what that term holy meant. But we live in a day where they have no idea. It's used as a term of exclamation. In today's society, in today's vernacular, we've got cows that are holy. We've got mackerels that are holy. Right or wrong? Anything you can imagine in today's vernacular is holy But the fact of the matter is, there is only one truly holy being in the universe, and that is God Almighty He is holy beyond our ability to comprehend. Morally pure, absolute blinding goodness and purity is our God. He is absolute the epitome. Of purity, godliness, and holiness. That is his character. That is what he is. God cannot, never has, never will sin He is holy. And the biblical definition of sin is for me To behave or refuse to conform to this holy character of God Um it is also the Bible refers to uh sin as being rebellion against God. Now, there's a number of reasons why somebody might not conform to the holy character of God. In other words, be as holy as he is and be one with his holiness. One reason is they're unable to. Simply I cannot be that good. And we'll pick up on that in a little bit from here. I'm just unable to be that way. I'm incapable of being holy as God is. And that's one reason why somebody would be a sinner. They're incapable of being anything other than that. But the Bible has another aspect to sin. Not just the inability of man to be holy as God is, to conform to his holy character, but the refusal of man to conform to his holy character. And that is simply this rebellion against God. I will not do what God requires of me. I will not submit To the holy principles of God and His Word. I will not live my life in submission to the requirements of God. Rebellion! Against this holy character of God. So when we look at scriptures, we find that man is a sinner. What do we mean by that? He fails to live up to the holiness of God. He fails to conform himself to the holiness of God. One he's incapable of to some degree. Another aspect of that he refuses to. I'll not have God rule over me. Who is God that I should listen to him That is the root of holiness. And we find in scripture, scriptural teaching on holiness, that is the hopeless corruption of man's heart and soul. Listen to Jeremiah chapter 17 and verse 9. Listen. The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Do you get that? The heart of man is deceitful and not just. Not just inadequate, not just not up to par, but desperately wicked. That's my heart. That's your heart That's the mayor of Oakland. That's the guy that runs the gas station downtown. That's the neighbor. That's your grandchild. The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. We fail. We don't even come close to conforming to the holiness of God's character Take your Bibles again, if you would, and I said we're going to go to a few verses here. Come with me to the New Testament book of Romans. Got Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, and then you get to Romans. The first all three chapters of the book of Romans deal in depth with the sinfulness of man. It's probably one of the most thorough theological Passages on sin. I want us to go to chapter 3. I want you to turn there with me if you would. And notice I'm going to begin in verse number 9. Romans chapter 3 and verse number 9. If you want an in-depth study on the Bible teaching of sin, read very carefully and study Romans chapter 1, 2, and 3. And you will get a very thorough study on that. Notice verse number 9 of Romans chapter 3. Follow along with me. I want you to see this in your Bibles and follow along as I read this. What then? Verse 9. Are we better than they? No, in no wise. For we have before proved, both Jews and Gentiles, that they are, what's that next word? All under sin. Now, he goes on and uh and uh expounds on that. Look at verse 10. As it is written There is none righteous, no not one. According to that verse, how many people are in God's sight righteous? None? Maybe just one? What's he say the last part of the verse? No. Not one. There are no exceptions Now, read on. As is written, there is none righteous, no, not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No, not one. Say, Brother Leatherman, wait a minute, I held the door open for a dear lady coming into church this morning. Surely that was good. You want to hold that up to God as some sort of merit before God? God says it doesn't live up to my standard. Follow what I'm saying? Uh their throat, look at verse 13. Their throat is an open sepulchre. With their tongues they have used deceit. The poison of ass is under their lips. I tell you what, there's not a weapon in America's arsenal quite as deadly as the tongue. That tongue can cut and slice and hurt deeply. Their mouth is full of cursings, verse 14. and bitterness. Have you ever heard such filthy language in society as we hear today? Uh uh in the church This was several years ago. I was watching a preacher on TV and uh I come across him, and I told Kathy she was in the kitchen And uh I said, hey, this guy sounds pretty good. I never heard of him before. And he was preaching and he was preaching on David, and man, he was just going out, and in the middle of the sermon, out of nowhere, a filthy word just comes out of his mouth I said, did he just say what I thought he said? And as if he heard me asking that question, he came back and said it again in the pulpit. Um, look what he says. He says, their mouth is first of uh full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their ways. The way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes Now I want us to read together verse twenty-three, Romans chapter three. Would you read it with me out loud altogether? Ready? For all has sinned and come short of the glory of God. What is sin? Sin is coming short of the holy character of God, of refusing to live up to the standard that God's holiness demands. Sin. The primary definition of sin in the Bible is this. I'm going to boil it down now, try and simplify it. Primary definition of sin in the Bible is this: to miss the mark. The mark for life, God created us to live our lives. In full total obedience to him, to be completely conformed to his impeccable purity, his blinding holiness is what the mark is for us. And we miss it. We fall short of that. It means to it means, uh do you ever uh we got some teachers here, some Sunday school teachers, you have the kids and they're coloring a picture, what do you tell them when they color the picture? They are supposed to stay inside the lines. And uh so sometimes they don't stand inside the lines because they just don't have that hand coordination ability and they get out. They don't mean to, it's just they're incapable of staying inside the lines. Inevitably you have that one kid. Like Pat Browning was when he was a kid. He's just looking at me, I had a pick on him. Uh Stay inside the lines. Oh yeah? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Alright, color the snowman white. He gets blue. That is rebellion. God says stay inside these lines. Oh yeah It means to miss the mark, to go outside the lines, to fall short of God's standard. Did I ever tell you about when I got saved at the age of 19? For several months leading up to my salvation, I was reading the scriptures. The thing that prompted this concern in my heart and life about My life, I believe ultimately was my father's prayers. But I I realized the direction of my life was going, and I thought, I don't want to be the person I'm becoming. I don't want to be that. I saw what was happening to people I was with, and I said that is not what I that's a losing endeavor But I found I could not change myself. I tried diligently to alter the course of my life. But as the Bible says, I was a slave to sin. Chains bound me. So I began early in 1979, I began praying. God help me. Many, many nights, two, three o'clock in the morning, I'd come home, four o'clock, and I'd lay in bed, eighteen-year-old boy, just weeping. I'd say, God, you have to help me. God help me. It wasn't an audible voice, but it was as real as if it was. In my heart, I needed to read my Bible I dug through my dresser drawers. You heard the story, and I'm not going all of it, but I found the Bible, and uh I began reading my Bible. Now this is what I'm trying to get to. As I read in the Bible of God's holiness, of God's standard, I began to realize how far I had fallen short of that. And the more I read scriptures, the more I began to realize how sinful I really was. The more I read the scriptures and I saw how holy God is, and how pure and good God is, and I would read the scriptures and I'd look at myself. I would see how disobedient and rebellious and sinful I was. And I began to realize the seriousness of my condition I began to become very concerned about my spiritual condition and my standing before God. And it just compounded it. And so I would try to live differently even more. There became a desperation to it I had to stop living like this. I had to get away from this sin. And I couldn't. And I'd become more desperate. And I'd read the scriptures. I realized from the Word of God how thoroughly sinful I was. I realized how far I had fallen from God's demands. Sin. Our society, our churches, our pulpits need to get a new A renewed comprehension and appreciation for the reality of sin and what it really is So the definition of sin. It is the primary that the primary definition of sin in the Bible is to miss the mark, to come short of that. We read the Bible, we look at our lives, we see that we have come short. There's a secondary definition to sin, and I've touched on this already. It is the idea of rebellion. To openly and deliberately resist authority. You're telling me to do that? I'll not do it. That is an aspect of sin, to openly and deliberately defy authority. You will not rule over me. God will not tell me how to live 1 Samuel chapter 15 and verse 23, the prophet Samuel says to King Saul, he made this horrendous statement. He said, Rebellion. Is as the sin of witchcraft. Sometimes, now don't misunderstand, but sometimes somebody will justify their rebellion as being stubborn. Well, I'm just bullheaded. I'm afraid a lot of times that's nothing more than rebellion against God. Just stubborn, no, I am not going to submit, I'm not going to bend my neck to God. I am not going to submit my will to God. That is sin. Prophet Samuel said to King Saul, who ex who expressed that very attitude. He said, rebellion is no different than if you are exercising witchcraft. It is no different than if you are practicing pagan worship of the devil. It is rebellion against God. That is a very significant characteristic of sin in the Bible. The worst thing a person can do is to rebel against their creator. You made me, you gave me life, you've given me breath, and I will not submit to you. Take your Bibles, if you would, again, turn to the Old Testament book of Psalms. Psalms chapter 51. David had sinned. He had rebelled against God. He has said, I will do what I want to do. God will not tell me what I can and can't do. And for a period of time He lived in rebellion against God. Psalms 51 is when David began, uh came to the realization in David's mind what he was doing. He began to realize the seriousness of his condition. It dawned on him through the prophet Nathan that he was in rebellion against God. And look with me, if you would, at verses 1 through 4 of Psalms 51. And David's expression of his rebellion against God. Look what he says. Have mercy upon me, O God. He's realized now what he's been doing. According to thy loving kindness, according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgression. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, cleanse me from my sin, for I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before thee. Look at this next phrase Is ever before me. Look at this next phrase, verse 4. Against thee, and thee only have I sinned And done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and clear when thou judgest. Do you catch that first phrase? David had committed adultery. He had acted outside the holy character of God in the realm of his sexuality He had committed adultery, and he says here in verse 4, he doesn't say, against Bathsheba have I sinned. Question, did he sin against Bathsheba? Yes. He doesn't say against Uriah have I sinned. Bathsheba's wife. Question, did he sin against Uriah? Yes! He doesn't say against my wife have I sinned. He doesn't say against my children have I sinned. He doesn't say against my nation have I sinned. He sinned against all of these, but he understood that ultimately his sin was rebellion against His creator, and he said, Against thee, and thee only have I sinned and done this wickedness in thy sight. He got to the root of what sin really is It's rebellion against God. We live in a society that does not comprehend the seriousness of sin. We have a version of Christianity has stormed through the doors of our churches that has no concept of the seriousness of sin. What it is the significance of it, the depths of the depravity of what sin is Some of our behavior in the United States of America and within the churches is so horrendous in the eyes of God, yet we have no concept of that. Sin, the missing ingredient in our pulpits, in our society. So the definition of sin It's to fall short of the holy character of God, to fail to conform to it through inability and through flat-out rebellion. Now, what is the debut of sin? Where did this come from? Some of our Calvinist friends would like to suggest to us that God created sin. Can I suggest back to you that is blasphemy? God does not sin. He cannot sin. He will not sin. It violates his own character to co to ha to come up with the idea that a holy God would create sin is blasphemous So where did it come from? Well, the Bible tells us, and we won't take time to look these. I give you the reference, you can study them out. Isaiah chapter 14, verse 12 through 14, we find that sin originated in the heart of Lucifer. Five times in that passage he says against God, I will be like the Most High. I will sit on the sides of the north. I will It began in heaven. It began under the uh the reign of uh Lucifer, who that term at one point was a good name. One of the highest angels of heaven. You study it out, we find that Lucifer, before the fall, was perhaps heaven's choir director. The music he had, and he led the worship of Jehovah, eternal God in heaven. But he was not satisfied. And rebellion, pride, rooted in his heart, he raised his fist against God. So that is the debut of sin in existence. It was introduced by Satan's pride and his rebellion. But how did it get into the hearts of man? How did we end up sinners? Well, Romans chapter 5, verse 12 tells us that Satan, well, in Genesis, but uh we find that Satan uh tempted Eve. And through Eve got to Adam. And the Bible says in Romans 5:12, for by one man, Adam, sin entered the world. You notice it doesn't say by one man sin began its existence. No, that was Lucifer. But by Adam's rebellion and disobedience to God, it entered the sinful heart of man. The introduction of sin into mankind was shortly after the creation of man, when Adam and Eve rebelled against God. and stepped outside God's standard of behavior based on his holiness and ate of the forbidden fruit. You say, all right, great. Adam and Eve disobey God. How does it get to me five, six thousand years later? I mean millions and billions and trillions of people have lived since then. How do I end up a sinner? Well, that same verse, Romans chapter 5, verse 12, tells us by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, then it goes on. and death passed upon all men for that all have sinned. We could take a two month we could take a year-long study and study the uh the transgenerational nature of sin. In other words, it passes on from one generation to the next, to the next, to the next I'm overly simplifying it, but this is the idea. Adam was infected, and from there on, we've all born sinners. David said, In sin, then my mother can see me. He's not suggesting that the act of conception was sin. What he's saying was, I'm a sinner right from the get-go. That's Hebrew. Get-go. The fact of the matter is, Satan introduced sin into the universe, it invaded the world through Adam's rebellion, and it's inherited by every following generation. We are born with a sinful nature. We say this often when presenting the gospel. If you've had children, you know what I'm saying is true. You do not have to teach your child to lie. That comes naturally We have to teach them to tell the truth. We have a sinful nature. You don't have to teach a child how to be selfish. You don't have to teach a child how to be mean to others. You don't have to teach a child how to disobey. That comes naturally. We're born with that sinful nature. We inherit it from our fathers and their fathers and their fathers back to our first father, Adam. Hey, the devil did not make you do it. Right? Remember that bird on TV? The devil made me do it. No, I didn't. My own sinful heart made me do it. I inherit it. I inherited it. Inherited it. So we have the definition of sin. We have the debut of sin. I mean, quickly, look, number three, uh, what is God's disposition towards sin? In other words, what does God think about sin? Good grief, have you not been paying attention up to this point? God the fact is, uh the issue is not whether God is aware of our sin or not. God is aware of our sin. Psalm 69, 5. O God, thou knowest my foolishness, and my sins are not hid from thee. Hidden, somebody put it this way: hidden sin on earth is open scandal in heaven. God knows. Hey, God knows what's on the memory of your computer. You say, oh, but I deleted it. God didn't delete it. God knows what is hidden in your locker at work. God knows. God knows. Our sin is not hidden from God. He knows. Your spouse might not know. Your children might not know, your parents might not know, your friends might not know, the church folk might not know, the pastor might not know, the neighbors might not know, but I'm telling you, God knows. The issue is not, does God know about our sin? Yes, he knows about our sin. He is all-knowing. The night is like daytime to God. And that which is hidden is broadcast on the housetops as far as God's concern. So the issue is not Does God know? The issue is what is God's attitude towards my sin? The answer is very clear. It is absolutely repulsive. God hates our sin. The term the Bible uses over and over and over and over is this: an abomination. Something so thoroughly despised by God, it will not be tolerated a bit. An absolute sin is an absolute horror to God. Sin. Say, boy, I don't want God to find out what I've done. Too late. What does he think about it? It's an absolute abomination to him. I encourage you, get your strong concordance out. I did this. Look up the word abomination. And look how that is used of God towards our sin. The list is incredible. Abomination. Say, oh, it didn't hurt anybody. Hurt God. Violated his holiness. You wanna do a study on God's attitude towards sin? Study the little Old Testament book of Hosea. Hosea is married to a woman who became a, for lack of a better word, prostitute, except she didn't charge anything. And she had been unfaithful to Hosea over and over and over and over in the most public, in the most humiliating, in the most despicable ways. Until she was literally sold on an auction block. And God says the attitude that Hosea had that hurt. That he felt with his wife being with other men, that hurt, that crushing brokenness that came to Hosea's heart because of his wife's action, God says, That's what your sin is to me. It doesn't hurt anybody. Hurts God. Just as Hosea's heart was shattered and ripped out of his chest by the behavior of his wife, God says that is what your sin. Does to me. What is God's attitude? It's an abomination. It's a horror to him. He hates it. What is sin's destination? What happens when a person sins? What does it lead to? Somebody has said, and I believe this is a tremendous quote, somebody has said we can choose our actions, but we cannot choose the consequences of our actions. We can and do choose to disobey God. We can and do choose to sin against God. But we cannot choose the consequences of that. God says if you choose to sin and rebel against me, there are some things you have no control over. What is the wages of sin? What is the consequence of sin? The obvious answer is death. Romans 6:23. For the wages of sin and death. God told Adam and Eve, the day thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Now there's two aspects of that death. Death simply, in the biblical definition, is simply separation. Physical death is when my soul, me, I am separated from my body, and my body ceases to live. It dies. Spiritual separation is when me, I, my soul, what I am, am separated from the living God, the source of all life. The source of eternal life And the consequences of sin is ultimately physical death, but spiritual death, separation from God. Alone and empty, without God, and without open the world. And to physically die in that condition is to be eternally separated from God in the horrors of hell in the lake of fire, eternally empty, lost. Death. Psalms 32, verse 3 through 4. Psalms 51, verse 12 tells us that it leads to despair. David, as a saved man, said, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. When he was living in sin and rebellion against God, when When Shin was uh uh was dominating his life, he said the joy was gone That peace and presence of God was taken away. Restore to me the presence of your Holy Spirit. Restore to me the joy of thy salvation. Despair. And for the believer, Psalms Isaiah 59, 2, unanswered prayer. Pray and pray and pray and pray. I'm living in sin. God doesn't answer my prayers. God says in Zaiah, He says it's not because I can't answer your prayers. I can. Nothing's impossible with me. But your sins have separated you from me. And because I am holy and you refuse to conform to my holiness, I will not answer your prayer. I will. Not that I can't, I won't. So sin's destination, what does it lead to? Ultimately, if it's not dealt with, if it's not taken care of? Death. Separation from God. All eternity. It brings despair to the life, and it brings unsanswered prayer. Now, let me give you the last one real quick. How do we deal with sin? We had its definition, its debut, its uh uh God's disposition towards it, its destination. How do we deal with sin? Well, can I tell you what most people do with sin? Most people ignore it. I don't care So? Do you realize you're a sinner? Yeah. Do you understand the seriousness of that? Do you know what the consequences are? I don't care. My favorite TV show's on. I'm telling you, the majority of our world that even comprehends what sin is doesn't even care. You don't have to go down here to the bar and convince them that what they're doing is wrong. In their hearts, they know it's wrong. You don't have to go to the politician who lies and uses corruption for his own benefit, regardless of what it does to the people. He knows in his heart that's wrong. They don't care. Doesn't care. You go to the young person, or the adult as far as that goes, that's living loose with their body. And has no convictions and has no principles about the purity of their life. You don't have to convince them that how they're living is wrong. They know it's wrong. They don't care. It's more important to them that I'm accepted by my friends and that what I'm doing is right or wrong. So, how do we deal with sin? Well, the majority of the world could care less. They just ignore it. Some deny it. Some have this utopian mentality that there is no such thing as sin It's just maybe what's right for you might be wrong for me, and what's right for me might be wrong for you, but there's no moral authority. There's no definite thing that's absolutely sin or not. That's just dumb Some people, most people just ignore it. Some people try to deny it. A lot of folks do this. They try to justify it. Oh yeah, well, you know, in my case, normally this one would be right. But in my situation, this is why it's right. There was a fella in Ohio, and his name slips my mind right now. He worked as a nurse's aide in a hospital. Some of you remember reading this in the news. And he took it upon himself to decide, it might have been a nursing home, he took it upon himself to decide who was fit to live and who wasn't. And so he would got some different medications and when no one's in the room, if they were on ID, he'd inject a little strychnine or various rat poison and different al uh rubbing alcohol and different things into the uh into the system. And I forget if I remember it was in the teens, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty people he had killed in this nursing home. Anyone remember reading that in the news As I said, his name slips my mind. Finally, the people were dying. They figured out what was going on. They got the guy and arrested him. And they asked him, they said, What in the world were you thinking? And he gave this long, elaborate explanation that what he was doing was right, that he was good, that he was somehow the victim in all of this Brother, that is an extreme example of stuff people do every day. We justify our disobedience We excuse our rebellion. We explain away our sin. And the only one we're fooling is ourselves. It's ourselves. There are people die and go to hell convinced that they were just in rejecting Jesus Christ. So what is the proper response to sin? Ignore it? Deny it? Attempt to justify it? The only proper response to sin, and it's twofold, is number one, confess. Psalms 51, we just read a few moments ago. Listen to verse 3. For I acknowledge my transgressions. My sin is ever before me. Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. David is confessing his sin. Now, we have a misunderstanding of what confession is. And some people think: well, confessing is simply telling God that it happened. You don't have to tell God it happened. He already knows that. Though God, I stole a $10 bill from the desk at the office this week. It was petty cash. I slipped ten bucks out this week. God, I just want to confess it, I want to make sure you know I did that. You idiot! You don't have to tell God what you did. He knows that! So, what does it mean to confess? What does it mean to confess my sin to God? It's not simply acknowledging what I did to God. He already knows that. It means this: to agree with God about what I did. To share his estimation of what I did. To share God's opinion about what I did. It's not, God, I stole that $10 bill from the Pentecost. That's not it at all. It's God, I agree with you. That was wrong. That was dishonest. That was a lack of integrity. God, it violates your holiness. God, it was wrong. I'm guilty. I've broken your law. That's what confession is. Agreeing with God's judgment on that sin. To fear and respect God to the degree that I see my sin as He does. To fear and respect God to the degree that I judge my sin as God judges it, that is confession. Secondfold aspect of dealing with sin, first we confess, but included and more maybe as a result of that is forsaking. Proverbs 28, verse 13, He that confesseth and forsaketh his sins shall find mercy. David said in Psalm 51, verse 2: Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, cleanse me from my sin. You wash and cleanse something, that's not covering up, that's getting it out. I don't want it to be a part of my life anymore. God, I want it out of my life. I don't want this behavior in my life anymore. I don't want this attitude. God, I want to be right. I want to do right. I forsake that. I will genuinely, when I genuinely confess my sin, see it as God sees it, then I can forsake it. And until I genuinely confess my sin, I will never fully forsake it. We had a youth rally in Indianapolis, teens preached all week. I had a fellow from Michigan come down, David Oliver, preached a teen revival for me. At the end of the week, we had a big bonfire. We preached on various things, rock and roll and different stuff. And we said, all right, bring your stuff in. Friday, bonfire. We're gonna burn all that sinful stuff. Get it out! We had one young person. They said, you know, I know it's wrong. I'm not going to listen to it anymore, but you know, I'm just going to box it up and put it up in the closet. That way, in case I change my mind, I still got it. Number one, they didn't really confess it, did they? They don't see it as God sees it. And number two, they certainly didn't forsake it. They certainly didn't forsake him. When we understand God's estimation of our sin, the death of Jesus Christ on the cross becomes very significant because he died for my sin. Sin is very serious, and sin must be dealt with thoroughly. And only the blood of Jesus Christ can cleanse us from sin. Only trusting Jesus Christ can save us from sin's judgment. There's another whole aspect of this in dealing with the Christian and sin. We don't lose our salvation, but it must be dealt with. Jay Wilbur Chapman was a great preacher of many years ago. He told of a preacher in Australia who preached very strongly on sin on a regular basis. After one service, a church, one of the church officers came to him and said, Dr. Howard, that was the preacher's name. We don't want you to talk as openly as you do about man's guilt and corruption and sin. If our boys and girls hear you discussing this subject They will more easily become sinners. Call it a mistake if you will, but do not speak so plainly of sin. Wilbur Chapman said that Dr. Howard took down a small bottle and showed it to the visitor. And he says, Can you read what's on that label? They looked very closely and said, strychnine. And underneath, in bold read letters, it read, poison. Dr. Howard went on and said, Do you know, man, that you are what you are asking me to do? You are suggesting that I change that label. Suppose I do, and I paste over the word strychnine poison, I paste the words essence of peppermint. Don't you see what might happen? Someone would use it, not knowing the danger involved, and would certainly die. So it is with the matter of sin. The milder you make the label. The more dangerous you make your poison. What does our pulpits need? A renewed preaching on the severity of sin. What does Oakland, Maryland need? A new understanding of what sin is and how serious it is. And it needs to begin with you and I. Judgment must begin at the house of God Let's pray. Father, I ask, Lord, you would help us take this matter very seriously. God, we live in a day and age where sin is so rampant, it is so excused, it's not even an issue. But nevertheless, you've given us your word. Your word is true, regardless. And I pray you'd help us to understand and hold desperately. To your word, the standards of your righteousness. God, if there's some in our midst that have never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, that are still in their sins, I pray that today they would come and trust you and find forgiveness. Lord, perhaps there's some Christians who have allowed sin, maybe deliberately rebelled against you, and today you're dealing with their hearts. God, I pray you'd help them take that very, very seriously. And God confess that and forsake it and submit themselves to your perfect will for them. Help me, Lord, in my walk with you. Our heads bowed and eyes closed. As there are some this morning say, preacher, man, God has been dealing with my heart about something. I really I've excused it, I've justified it, or maybe you've just ignored it Something very specific, but the Spirit of God is dealing with your heart, and you say, Preacher, today I've got to deal with that. I've got to take that seriously. I need to confess and forsake this. Whatever it is, it's between you and God. But you'd say, preacher, pray with me. God's Spirit has dealt with my heart in a very specific way. Any like that, by the uplifted hand, all around the auditorium. How about it? God's Spirit dealt with your heart. God bless you. Hands all around. How about it? Others? Sin I have no doubt in my mind. I've been doing this long enough. I have no doubt in my mind. Someone's sitting there right now. God's dealing with your heart, and you'll refuse to acknowledge that God is saying that it's wrong. Refuse to submit to them. In your mind, you're arguing with God, you're saying, no, I'm not going to acknowledge that. I'm not going to acknowledge that. I'm not going to acknowledge that. And all you're doing is adding sin to sin Rebelling. How about it? Others, preacher, pray with me. I know it. I know it. I know it. God bless you. A couple others. God bless you and you I don't want to know what it is. Don't come and tell me that we're not Catholic. You go right to God. Bring it right to Him. How about it? Let's begin right here and now this morning. For some say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't know that God has forgiven my sins. I don't want to die in my sins. I don't want to go to hell You say, preacher, pray for me. God will help me settle that in my heart and life. Is there any at all this morning? Don't play around with this. Take it seriously. How about it? Any? No doubt many of us know others, not judgmental, but we know folks who are living carelessly in sin. How they need our prayers, how they need our love, our warnings, compassionate warnings. Let's ask God to use us. Father, bless now our invitation. This wasn't very pleasant, but Lord, we believe it's very important. Have your way in our lives. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. God spoke to your heart. Jennifer's gonna play a few verses of invitation about it. Why don't you come on this morning? Why don't you come on this morning? Just say, Here it is, God, I I want everything to be right. God, I want every area, every Every corner of my heart and life to be right and pure and good and clean. Spare to God's been dealing with your heart. Maybe you're standing there holding a pew, arguing with God in your heart and mind right now. Why don't you let him be Lord of your life? Let him be God. Say, God, I want you to have your way. There's someone near to you. Again, we're not being judgmental, but it's obvious they're living careless with sin. How they need our prayers. How they need us to bring them before the Lord. God help them. Thank God for my daddy that prayed for me when I was living carelessness.