You know from last night I told you Moses is my favorite Old Testament Bible character, but maybe your favorite isn't Moses. Maybe it's David. Maybe it's Uh maybe it's Abraham, Isaac, or Jacob, maybe it's one of those. You were given a piece of paper as you walked in asking for the name of your favorite Old Testament Bible character It might have all kinds of different answers. Somebody in this auditorium would certainly choose David, the shepherd king. Somebody would choose Abraham, that faithful man that left the earth of the Chaldees and didn't know where he was going, but was looking for a city whose builder and maker was God. Maybe some of you would choose Joshua, maybe Isaiah, maybe Jeremiah, maybe Elijah. We can go down through the list. We get lots of different answers if we asked you for your favorite. Old Testament Bible character. But if we excluded our Savior and asked you for your favorite New Testament Bible character I don't think we'd get that many different answers. Nobody in the auditorium is going to say, Oh, my favorite is Bartholomew. Those three verses where he's mentioned are my favorite three verses in the whole New Testament. I don't think anybody's going to pick him. Nobody's going to pick to the Siscarian. No one's going to pick Downing Thomas. Go down through the list. There are very few that would actually be on the list if we asked you to vote for your favorite New Testament Bible character. I think the guy that's going to come in a distant third, he will still get some votes. And I think he's the man that uh refers to himself as the disciple that Jesus loved. His name appears on four books of your New Testament, the Gospel of John, the first, second, and third epistles of John, and he's also the human penman for the book of the Revelation. I think the guy that's going to be far and away the biggest vote getter is going to be the Apostle Paul. 13 of the books of the New Testament were Penned by the pen of the Apostle Paul. 14, if you believe he's the one that God used to write the book of Hebrews, turned the world upside down for God. According to history, he started 164 churches This man that was the chiefest of apostles while still being the chiefest of sinners. I think some of you, actually many of you, would probably vote for the Apostle Paul in our little straw poll. He would not get my vote, however The reason is I don't like the Apostle Paul. Oh, I love to read about him. I love to study about him. But when I read about the Apostle Paul, I never see myself reflected in the life of the Apostle Paul I see that kind of dedication, that kind of surrender, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings being made conformable unto his death. Brother, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth those things which are before, I press toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. In the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Philippians 3, 10, 13, and 14. And then we looked lastly at Galatians chapter 2 and verse 20. When I see the Apostle Paul in that level of dedication, the reason I don't like the Apostle Paul that much is because I'm always convicted when I read about the Apostle Paul. I think the guy that's going to come in second, he's going to be the guy that I would write on my piece of paper when I turned it in. I think it's a guy that reminds us a lot of ourselves. We like people in the Word of God that remind us of ourselves. He doesn't just remind me of myself. He reminds me a lot of Christians I've met over the years as we've traveled. I would be voting for good old Simon Peter. Simon Peter, this man with feet of clay, this man that makes all kinds of mistakes. Simon Peter sounds like a lot of modern-day Christians. Let me point a few things out about him. First He liked to brag about how much he loved the Lord. Remember in Matthew chapter twenty-six and verse thirty three he said this Though all men shall be offended by thee, yet will I never be offended He said, John and James and Andrew and everybody else might give up on you, Lord, but I love you so much. I love you more than anybody else. I'll never be offended by you. There's a whole lot of Christians like that, aren't there? Used to be it's more more popular in days gone by than it is today. People would have testimony times. A lot of times when you're starting a revival sun Sunday night They would have a testimony time and someone would stand up invariably in every single church and they would say something like this Oh poor church, I just had to stand tonight and tell everybody how much I love the Lord It's in him I live and move and have my being. I couldn't walk without him. I couldn't talk without him. I couldn't do anything without him. I just love him with all of my heart. And then you don't see him back on Monday night And they're not there on Tuesday, and they don't show up on Wednesday, and they're not there on Thursday, and excuse me for the the statement here, and they're out singing someplace on Friday. If you love the Lord, you're gonna love being in his house every time you can possibly be in his house. Simon Peter liked to brag about how much he loved the Lord. He also liked to brag about how much he was willing to do for the Lord. Remember John chapter 13 and verse 37 when Peter said this? He said, uh, why cannot I go with thee now? I would lay down my life for thy sake. What a statement of complete surrender. I'm willing to do anything up to and including dying for you, Lord. Now before we're too hard on Simon Peter, remember just a few hours later there in the garden, when the Roman soldiers show up, most likely over five thousand of them, it is only Simon Peter that pulls the sword out to ready to go into battle. against five thousand people, knowing he couldn't be victorious. He was willing to die for the Lord just as long as there's a good sized crowd to see him But when he's warming his hands at the enemy's fire, he denies him three times that he even knew him. Simon Peter liked to brag about how much he was willing to do for the Lord. I was playing golf with a preacher friend of mine several years ago Canada Church, they ran about 225 on Sunday. And I asked him how are things going at the church? He said, well, pretty good. He said we lost five families in the last thirty days. I said, well brother, how'd you lose five families in the last thirty days? And he said this. I think they were all holding out for a management position. There's a whole lot of Christians that want a whole lot of notoriety for everything that they do in the house of God. The simple truth is Simon Peter liked to brag about how much he was will how much he loved the Lord. He liked to brag about how much he was willing to do for the Lord But number three, Simon Peter, like a whole lot of people that you and I both know, he thought he knew everything. Simon Peter was the kind of guy that if he walked up to you, this unlearned fisherman, and you were talking about Thermonuclear dynamics, he would have to take a few minutes to give you his opinion of thermonuclear dynamics. You know five times in the New Testament the Bible says, then Peter answered When nobody had asked Peter a question. He just thought you needed his opinion every time he was around. I'll illustrate it to you in a classic way. Jesus and the disciples are in a town called Caesarea Philippi And while Jesus is there, he asks them a question, Who do the men say that I am? And they give him all the answers. But then he asks the even more important question, Who does who do ye say that I am? And Strengman Peter speaks up And Simon Peter said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus answering said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjonah, for flesh and blood have not revealed this unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say unto thee, thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. Simon Peter knew who he was talking to. Let's establish that. He doesn't know it because he heard it from Andrew, although Andrew did say it earlier. He doesn't know it because he read it in the newspaper, saw it on television, heard a newscaster do an interview. He doesn't know it because he saw it written in the clouds up in the heavens. He knows that he's talking to Christ, the Messiah, the Son of the Living God, because God revealed it unto him So let's make sure we get this straight. Simon Peter knew who he was talking to. Two verses later, the Bible says this And from that time forth began Jesus to show his disciples how he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things of the rulers and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed and raised again the third day Then Peter took him. That means he pulled him aside. Then Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord, this shall not be unto thee. Can you imagine the absolute audacity it would take to tell the Christ, the Son of the Living God, that he doesn't understand Old Testament prophecy? That's what Simon Peter just said. He always thought he was right. He always liked to brag about how much he loved the Lord He always liked to brag about how much he's willing to do for the Lord. But understand this, Christian, until you and I get to the same place that Simon Peter has gotten by he by the time he, under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, pens the words of Second Peter chapter one We cannot possibly be the Christian that God expects us to be. Look at 2 Peter chapter 1 with me, please. We're going to begin reading in verse 12. 2 Peter chapter 1 and verse 12. Peter writes this under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. Wherefore I will not be negligent. To put you always in remembrance of these things, though you know them and be established in the present truth. Yeah, I think it means as long as I'm in this tabernacle to stir you up by putting you in remembrance, knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ has showed me. Moreover, I will endeavor that you move after my deceased For we have not followed cunning and device fables, we made known to the power and coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, but why? Witnesses of his majesty For he received from God the Father honor and glory. When there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, this is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And this voice which came from heaven we heard when we were with him in the Holy Mount. We have also a more sure word of prophecy. Whereunto you do well that you take heed. As unto a light that shineth in a dark place, for the day dawn of the day star arise in your hearts. Knowing this first that no prophecy of the scriptures of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man But a holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. I want to preach tonight a message simply entitled A More Sure Word of Prophecy. Whether you're saved or lost, we have to have the right view of the Word of God if we're ever going to please our Heavenly Father. Let's have a word of prayer before we begin. Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. Lord, we thank you for our time in your house. Lord, we ask that you bless the message. We ask that you do something amazing in our presence tonight. Father, guide and direct in everything that's said and done in Jesus' name Amen. I want you to know this. Simon Peter first talks about responsibility. I, he says this, I will not be negligent. What an amazing thing. Wouldn't it be a wonderful thing if every single Christian under the sound of my voice would tonight just make that one simple commitment with Simon Peter? I will not be negligent See, our problem isn't when we disobey the Lord that we don't know what the Lord wants us to do. The problem is we're just negligent of what the Lord Doesn't w what's us to do. Every single person that was here Sunday morning knows that God expected them to be here Sunday night and Monday night. The reason they're not here is because they're negligent Every Christian in this room knows you're supposed to be in your Bible every day, meditating therein day and night. Every Christian in this room knows we're supposed to pray without ceasing. Every Christian in this room knows That we're supposed to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. And the reason we don't do those things is not because of ignorance, it's just negligence. And Simon Peter said, I know what my responsibility is here, and I will not be negligent. Over the years, of course, hundreds of times we stood at the back door on a Sunday night as we started a revival going through Wednesday or going through Friday. And we've heard lots of reasons and lots of excuses why people weren't going to be in some of the services throughout the week. My dad used to always tell me that a reason was usually true, an excuse was usually false. And I've heard some reasons and if you've got to be at work and you've got a sick family member or you have to have to take care of someone at home or uh you Uh uh you've got something like that that is arisen and you can't be here in a service. I understand those reasons. I really do. Please don't think I don't But I don't understand excuses. And over the years I've heard some crazy excuses. I could tell you a hundred excuses like that Just rattle them off without breathing. I don't breathe much anyway, but I could just rattle them off just like that, and I could give you a whole bunch. Some of them you would laugh at, some of them you would laugh a lot at But instead of giving you a bunch of negative illustrations, would you mind if we do something different and I give you a positive illustration just one time A few years ago, we were going to Open Bible Baptist Church in Williamstown, New Jersey. Dr. George Riddell was the pastor back then of that church. We were going there to preach a Sunday through Thursday revival. I think it was the third week of September. The week before I received an email from the assistant pastor at that time, a man whose name was Raji, R-A-J-I, Raji Smith And he began to tell me a story, and here's how the story went. He said there was a young man in their church who was a senior in the public school system He played on the football team there, the Williamstown Eagles. And so he had been chosen by his coach to be on what his coach called the leadership. Now back when this took place, very few places were doing this. Now more and more coaches are doing something like this. His leadership team were young men that would Uh, might have a future in coaching or maybe even playing at the next level or something along that uh along that line. And so He had this leadership team, and this young man was not just the starter on the football team, not just the captain on the football team, but he was on the leadership team. They started meeting the first week of August, the leadership team did And so the fact that week before we were to get there and start our revival, this young man walked into his coach's office on that Wednesday afternoon. He shook his hand, coached his hand, and said, Sir, I'm I hate to tell you this, but I'm gonna have to resign the leadership team. Now, the leadership team had one cardinal rule that could not be broken for any reason You had to be at every single scheduled meeting of the leadership team. He said, I'm gonna have to resign the leadership team. The coach said, I don't understand Why would you have to resign? I chose you for this. I mean, this is a prestigious position. Why would you resign from something like this? And he said, Well, coach I can't be at your leadership team meeting tonight. The coach became upset, he got mad at the young man. He said, This doesn't make any sense to me He said just six weeks ago you stood right here in front of this very same desk and you looked me in the eye and you promised me you'd be at every leadership team meeting. I chose you for this position because I thought you were responsible and dependable and respectful and reliable. And now you're telling me, just six weeks later, that you're not going to be at my leadership team meeting. The coach pounded his fist on the desk. He said, You're right, young man, you're off my leadership team The young man shocked the coach. The coach is used to what he typically sees on a daily basis. He's expecting the young man to threaten that he's going to go to the school board or the administrator or the athletic director But the coach was shocked when the young man stuck his hand out, reached across the desk, and shook the coach's hand firmly, and looked him in the eye and said, Thank you very much, sir. You have a wonderful day And turned around to walk out. As he started to walk out, the coach stopped him, so puzzled by this response that he'd gotten, he said, Son, stop, just as the young man reached for the door He said, Do you mind telling me what's so important and why you can't be at my leadership team meeting tonight? The young man stood there with a backbone of solid steel. He said, Sir You schedule a leadership team meeting for a Wednesday night. He said, I know that six weeks ago I stood in front of your desk and I promised you I'd be at every single leadership team meeting But long before that, when I was just a little boy, I went to the altar at Open Bible Baptist Church and I promised Almighty God I would be in every church service Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night, and that nothing was coming before him in my life. He said, coach, you have no idea how much it hurts me that I have to break my promise to you. But if I have to choose, I'd rather break a promise to you Then break a promise to Almighty God. He said, I'm not going to be at your leadership team meeting tonight. I'm going to be at church where I promised God I would be. The coach looked at him and said, Well son, you're back on my leadership team. And this is what the lost coach said. He said, I don't want to mess with God. If that were the end of the story, it's already an amazing story, is it not? The next morning the phone rang at Open Bible Baptist Church. They spoke to the youth pastor, Brother Smith. The coach called himself, asked Brother Smith if he would be willing to come out after football practice that Thursday night and give a devotion to his football players. If you know somebody that's with the ACLU, don't tell them that part of the story, please. The coach went out, gave a brief devotional, and gave them flyers for our meeting. Our flu Sunday through Thursday. The church there had a large Christian school, and Friday was a day off of the public school system, and so it was off for their Christian school and so pastor ended the meeting on Thursday so they could have their day off. But what happened? The youth pastor had scheduled a all night youth activity that Friday night. They rented a whole bowling alley They were going to take every kid that showed up as long as you were in the service, and a lot of times they had over a hundred in their youth activities. They were taking every kid that showed up to the bowling alley and they could bowl all night long as much as they wanted and they could eat all of the pepperoni pizza that they could eat On that Thursday, uh for our last service of the revival, I'm sorry, that it went Thursday night into Friday morning, they ran the van by and they picked up fifteen football players Those fifteen football players came in, they had a fan-shaped auditorium with four sections. They set them down on the second and third section, uh second and third row. of the left hand center section from my viewpoint. They sat right there shoulder to shoulder and I preached this simple message and I asked as I gave the invitation, how many of you here aren't sure if you died today you'd go to heaven. And then you know what? Fifteen hands went up on that second and third row. I said, Would you like to know tonight that if you died today you'd go to heaven, raise your hand? Fifteen hands went up on that second and third row I said we've got personal workers right there. If you meant that when you raised your hand, would you stand right where you are? Fifteen football players stood up on the second and third row. I said, the personal workers are right there. Won't you make your way over there? They almost marched in formation out the side door. By the time we went home that night Fourteen of those boys had trusted Christ as their personal Savior. The fifteenth boy got assurance of his salvation. Get this. Oh because one teenage boy said it's more important to be in church than it is to play football. I'm sorry, Christian. I am a huge sports fan. I'm I'm I'm so close to Morgantown, I'm getting lightheaded every now and then. I love my mountaineers. I really do But I'm here to tell you something. So we will stand in our pulpits and we will preach until our faces turn red about the evils of alcohol But on any given Wednesday night in any given Bible believing church, there will be more families out of church because of basic Baseball, basketball, football, soccer, cheerleading practice, and volleyball than have ever missed a church service because daddy was drunk. What I'm saying is, it's time for us to stand up and say, I will not be negligent. God comes first. I know what he expects. And that's what I'm going to do. Number one, he said, I got a responsibility. Number two, he says, I'm going to be a reminder. Notice what he says, that I will I will I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though you know them and be established in the present truth. When I first started in evangelism People would come up to me and being wet behind the ears, sometimes they would try to criticize their pastor. Nowadays I've got a built-in answer for that. If you come up to me and say, let me tell you something about my pastor, I'll say, hang on just a second. Let me get him and you can tell us both at the same time. It'll save you time if you do that. And if he's not there, if I'm there later than he is, I'll say, hang on, I want to get a pen and piece of paper because I want to write down what you're saying so when I tell him about it first thing in the morning I'll make sure I get your wording exactly right. You would be surprised at how many conversations end right then and there. But I wasn't smart enough when I first started, so every now and then I would hear people that would prattle on about Uh their pastor preaching the same old messages all the time. Listen, Simon Peter preached messages and he told them what I'm reminding you about is what you already know He said, I'm putting you in remembrance of what you already know. Understand, if your pastor is preaching something brand new every single surface, if he's preaching something that you've never heard in your life and no one in this audience has ever heard in their life, most likely that pastor, not yours, is making something up. Notice what the Bible says. He says, I'll put you in remembrance of these things, though you know them and be established in the present truth. Yeah, I think it means as long as I'm in this tabernacle, to stir you up. Don't you like that phrase? To stir you up. You know, the world is doing all kinds of crazy things to stir people up A guy I went to Bible college now is casting out demons and making movies to stir people up We'll have new music to stir people up. We'll have strobe lights and smoke machines to stir people up. We're trying all kinds of new stuff to stir people up. If I'm reading this verse correctly, it's not something new that oughta stir us up It's something old that ought to stir us up. You know it ought to stir you up to know that your sins are washed by the blood of Christ. It ought to stir you up to know that you've been made an heir of God and a joint heir with God Christ Jesus. It ought to stir you up to know that He could come back and get you before this service is over. It ought to stir you up to know you're going to spend eternity with him. Simon Peter said, Listen, I'm going to remind you of the present truth. Although you already know it, although you're already established in it. And when I remind you about what you already know, that's what ought to stir you up. We sit around waiting for something new all the time, and we've forgotten how to shout about the old stuff. It's the old time religion that ought to stir us up Time Peter, some of you are a reminder. He said, number one, it's important. He said, I think it meet, as long as I'm in this tabernacle to stir you up. I think it's an important thing for me to stir you up. He said, not only is it important, but it's also immediate. He said, I'm putting you always in remembrance of these things. Every time he got up to preach, he reminded them of what they already knew Then he said it was imminent. He said, as long as I'm in this my tabernacle, I'm gonna stir you up by putting you in remembrance, knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ has showed me. Simon Peter is talking about his own death as a martyr. Remember Jesus told him in John chapter 21 Verses eighteen and nineteen When thou wast young thou walkest whither thou wouldest and girdest thyself. When thou shalt be an old be old, another shall bind thee and gird thee and carry thee whither thou wouldest not This spake he signifying what death by what death he should glorify God. Understand, Simon Peter did not know when he would be standing in a pulpit preaching, reminding them about the present truth, and the doors would get knocked down, and the Roman soldiers would take him out to crucify him upside down. So this is what he said. As long as I'm breathing, I'm reminding. As long as I'm in this tabernacle, I'm going to stir you up by putting you in remembrance. Notice, number one. He said, I've got a responsibility, and I will not be negligent. He said, number two, I'm going to be a reminder. It's important, it's immediate, and it's imminent. Number three, though, we get to the meat of the message as we talk about his reliability. Same Peter says this, we have not followed cunningly devised fables. We made no need to power and come, our Lord Jesus Christ. But we're eyewitnesses of his majesty. Simon Peter said, listen, we didn't make this up. James and John and Andrew and I didn't get together, put our heads together, and come up with this whole story about a risen Savior. No, no, we didn't make it up. We saw it. We saw his glorified body with our own eyes. He begins to tell them about that moment on the Mount of Transfiguration. He says, this voice which came from heaven we heard when we were with him in the Holy Mount. In Matthew chapter 17, after j six days, Jesus taking Peter and James and John his brother and bringing them up into a high mountain apart and was transfigured before them And his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light. And there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with him James and John are dumbfounded. They're just sitting there watching, listening. Think about that Listening to the conversation between the one that prayed and rained and fall on planet Earth for three years, and the one that led the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt led them up to the promised land was the one God was you uh was the instrument God used to part the Red Sea and deliver the law. And now these two are talking. All three of them glowing. Jesus glowing like the noonday sun and James and John are taking it all in, but not Peter. Then Peter answered Did you notice anybody asking Peter a question? Did Moses stop talking to the Savior and say, well, let's get Peter's opinion before we move on? Peter is going to say something incredibly incorrect here in just a moment. He's going to say something good. That's where that old that's one of the those times when they use that old phrase that doesn't make any sense Well, you don't throw the baby out with the bathwater. How many times have you heard that sentence that Satan? Do you realize that makes absolutely no sense whatsoever? I know what you're thinking. You're thinking Brother Harper doesn't understand The history of that phrase, see back in the frontier days, they'd set out a number ten wash tub and they'd put clean water in it and the dad would bathe first And then the oldest child, then the next oldest child, until finally the very last one bathing in the dirtiest water would have been the baby. And that's what they're saying, because this dirty water You don't throw the baby out with it. I understand what the what the what the the phrase actually means, the colloquialism actually means. But do you ever think there was a time back in the frontier Sitting in their living room with the children upstairs in their long cabin. Dad sitting there with a little lantern over his shoulder and reading a book, while Mom is sitting there with her glasses down, needle Pointing, right? They're sitting there with a roaring fire in the fire fireplace, and Dad looks at his wife and says, Sweetheart, I didn't see little baby junior when it was time to go to bed. And the mom said, Oh no I threw him out with the bathwater. It never happened. It's one of those things that we just fill the air with. Just like when your wife tells you Drive safe. I look at her when she says that and say, oh, thank you. I was going to drive backwards down the interstate. But you told me to drive safe, so I'm not going to do that now. Everybody has the goal of driving safe. Even the guy that's driving 125 miles an hour will tell you that he's a safe driver while he's driving 125 miles per hour. I had a guy tell me one time, oh my reflexes are better when I'm driving over the speed limit Just some of those things that we say, but Peter is going to pierce the silence. He's going to interrupt Jesus, Moses, and Elijah. And before Peter says something blasphemous, at least ignorant, maybe blasphemous, he does say a couple good things. Then Peter answered and said, Lord. It's good for us to be here. This is an unlearned fisherman. Sometimes Peter is three fries short of a happy meal He's not the sharpest tool in the shed, not the brightest light in the fixture. Simon Peter's elevator sometimes doesn't go all the way to the top, but when he's right, he's right It's good for us to be here. What a statement. I wish a whole lot of Christians would just say that. I see Christians coming to Bible believing Bible preach in churches where the Bible is preached without apology, without compromise, and there's the fellowship of brothers and sisters in Christ. There's wonderful music that fills your hearts and they they go home and they jump on the internet and they try to find a church within 30 minute drive that has one more thing for the kids or one more thing for the seniors or one more thing for the ladies Listen, if you want to have one more thing for the kids or the seniors or the ladies, start it. We need some people that are going to say I'm in a good place right here. I'm just gonna stay right here. I know how I'm gonna leave this church. I'm gonna leave this church when three men stand on either side of a pine box and carry me out. Simon Peter is at least smart enough to know when he's in a good place. Then he's going to say something less intelligent. But it's good for us to be here. If thou wilt, let us build here three tabernacles. Pastor, I heard a preacher over thirty years ago make a statement about this passage that I I'll never forget. He said, You can tell that Simon Peter was never a pastor. Because no pastor in his right mind would want to start three building programs at the same time. One for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias. Let's examine that for just a moment. Either Simon Peter just raised Moses and Elijah up to the same level of worshipworthiness as Jesus Christ. And that's ignorant. Or he brought Jesus down. To the same level as Moses and Elijah. And that's blasphemy. Either way, Simon Peter, if you will, has stuck his fisherman's sandal in his mouth, has he not? Simon Peter said, I saw it with my own eyes. By the way, you want a picture of God's grace in that story? While he yet spake. Behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice out of the cloud which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye him. They open up their eyes, Moses and Elijah are gone, and it's only Jesus standing there. Other than the fact that we're talking about it two thousand years later You know what Peter's punishment was for suggesting something at best ignorant and at worst blasphemous? He heard the actual voice that said the words, let There be light. He said, Listen, I saw it with my own eyes. I heard it with my own ears. I didn't make this up. This is not some cunningly device fable that I came up with. This is an eyewitness account. He said, I'm reliable because I had a majestic view. By the way, over the years in evangelism, I'm going to let you in on a little secret. People are constantly telling an evangelist stories. Now Most of the time the stories are a great blessing. Every now and then someone will tell you a story that is one of the silliest things you've ever heard in your life But you can't smile, you can't laugh, and you can't look at them and go, Well, that's the silliest thing I think I've ever heard in my life. You can't say that. You hurt somebody's feelings. So you have to stand there And stoically look at them and nod your head while they're telling you this outrageous story. I remember we we have a little secret in our family My daughter, she's been married three years. She still has to do it every now and then with parent teacher meetings at her at the school where she teaches. Our little family secret, yeah I'm gonna let you in on it, is this. Whenever something comes up that's very funny and you're not supposed to laugh You just think dead puppies, dead puppies, dead puppies. You say, Brother Harper, that's terrible. Don't you like dogs? I love dogs. I my little dog's over in the mission house right now. He'll be on the trailer starting tomorrow. And uh I love my little dog Shadow. He is my buddy, he goes with me everywhere Nobody loves you like your dog loves you. You ever think about that? I give you a give you an experiment. This July you go outside, you take your wife and your dog with you. You open up the trunk of your car You put your dog in the trunk of your car, then you put your wife in the trunk of your car, then you close the lid in the blazing hot sun. You come back one hour later and you open up that trunk. Guess which one of those two is going to be happy to see you? I love dogs. Nothing could be worse than having a dead puppy. And so that's what we do. That's the sobering thought. that you let run through your mind. I'll never forget. I don't know that my my pastor when I was a little boy up in New Jersey, I don't know that he actually said dead puppies, but he had something going on It was one time, the first time I ever saw this, first time I was ever amazed at this as a at a pastor who couldn't respond the way everybody else wanted to respond He's standing in the pulpit, a couple hundred people there, on that night there in New Jersey, and a man stands up to give a a prayer request and a testimony. And everybody in the church, we've been praying, even I'm only in third grade, I remember we've been praying for this man. He had a decision that he had to make. He had a yes or no decision that he had to give to the United States Army in case you wanted to know what it was. So we'd all been praying about it, and he stood up and he said, I just want to thank the Lord. The Lord's given me a clear-cut direction. I know exactly what my decision needs to be when I give it to my boss tomorrow. Pastor said, well that's wonderful. He said, let me tell you how it happened. He said last night my wife gave our two year old son a bath and put bubbles in the bathtub and all of that. And then after he got out, I refreshed the water and got in the bathtub. Let me help you with something real quick here. This has nothing to do with the message. If you're standing up in the middle of a church service and your testimony includes you getting in the bathtub You have given too much information. Sit back down, all right? He said, when I got in the bathtub, the bubbles had refreshed in my Kids, my son's toys were still in the bathtub, and as I sat there motionless in the bathtub there, in the bubbles, the little rubber duck that my son had played with began to swim all on its own and began to spell the word yes In the bubbles, in the bubble path. And that's how God answered my prayer. I wanted to do what you're doing. As a matter of fact, as a three-year-old, I probably snickered. All the adults were looking at Pastor as my pastor stood there with a stoic look on his face, and he says, Well, brother, God sure does work in mysterious ways. And moved on. I was so impressed with that Over the years we've had to use dead puppies on multiple occasions. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. I was preaching in Yakota, Japan, and I was sitting on the platform, the pastor had already introduced me And he said, and so and so and I could give you the lady's name, but they might see this online, so-and-so is gonna sing a song beforehand. I've heard her sing before. Fine with that. And then Brother Harper's going to come and preach. The pastor goes down and sits down on the second row. This woman begins to sink. She started off off key And she got further off-key. Then she would try to get on key, and every time she'd try to get on key, she'd just sing off key louder. It was terrible. I honestly believed I was being punked I honestly believe they had all gotten together and done this to me because there's no way you can sing that bad unless it's on purpose. It was terrible And I'm struggling not to laugh because it's funny. I'm sorry. You can sit there and be mad at me and think, oh, brother Harper, that's so terrible. I wouldn't have laughed. You would have cracked up, I'm guaranteeing you I'm sitting there trying not to smile. I'm sitting there with thinking dead puppies, dead puppies, dead puppies, dead puppies. I had a little song leader that was traveling with me that went on that trip to Japan with us. His name was Glenn Stevenson as he sat right there He had this little crooked smile when he would get ready to laugh. And I looked down and I saw that crooked smile. I knew I was dead meat. I knew there was nothing going to stop this now. So from the platform I did the only thing I could think of. I ripped my glasses off and I put my head down like this. To this day, there are people in that church that think I was so moved by that song that I was weeping with my head down. Dead puppies is a very popular thing in our family. Let me give you this illustration. I was at my wife and I were out to eat with our pastor and his wife uh uh Kevin and Lori Broyhill and we were walking out of a place called uh McAllister's Deli. Similar, if you don't have it here, similar to a Panera bread kind of place, soup and sandwiches. As we're walking out, and again our church runs between seven and eight hundred, as we're walking out, a man comes running up to us and says, Hey pastor! And my pastor looked at him and he said, and I'll help you with this too, he said, Hey Brother? Seriously, whenever you get a hey brother from a preacher, especially if he's a visiting evangelist, you can't think of your name at that moment. That's why he's calling you brother, all right? It's better than saying, hey, stranger. You know, hey brother. He said, hey brother And the he said, How are you doing? And the guy's standing there, he's wearing a uh a lanyard around his neck, and it's turned around, so you can't see it's a name tag, and you can't you can't see what it says. And he says, Preacher, I used to go to your church back in 2011. Now this is nine years later, so it's understandable now my pastor doesn't remember this guy's name. But we left your church in 2011 He said, since we left your church, I've had four heart attacks. My wife left me and took our children. I've lost my job. We lost our house And I actually in that time uh the the name tag turned around, it was a panhandler's license for Winston-Salem, North Carolina. And he said, I actually live in that van parked over there behind McAllister's deli Now, as an evangelist, I know what I would have said, and it would have been wrong. As I told you, if I ever passed I'd have two members, my wife would be visiting other churches. It's that simple. I would have looked at him after this story and I would have said, Guess you shouldn't have left church, should you, brother? Now, I personally believe that's a true statement. But it wouldn't have been the right thing to say to this poor man, would it? It would have been terrible to say that. So I'm watching my pastor trying to see what an experienced pastor is going to say to this man. This man just said, I've had four heart attacks, I've lost my health, I've lost my house, I've lost my wife, I've lost my children, and I've lost my j And I'm a panhandler living in a van. And my pastor looked at him and said, Well, brother, he said duh Other than that, is everything going okay? And I'm sitting there saying, other than that Dead puppies, dead puppies. What else is there? Was he supposed to go? Well, these shoes are actually extremely comfortable. Thank you for asking. What else is there? You've lost everything other than that And I'm sitting there going, Oh, dead puppies, dead puppies. My wife was standing beside me and I know what she's doing. She's thinking the same thing. She squeezed in my hand. We got in the car And we left. By the way, I'm contractually obligated to tell you 'cause my pastor is my friend. He went over to the Chick-fil-A next door and bought that guy twenty dollars worth of food so he would have something to eat, and he came to church again on Sunday and has visited a couple other times since then. So He's a better pastor than I would ever be. We got in the car to drive off and I looked at my wife and I said, And we absolutely lost it. We'd laughed the whole way back to our house. Sometimes dead puppies is necessary. When they're really necessary is when people walk up to you and say this phrase. And I'm sure your pastor's heard this phrase over the years. People have come up and say, Preacher, let me tell you about my vision. You know you're in trouble. I was at a church in North Granville, New York, Calvary Baptist Church, and we'd gone downstairs and had a meal. Now we're taking everything down because the kids meeting is going to be in the same room where we ate And while we're tearing everything down, this lady walks up to me. I notice when she walked up to me that her pastor went upstairs That's always a negative sign when the pastor gets away when she s comes over to talk to you. She said, Brother Harper, I'd like to tell you about my vision I said, well certainly. I said, but ma'am, let me just tell you this. I'm going to let you tell me about your vision. I'm going to tell you what the Bible says about your vision. She looked at me, she said, that's exactly what I want you to do, Brother Harper. I said, okay She said, Well, in my vision I was sweeping the basement of my house. I had swept all the sweepings up into a pile, and I had bent down with the dustpan in one hand and the broom in the other to sweep the sweepings into the dustpan. When I stood up Guess who was there? I said, I don't know. She said, it was Jesus himself standing in my basement. I said, really? She said, yes. She said, do you know what he did? I said, no ma'am. She said he balled up his fist and with all of his might he punched me in my face. See why you need dead puppies, people She said, in my vision I was laying on the ground when I came to Jesus had taken the broom and was sweeping the corners of my basement, teaching me, she said, the lesson that I need to do a better job of cleaning the corners of my life. I said, ma'am, first, I think we all need to do a better job of cleaning the corners of our lives. But Jesus is seated at the right hand of the Father, making intercession for us. There's one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus, so he wasn't in your basement. If Jesus had hit you in the face, he would have been sinning. He's the one that taught us to turn the other cheek. So I know he didn't hit you in the face. And If the one who said, All power that's given unto me in heaven and earth and hit you in the face with all of his might, you wouldn't be standing in front of me I said, ma'am, so as I look at your uh look at your vision in light of the Word of God, I have to tell you that your vision doesn't line up with the Bible. I'll never forget what she said. She said, Brother Harper I don't care what the Bible says. I know what happened to me. That's the exact opposite of what Simon Peter says here. He says, I saw with my own eyes. I heard it with my own ears. And this voice which came from heaven, we heard when we're with him in the Holy Mount We didn't follow the coming of the Vice Fabi, but we saw His glory on top of the mountain. We heard the Lord say, This is my beloved son, in whom I'm well pleased. But then he says this we have also a more Sure, word of prophecy. Simon Peter says this. I know what I saw and I know what I heard. But if the Bible says I didn't see it and I didn't hear it, the Bible's right and I'm wrong every single time. We are so busy judging the Bible by our lives that we forget we're supposed to be judging our lives by the Bible. Christians who would never say what that woman said would live a life that yells it out loud. Yeah, I don't care what the Bible says, I know where I want to go. I don't care what the Bible says, I know how often I want to go to church. I don't care what the Bible says I know when I wanna watch. I don't care the Bible says I know what I want to say. I don't care what the Bible says. I know what kind of music I like. I don't care what the Bible says. I know what I experienced. I know what I felt. I know my emotion. No, the Bible is the bedrock. Simon Peter's dead. Only what he has, what has been recorded in Scripture do we have of Simon Peter? And yet this book is still here. Psalm 119, verse 89. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 8. The grass withereth and the flower fadeth, but the word of our God shall stand forever. Luke 21, 33. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. Psalm twelve, six and seven. The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver are purified in the furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord. Thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever. It's become an easier thing to explain away the Bible than to live by it. It's become easier to transition from the Bible than to transition your life to come in line with its precepts and its commandments. By the way, you're sitting here and you don't know Christ as your personal savior. You've never gotten saved. You'll notice I'm not trying to get you to become a Baptist, to become an independent Baptist, to become an independent fundamental Bible even Baptist. No, no, no. I'm asking you to listen to the Word of God. No emotional experience at an altar, no emotion sitting in a pew, no hand waving or hand lifting is going to help It's the word of God that tells us how you're going to get to heaven. And if you think you're going to get to heaven any other way, then you don't understand what the Bible says. Well, I've just always never I never believed there was a heaven or a hell. What makes you think you have to believe it for it to be true? How many thousands of years did humankind believe the earth was flat? Now God didn't. Isaiah tells us that Jesus, that the Lord sits on the circle of the earth. We understand that. Just because they believed it was flat didn't mean it was flat. Well, my grandpa always said that when I die, they're going to weigh my good deeds and weigh my bad deeds. If I got more good deeds than bad deeds, I get to go to heaven. You don't have any good deeds. They're filthy rags. It's only one way to heaven, and that's what the Bible tells us is the one way to heaven. Jesus out of his own mouth said, I am the way. The truth and the life, no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Simon Peter said I had a majestic view. But I got something more valuable. You want to talk about the value of this book? If we asked high school seniors to tell us some goals they have for the next few years of their life, they would tell us things like success Stability, approval, peace. They would tell us things like understanding. They would give us all kinds of things like that. You know, every one of those things I just mentioned are found right here in this book You want success? This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Joshua chapter one and verse eight You want stability? Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. In his law doth he meditate day and night, and he shall be like a tree Planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Psalm 1 verses 1 through 4 You want approval? Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. You want peace? Psalm 119, verse verse 89. Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them You want understanding? Psalm 119, verse 130. The entries of thy word giveth light. It giveth understanding to the simple. You want cleansing? Psalm 119, verse 9. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto and according to thy word. What I'm trying to tell you is this, Christian, everything that we really want for our lives is all found right here. We forget that we're holding in our hands, think about this, the autobiography of Almighty God. George Whitfield made this statement. He said, God deigned to be an author, and mankind won't read his work. Everything you and I know about God, we know it from here. We don't know it from experience, we don't know it from feeling. It might be proven to us in some of our experiences what we know about God we know from this book right here. I'll never forget. It was 1995. I was at Westgate Baptist Church in Spartanburg, South Carolina. I have to say something to use this illustration. And I I don't like to say stuff like this. Uh it just has to be said. Said at the time in nineteen ninety-five I could wholeheartedly agree with everything that the Gideons were doing. I can't say that anymore. I'm not going to criticize them. I'm just saying I can't wholeheartedly agree with everything they're doing. You'll know why I had to mention that here in a moment Before the preaching, this man stepped up who was raising money for the Gideons after he uh asked about uh giving money to put Bibles in hotel rooms and and in restaurants and things like that all over the world He said, before I finish, I want to read a letter to you. He reached in his coat pocket, he pulled out a piece of paper, he began to unfold it. He said, This is a copy of a letter. The original letter is actually in our offices in a filing cabinet. The original letter came from the African nation of Mozambique, where there's a 12% literacy rate. He said the original letter is actually written in crayon. He said, let me read it to you. And it said this: Dear Mr. Gideon. Mr. Gideon doesn't answer his mail anymore. Dear Mr. Gideon, please send Big Holy Book. It said this, if no big holy book, please send the small holy book. We've all seen those little Gideon New Testament, have we not? Then it said this, if no small holy book, please send the part call John And the letter ended this way. And if no part called John, please send the page that says, For God so loved the world. I wonder, Christian, with all of our freedoms, how many of us, or how long it would take you to be without your Bible before you would crave it so much that you would sit down in your living room floor and grab one of those 64 Crayolas out of your child's pack And write a letter to a man that's been dead 3,000 years, and mail it halfway around the world and beg for one copy of one page. We do the Bible search, do we not? How many times have you done this, Christian? How many times on Wednesday night you got the whole family, you're all dressed, you're ready to go to church, you look around, you can't find your Bible Kids are helping you look. They're looking on the desk. They're looking on the dining room table. They're looking between the sofa cushions. They're looking everywhere. If we can't find one anywhere, so finally you decide. Well I'll just read my Bible on my phone when I get to church. I don't need to have my Bible with me. You get to the car and there, as you look inside, you and your children see that your Bible's been there since Sunday night. And you haven't even missed it. If this is what it says it is, why would we ever go a day without it? If I can hear from God, listen to this carefully, please. If I can hear from God every time I pick it up, why would I ever want to go a day without hearing from God? He said, number one, I got a responsibility. Number two, I'm going to be a reminder. Number three, I got a reliability. And lastly, we'll cover this quickly. He talks about his resource. What a book. You could literally write volumes on the last three verses of this chapter. For the sake of time, we'll boil it down to three quick points and be finished. Verse 19, we have also a more sure word of prophecy. Wherein to ye do well that you take heed is until light that shineth in a dark place until the day dawn and the day starise in your hearts. Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the Scriptures of any private interpretation This book has a holy interpretation. Do you know that means? It means you can't make the Bible say what you want it to say. You can't change a word here or change a word there and make it prove your point. You can't pick a few verses in Hebrews chapter six and say, See? That means you can lose your salvation when that's not what it means, even if you read it in Hebrews chapter But you'd have to ignore the rest of the Bible. You'd have to ignore Jesus saying, My sheep hear my voice and they follow me and I give them eternal life and they show Never perish. Have to ignore the fact that David says at the end of Psalm 23, I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. You have to ignore the fact that Paul said, uh absent from the body is present with the Lord. You have to ignore it all. Can't just pick a couple of verses in the book of Romans and try to make it sound like certain people couldn't be saved if they wanted to. Try to believe that grace is irresistible when Titus chapter 2 and verse 11 says, the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men. Try to prove that that that the atonement is limited when first John chapter two and verse two says he is the propitiation for our sins and not for ours, only for the sins of the whole world You can't just twist the Bible and make it say what you want it to say. It's got a holy interpretation. And by the way, that even applies to independent fundamental Bible-even preachers who preach one word that has nothing to do with the rest of the context. Supposed to preach this book. Preach the whole counsel of God. This book has a holy Interpretation. You can't make it say what you want it to say. I heard a preacher illustrate that one time. He had his congregation open to two texts. One of them said this. Judas went out and hanged himself. The other one said, Go thou and do likewise. There's a better example if you want to see what the Bible has to say about women drivers later on tonight in the privacy of your home when your wife isn't watching. Go to Acts chapter 27 Read the last few words of chapter uh chapter twenty seven, verse fifteen, verse seventeen, and verse twenty, and you'll find this this sequence of words. We let her drive And so we're driven, and all hope that we should be saved was then taken away. You can't make the Bible say what you want it to say. It's got a holy interpretation from Almighty God. Not only that, not only does it have a holy interpretation, what is written down by holy men. For the prophecy came not at old time by the will of man, but a holy man of God spake. Wow. Did you ever stop and analyze that? Moses the serpent servant of the Lord. Joshua, excuse me, Joshua, as I was with Moses, so will I be with thee. Job, assuming Job wrote the book of Job. Hast thou considered my servant Job that there is none like him in all the earth, a perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil? How about Daniel, a man greatly beloved, David, a man after God's own heart. Peter and James, they took note of them that they had been with Jesus. John, the disciple that Jesus loved. Paul, these that have turned of the world upside down, have come hither also. I'm here to tell you it's a who's who, isn't it Holy men of God spake. You know if the verse stopped there, though. It's just a good book. See, because Moses was a great servant of the Lord. Paul didn't turn the world upside down for God. Peter and James had been with Jesus But they were all sinners. I can't base my eternal salvation on John's word on it. Paul's word on it isn't worth me risking eternity, is it? I've got to have something better than that. I've got to have the word of God on it, don't I? Holy men of God spake as they were moved. That word there means carried along, moved by the Holy Ghost. Sabrina Harper, how did that work? How did inspiration work? And I love that. I love all these talking heads that want to come up with all these different answers. Some will say they became robots and wrote it down. Others will say he laid the words on their hearts. And then they wrote it down as he wanted them to write it down. Others will say that he indwelled them and formed the words with their own hands through his own power. Here's my problem with all of those. And I'm not sure if any of them's right or any of them's wrong. Here's my problem. Inspiration is in fact a miracle. And if you can explain a miracle, then it's not a miracle anymore. If you can tell me how Jesus walked on water, If you can tell me how he fed five thousand men plus women and children with five small loaves and three f uh three f uh small f uh five five loaves five how many loaves and fishes, whatever it was I I did drive four hundred and sixty miles today, but I didn't mess up, I'm sorry. But but understand if you can explain it's not a miracle anymore. I can't explain inspiration. Here's what I know though. When the Apostle Paul finished the book of Galatians, it was exactly what God wanted to say to the Galatians. And through providential preservation, I have exactly what God said to the Galatians. That's what I know. It's not only got a holy interpretation. It's not only written down by holy men, but it's inspired by the Holy Ghost. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. And it's profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. The man of God may be perfect, truly furnished of all good works. If you don't believe in preservation, then all you have is the very best sinful men could do with what God wrote down. If God didn't preserve it, every translator, every copier was just a sinner that did his best. And a sinner at his best is still a sinner at his worst. Oh, I believe that God preserved it in the Greek. Okay. So you're saying that your God's only powerful enough to preserve his word in one language? Once he preserved it in one language, he couldn't do anything else about it. What I'm trying to say is you just gotta believe the Word of God is what it is. It is the inspired, inerrant, providentially preserved Word of God. Isn't it time to treat it as such, though? Stop taking it for granted? Start reading it, meditating on it day and night Isn't it time for us to be hiding it in our hearts? The psalmist said in Psalm 119 and verse 20: My soul breaketh for the longing of thy judgments at all seasons. He said, it breaks my heart if I miss a day reading my Bible. And yet we somehow can go days. And if you didn't have to pick up your Bible and carry it to church because your pastor was going to tell you to open it, there are people actually in this auditorium right now that if you didn't have to carry it to church, you wouldn't open your Bible for months. If it's the autobiography of God, if you hear from Him every time you pick it up and read it, why wouldn't we crave it? Oh, Brother Harper, I'm reading three chapters a day. Praise the Lord. That's wonderful. It really is. You'll never hear me criticize that. What I'm saying, though, it's not just about reading it, it's about loving it. The Simon Peter who writes this under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost obviously has put the Bible in its proper place in his life. Obviously, Simon Peter knows that it's the more sure word of prophecy. How about us tonight? You're sitting here and you're you've trusted everything, you've tried everything you can think of to get the to figure out a way to get to heaven You've tried to figure out everything you can to solve all the problems in your life. I'm telling you tonight, not every problem that you have will go away, but the problem of eternity can be dealt with, and it's all right here He tells us exactly, and we can know for sure that heaven is our home. How about it tonight, Christian? You're going to love it like you're supposed to love it? How about that lost person? You're going to quit looking for answers and realize that God gave you all the answers in black and white. When someone makes you a promise and you're and it's too good to be true, you ask them, Will you put that in black and white? When God says, I'm going to give you a free gift called salvation that won't cost you anything, can you put it in black and white Here it is, line upon line, precept upon precept, line upon line. The more sure word of prophecy. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes, no one looking around.