I I just want to touch back on verse number nineteen of second Peter chapter one. We have a more sure word of prophecy. And I've just entitled the message a little different than what I had in the bulletin. I kind of ended up going a little different direction, but um uh I want to talk this morning about a more sure word that we have in God's Word, the Bible. And uh we've been doing a little series here, kind of off and on, on Sunday mornings, on um the Blessed Old Book and why we are absolutely convinced that this book is the very Word of God. Perfect in every way. And so we'll look at this thought again this morning. But let's pray first and ask God to speak our hearts. Father Uh Lord, we I come this morning. Uh Lord, I kind of come as an invitation here at the beginning of the message, almost Lord. Uh I trust I can speak for the vast majority of us when I say, Lord, we go into this message And we want our hearts to be open. Lord, we are willing and we are deciding that we will trust you and obey your instructions and your word. We do love you, Lord, and we want to please you with our life. We want your blessings on our lives, on our homes, our ministries. So we ask, Lord, here at the very start of the message, that you would prepare our hearts, make us willing, Lord, open our minds to your will as expressed in your word And Lord, I yield myself to you as the preacher. I present my body anew for this hour, and I pray with all my heart that your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak through me. the word of God. Bless I pray now in Jesus' name. Amen. We've been pointing out in messages, I'm going to be a little repetitious here at the first part of the message on some things we had said before But as we started this little series out, I pointed out, and I want to emphasize the fact that uh it is impossible to separate Scripture From Christianity, genuine Christianity. In other words, if my if our Christianity is not Bible Christianity, then it is not genuine Christianity And the same thing is true with our salvation. We cannot separate our salvation from sin and God's judgment on our sin, our salvation from eternal separation from God in hell. We cannot separate that. From the Word of God. And again, if I don't have Bible salvation, I don't have salvation I am lost. If I'm trusting to be saved from God's judgment on my sin by some way that man comes up with, or some organization comes up, or some denomination comes up with, then I don't have salvation. I'm still lost in my sins. But if I look to the Word of God and I have Bible salvation, then I can be sure that my sins have given on my way to heaven. You follow what I'm trying to say here? The Bible is our basis We live in a day today where in a lot of places, even in so-called Christian Christian circles, where man's reasoning has replaced the Bible as the authority Well, I had a lady this week engaged me uh in a conversation about the Bible and I was quoting scriptures to her and she kept saying this back to me as I would give her the scripture. She would say this back to me. We're on the phone, she would say, Well, I don't care what you think And I said, this isn't what I think, it's a Bible, it's scripture right here. And to be very frank with you, I don't care what I think either. What matters is what God says. And but we live in a society today. We live in circles, even within our Christian circles, as I said, many of a quote unquote Christian circles, where man's reasoning has replaced the Bible. In other words, if I don't understand it, then it mustn't be true, it ha my reasoning is the is the foundation of uh of what I accept as truth. Uh we live in a day when man's understanding is the authority. I'm telling you, in our society today, we've gotten to the point where man's desire is the authority. In other words, if I desire it Then that is important. Then that's what I need to go after. Then it must be right. We live in a society and we've all seen it. You know, we're here. Many of you been around as long as I have, some of you much longer. But um We've seen our country change. And we're at a point in our country now where the basis, most vile desires are almost the law of the land. Right? If I can desire it, it doesn't matter how immoral it may be, it doesn't matter how perverse it may be, it doesn't matter how selfish it may be. If I desire it Then therefore that's the way it is. That's the authority. But as independent fundamental Baptists, we hold very strongly to the fact that the Bible is our final authority. On all issues, on what is right and wrong, on all issues, what is true and false, on all issues, a matter of faith and our understanding of God and who he is and and what he's like and what he expects and what he has promised us on Who and what we are, the Bible is the final authority. Not any man, not any tradition, and not any experience. Anything man says must be filtered through the truth of God's word. I've been saying this since I came here as pastor, back in 1993. I've been saying this. If I teach or preach anything that is contrary to the Word of God, you stick with the Word of God. And any other preacher, TV, radio, anywhere else. Man, anything man says or does must be filtered through the truth of God's word, and if it doesn't line up with God's word, it is not of God. Um traditions. Well, y you hear this. A lot of times a new preacher comes in, you'll hear this Maybe he'll make adjustments or the church will adopt his personality or his focus or whatever. Sometimes folks will make the statement, well, this is the way we've always done it You ever hear that? Or uh I guess we ain't never done it that way before. Now listen. It doesn't matter what our tradition is, if it doesn't line up with God's word, it's not of God. And uh just because it's new doesn't make it right, just because it's old doesn't make it Bible Follow what I'm saying? Will we introduce faith promise here? I'm convinced that faith promise missions, which we have a conference in two weeks. I'm absolutely convinced it is solid Bible pro uh method of of supporting missionaries. There is no doubt in my mind. I can give you three chapters right now. We can take five hours. I could show you from the Bible Why I'm convinced faith promise is is the Bible way to do it. I won't do that, so relax, folks, all right But uh we first introduced it here at a fellow, God bless him, good man, love him dearly, he's with the Lord now. And uh he said, Preacher, I'm a little concerned about this faith promise thing. I said, Well, I'll come down and we sat down, went down to his house, we sat down and He told me his concerns. And uh finally I showed him from the Bible. I said, Well finally I I said, Well listen, just give it a year. Just try it, all right? I I think it's Bible. Can you show me it's not Bible? He says, Well, I can't do that. And he said this. He said, he said, Pastor We ain't never done it that way here before. I said, well let's give it a try. So we prayed and he was good about it. A year later we had taken on like 13 missionaries. Our faith promise was upgiving, and God was just blessing. I found if you do it God's way, God blesses it. And it was going on and finally I went back to visit him. We got talking. I said what I said, what's your assessment? He goes he goes, Preacher, we ain't never done it that way before. And then he paused and he said We ain't never had those results before either. This is amazing. I love it. And uh, old brother Don Williams, bless his heart. What I'm trying to say is this, it's not tradition that is the authority, it's not man that's the authority, it's God's word is the authority. We do it God's way. Some of you say, well, old-fashioned, I'm all for old-fashioned. And the fact of the matter is, God's never changed, so God must be old-fashioned. The Bible doesn't change, so the Bible must be old-fashioned. But my concern isn't so much that we be old-fashioned. My concern is that we be Bible-fashioned. Um some people say well well I know what I experienced. I had this experience. I've had people say that to me over the years. Listen, even our experiences must be filtered through the Word of God. Well, I had this happen to me, and God did this, that, and the other. Listen, if it doesn't line up with the Bible, it is not of God. Doesn't matter what the experience is. I had a fellow tell me one time this vision he had and and uh all this stuff, he was going on about the vision, and he was a good man. And he came and talked to me, said I'm so disturbed, I had this vision. And I said, Well let's look what the Bible says. And the Bible is I showed him is about salvation and and and not God not, you know, him wanting to be saved and God wasn't going to save him and g his vision God wasn't going to save him. And I showed him from the Bible that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. He that cometh to me I will no wise cast out. I showed him verse after verse after verse. That this vision didn't line up with God's Word. That God would accept him and save him if he simply trusts Christ as Savior and turn to him And finally I said, uh I said, well listen, one of two things is true. Either the Bible's true or your vision's true. They can't both be right. I said, which do you think is true? He said, preacher, I think the Bible's true. I said, I think you're right. He goes, where'd that vision come from? I said, maybe you ate pizza before you went to bed. I'm not sure. But uh I know it didn't come from God And so it's not our experience. Well, I had this experience, I know what's true. Listen, I need to take the experience, filter it through God's Word. If it doesn't match up with God's Word, then it wasn't from God Now look with your Bibles here. We mentioned this phrase, a more sure word of prophecy. The context here is very interesting. Peter is writing to believers, of course, and he's pointing out here that he was with the Lord Jesus Christ on the Mount of Transfiguration. Some of you are familiar with that event. Jesus went up and he was uh spoke with God and his body was uh tra uh was um Uh this kind of kind of glory was there and and Moses and them showed up and this tremendous experience up on this Mount of Transfiguration with the Lord Jesus Christ. And at that event a voice came from heaven and said, This is my beloved son. in whom I am well pleased. And Peter says we were there for that. He says, I saw that experience. I heard that voice with my own ears. And I'm putting this from my own words. He says, but hearing God with my own ears, I saw this with my own eyes. But when I come to the Word of God, We have a more sure word of prophecy. In other words, he's saying this. I saw with my eyes and I heard with my ears, but the word of God is more sure than even seeing it with your eyes and hearing it with your ears. In fact, that little phrase there, more sure word, that word sure has the idea of reliable, trustworthy. Say, well, I saw it with my own eyes. Could be true, but God's word is more reliable, more sure, more trustworthy than seeing something with my own eyes. If you would turn over to 1 Peter chapter 3, just back I should say to the previous book, 1 Peter, and look with me at chapter 3, verse 15. We've touched on this in previous messages. I want to Refer to it again, 1 Peter chapter 3 and verse number 15. This is a good verse to underscore in your Bible, in my mind. In my Bible. 1 Peter 3, verse 15, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Now look at this next phrase, and this is what we're addressing in these messages. And be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and in fear. Now, there's a little, again, it's a little repetitious here. We preached this just recently a couple times, but um I want to restate here. We are instructed by God That as Christians, we need to get to the point in our Christian life, in our understanding of Scripture, that we are able to give to people a logical, sensible, understandable reason for what we believe to be true Give every man the word there reason. Be ready to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you. That word reason means logical A sensible response, basis for what I believe. The cause for why I believe what I believe. We ought to be able to give a reason, logical, sensible, scripturable, understand uh scripture, scripturable, uh, scriptural uh understandable reason why we believe that we are saved from sin and from hell. How many folks here you're saved and you know it say amen. Amen. I trust that's true And we know for sure God has forgiven us, saved us from sin, and we have Bible salvation. Now, at some point in my Christian growth, at some point in my Christian life, I ought to be able to sit down with someone And say to them, listen, I know for sure that when I die, my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Thursday night I was able to witness a fellow claim to be Buddhist. And I tried to and I tried to get through the gospel and I kind of had to push it a little bit, but I got through the gospel and I told her, I made this statement. I said, listen buddy, I know for sure that when I die my sins are forgiven, I go to heaven and not to hell. Now because I'm better than you or anyone else, I'm not. And I tried to give to him a logical, scriptural, understandable reason why I am sure that when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. Now every Christian ought to be able to do that. At some point in our Christian life we need to get to the point and say, all right, here's why I'm sure that my sins are forgiven. I'm going to heaven, not to hell. That's what he's telling us to do here. Give be able to give a reason for the hope that's in you. Um I am absolutely convinced. To me it's one of the clearest things in Scripture that once a person's saved, they can never lose that salvation. And uh I ought to, at some point in my Christian life, I ought to have an understanding of scripture where I can sit down and say, hey, listen, this is why I believe this. This is the reason I make that statement. This is the reason I'm convinced that is true. I I've often said that if somebody would just give me the opportunity to sit down, open my Bible, and go through scripture, I think I convinced that. I could convince them that you cannot lose your salvation. I really believe if they had an open mind, take God at His Word, I'm convinced of that. So we need to be able to do that. And then when it comes to the Word of God, and this again is the subject of our of our attention here in these messages, if someone says, I I say to someone, I believe the Bible is God's Word. God's perfect, inspired. I believe the King James is God's preserved word. And this is why I believe that. And be able to sit down and give to them a sensible, logical, scriptural reason, I believe the Bible is the Word of God. Well Well, you know, I just believe that's true. Well, great, but you need to have something more than that. People believe all kinds of things are true. That's not a good basis. And so we've been trying to give some reasons why we're convinced that this blessed old book is the very Word of God. Now, we started a it's probably been a month or so ago. We said, first of all, one reason I'm convinced this book is God's Word, because this book tells me where I came from Nothing else, no other theory, no other teaching, no other idea in the world matches the grandeur and the glory and the accuracy of what this book tells me where I came from when God created the heaven and the earth. Everything else falls short of what the Bible says. That is such a that that truth and that presentation of the origin of man and the origin of the universe Stands so far above all other theories and ideas, and uh and they all have so many failures and thoughts behind them That uh I'm convinced just that one area, what the Bible teaches where I came from convinces me that this book is the Word of God. We said that the Bible is historically accurate It's historically correct. The Bible is pretty much of it is a history book. There's a lot of history in there And it is absolutely reliable, it is absolutely accurate in every area of history. You say, preacher, uh I saw a thing on CNN and they're doing a documentary why some part of the Bible they can't prove it in history. Listen Don't even sweat one drop of sweat over that. You give it enough time, and they will come around and prove the Bible's true. It happens every single time. I am not scared, one iota, of the historians digging up stuff and finding things, because every time they do, it confirms the Bible is exactly what it says it is. They like to make a big, oh, we found the grave of Jesus. Yeah, right. Keep digging. You're not the first ones that have claimed that. You're not going to be the last. I'm convinced this Bible is true. There's no historic it is historically reliable. It is, we pointed out that it's scientifically reliable. The Bible is not a science book But I'm telling you, that book is so far ahead of modern science in so many areas, it's almost embarrassing. Now, God has given man an amazing mind to invent and discover things and to learn things. But I'm telling you, nothing that man has invented or discovered or learned contradicts one thing in this Bible. I tell you what man I'll tell you what does contradict the Bible, not the facts that science has come up with, but man's interpretation of the facts is where the con con the conflict is But the facts themselves do not contradict the Bible. And we preached on that, and I'm convinced that this book is the Word of God. We said archaeologically. that this book is reliable. Now I want to give you a couple more thoughts this morning. Two that in my mind are the most convincing, are the most sure Reasons that I am positive that this book is the Word of God. This is my first one now for this today's message. Number one, the supernatural unity of the Bible. The supernatural unity of the Bible. This this book is an amazing book. Um I put it I s I want to say it this way the Bible is unique It is a unique book. It is not a rare book. It is a unique book. You catch the difference? If something is rare, what does that mean? Doesn't happen too often. If something is unique, what's that mean? Only happened one time Webster's definition of the word unique is this: one of a kind. To uh it's this, to be singular. Um like no other. If something is unique, that means there's nothing else like it in the world. If something is unique, it is the only one. Webster had this definition, having no equal. In other words, God's word is unique. There is no other book like this book right here. There is no other book even close to this book. One professor put it this way: He said, You take your Bible and you put it on one side of the table, and you take all the other books of man and you sack them on the other side of the table, and you can't Keep a big distance between these two because all the writings of man combined don't even come close to the very words of God. This book is unique. It's unique in its unity and its composition. No other book is as powerful as the Word of God. No other book is alive as the Bible is alive. No other book is as heart searching as the Bible is heart searching. I'm telling you one of the th one of the thrills of pastoring and preaching the Word of God, and I consider it a tremendous privilege to pastor the Word of God, uh to preach the Word of God in the pastor church, is Some people say, oh, I feel sorry for Pastor. He has to preach and do it. Don't feel sorry for me. I'm having a time of my life. I'm loving it. So he says, yeah, the preacher he works one day a week, he has the rest off. I'm loving it, man. I try to take at least Monday through Friday off. I try to do that. No, you know I'm kidding. I'll tell you what's exciting about preaching the Word of God. That book is heart-searching. I can take a passage and study it out and preach the truths in that passage, and God will speak to hearts in ways I never dreamed. God will touch on the heart God will touch on issues, heart issues that I don't even think I even preached on, but God's word will address that in someone's heart. And they'll come and they'll come up to me when I'm shaking hands in the back and they'll say, uh Preacher, how'd you know? I said, how'd you know how'd I know what? How'd you know about this going on in my life? I said, I didn't know that. God knew that. And God used His Word to touch on that subject. Isn't that exciting? I often talked about the romance of preaching. If I get to talk to preachers, young preachers, I talked about the romance of preaching. I'm telling you, you never know when you sit behind that pulpit and you preach the Word of God, you never know what God's going to do in the hearts and lives of people. There's no other book like that. There's no other book that has that effect. That changes lives. This book has changed my life There's people all across this auditorium who could stand up and say, Preacher, what that book teaches, what that book says has absolutely, radically transformed my life from the inside out. There's no other book in the world does that. There's no other book as powerful as this book. There's no other book alive and heart touching. uh heart searching as this book, as life-changing as this book. There's no other book in the world that's been as slandered and hated as this book right here is. I'm telling you we live i there used to be a time and maybe I I I have a skewed uh perception of this, but it seems to be it used to There used to be a a time when the majority of people they respected the Bible. Maybe they weren't that interested. They were just kind of disinterested and neglected it. I'm telling you what, we live in a day and age this book is hated We're giving out these gospel tracts. And I mentioned this last year, and I'm experiencing again this year the the the hatred. That is in the hearts of the people calling me up, upset, because they were handed a gospel tract. Absolute hatred for the Word of God. I had a guy yesterday call me. I was telling the Sunday school class. He told me these are his words. I hate the Bible and I hate Jesus. He said he is the most evil being that has ever walked this planet. I'm telling you, no other book brings that kind of reaction from people. Why do people hate this? You say well they say, well I don't believe it's true. Okay, if it's not true, why do you hate it so much? If it's just a myth, if it's just stories, if it's just written by do you get that mad at Shakespeare? Do you get that upset about the novels that are being published? If it's nothing more than just some fictional book, why do you hate it so much? I'll tell you why. It's the Word of God, and it pierces the heart of man and condemns and convicts our sinful hearts. I'm telling you, there's no other book like this book. What an amazing, amazing book the Bible is. No other book is cum uh it had been composed and unified as the Bible. This is this is what I love this The Bible is made up, as you know, of 66 books, different books. It's a library in a sense. But there is one common theme all through the scripture. All sixty-six books fit together like the cobs in a wheel. They all mesh, no contradictions. They fit Absolutely perfectly together. It's almost like God designed this book to be one unit Sixty-six different books all fit perfect in perfect unity together. Now, let me give you some facts about your Bible It was written over a at least 1600 year span. Some have suggested it's been up to 2,000 years in writing Yet 66 books written over 2,000 years, up to perhaps 2,000 years, and yet they all fit together beautifully, perfectly. It was written over 40 different generations. One guy here, 2,000 years ago, he writes part of the Bible. God, of course, under the inspiration of God, he pens part of the Bible. 150, 200 years later, a guy writes another part. Another fella writes another part. Another fella pens another part. Over this period of time, people are writing this together. When it's all said and done, fits beautifully Wait, listen to this. Over 40 different authors. Now God's the author. So you know what I'm saying. The penman. 40 different men use to record the Word of God. Forty different generations, 1,600, maybe 200 years in writing. Some of those men that were used to pen scripture, some of them were kings. Some of them were just peasants. Some of them were highly educated. Some of them probably didn't have a junior high education. Some of them were extremely wealthy. Some were very poor. Some were fishermen. Some were scholars. One was a doctor. There were some tax collectors, some crooks, former crooks, I should say. What I'm trying to say is you had every scale of society involved in God putting this book together Over 40 generations, 1,600 to 2,000 year time frame, all different backgrounds, all different levels of education, all different personalities Yet, when it's said and done, that thing fits together beautifully. What an amazing book. There's no other book been assembled like the Word of God. It was penned in three different continents, parts of it in Asia, much of it Africa, and Europe. It was penned in many different places, some in palaces, some out in the wilderness. It was penned in extremely various circumstances. Some parts of this Bible were penned during wartime. Some were penned during times of peace. Some were penned when the person writing it, the man being used of God to record it, was that at the at the highlight of his life. Everything was going great. Some of it was penned When men were as low as you could possibly get. Every circumstance you can imagine, times of victory and defeat, prosperity and poverty It's written in three different languages, Hebrew, Greek, and Aramaic. It deals with hundreds of subjects that man would consider very controversial. Subjects that man would have all kinds of different ideas about. Yet this book, with all that taking place, fits together absolutely perfectly and beautifully with no contradiction. You can't explain that any other way than to say it is the very Word of God. Perfect harmony. All this written at different periods of time, without contradiction, flawless in its consistency. Uh I was preaching a couple weeks ago. I had the privilege to preach for Brother Steve Heinball up in Connecticut. It's Mark's brother. He's pastoring a good little church up there. And when I left, he came and he says, Do you like to do puzzles? And I said, No. And um he says, Well, does your wife like to do puzzles? I said, My wife loves to do puzzles. She goes, Well, I got a puzzle here. We were talking about I have a bunch of bird uh feeders out back and I like the birds that we're talking about. He said, I got a puzzle here. It's all about the birds of the backyard. And um I'm trying to find out. 1,000 pieces. So I came home and wrapped it up and said, sweetheart, I got you a nice gift. But I gave it to Kathy. Here's the amazing thing. Would you agree with me? This was probably all assembled by one you one person perhaps or one machine or whatever at the same time in one place uh altogether. Would you agree with me that all took place? Can you imagine? Can you imagine? If we had a puzzle Oh, and by the way, I I haven't done it yet. I doubt I will. But if you put this together, they all have a place and fit and would come out as one uniform picture. Do you agree with that? It wouldn't be a chaos. It wouldn't be just a uh what do you call all different little pictures? It wouldn't be a collage or anything. It'd just be one nice picture Can you imagine if 2,000 years ago you had a king and he whittles out a piece of a puzzle? He puts it down. Maybe a hundred years later you've got some peasant farming his land trying to make a living. He whittles out another piece of puzzle And he puts it up. And there's a war going on, and one of the generals in his tent whittles out another piece of puzzle. And there's an incredible drought and there's intense poverty going on. Another man whittles out another piece of puzzle. And one fella is sick, he's lost his whole family. He's lost everything he owns. He is as sick as you can be, in intense pain. He comes through that and he whittles another piece of puzzle. And a thousand years later, a fisherman whittles a couple pieces of puzzle. And uh uh uh uh Uh-uh uh uh the self-righteous Pharisee meets Jesus Christ, he whittles a few pieces of puzzle. And over a 2,000-year time Forty different men, all varying stages of society, all different kinds of circumstances, and three different continents, in three different languages. They widow out these little pieces of puzzle And when you bring all those pieces of puzzle together, they all fit perfectly. And they all present one picture, and that picture is the Lord Jesus Christ. Would you agree with me? That would be a miracle. If that could happen, that would be a miracle. I'm telling you, that Bible you hold in your hands is a miracle of God. It is unique. There's no other book like this book. There's no other book that has ever been put together in the manner that this has been put together, and it is beautiful without contradiction. Just think with me a little bit. Let's take ten authors. Let's say they all have the same level of education. Let's say they all have the same background, they're all living in the same circumstances, peacetime, say United States. Um they all have the same level of income, they all speak the same language. And we give them a subject. And we tell them to write down ten different men. We want you to write a book on that subject. How many people think for one minute, ten men, same level, same education, same same income level, same background, same uh language, same country, same circumstances. How many think the ol ten men of those would write a book and they and those books didn't contradict each other in any way. They match perfectly. I'm telling you it wouldn't happen They would all have different ideas, different theories, different things about this, that, and the other. Right or wrong? But here you've got over 40 men. With all these various circumstances, all this time frame, and it fits together absolutely beautifully, absolutely perfectly. There is no other book like this book. I am absolutely convinced if for no other reason that the Bible is God's Word, for its very because uh simply because of the way it was composed and its unity There's no other book out there even close to this book. Let me give you a second reason, real quickly. And these two, in my mind, are s are are just outstanding. Number one, the supernatural unity of this book, how it comes together and how it fits beautifully. Here, let me give you a second one. The supernatural fulfillment of prophecy. You know, people can speculate as to what the outcome of the near future is. You know, you can watch the news, you can watch nations and how they're interacting, and you could say, you know, I predict there's going to be war in the Middle East. Right? You can see that. You can see it coming. You can predict the near future a little bit. You pay attention to what's happening. People predicted the economic collapse of 2008. People saw it come. My father-in-law kept saying this can't go on like this. Something's going to fall apart. Something's going to fall apart. And people fairly accurately predicted that that would happen. They saw it coming. They saw the pieces coming together. Sometimes they can accurately predict the weather. The operative word there sometimes or maybe I should have said occasionally But you know, red in morning, sailors take morning, red at night, sailors delight. Oh, it's probably going to be nice in the morning. It's red sunset. There's a world of difference between looking at current circumstances and predicting fairly accurately what the future is going to hold. That is different Then prophesy an event in detail that's going to take place hundreds, sometimes thousands of years down the road. And the Bible does just that. This Bible has predicted, by one man's count, over 2,000 prophecies fulfilled already to the T. Exactly as the Bible said they would be. Thousands, hundreds, sometimes thousands of years ahead of time, the Bible predicting. Psychics. I get a kick out of psychics. You know, guy walks into the psychic and s sits down, so he goes, What are you here for? He says, I thought you would have known that. I had a friend of mine in Bible college, um uh Young was his last name, uh He said he's a high school student. He was on fire for God. Well he was going to win souls. And there was a psychic down the road. And he says, I was going to go win that psychic. I was going to witness to her and win her to the Lord get her saved So he went in there and I tell you these guy these gals are pretty slick. So he went in there and he said there was no one there. He came in, she goes, hold it, just wait here a minute. So she had him sitting there a long time For no reason. She just had him waiting for a long time. So he's sitting there and he's nervous and he's going to witness to her and he's going over in his mind what he's going to say. So they come in and the first thing she sits him down. She goes, Well, he says, Well, I just want to talk to you about the Lord Jesus. She says, Well, let me see your hand. He goes, what? She goes, let me just look at it. He goes, no. She goes, listen, if you want to talk to me, just let me look at your hand. He said, alright. He said, I walked out of there, she predicted my future, told me all these things about myself, I never got to witness to her. Now you gotta know Charlie to appreciate that. What I'm saying is this, psychics are pretty slick. They'll be very ambiguous. They'll just say some general things, they'll ask a few questions and Pick up on your personality, well, uh you're a little bit insecure, aren't you? Wow, how'd you know that? Everybody's a little bit insecure. Well you kind of you kind of have t a tough time getting along with some people at work. Man, how'd you know that? Well just about everybody has a tough time getting along. You see what I'm saying? That's not the way the Bible is. The Bible is not ambiguous in its prophecies at all. It is very specific. It is very detailed. The Bible, with pinpoint accuracy, prophesied events hundreds, sometimes thousands of years before it took place. The Book of Daniel prophesies in great detail the rise of kings and kingdoms and their fall. Daniel prophesies hundreds and hundreds of years ahead of time. What the character of those kingdoms would be like, what their strengths were, what their weaknesses were, who would rise first and who would follow behind, and who their kings would be In such detail that Bible haters say that book had to have been written after the events, nobody could have known those details ahead of time when in reality it's proven it was written hundreds of years before the events. Nobody could predict that. You're right. Only God. It's God's word. It's God's Word. There are three at least 333 prophecies of the coming Messiah, Jesus Christ. That were fulfilled perfectly, written hundreds of years before Jesus showed up, in some cases thousand years before he showed up. For instance, the date of Jesus' birth was prophesied hundreds of years before he was born. The place of his birth, the fact that he was born of a virgin, the fact that he would heal the blind and make the deaf to hear That he would ride a donkey into Jerusalem in a triumphal entry was prophesied hundreds of years before it ever took place. That he would be betrayed by somebody who he called his friend That he would be betrayed for thirty pieces of silver, that he would be silent when his accusers threw their accusations at him. It was prophesied hundreds of years ahead that he would be beaten, that he would be spit upon, that he would be crucified with sinners. His side would be pierced, that he would be buried in a rich man's tomb, that he would rise from the dead. All of this prophesied in tremendous detail, hundreds of years before it ever took place. A fellow by the name of Peter Stoner is apparently a tremendous mathematician. And he took all the prophecies of Jesus Christ that were fulfilled specifically. And he came up with the chances that that would happen. And this was his conclusion If only eight prophecies of Jesus Christ had been fulfilled, if only eight of them would have been fulfilled. The chances of that happening would be 10 to the 17th power to 1. Now, if you're mathematically challenged like I am, I had to look up what does that mean? That simply means this. One, the chances of it happening are one out of ten with seventeen zeros behind it. Whatever that number is. I know this. That's a whopping number. Only eight prophecies, if eight of them would have been fulfilled, of all the people in the world and all the time. If only eight of them would have been filled, that's chance of one out of ten to the seventeenth power. He took it farther. He did forty He said, suppose only 40 prophecies of Jesus Christ would have been fulfilled as they were. The chances of that just happening just by chance is 10 to the 157th power. Now best I can figure out, that comes to a trillion, trillion, trillion, billion. The this fella that The Stoner fella, he said, that's like finding one particular atom in a universe of a billion galaxies. That's 40. The Bible documents 333 prophecies of Jesus Christ fulfilled to the T. You say, what are the chances of that happening? I tell you, the only chance of that happening is that those prophecies are of God. God who knows the end from the beginning. What I'm trying to say is this. When we say this book is God's Word, we have a more sure reason. We can be confident of that. Listen, don't let these yard birds, CNN, these hateful, unbelieving, in many cases ignorant reporters Put one doubt in your mind about the power and the authority and the reliability of this book right here. This has been around longer than they've been around, and it'll be around a long time after they're gone. In fact, heaven and earth will pass away, but this book will not pass away. Now let me say this. Let me end with this. If what I said about the Bible is true, and it is, how can we just ignore that? If this book is God's word, how do we ignore that? How do I just take that and put it aside and ignore it? Fact is, when I read the Bible, I'm reading the very words of God. Hey, when I trust what this says to me, what this book says to me, when I trust it, I am trusting God. When I obey this book's instructions, when I do what this book tells me to do, I am obeying God. The Creator, the all-powerful, all-knowing, knowing, omnipotent God. I'm obeying Him. When I neglect this book, I just put it home on the shelf, throw it on the back dash of the car, and it sets there until next Sunday. You know what I'm doing? I'm neglecting the very Word of God. When I don't trust What this book tells me I should trust God for when I don't do that, I am not trusting God. When I disobey the teachings of this book, I'm disobeying God. This is God's word. How how how do we just take that so lightly? How can we neglect it? How can we just flippantly say, I'm not going to do what it says? How can we just flippantly mock this book and disregard it and ignore it? How can we do that? In fact, Jesus said, it is by this book that we will be judged. I'm telling you, this thing is sacred. This thing is powerful. This thing is the word of God. And it the truth in here will save a soul from hell. The truth in here will take a harlot and make her pure. It'll take a drunkard and make him sober. It'll take an atheist and make him a believer. This book is powerful. Powerful. Don't think for one minute, these little gospel tracts going out with the word of God, don't think for one minute they're not having an impact. How can we neglect this book? How can we do that? How can we just disregard it I'm getting it, I'm getting it, I'm telling you, I am getting it all the time. Well, I know what the Bible says about same sex and all of this. I know what the But I just don't I just don't see it that way. What are you crazy? This is God's word. It's been proven for thousands of years, and you're just blowing it off How smart do you think you are? How long have you been around that you know better? You know more than what the Bible says? What are you? I tell you what we are. We're sinful wretch. Blinded by our own sin. We've got the very Word of God here. A fellow was raised in a Christian home. But he just blew off everything his godly parents taught him. Had no time for the Bible, just completely dis Are you kidding? In 18 years he knew more than the Bible It's amazing how that transpires. He says, I'm going to Hollywood. I'm going to live it up. I'm going to be famous. I'm going to do whatever I want to do. I'm going to live however I want to live. I'm not going to worry about God or the Bible or church or mama or daddy. I'm just going to do my thing Mama's heart was broken. The Bible says it's a foolish child that does that. She said, son, before you leave, I want you to take this. She gave him an old Bible. She goes, I want you to take this. I want you to read it. And listen to what God says. He said, okay, Mama, thanks. And the story goes like this. He took that old King James Bible, threw it in the trunk of his car, just threw it in the corner, and he left for Hollywood. You can guess how things turned out. It didn't make it big. In fact, it didn't even make it little. He lived it up, did what he wanted, disregarded the Bible, disregarded God. And as it always happened, as it always, always happens, his life ended up a failure. Absolutely ruined. He remembered that old Bible his mother had given him. He began digging through the trunk of his car, and lo and behold it was still there, mashed up in the corner, back behind the spare tire hole uh compartment. He pulled it out and he sat on the curb. Began reading that old book. And he said it was like it was written that day just to him. God began to convict his heart of his unbelief and his foolishness. And he submitted himself to what the Bible said. And he said, God, I will trust you. And he accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. The story goes that God saved him, turned him around. And as he began reading and studying that Bible, he'd flip through the pages, and lo and behold, Mother had stuck in that Bible little notes. Son, I love you. I'm praying that you would read this passage. He'd flip a few pages over and there's a hundred dollar bill with a note, son, I'm just praying God meets your needs and takes care of you. And he'd flip it over. There'd be another note. There'd be another $100 bill. And that Bible was full of money and notes from a mother who loved her son dearly. Now, I'm not suggesting that you're going to find $100 bills in your Bible. But I am suggesting this. You'll find something much better than a $100 bill. You'll find the very words of God. The answers to every issue in life, instruction and wisdom, how to live, what to do and what not to do, how to please God, how to be blessed. This is God's word. This blessed old book It's God's word. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord, you'd help us to heed it, to read it and heed it every single day. I wonder with our heads bound and eyes closed, if there's some this morning say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. I know I'm saved. There's no doubt I've trusted Christ. But this morning you would say, Preacher I'm not reading and heeding that book like I should. I'm not letting that book govern my life like I know I should. I need to line my life up with the Word of God. I need to take God's word for what it is, God's word. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. I need to start reading that book every day. I need to start paying attention to what it says. I need to start trusting it and following its instructions. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. That's what I need in my life. How about it? All around. God bless you. Many, many hands. Are there some say, Preacher, I'm not reading and meditating in it every day like I should I need to start that. Is it ready like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, I'm not reading it like I should. Young and old alike, all around. How about it? God bless you. God bless you. Maybe there's some, and this is how the Spirit of God uses the Word of God. Maybe there's some preacher, God's Holy Spirit has spoken to a very specific area in my Christian life that really needs my attention Something that needs to be dealt with. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. A very specific area in my life as a Christian that the Spirit of God is that pointed out that needs dealt with, and you'd say, Preacher. I'd appreciate if you'd pray with me that God will help me deal with it in faith, trusting God. Is there any like that? A very specific area that the Spirit of God has dealt with me about. God bless you. That's the Holy Spirit of God. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die my sins are forgiven, I go to heaven, and you're concerned about that, and you ought to be concerned. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to know that my sins are forgiven and that I'm saved the way the Bible says a person needs to be saved. That I know that I can be accepted of God and enter heaven with him someday. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I'm very concerned about my salvation and where I spend eternity. Any at all? Father, bless our invitation time now. I pray this precious old book would become the governor of our homes, would become the love of our lives. And that would be the direction that would give direction to us. Bless, I pray. In Jesus' name, let's stand the other side