But I want to begin with our text reading from Hebrews chapter number eleven. While you're finding your place there, I was reading about a fellow came home from uh work one day. He had three kids. They were six, ages six, four, and three. And notice when he pulled in the driveway something was was out of whack. All three of the kids were out in the front yard, half dressed, in the mud. uh carrying on all across the front yard and up on the porch was candy wrappers and clothes and toys scattered everywhere The front door was hanging open. The doors to his wife's car were hanging open. Uh he walked inside the house. The TV was on full blast on some cartoon network. A lamp was knocked over Um a pile of sugar was on the recliner, the dog was foaming at the mouth, running in circles, um dirty clothes everywhere, toys were on the stairs, kitchen dishes filled the sink, broken pitcher, was laying on the floor. The place was an absolute mess. The refrigerator door was hot wide open. Looked like the dog got in the refrigerator Um uh and now he's like, what in the world is going on here? Finally he found his wife. She was still in her pajamas, laying in bed, reading her book. And she's looked at him and smiled and said, Welcome home, sweetheart, how are you? And he said, I'm fine. What in the world is going on here? And uh she smiled and said, Well, remember all those times you come home and sarcastically said, Well, what in the world did you do all day? She says, Today I did it. Nothing all day I thought that was funnier than that, but um Well I'm trying to give point I'm trying to get across here at the beginning of the message is mothers do a whole lot more work around the house than we give 'em credit for, I think, sometimes And the worst thing could happen is have them do what we accuse them of doing sometimes. Well, you're just home all day. What do you do? Uh yeah. Hebrews chapter 11, let's get that behind us. Verse number 23. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 23. And then we're going to go over to Exodus. We're going to end up there, so keep your place there, what Brother Mark read a little bit ago. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 23. The Bible says, by faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw that he was a proper child. And they were not afraid of the king's commandment. Now notice verse 23, it says, By faith Moses, who is actually, if you look at the verse carefully, who is actually the ones exercising faith in that specific instance? It's the parents. His parents are by faith. They are hiding Moses three months, and um and they were not afraid of the king's commandments. Now, Mark read the account of this back in Exodus and Egypt there and the situation there. So what I want to speak this morning is a message I've entitled A Mother's Faith A mother's faith. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to uh challenge us and help us from his word. Father in heaven, Lord, it's a good day. I just thank you so much for um uh the opportunity we have to come together in your name and sing these songs and the special and the choir. Lord, look into your word I pray you'd speak to our hearts, and it's a real joy to have uh folks visiting with us, Lord, and especially all the mothers here today is We just want to make an effort to honor them and celebrate them a bit. So challenge all of us from your word is my prayer. Help us to leave here a little stronger in our faith than when we came. God, if by chance There be some that do not know for sure that their sins are forgiven on their way to heaven. I ask you to open their hearts and minds to see their great need of Christ, and they believe and be saved. Or maybe there's others that have drifted and gotten cold in their faith I pray you'd use your word to draw us back and revive us again. That we love you and live for you as you created and saved us to do. So please fill me with your spirit, Lord. I present my body anew With all my heart, I pray and ask you to fill me and speak through me and challenge us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Of course, Mother's Day is celebrated all around the world. Mothers are honored and and uh celebrated. As I said when we were giving the gifts out, um uh I can't testify this personally, but by observation, motherhood is not an easy calling. Um it is not for the weak, the lazy, or the queasy. I think it's interesting. Um I enjoy, I don't get to hardly do it anymore, but uh years ago my dad taught me this, is uh I enjoy squirrel hunting And uh get out and shoot some squirrel. It always amazed me. I'd bring a squirrel home and I'd throw it in the sink and say, There it is, woman, clean that squirrel for me. No, I didn't say that at all I would not be alive if I said that. But Kathy would say, Oh, I'm not touching that thing. Then she'd go and change the diapers on the baby. I thought, how in the world I'd rather clean the squirrel than change the diaper. But uh it's not for the queasy. Godly, effective motherhood is not for the lazy. Late nights, long days, hard work, often with little or no sleep, and not for the queasy. Godly motherhood requires courage Sacrifice, a lot of sacrifice, requires discipline. How many mothers here you found yourself doing things that you'd really rather not do, but you discipline yourself, did it anyway, as a mother. How many mothers? Sure. It requires discipline, and it requires faith. It requires faith in God. I think we'll notice that here in a minute. The Bible presents scores of mothers from Genesis through Revelation. The Bible addresses various kinds of mothers. Some mothers addressed in the Bible were godly women, great, strong faith in God, and amazing women. And God used in tremendous ways. But the Bible also presents some women that were not so amazing. The Bible also gives us the account of some pretty wicked, ungodly mothers. We read particularly Old Testament of mothers who sacrificed their children to the false gods of Molech and violently killed and sacrificed their children. Or false God and and uh many uh it's records of mothers who uh abused and uh neglected their children, wicked, selfish, and sinful mothers. So we have the whole spectrum Presented to us in Scripture. Godly, holy, women of faith and strong, and then others who were the complete opposite. Some of the greatest mothers in Scripture come from various backgrounds. Some of the great mothers in Scripture, and we're going to notice here Jacob in a little bit, came from a tremendous lineage And as far as we can tell, she comes from a good, godly home and a tremendous. Then you have some other mothers that God used in great ways and turned out to be tremendous women of God. Who came from horrendous backgrounds, saved out of prostitution and wickedness. And nevertheless, God changed their heart and turned their lives and used them in great ways. As mothers, as mothers. Motherhood is, I believe, the highest and the most noble calling that God gives to a person. Nations are impacted by the actions of mothers. Our future generations Are very much the result of the mothers that raise those children. And so we thank God for our mothers. I believe any mother who will trust God And follow his instructions given in the Word of God. We'll be blessed of God in a great way. I was thinking about mothers. I believe mothers experience some of the greatest joy there possibly can be. I remember when uh our boys were born and and uh and they would take that uh our little son Samuel and then Daniel They take them and ho put them in Kathy's hands and just the incredible pain she'd been through, and then the joy on her face to hold that newborn child What a joy that a mother experiences. Some of the greatest joys. But on the other hand, I think mothers experience some of the greatest sorrow there can be. In raising children and the sorrow that often comes about with that, pain and fulfillment in motherhood. And so we thank God for our mothers and we celebrate them today. I believe that God will bless and in extraordinary ways the mother that trusts him and leads him. I want to look just quickly by way of introduction and then I want to zero in and look at some mothers who God blessed and used in very extraordinary ways. I just want to go down a list And then we're going to highlight one of them there. The first mother I think of is the first mother, is Eve, the mother of all living. Now we think of Eve as the mother, we think of Eve as the first woman. What do we think about? When somebody mentions Eve, the very first woman, what do you think about? The serpent, and her fall, and the horrendous decision she made to neglect God, to not exercise faith in God's instructions, but allow Satan to deceive her and then Adam along with that. And bring sin into the world and the horrific consequences of that decision. But I want to look beyond that. And I want us just think for a moment the fact that Eve was the mother of all living. Now think about it. She had no mother. She had no pattern to go by. She had no experience to draw back on from a previous generation. And if she gave birth to um uh Abel and then uh Cain and Seth and then who knows how many other children This was all new. And so we thank God for Eve and how God used her to begin the human race. Another mother mentioned in the Bible that I think of that was used extraordinarily of God was Sarah. The mother of the nation of Israel. She was an elderly lady, and uh she was barren, and she struggled with her faith. Now, here's the thing about Sarah: she struggled with her faith. When God promised Abraham and Sarah that they would have a child laden years after the time of women had left her. God promised you have a child. She struggled with that and she laughed. How many people remember the story? She laughed. Nevertheless, that weak faith, that struggling faith she had, she put it in the Lord And God blessed her with a child. And later on in Hebrews, you look back, and God honors Sarah as a great mother, as a great woman. And gave her a miraculous conception. And he actually holds Sarah up as an example of someone with faith in God. And so though her faith struggled, and though uh she uh uh had issues there initially, nevertheless she trusted God And God used her in a great way. I guess the lesson from that is that we can take away. Sometimes we struggle in our faith in God. Sometimes we don't understand what God is doing. Sometimes what God says and God instructs us sometimes doesn't make sense. But if we will just take the faith we have, as weak as it may be And we put it in the Lord and trust him. God can do great, great things. So I thank God for Sarah. Another mother I think of is Rebekah, the mother of Jacob. And another key factor in the nation of Israel, you hear throughout scripture referring to the God of Jacob, the God of Jacob. And Rebecca was the mother of Jacob. She conceived her child as the result of her husband's prayers. And let me just say this: every husband ought to pray for his wife. God pity the husband that doesn't pray for his wife. And Rebecca conceived as a result of her husband's prayers. And again, Rebecca struggled in her faith. And yet she trusted God, and God honored her. And then Jacob, the mother of Moses, we'll look at her in a moment, and a little bit of time we'll have left. But the mother of Moses, we know very little about her. In fact, it's interesting, we're not even given her name. She's introduced in Exodus chapter 2, but we're not even given her name until chapter 6 And so she's really over underappreciated, I believe. And a lot of times we don't even think of her, we're not aware of her. She was a little-known mother, but I'll tell you, she exercised some of the greatest faith recorded in all of Scripture. When she trusted God with her son. We'll come back and look at Jacobed here in a minute. Then I thought about Hannah. What do you think of when you hear the name Hannah? What do you think of? Not Samson. Samuel. But what about Samuel's conception and Samuel's coming about? Had a great woman of prayer. Remember, she was barren, and uh and uh she took some heat for that, but she prayed, and she prayed passionately, and she prayed earnestly and intensely that God would give her a son And God heard her prayer, and God answered her prayer, and gave her Samuel as her son, one of the greatest prophets in all scripture. A mother who prayed, a mother who sought the Lord and trusted God. And the amazing thing is, is whenever Samuel was weaned, she gave him back to the Lord. What an amazing act of faith. What a tremendous trust in Hannah's part, in her God, in giving her son back to the Lord. I thank God for Hannah, the mother of Samuel, one of the greatest prophets, I believe, of all time. And then we think of Bathsheba. Boy, we think of Bathsheba, boy, what a terrible situation that was. Where David committed adultery with Bathsheba, Uriah's wife, and then had Uriah killed. You say, how in the world could anything good come out of a horrific situation like that? How in the world could anything good come out of murder and and adultery and all of that. Nevertheless, our God can take the worst of circumstances and turn them around and bring something good out of it. And we see that in the experience of Bathsheba as she trusted God, the mother of Solomon, the wisest man, apart from the Lord Jesus, the wisest man that ever walked the earth given divine wisdom from above. And so Bathsheba, the object of King David's lust and sin, yet God took that and turned it around And brought a great blessing out of her. And then, of course, the most honored mother in all of history. The most honored mother in all of history is who? Mary, the mother of Jesus. What an honor for Mary to give birth, chosen by God as a virgin, to give birth to the Son of God. What an honor. What an honor. I was thinking of Mary and I was thought about maybe studying her and giving some attention to her this morning in the message But what I thought of Mary, what are the two chief characteristics you think of when you think of Mary, the mother of Jesus? I come up with two. One is, I believe, her purity. What a pure, godly young lady Mary was. And then I think of her humility. Her humility. You know, to give birth, chosen of God, to give birth to the Son of God. I think humanly, in the flesh, there'd be some room for boasting. I think there'd be some room for self-pride. I know as a father and as mothers no doubt, when one of our children uh they accomplish something, or maybe they get some recognition, they do something extraordinary boy our hearts fill up with pride and we say something like that's my son that's my daughter You never hear that from Mary. She understood it was God's doing. And in her humility and her faith and her purity. God chose her to give birth to the Son of God. Amazing women. And by the way, all these women I mentioned are part of the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. Differing backgrounds, godly backgrounds, holy, pure, others not so much, but they trusted God and God used them. in great great ways. I want us to come back and now if you would, keep your place here in Hebrews. And we have a few minutes. Come with me back to Exodus chapter number two. And I just want to give a little bit of thought this morning to this woman, Jacobed. The mother of Moses. And I want to encourage and maybe jot some of these thoughts down. I've got about four thoughts here about Jacobed. Maybe you want to jot these down. I think they might be help, might be an encouragement to you. Exodus chapter number two and verse number one, the Bible says, and there went a man of the house of Levi And took to wife a daughter of Levi. How many people agree with me? That's a godly lineage there. Sure, Levi, the tribe of Israel, God's chosen people. And it says, and the woman conceived. And bare a son. The woman conceived and bare a son. The first thing I've noticed here about Jacobed is the fact that her faith was focused on the Lord. Her faith was focused on the Lord. Back in Hebrews, we read how that by faith Moses, how his parents saw that he was a proper child. Here it says a goodly child. And they hid him three months in spite of living in a society that hated God. Now think with me about this Here is uh uh Jacobed and her husband. They are born in Egypt, they're married, they live in Egypt, they are slaves at this point to the Egyptian uh uh the Egyptians, they are in an ungodly society, they are in a society that hated their God. They lived in a society that was determined to destroy her family. Every Jewish woman that gave birth to a son, that son was to be killed. It was forced abortions. So to speak. And so here she is in a society that hates her God on every hand. A society that wants to kill and destroy her child Wants to destroy her family. And the midst of all of that, she trusts God and she obeys God. I got looking at this. I believe Jochebed's uh uh influence as a godly mother. Began long before she was ever became a mother. I think it's interesting that she was very careful in that she married a godly man A godly man. Now let me say a word to our single late uh young ladies here this morning. I believe you ought to be very, very careful on who you marry. I think you ought to be very, very careful on that person you commit the rest of your life to. Because if you want to trust God and you want to be that woman and that mother that God has created you to be and God saves you to be, the kind of man you marry will be a huge factor on the your ability to raise your children in the fear and admonition of the Lord. Am I right or not? In fact the Bible says very clearly in Corinthians that the unbeliever that the believer is not to marry an unbeliever. So every young person ought to be very, very careful to not to marry an unsaved person. Now You say, well, I'll date them and win them to the Lord, and then we'll get married. I'll say this nine times out of ten, that's not going to work. There's some exceptions. But you want to marry a man that is, you want to date a man that is now the kind of father you will want your child to be. And I see Jacobed was very, very careful in that she married a godly man of the tribe of Levi. And that set her up in her ability to be a godly mother. And have a tremendous influence on a young man named Moses, who later will be the greatest, the greatest leader Israel had ever seen. And she married very carefully. She married right before. And so again, I just want to throw a challenge out to our young ladies and our young men. Be very, very careful who you date. Be very, very careful who you give your heart to. And then eventually marry because they will be a huge factor in the kind of parents and the kind of mother or for the men, the kind of father you will be on that person you marry. So uh Jochebed Her faith was focused on the Lord. It's interesting. The name Jacobed itself means this: the glory of Jehovah. Everything about her pointed to the Lord God, even her own name. I noticed a few things about her faith being focused on the Lord. I put this down, she purposely chose life She purposely chose life. Look at verse 2. And the woman conceived and bare a son. And when she saw that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months. Now she could very easily have said, hey, listen, uh we're instructed by our government that we are to give up the child, that we are to uh quote unquote abort the child And uh we she could very easily have simply allowed the world to kill her child and not put herself at risk, not put her family at risk. But in the mind of Jacobed, abortion was not an option. I was a child of God. That was a gift that God had given. And abortion was not an option. And I want to say: in this day and age, abortion is not an option. You say, well, what about this circumstance? What about that circumstance? I'm telling you, the world is always looking for an excuse or a justification to do wrong. And I thank God for Jacobed. She chose life. She chose life. She could have rationalized. She could have justified and said, listen, what's going to happen to our home? What's going to happen to us if they find out we had this child? None of that. Focus was on the Lord. And she purposely chose light. Purposely chose light. Number two, I put this down. She courageously protected her son. Look again at verse number two. And the woman conceived and bare a son, and when she saw that he was a goodly child, look at this, she hid him three months. The world was out to destroy her child. The world was out, the devil was out to destroy her child, and she was not going to let that happen. She did, she put herself on the line, she exercised tremendous faith in God, she exercised tremendous courage, and she says, I am not going to let the world get my child. I am not going to allow the devil to destroy my child. I'll tell you, every godly mother's challenge is this: to protect our children from sin and temptation. That is the challenge of a godly mother. I want to remind you, we live in a world, in a society, that is hostile to the truth of God's word. Am I right or wrong? We see it on every hand. We live in a world, I want to say this, and I appreciate Pastor Brett and Jenny and the good work they're doing with our young people. We live in a world where the devil is targeting our youth. And you look at the sins of society, and you look at the emphasis of our society, and you look at the entertainment industry, and you look at what is going out there on the social world, the social media. And it is targeting young people to take away their purity, to take away their faith, to destroy any kind of testimony, to destroy any way that can be used of God. I thank God for Jacobed, who says, this world is not getting my son. This Egyptian society is not going to have my son and destroy him and kill him. The devil is not going to have my son. And she very courageously protected her son. I thank God for mothers in our church and around that love God and love their children and refuse. Let this world uh get him. And so uh she purposely chose life, number one. Number two, I wrote this down. She courageously protected her son. Number three, I put this one down. She positively committed him to the Lord. Look at verse number three. And when she could know when she could no longer hide him, she took him She took for him an ark of bulrushes and daubed it with slime and with pitch and put the child therein and she laid it in the flags, that's the type of plant growing there, flags by the uh river's brink. And his sister stood off to wit what would be done to him. She recognized there was only so much she could do. She recognized she couldn't hide him for his whole life. There had to come a point where she had to say, I'm just committing my child to the Lord. I believe for all of us, all of us as parents, mothers and fathers included, we do our best for our children. We love them. We train them. We do everything we can to protect them from this world's ungodly influence and the sin and temptations of the world. But listen, we can't keep them our whole lives And there comes a point where we have to just trust God as they go out and say, God, they're in your hands now And God, you have to lead them and you have to direct them. And we have to understand there is a limit to what we can do for our children. For instance, you and I cannot save our children from sin in hell. We can't do that. We can point them to the Savior. We can instruct them in the Word of God. We can teach them the things of God. We can bring them to church and get them in the sunny school and Get them in the master's club and get them in the teens alive. And we can do all we can, but there is a limit. We cannot save their soul. Every young person has to make that decision for themselves whether they're going to accept Jesus Christ as their Savior or not. There is a limit to what we can do as parents. We cannot dedicate their lives to the Lord Now next week we have Baby Day, and I'll mention this again next week, but we always have all the babies up here. I love Baby Day, I just love it, and the parade and everything. And um uh and I love sending them back to the nursery and um love that part too. Thank God for our nursery workers. Amen. But we'll have a big prayer dedication. You know, in reality, we can't dedicate that child to the Lord. At some point, that child's going to make a decision to accept Jesus Christ their personal Savior. Then they've got to decide, am I going to give my life to Christ to live for Him or not? There's only so much we can do. And we can't keep them their whole lives. We can't raise them their whole lives. At some point we have to commit them to the Lord. And Jacobed recognized that. When she had done all she could do She trusted God to do what she could not do on behalf of her child. Um, listen, there's some of us tried our best to raise our kids So I'm in our church here. And the children made foolish decisions and went out and they're away from the Lord. And they're not living for God. Listen, we do all we can And then we lift them up to God in prayer. I love that verse. Raise up a child in the way he should go. And when he is old, he'll what? Not depart from it. And we trust God. And we send them out and we say, Lord, they're in your hands now. We ask you to lead them and direct them. I believe every parent ought to pray for their children as long as those children are living Want to pray for your children on a daily basis. One of the highlights of our day, at least in my mind, I'm sure for Kathy, is at the end of the day when we kneel together, her and I, and we pray for our children. They're out there in the world. Lord, guide them, protect them, give them wisdom, stir their hearts, help them to make wise decisions. Move and work in their heart. It's only so much we can do. I appreciate Jacobed. She positively committed to the Lord. She took, and I think it's kind of interesting. What did she make to put a Jacobed in? A little what? A little ark. I'm wondering in the back of her mind she isn't thinking back to when Noah made an ark And God used Noah and that art to protect the human race and spare them from his judgment. And I'm wondering, and I this is me thinking, but I'm wondering if in the back of her mind she isn't thinking God, you used the art to spare the human race years ago. Will you use this art to spare my child? I wonder if she didn't make that with that in the back of her mind. She commits that child to the river. Then they stand back and see what God's going to do. What is God going to do? How is God going to work this out? I believe that her faith, this act of faith on her part. To do everything she possibly could, then commit her child to the Lord and trust God. I believe that laid the foundation for Moses' tremendous faith. And Moses' tremendous greatness in the kingdom of God in future years. It's interesting that as Moses was Moses, and I can't get into all the details, but as Moses was raised by Pharaoh and nursed by his mother. the influence that Jacobed had in those early years on her son. Then later on you find Moses seeing an Egyptian fighting, and he kills this Egyptian. And he understands that the Jews were his people. How did he know that? Where was he taught that from? Not in Pharaoh's house. I believe his mother and still say you're a child of God. You're one of God's people. And her faith laid its foundation. For Moses' greatness in the coming years. And I believe that's uh uh is perhaps the case there in that. Then number four, I put this down. Not only, number one, she purposely chose life. Number two, she courageously protected her son. Number three, she positively committed him to the Lord. I put this down. Number four, she proved the character of God's faithfulness. It's interesting if you look at it carefully in verse number three it says um she uh uh she took him a ark of bull rushes, daubed it with slime, put the child therein. And she laid it in the flags by the river's brink, a very specific place. I believe God directed her to the very place Where she would put that child in, knowing that Pharaoh's daughter would show up there. I found something to be true. Thirty-eight years of being saved, walking with the Lord. Sometimes I did better than others But 38 years walking with the Lord, you know what I found out? God knows what he's doing. I found out it pays to trust God. I found out it pays to let God lead and direct us. He knows what he's doing. He knows what the future holds. If we'll let him lead us and direct us and trust them, he'll take us to the right place at the right time. And I think it's interesting that God directed her to the very right place. He put her there at the very right time I don't know, I'm just speculating here, but I would imagine if she had put the little uh Moses and that little ark in the river too long before Pharaoh's daughter showed up, uh there's beasts in that river there There's crocodiles and other things, and if that child sat there too long, uh he might not have made it. Uh if she would have gone too late after Pharaoh's daughter had come and gone, child would have spent maybe the night there, maybe a couple days, and again would have no doubt perished. But God had her there at the right place, at the right time, and I think this is interesting. She had there in verse number four, her sister stood afar off. And just to see what's going to happen. I think that was God's unseen hand leading and directing them to do the right thing and say the right thing at the right time. And lo and behold Pharaoh's daughter comes and gives Moses' mother gives her the responsibility of raising her own child. Now remember, this is the administration that is killing the children. And God intervenes and God oversees and has the mother raise her own son. Jacob had raised her own son. And this is the interesting part. She no doubt got paid to raise her own child. How many mothers would love to get paid hourly wages for raising children? Wouldn't that be great? Every mother would be a millionaire God's unseen hand was working on behalf of Jacobed, and I want to say this. We might not know and see everything that God is doing. But I'll tell you this, if we will trust God, if we'll follow his instruction, do what he says, God's unseen hand. Will work on our behalf, and he will lead us and direct us, and many times, unwitting to ourselves, he will be accomplishing his will as we simply trust him and obey him Now let me end with this. Whenever God does a great work, whenever God does a great work, whenever God wants to change lives, he has a nation of his own people are being held captive. Are slaves in an ungodly land of Egypt. And God is going to deliver them from the land of Egypt. God is going to save them from this old world and Egypt. And he begins with a person who will exercise faith in him. Faith in him. Now, if you'll excuse me, but I could not, when I was thinking of that, I could not help but think of our mission's emphasis. There are people all around the world that desperately need the gospel, that are slaves to sin and self That are on their way to hell are being destroyed by this old sinful world. And they need deliverance from sin and unbelief and darkness. And God wants to save them. God wants to deliver them. Do you know where he begins? In churches like ours where people will exercise faith and say, God, we believe your word. We're going to trust you. We're going to follow your instructions and we'll get behind these missionaries. We'll send out missionaries. We'll go. Trusting you and believing you and having faith in you. And I come back to my statement. Whenever God has a great work to do, whenever God wants to change lives for his glory, he always begins with someone who will trust him and obey him. There's many people in the Bible I have tremendous respect for. Of course, the Lord Jesus is King of kings and Lord of Lords. We worship him But I'm thinking of men and folks throughout the Bible that stand out in my mind as tremendous men and women of God, tremendous leaders. And I'll tell you, in my mind, Moses is the greatest. He is the only man in the Bible whom Jesus is compared to. He's not compared to Jesus. In Hebrews, Jesus is compared to Moses. Imagine that. I believe we can trace it all the way back to a godly, humble mother who simply exercised faith in God. I'm going to trust God and do what is best and do what is right. Raising children for God requires trust in God, requires having faith in God. I feel so inadequate speaking on mothers. I feel so inadequate trying to honor and respect mothers. But as I look at Jacobed, I see here a tremendous woman. Who is a fantastic example, a tremendous mother whom God used in great ways. And I want to learn from her, and I want to learn to trust God. I want to learn to have faith in Him. Lord, if that's what you say, if that's the right thing to do, I will trust you, and I'll follow your instructions. If you're here this morning and you don't have full assurance that when you die your sins have given on your way to heaven, the greatest thing you can do, whether a mother or father, a single person, whatever your situation in life may be I'm here to tell you, God loves you and he loves you dearly. And he gave himself to die for your sins and my sins was buried and rose again. And he says if we will turn to him in repentance and faith and trust him as our personal Savior, he'll give us new life. Give us new direction. And he can use us in a great way, and we can know when we die we go to heaven, not to hell. Those of us that are here, whether a mother or not Let's decide today we're going to trust God. Maybe there's something in there as I was preaching. I don't know how the Holy Spirit works But maybe as I was preaching, God's been dealing with your heart about some area in your Christian life that is not what it ought to be, some area in your Christian life that really needs attention. I want to urge you on this Mother's Day morning, let's trust God Say, what will others think? What will my friends, what will they say? Oh, Jacobed didn't care about that. She just wanted to do right. She wanted to do right by her son. And let's have all of us decide we're just going to do right. We're going to trust God and follow His leadership. Amen. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us now on this special day. All of us, Lord, not just mothers, but all of us. To have faith in you, to trust you, and let you lead and direct in our life and do the things that are right and get those things out that are not right. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, this morning, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I trust in Christ. I have that matter settled biblically. But you'd say, preacher, there's areas of my Christian life that do need attention. There's some weak areas that need to be shored up, and there's some other areas that I need to address. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me be that Christian God intends for me to be. Help me to pray that God will help me live by faith. And trust him and let him lead me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around. Maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, I'm in a situation that's hard. Seems like everything in the world is against me, just like Jacobet But you say, preacher, I'm deciding today, I'm going to trust God. I'm going to do what he says. I'm going to do what's right. And just trust him to deal with the consequences. And I'm telling you, we do that, God comes through every single time. Without fail. Any like that, preacher, I'm in a tough situation I'm in tough circumstances, but I want to trust God and do right regardless. God lets you a number of hands around. God knows our needs. God knows where we're at. And even though it seems like the most unpopular thing in the world, if it's right, if it's God's word, we can trust them. It'll be fine. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven? You say, I don't want to go to hell. Nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell. You'd say, preacher, I need Christ as my Savior. I'm concerned about this. And you'd like for me to pray that God would help you and settle that. And now that uh not worry about that anymore. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure. And when I die, I'm going to heaven, not to hell. And you'd like to have God help you settle that. Any at all like that Now, Father in heaven, you know where we're at, a lot of hands raise various things. Now pray you'd help us before we leave. Find a place in altar Just do business with God and trust you and let you lead us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's at the piano