Romans chapter 8 verse 32. The Bible says this. Read it with me together, would you? Here we go. Ready? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? I consider this verse a most encouraging verse. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, we are grateful this morning for the freedom we have in our country to assemble, to worship you freely as our conscience dictates. We're grateful, Lord, for your blessings on our land. We're grateful for the men and women who you use to make our country what it is And I pray this morning as we look into your word that you would use the word of God to mold us and challenge us, that we could be the men and women in this day that you desire for us to be. The Christians that our country needs in this hour. I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. With all my heart, I plead that you would speak through me And challenge us and help us and um stir our hearts, help us to make the decisions in the next few moments that need to be made in our lives. That we would please you. That when we stand before you at the great judgment, and we would hear you say, Well done. Please again I ask, Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's been said by a number of folks who've given their uh a lot of study to the Word of God that Romans chapter 8 is one of the greatest chapters in all the Bible. I have a tendency to agree with them. Now we understand, of course, that all of Scripture is given by inspiration of God. All of Scripture, every verse, every sentence, every word in the Bible is uh given to us and is profitable to us for uh doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction of righteousness. I think what I'm trying to say is this book, and by that we mean the old King James Bible, is the Word of God. Is inspired and given to us by God for our instruction and our direction in life. But when we come through the Bible and we begin to study it and read it Seems like there's certain passages and certain chapters that stand out that seem to just have special significance many times. in our hearts and lives. And Romans chapter 8 has been one of those chapters. I think it's exceptional, Romans chapter 8, in the number of great encouraging statements. That are made throughout Romans chapter 8. Some great encouraging promises are given to us. You have your Bible there in hand. Look at verse number one with me. And we'll just look at a few of these verses that are given to us throughout this chapter. Look at verse 1 of Romans chapter 8. I have this verse underlined. I have it highlighted. I have it bracketed and I have it starred. I like Romans chapter one chapter eight and verse number one. Look what it says. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus Who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. What a great verse. This verse is telling us that when I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, there is now no more condemnation. Now notice what it doesn't say. The Bible doesn't say there is now no more sin in my life. Nowhere does the Bible teach that when a person gets saved, they no longer sin. You will not find that in the Bible Occasionally, I haven't for a long time, but occasionally I used to come across folks who would say something like this, Oh, I'm saved, and I have reached the point of sinless perfection Did anybody ever hear that? Anybody sometimes you come across someone has that idea in their head that they no longer have sin and uh no longer sin is no longer an issue for them as a Christian. My highly trained theological education tells me to respond this way, baloney. You don't find that in Scripture anywhere. Paul struggled with sin, one of the greatest, arguably one of the greatest Christians that ever lived, and yet he struggled with sin. My advice is anyone has that idea in their head that they no longer sin, ask their spouse if they agree with that I'd venture to say they have a different opinion. But uh this verse says, There's now therefore no more condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. Don't say there's no more sin He says there's no more judgment on that sin. When I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, all judgment of God for my sin is transferred to Jesus Christ, and on that cross. He was condemned in my place. He took the condemnation of my sin upon himself. Now, because I'm in Christ, because I've accepted Jesus as my Savior, there is no more condemnation on me. I will n as a believer, I will never, ever, ever face the judgment of God for my sin. And all God's people said, Amen for that. Now let me throw a word of caution out. You're here this morning You've never accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. You don't have that assurance. Your sins are forgiven. My Bible tells me in John chapter 3 that you are already right now under the condemnation of God, under the judgment of God. And if a person dies without having ever trusted Jesus their Savior, if they die in their sins, that is the worst thing that could possibly happen to a person. They're judged of God for all eternity. Horrible place called hell. Now I like chapter 8, verse number 1. It tells me if I'm in Christ, if I'm accepting Christ as my Savior, there's no more judgment on my sin. I never get this. I never have to fear going to hell ever again. When a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, There is no more danger of that person going to hell. It is settled. It is, Jesus has taken that judgment for us. I no longer fear that. So it does not say there's no more sin. Let me also point out something real quickly in verse number one of chapter 8. It doesn't say that sin no longer matters You say, oh preacher, if that's the case, if there's no more condemnation, I've accept Jesus as my Savior. God's forgiven me all my sin. I no longer face judgment, condemnation. uh because of my sin? Oh, then sin doesn't matter. Then I can just go out and live however I want and I can live in sin and I can do wrong. I can blaspheme God and I can Fornication and carrying on and drinking and all of that. And it doesn't matter. There's no more judgment. You won't find that in the Bible either. When a person accepts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, their salvation is settled, they never will go to hell, they're guaranteed a place in heaven, but they also become a child of God. And our God is a good father. And a good father never lets his kids do wrong without dealing with it Amen or not. And Romans chapter twelve tells us very clearly that if I'm a child of God, if I've been saved, and I live in sin and I deliberately disobey God in sin God will bring chastisement down upon me. God will bring correction into my life. God will discipline me and correct me Until I get that area of my life that's out of whack, until I get that straightened out, God will chasten me and correct me. And he goes on and tells us in Romans chapter 12 that if any person claims to be saved A person claims to be a Christian and they live in sin and there is no chastisement, there is no correction by God in that person's heart and life. He says That their claim to be a child of God is an illegitimate claim. They've never been saved in the first place. And so, this verse is not telling us That sin doesn't matter. It is telling us that once we accept Jesus as Savior, the judgment for our sin, the condemnation of my sin is no longer upon me. Jesus Christ bore that for me. And now I no longer have to fear hell. But uh I no longer have to fear judgment for my sin. So would you agree with me? Verse 1 is a great verse Amen? Isn't that wonderful? I got, as I said, underlined, highlighted. I got red ink on it. I've got blue ink around it. I love that verse. Now come down, if you would, to verse number 18. Here's another great verse in the Romans chapter 8, verse number 18. Listen to what Paul says here under the inspiration of God. For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. What is Paul saying here? Paul listen, Paul knew what it meant to suffer for the gospel. He had been beaten, he had been stoned, he had been thrown in prison, he had been falsely accused. He was sentenced to be executed for no other reason than the fact he preached the gospel. And Paul says that the sufferings that I'm going through here on this earth For the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, because of my commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ, they in no way compare to the glory that there's going to be when I get to heaven. And the rewards and the blessings and the glory of heaven will so overshadow whatever difficulties we may be going through here on earth, whatever trials we may be facing here on earth. For those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, there is a day coming that nothing on this earth compares with. And what a great, would you agree with me? Verse 18 is a great verse. Amen? Amen? Now come down if you would to verse 26. Here's another great verse. This chapter is just chock full of great, great statements, great, great passages. Look at verse 26 Likewise, the Spirit, capital S, it's talking about the Holy Spirit. Likewise, the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities, our weaknesses, our failures, our shortcomings. The Spirit, Holy Spirit, helpeth our infirmities. Now look what he says. For we know not what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. What is he telling us here? Again, he's addressing the Christian. He's addressing the saved person And he says that that saved person, we come to points in our life, we come to times in our life when we come to God in prayer, and we get to the point where we almost like we don't even know what to say Our needs are so overwhelming. Our situation is so complex. Our burden is so heavy, and we kneel before God in prayer. And it's like, God, I don't even know what to say. I just need you to help me. And he tells us that the Holy Spirit of God will step in and take our prayers and bring them before God in ways that you and I don't even know how to pray. Have you ever been, I won't ask you to respond publicly this, but I guarantee you there's many of us have been to the point in our lives Situations so low, valleys so deep, uh, night so dark, where we kneel before God and our heart is so broken and so heavy, and we don't even know what to say to God. And the only thing we can do is just groan and just say, Oh God. And that Holy Spirit of God goes before the Lord on our behalf And he takes the aches and pr and burdens of our heart that we can't even verbalize, and he makes them powerful, powerful prayers before God. Isn't that a wonderful promise of God? And even when I don't know what to pray for, even when I don't even know how to pray, the Holy Spirit of God helps me pray. Look how He words it there. The Spirit itself maketh intercessions for us with groanings that cannot be uttered. What a great verse. May I lie. This chapter is chalk full of tremendous promises, encouraging passages. Look at verse 28. Good heavens. This is the the verse of all verses. Look what it says. If you don't have this verse underlined your Bible, boy, you really should It ought to be highlighted in one way or another. Look at verse 28. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Notice what it says. We know. We don't hope so we say, boy, I hope something good comes out of this. Oh, I hope something good comes out of this. It doesn't say we hope. It says we what We know that not some things, all things work together for good. I'm here to tell you this morning, God is in control Amen? God's in control. Doesn't matter what circumstance I may be facing, doesn't matter what situation I'm in Doesn't matter how hopeless it may appear, there is a God in heaven that can take the worst of circumstances that can take the most horrendous of situations and turn that thing around and bring some good out of it. Amen? What a great verse. Now notice I need to throw this out. Caution, the verse doesn't end there. There is not a period after we know that all things work together for good. The period isn't there yet It's another statement. Look who says we know that all things work together for good to them that love to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. There's a qualification here. For the person that loves God, knows the Lord Jesus, Savior, loves God. I'm trying to live my life. I'm yielded to Him. I'm trusting Him and obeying Him in my life. That promise that all things will work together for good is given to that person. Listen, you're here this morning and you don't give a flip about what God says. And you don't care about the Word of God, and you're just pushing aside God's instruction. You say, I'm going to live my life the way I want to live it, irregardless of what God says, I'm here to tell you, you can't claim that promise Amen? Doesn't say all things work together for good to them that don't love God, to them who don't do what His will is. Doesn't say that. I put myself in a very serious, dangerous situation. I put myself in very grave situation when I choose to live a life of disobedience to God. The Bible is very, very clear And so God gives this promise. God gives this thing to those that love God. Say, Lord, I love you. I want to please you with my life. I trust you. I'm going to obey you. Doesn't say they're perfect. But when things come up and sin and decisions are made, they're foolish, I deal with it, I confess it, forsake it, get back on track with God, God can take that and turn it around. And so, what a great, great verse, Romans chapter 8, verse 28 is. Look at uh verse 35 Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all day long, or counted as sheep for the slaughter. Look at this. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers Nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. What a great passage God loves us dearly. And nothing can take God's love away from you and I. And we thank God for these verses. Now, I come to verse 32. What an encouraging verse. This verse has stirred my heart over the years, time and time again. Look at verse 32. We read it together a few moments ago. Let me read it one more time. He, speaking of God, that spared not his own son, who's that? Jesus Christ. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him? Also freely give us all things. What a great, great verse. I see two things in this verse real quickly this morning. First of all, I see the greatness of God's love. The greatness of God's love. You get in the following verses, and as we just read, he expounds on the love of God and how perfect it is But notice the greatness of God's love. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all. We must never, ever, ever question God's love for us. But in the ministry since 1985, spoke to a lot of people about the Lord. I've sat down in a lot of situations, different spiritual conditions people were in. And talking about the Word of God and about the things of God and trying to help people know the Lord and live for God. And on occasion, over these many years, I've had people say something like this to me. Preacher, I don't believe God loves me. God does not love me. Now, I don't always say it this way, but my my reaction to that has been and is to this day That is the most ignorant, arrogant, self-centered, and blasphemous thing a person can possibly say. God doesn't love me. Either that person is incredibly ignorant of what God has done for us, or they are deliberately and arrogantly casting doubt in the face Of God's revealed word. If there is one thing clear in Scripture, it is this: God loves us very, very much. In fact, God loves us more than we could ever possibly comprehend. Look what it says here. He that spare not his own son. But delivered him up for us all. Think about the extent that God went to So that you and I can know him and be with him for all eternity. He spared not his own son So that my sins could be taken away and I can be with them for all eternity. Don't tell me God doesn't love us. When he spared not his own son. I read about a preacher who was preaching out in Illinois. He was in a he was a pastor of a large church. He was preaching in a prison, a state prison. Hardened criminals, tough guys. And he was preaching, and in his message, he stopped and he asked this question, fellas, who killed Jesus? Place went silent. Instead of a little murmuring. One guy yelled out, The soldiers killed him. Guys talked to others. Somebody else shout out, The Jews killed Jesus Another fellow yelled out, Pilate killed Jesus. Preacher paused for a little bit. Place got silent. He said this. Jesus' own Father, God, killed Jesus. He said those hardened criminals sat in stunned silence Finally, one asked out, very meek voice, why would he do that Why would God kill his own son? Tell you why. Because he loved you and I so much. And he did that to have our sins taken away so that we can be with God forever. He that spared not his own son But gave him up for us all. God killed his own son for our sins. He crucified his own son to be our substitution. Remember the story of Abraham in the Old Testament back in Genesis, where God instructed Abraham to take his son, his only son whom he loved, Isaac? And go out on top of the mountain, take a knife and there kill Isaac and offer him up as a sacrifice to God. How did Abraham respond to that? He responded without hesitation What a man of faith believing Hebrews tells us that God would raise up his son from the dead if Abraham would have obeyed If Abraham would have carried that through and obeyed God, that God would raise his son up from the dead. The faith of Abraham in that situation was outstanding. And Abraham takes his son Isaac up there on top of the mount. He builds an altar. His son Isaac says, Father, we have the wood, we have the fire, where's the sacrifice? Abraham made a tremendous statement, God Himself. We'll provide a sacrifice. Tied his son to the altar there. Raise the knife up. And God's holy angel says, Abraham, touch not thy son. And God had a ram caught in the thicket. And that ram died as a substitute for Isaac. That ram was put on the altar in the place of Isaac, and God said, Abraham, now I know that you love me. Now I know that you trust me. Now I know that you love me. You were willing to give your own son in obedience to me. Now I know that you love me. On Calvary, God put his son on the altar in the shape of a cross. And there God's judgment for your sin and my sin came down upon Jesus Christ. But there was no ram in the thickets. To be a substitute for Jesus Christ. Why? Because Jesus Christ was the substitute himself for you and I. And God crucified his own Son. To be our substitute. I see in this verse the greatness of God's love. He who spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all. Don't think God doesn't love you. You say my life is dark, my life is a mess. I don't see any answer. I don't know why this is happening to me. I don't see how God can love me. I say to you this morning, look to the cross of Jesus, and you'll see that God loves you. He spared not his own son, but gave him up for us all. Suppose with me this morning that you have a rebellious and disobedient child. And this child has brought tremendous heartache to your life. This child has cost you lots of money and cost you tears late at night on your bed. This child brings little or no blessing or joy to your life. And this child dies. Would you not be grieved over the death of that child, that rebellious child, though they hurt broke your heart, though they cost you so much in tears? and finances in time, though they brought little or no joy into your life. Yet that child dies, your heart would be broken, your heart would ache for that one to hold them one more time. You and I would be overwhelmed with grief and sorrow. Suppose you have a child who from infancy obeyed your every word. That child loved you and honored you and brought tremendous joy and blessing to your life. And that child died. Would you not be sorrowful? Would you not have great grief and pain over that one? And that that is exactly what Jesus Christ, what God did in getting his son. Not only did Jesus die, it was God who put the whole process in motion that Jesus would die for you and I. I just can't imagine the grief in God's heart as Jesus Christ is there on the cross being judged by God for my sins and God in his holiness turns his back on Jesus and Jesus cries out to his father, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? What sorrow would be in the heart of God, the Father of Jesus, to see his Son in that condition, in that situation. And yet, God did that for you and for me. How intense Must the love of God for you and I be that God could overcome The sorrow and the heartache of the death of his most obedient son. How much he must love us That he would do that so that you and I can escape hell and live forever in God's presence and enjoy his fellowship. I can see it's Memorial Day weekend. Some of us will be at gravesides tomorrow for loved ones who have passed away. Some will be at gravesides, perhaps of some who gave their life in defense of our country. And we want to honor the memory of these folks. I can see a parent Giving a son or a daughter to defend their country and give that child and see that child die. In the defense of their country. Many parents have done that to hundreds of thousands over the years. And there's heartache and there's sorrow with that. I can see that happening. We see it on every hand. But I cannot imagine a mother killing her child for her country I cannot imagine that. Giving a child to put their life on the line and maybe die and oftentimes do die in the fence of the country as horrible as hard and as sorrowful as that may be We see that happening, but a mother who would kill her own child for her country, I don't see that. And yet, you and I have a God in heaven. That loved us so much, that loves us so much, that he gave his own son, his own child, and put in place the process where that son, that child would die so that you and I can live. God willingly and deliberately crucified his own son, his only son, for my sins and your sins. You have your Bible there. Would you turn with me real quickly? Now keep your place here in Romans, but go back to the Old Testament book of Isaiah with me if you would. Isaiah chapter 53. Isaiah 53 is called often called the gospel of the Old Testament. Isaiah chapter 53 And I want to read a few select passages out of this chapter. Isaiah 53, give you a chance to find it there This is the passage what the Ethiopian eunuch was reading when Philip caught up with him coming out of Jerusalem. It's a powerful passage on the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. on the substitutionary atonement of the Lord Jesus Christ. Look with me in verse number three of Isaiah chapter 53. The Bible says this, he, speaking prophetically of Jesus Christ, he is despised and rejected of men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Yet we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Look at this. Surely he hath borne our griefs And carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. Look at this. But he was wounded for What's the next word? Our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. And with his stripes we are healed. I put in the margin of my Bible aside that verse, my substitute. Jesus Christ was my substitute. It was my transgressions that he was wounded for. It was my iniquities that he was wounded for. It was chastisement. He was chastised so that I could have peace. Look at verse 6. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. Look at this. And the Lord hath laid upon him Jesus the iniquity of us all. God held Jesus Christ, his Son, responsible for your sin and my sin when he hung on that cross and poured out the wrath of his judgment on Jesus Christ. For every sin these hands have ever committed, every ungodly thought this mind has ever coursed through this mind, every unkind word that ever came off these lips, Jesus Christ suffered the condemnation and judgment of God. For me and for you. Don't tell me God doesn't love us. Not when he paid such a horrendous price, so that I can be with him. I see when the Bible says God, he spared not his own son, but gave him up for us all, I see the great, great love of God. The great love of God that he would do this. I like the old song, Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. Sin had left a crimson stain. But Jesus washed it white as snow. Don't ever, ever question the love of God. Don't ever, ever doubt whether God loves you. Look to the cross. And see Jesus. And there you'll see the love of God. Come back to Romans chapter 8 with me if you would. I will notice a second thought from this passage. Romans 8. 32, what an encouraging verse this is. I get down, I get self-pity, get stuck in my thumb and uh whining and crying, sitting in the corner. Nobody loves me, everybody hates me, I'm gonna go eat worms. Um how's the rest of it go? Bite off their heads, suck out their guts, drink up their blood still warm. Isn't that a great hymn of the faith there When we get in that mindset, you know what we need to do? We need to stop and look at the cross and say, what kind of God loves me so much? If he would do that to his son, so that I can be forgiven, so that I can be with him, what kind of love? That kind of love passes knowledge. We can't comprehend it. God loves us But I see a second thing in this passage, not only the great love of God, but I see not only the greatness of God's love, but the greatness of God's care. Again, look at this. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all. Look at this. How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? It's a question, how shall he not? How in the world could God do that for me and not do this? If God loves us so much that he was willing to crucify his own son so that I can be with him. Is he really going to let me go without anything that is good for me? Is he really going to withhold anything from me that is good for me? No! Psalms 84 verse 11 says this no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly If God would be willing to crucify his son on that old rugged cross so that I could be forgiven, so that I could be with him because he loves me so much, I can be sure of this, he will take care of me. He will take care of me. Look at what it says here. He that spared not his own son, but freely gave him up, uh free but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also Freely give us all things. That phrase freely give is a fascinating passage. A fascinating phrase, I should say. It means this: to happily give over. To eagerly give over, to give over without any hesitation whatsoever. You know what this verse tells me about my God? This verse tells me that God is eager to take care of me God is eager to provide the things for me that I need. God is eager to intervene on my behalf in my life. God is eager to help me. God is very, He is uh uh has absolutely no hesitation. To be involved in my life and lead me and direct me and help me and meet my needs. So to freely give, to eagerly, happily, without hesitation, give over Now notice the logic here in this verse. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all How shall we not with him, how shall we not, um, how shall we not uh with him also freely give us all things? Notice the logic here. The logic goes from the greater to the lesser. If God would do this, as uncomprehensible as that is. Surely he would do this if God would crucify his son for me It stands the reason logic tells me that he would take care of me, that he would help me. That he would lead me in my life and direct me. That he would be eager to answer my prayer here and answer my prayer. He'd be eager to help uh take care of me and give me the things I need. God is very eager to give us that which we need in our life. You mark it down. Some of us, if I make this statement, there's thoughts going to come to your mind immediately. One thing you are needing and trusting and asking God to do in your life. I have a number of things come to my mind immediately. That I want, that I need God to do in my life. If I understand this verse correctly, and I believe I do The fact that Jesus Christ would die on that cross for me and suffer hell for my sin tells me that God's very eager to do that for me, what I need done. God's very eager to take care of me. He gives me instruction on how to live the best life I possibly can here on life. He wants to instruct us and lead us. Tell you what, one thing I have never regretted doing, one thing I have never ever regretted doing, and that is this, waiting on God and letting him lead me. I've never regretted that. I look back over my 54 years of life, 35 as a Christian. I look back over those years, and I've more times than I care to admit, where I took things into my own hands. Where I leaned on my own understanding, and I decided I knew best for me. And I look back at those times with deep, deep regret. I wished I'd have trusted God I wish I had let Lord lead me and direct me. I wish that exercised faith. Listen, God is very eager to lead us in life God is very eager to show us from His Word how we're to live, what we're to do, what decisions that we should and should not make. God wants to help us. He loves us. He cares for us. He will freely give us all things. And if we will trust him, if we will let him lead us step by step through life, He'll freely do that for us. We can be sure of that. God wants to give us the provisions that we need to live in life Say, oh, preacher, if my circumstances were different, boy, then I'd really live for God. God has given to you and I the very perfect circumstances that we need to live for Him. We have everything we need. Oh, if only Oh, preacher, uh, if uh if you had to live with my spouse, you'd know how hard it was to live for God Well, they gotta live with you too, all right? Keep that in mind. I saw a thing. I just saw this I saw a thing this week. Uh something about my husband's always telling me what a what a pain I am and how stupid I am, but he's the one that married me and uh She's got a point there, fellas. Listen, God's very eager to give us the provisions we need. To live the best life we possibly can here on earth, bringing glory to God and pleasing Him with their life. If I have Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, I have the greatest possession in the world. Listen, I don't care with these folks out there Hollywood movie stars and politicians and all these big businessmen And they flaunt all that the stuff they have. I tell you what, I'd rather have Jesus and none of that. I've got more than they do. Amen or not? Person dies and stands before God, all that wealth, all those possessions, all that fame, all that influence they had means nothing before the judgment seat of Christ, before the great white throne judgment of God. Means nothing. But if I've got Jesus Christ as my Savior, I may not have two nickels to rub together, but I've got the greatest possession in the world. If I have Jesus Christ my personal Savior. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall we not with him also freely give us all things? I can rest at ease. If I have Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, my sins are forgiven. I know I'm on my way to heaven. God has all that settled in my heart. I can rest at ease. I can say, God, you show me what to do. You show me how to live. You show me which direction to go. And I can rest at ease. God will take care of me. God will take care of me I love uh meeting and knowing, getting to know our missionaries. As they understand that God is leading in their life and directing them to these foreign fields. Directing them here in the States to start churches. It is so exciting to see how the peace of God settles on their hearts and lives as God leads and directs them to sometimes make difficult decisions And yet God cares for them. Time and time and time again, God leads and directs and cares for them. If you do not have Jesus Christ this morning as your personal Savior, I'm telling you, you are in dire straits this morning. If you do not have this matter settled as to whether your sins are forgiven or not, if you don't have this matter settled, whether you're going to heaven or hell when you die, I'm telling you, you're an incredibly dangerous situation. You need to settle that. God delivered up his Son, Jesus Christ On that cross, so that we can be forgiven, so that we can be cleansed from our sin, and we can know that when we die, we go to heaven and not to hell. That must be settled. We have Jesus Christ as Savior, then we can rest content that God will care for us. I was up in Elk Garden this week. Friday, I went up. The morning I just took a party took a neighborhood. I was gonna say I took a neighborhood. That that town is a neighborhood, you know, it's just I just started knocking on doors. Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, I'd like to leave a little invitation with you. Come visit our church. You have a church you attend anywhere. Got all different responses. People were very friendly. Left literature. Had prayer with a lady. Just had a situation. She claimed to be saved. Just had a pleasant A few hours up there just visiting with folks door to door. It's a trailer there. Didn't think anyone's home. I knocked on the door. I didn't expect an answer. In fact I was getting the literature ready to stick it on the door and go on, but I heard movement inside. Old fella came to the doors, gray-headed, gray bearded, wrinkled up. Got talking to him a little bit. I introduced myself. He was very friendly to me, thanked me, took the literature. Asked him if he goes to church. He kind of chuckled. He says, nah. I haven't been to church in a long, long time. I said, how about it? When you were young, did you go? Yeah, over here, little church there in Elk Garden. So I went there when I was a kid. So this is where this is the only place I've ever lived my whole life. He's in his late seventies. I asked him how old he was. He was in the late seventies Told me his name. I said, Mr. So-and-so. I said, going to church is important. Has its place. But more important than that is knowing for sure that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. I said, sir, you don't want to go to hell. He kind of shook his head in agreement with me, nodded his head. I said, Do you ever give that any thought? He says, Yeah, sometimes I do I said, I'd like to show you. Oh, then I said, I said, you ever get a thought? He says, yeah, sometimes I do. I said, do you know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven? He chuckled, nah. I said, does that concern you? He said this. Nope. Doesn't concern me at all. I said, sir, he gave me his age. I said, you're not a spring chicken anymore. He chuckled and said, you're right on that. I said, the book of Hebrews tells us it's pointed on a man wants to die. After this is judgment. I said, when you die, it's too late. You can't make any decision. It's settled. He goes, I don't care about that. I said, well listen, before I go, I want to take my Bible. I said, I'd like to at least just show you from the Bible. How you can know what to do and how to Jesus can come in your life, forgive all your sin, that when you die you go to heaven and not to hell. I just want to show you this. He goes, I'm not interested. Not interested I tried to urge him a little bit to at least let me show. He had the tract in his hand. The literature I gave him was a gospel tract similar to this. I said, well please, if you won't let me show you from Bible, will you please take this little gospel tract, sit down and read through it? It tells you right from the Bible how you can know your sins are forgiven. When you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. And he kind of went like this, just turned, closed the door, walked back in the house. I walked away from that and I was going down to the next house. My heart got broken for that old guy. I thought he has no idea the danger that he is in. He has no idea How close he is to spending eternity in a lake of fire with no hope of ever escaping And yet God loved them so much that Jesus Christ has already paid that price for him, has already suffered that for him. All he needs to do is receive it. I spent the last two days praying that he'd be saved, that he'd be saved, that he'd be saved. I've had Thousands of people over the years turned me down and turned down the gospel. But I don't know what it was about this old guy that just broke my heart If you're here this morning, that's not settled in your heart and mind. You're hoping you're saved. You think you're going to heaven. That's not good enough. You and I need to settle that. If it's not settled, you need to take care of that. The Bible's very, very clear. And you can leave here this morning, not hoping, not thinking, but knowing. That your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. Young or old, or without Christ, we're in a dangerous, dangerous situation. Do young people ever die unexpectedly? Sure. Middle age? Absolutely. Seniors? Sure. It's not something to trifle with. It's not something to neglect. It's highly important and needs to be settled. And those of us that know Christ, let's trust him. Let's just let him lead us and direct us and rest in him. He cares for us tremendously. If he would do that for you and I, he'll take care of us. We can trust him and follow his leadership in our life. Let's pray together. Father in heaven. Lord, this Memorial Day weekend remember, we remember the men and women who died in defense of our country. But Lord, we also, most importantly, remember the Lord Jesus Christ. Who died so that we can escape hell and be forgiven of our sin. I pray that this truth would have a profound impact in our hearts and lives. I pray that none of us would take this lightly. The heads bowed and with our eyes closed. Are there some here this morning that would say, Preacher, I know for sure that God has forgiven my sin and saved me? I know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven. I have a Bible basis for that. But you'd say, Preacher I'm struggling in my life trusting God. I'm struggling in areas of my life just putting things in God's hand and letting Him lead me and direct me and take care of me. And you'd say, preacher, this morning it's foolish of me to do that. If he would be willing to die and suffer hell for me, surely he'll care for me. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me as a Christian that God will help me just trust him. And let him lead me and direct me in my life and not worry, but be sure that he will care for me. Is there anything like that? As a Christian, uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me, that God will help me. God bless you. Hands all around. It's a wonderful thing to live a life of just faith in God, knowing, having peace in my heart that He cares for me and will care for me. Another question. There's some here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, that my sins are forgiven. I hope I go to heaven. I think I would, but I can't say 100% that I'm certain. And you'd say this morning, preacher, pray for me. God will help me settle that. I don't want to risk it anymore. I don't want to go another day without danger of me dying without Christ. And you say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me settle this. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Pray for me that God will help me save How about it? Any at all? Uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, pray for me also Listen, church members are not exempt from this. There's doubts. There's question marks. It has to be settled. It has to be settled. to be settled. Any others? Preacher, pray for me. Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised. I saw the hands, Lord, but you see our hearts. And I pray you'd help every hand that was raised, every knee that's represented here, that a decision would be made. It's made to trust you, made to let you have your way. I pray for those that raise their hand, help them to find a place, old-fashioned order, and just humble ourselves before you, say, yes, Lord, you're right. I'm going to trust you. I'm going to rest in you. I'm going to look to you to meet my needs and lead me and direct me. Please let that be Be true this hour I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together