1 Corinthians chapter 12, if you have your Bibles there, look at the very last verse of 1 Corinthians chapter 12. Our message is going to be from chapter 13. But I want to begin with the last verse of chapter 12. Now you understand the chapter divisions are man-made. They were added years later and they're very helpful. And the verse the verse is numbered and all of that, that was man added that years later. And it's very, very helpful. Can you imagine trying to find a passage without having chapter and verse to go to? It would be challenging. And so we're very grateful for it. However, I think in this case here, the last verse of chapter 12, I think, fits in with chapter 13. I think it's a continuation of the thought there. And if you would, look at verse 31 there, chapter 12, it says, but covet earnestly the best gifts. He had been talking to them, and we'll discuss this here in a bit. But he'd been addressing the matter of spiritual gifts that the Holy Spirit gives believers. And he says, covet earnestly the best gifts. And he says this. He says, and yet show I unto you a more excellent way. A more excellent way. I want to talk about this more excellent way that Paul mentions here. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our study of your word this morning. I pray you'd help all of us, myself and all of us, to put aside the cares of the world. Help us, Lord, to put aside out of our hearts and minds the coming week and our schedule and the different issues we're dealing with. And Lord, I pray your Holy Spirit would help us as believers to open our hearts and minds to your word and to your will for our individual lives. Father, I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew this hour, and I ask once again, earnestly. That you fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, and that you would speak through me and help us grow in our faith in this excellent way, this most important issue. Help us to address that, Lord, and respond to it in faith. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Pastor Matt read a few moments ago. He met 1 Corinthians chapter 13. I'm convinced That chapter 13 of 1 Corinthians is one of the great, is not one of, is the greatest piece of writing, of literature, on what genuine love is in all of the history of man. All the uh uh books that have been written about love, and they are without number. None of them come even close to the greatness of 1 Corinthians 13 on this matter of biblical love. All the songs sung, good heavens, how many love songs are out there, and have been for centuries People writing love songs, singing love songs, performing love songs. I'm telling you, there has never been a song written or sung by any man or woman in all of human history that comes even close to 1 Corinthians chapter number 13. What a chapter it is on biblical love. There's all kinds of seminars and sessions. on family relationships and on marriage and interpersonal relationships and inevitably the subject of love comes up and there's been some great lectures There's been some great uh uh articles and blogs and and uh seminars given on love, but I'm telling you not one of them comes even close to 1 Corinthians chapter 13 In fact, as I studied this chapter once again and gave attention to it, I almost feel like any attempt on my part to expound or explain chapter 13 just diminishes it. Because the grandeur of this chapter just in and of itself needs little or no explanation. Charity. Christian biblical love. Ironically, 1 Corinthians chapter 13, the greatest subject, the greatest Literature on the greatest subject there is, biblical love, is written to what was no doubt the worst church in the New Testament time I mean this church at Corinth was awful. I've said this often. If you went on vacation and you visited a church like the church at first at Cor Corinth there, the church that's being addressed If you visit that church, you would leave. I guarantee you, most of us would say, I ain't never going back to that church again. They're awful. And they were awful. Now, the church at Corinth here, this Corinthian church, uh, as awful as they were, yet they were probably the most gifted church in all of Scripture, in all the New Testament age. If you would come back to chapter number uh one of 1 Corinthians and we're just going to jump around the book here a little bit to try and find out who these people are that are being addressed in chapter 13. What were they like? Come back to chapter 1 of 1 Corinthians and notice with me, if you would, verse number 7. Paul is writing to them, and as his custom was, he starts out with some very positive statements Uh he's going to scorch them alive here a little bit later because of what they were. But he begins with some positive statements. He begins with some uh encouraging things. And notice verse 7, he makes this statement about the church at Corinth. He says, so that ye come behind in no gift Now, what does he mean by that? You come behind in no gift. This is what he's saying. And we see this later on in the book. He's saying to them, you have more of the spiritual gifts that the Holy Spirit gives to Christianity than any other church. You don't come behind any of them You have as many, if not more, spiritual gifts than any other church does. Now that's an amazing statement. That tells me that that church was a very gifted church. That church was a very talented church That church had everything they needed to be the church God intended them to be. They had all the gifts, they had all the abilities, all the talents, they were very gifted, very talented They had tremendous abilities in this matter of serving the Lord and living for God. They had the gifts of the Spirit. Listen to this. But they did not have the fruit of the Holy Spirit. You know, you and I can be a very gifted Christian and yet be a very sorry Christian. We can have a lot of abilities, we can have a lot of talents A person can be a tremendous teacher and yet be a terrible Christian. You with me? A person can uh can be very, very gifted at organization and administration, and that is a gift of the Spirit, he explains later on, can be very gifted in those areas, but yet at the same time be a terrible Christian. Be a very carnal, worldly Christian. And so the church at Corinth that chapter thirteen is written to, this phenomenal Statement on love, biblical love. It's written to a church that was very gifted, but was not very spiritual. If you would come over to verse 11 of chapter 1. Notice something else he says about that It was perhaps the most gifted church in the New Testament, but it was without a doubt the most divided church in the New Testament. Look at verse 11. For it hath been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe, and uh he said, uh this house of Chloe, whoever they were, they got a hold of Paul, and they said, Paul, we got problems here in this church. And he said that there are what among you? Contentions. There's fussing going on. There's fighting going on. There's arguments and back and forth. Contention. He goes on. He says, now this I say that every one of you saith, I'm of Paul, and I am of Apollos, and I am of Cephas, and I have, and I of Christ. He says, is Christ divided? Let me ask you a question. Is Christ divided? Yes or no? No. And his body ought not to be divided And here, this church at Corinth, so gifted, had so many abilities, so many talents, and yet they were so divided, so contentious, just fussing. And so Paul's writing this letter about charity to them, and it's a divided way Oh, we like this preacher. Oh, we can't stand that preacher. We like this preacher. Oh, we like Apollos. Oh, yuck, I can't stand Apollos. I like Paul. Oh yeah, I'm not for any of them. I'm this guy's really spiritual. I'm for Christ. I'm telling you, it doesn't matter who you're for, if you're contentious, you're not right with God. I'm going to say that again. If you're contentious, you're not right with God. This church was not right with God. And Paul rebuked them sharply. And we could go on. That would be a message in and of itself. And so they're very gifted, they're very talented, they have these tremendous abilities, and yet they can't get along. They can't even be nice to each other. They can't even hardly talk to each other. I tell you, there's something wrong when two Christians can't get along. Amen. There's something wrong when two Christians can't even talk to each other. And that's the way this church was. If you would notice in chapter 3, come over to chapter 3 and look with me at verse number 1. They were the most gifted church, but they were not without a doubt the most divided church. They were the most immature church that I can find in the New Testament. Look at verse 1 of chapter 3. And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual But as unto what? Carnal. They were controlled by the flesh. That's what carnal means. Fleshly. And then he goes on, he says: even as unto babes in Christ. I fed you with milk, not with meat. For hitherto you were not able to bear it, neither are you now able, for ye are yet carnal. For whereas there is among you envying and strife and divisions, are ye not carnal and walk as men? For while one say, I am of Paul, and another I am of Paulos, are ye not carnal? This was a very immature church. I'm telling you, you can be tremendously gifted by God, but yet be very immature in your life. That's the way they were. Tremendously gift. They came behind and know their church in this matter of gifts and abilities But yet they were so carnal, so baby, immature. Come over to chapter 4. We find something else about this church. In verse number 6, we find that it's one of the most arrogant churches in the New Testament. Arrogant! Look at verse number six of chapter 4 Paul says, and these things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself and to Apollos. Look at this, for your sakes, that ye might learn. He says, listen, you need you guys need to learn something He says that you might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written. Look at this. That no one of you be puffed up for one against another. For who maketh thee to differ from another? And what hast thou that thou didst not receive? They're arrogant. They're looking down on other people and they're condemning other people and they're judging other people. Brother, they were experts at pointing out the faults of everybody else and exalting themselves and gloating over others. I tell you, when I read that and studied that passage there a little bit we just read, I thought about the two fellows that went up to the temple to pray. In Luke chapter 18, one was a scribe, Pharisee, self-righteous. And he came before the Lord, and I'm putting in my own words here, of course, and he prayed to the Lord. He said, Lord, I thank thee that I tithe and I do this and I do that. And I'm one of the, I'm putting my own words here, of course, but uh I'm one of the best Christians in this group. And I'm not like that sorry guy over there, publican, sorry, sinful wretch. You know what that is? That is nothing but raw, wicked arrogance. And we start exalting ourselves and we start lifting ourselves up and viewing ourselves as better than others and more deserving than others. I tell you what, when a church that's like that is a church that's not right with God. There's no room in the body of Christ for arrogance Self-righteousness. Looking down and condemning others. No room for it. Oh, were they gifted? Oh, yeah. Brother, they could run things, they could teach, they were gifted. But they were so arrogant. Arrogant. I'm better than others. Holier than thou. Something else I noticed, come over to chapter 14. And uh in verse number 23, probably the most gifted church in the New Testament, without a doubt, the most divided church, the most immature church, the most arrogant church. How many people right now, you're turned off by this church? Anybody here say, good heavens? Look at chapter 14 and look at verse 23. He says, um therefore, he's talking about spiritual gifts, in this case the subject of tongues. He says, if therefore the whole church be come together in one place, and all speak with tongues, And there coming those that are unlearned or unbelievers, will they not think that ye are what? Man, they're going to think you're nuts. Come down to verse number 26. He says, How then is it, brethren, when you come together, every one of you hath a psalm, hath a doctrine, hath a tongue, hath a revelation, hath an interpretation That all things be done unto edifying. I put in the margin of my Bible, side verse 26, I put this word down, chaos. Their services were chaos Everybody's out there talking, nobody and talking in touch, nobody has any clue what they're saying Everybody's going on at the same time prophesying and speaking tongues, and the whole service was absolute chaos. I put this down. They were without a doubt the loudest church in the New Testament. I mean, they just was chaotic. Look with me, if you would, over read down to verse 27. If any man speak in an unknown tongue, let it be by two, or at the most by three, and that by course. One after another, not everybody all at the same time. Now the subject of tongues is another subject we'll look at, but what I'm saying this is what they were doing was loud and chaotic People thought they were crazy. Nobody was being helped. Nobody was being edified. Look up at verse number 23, or I'm sorry, 33. For God is not the author of confusion. This whole chapter, he's rebuking them for the chaos that's taken place in their services. And he says, listen, that's not of God. I tell you, you mark it down. If there's confusion, God's not in it. That's not the author of confusion. That's not the author of chaos carrying on. God is not the author of confusion, but of peace. As in all the churches of the saints. They were a very gifted church, no doubt about it. We can't deny that. Paul mentions that throughout the book. But they were so divided, they could not get along, contentious. They were immature. They were arrogant. Loud and chaotic. And now I want to get to what introduces our subject. Come back to chapter 11 with me if you would. And they were, in my mind, the most unloving church in the New Testament. Unloving. Chapter 11, if you would, notice with me, verse number 20. When ye come together, therefore, unto one place, this is not to eat the Lord's Supper. Now he's introducing the subject of the Lord's Supper, communion, some people call it. And what he's saying here is he's introducing it says, what you're doing is not biblical Lord's Supper He says, you guys are coming together in the name of the Lord's Supper and saying you're going to have communion, but what you're doing is not what the Lord's Supper is all about. That's the statement there. Then he goes on and explains. This is not to eat the Lord's supper. Look at verse 21. For in eating everyone taketh before other his own supper. And one is hungry, and another is drunken. What? Have ye not houses to eat and drink in? Or despise ye the church of God and shame them that have not? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I praise you not. Here's what was happening. They would have what they called Lord's Supper, and they'd all the church come together. We do Lord's Supper generally the third Sunday night of every month And to me, we had last Sunday, I don't know how the rest of the church feels, but to me, the Lord's Supper is one of the most unifying times of anything we do in our church. When our hearts are humbly knit together before the cross, remembering and memorializing the price Jesus Christ paid for our sins. And we as a body come to get together to remember that in a repentant, humble, sober manner. Boy, God unites our hearts together And I tell you, I lead church on Lord's Supper Night, and I love every member of this church more than I did the week before. It mixed our hearts together in love, in unison, and compassion It's a powerful ordinance the Lord has given us. You know what this church was doing? They were doing wasn't the Lord's Supper They say we're gonna have Lord's Supper. Everybody bring their crockpot, their casseroles, they bring all their food, and they'd set up around, this is ours, and then there'd be other folks come in there that didn't have much, poor Then how much food they come in and they say, no, you ain't having none of mine. Get out of here. This is ours. Bring your own. And that was literally The attitude and the actions of the church doing Lord's Supper. Then there was others bring their alcoholic wine in, and they're drinking of the blood of Christ and getting drunk in the name of the body and blood of Jesus Christ. I'm telling you what, this church had no love for anybody else other than themselves. And this is what I'm getting at. The church at Corinth, so gifted, but everything revolved around themselves. Everything was about me. Everything was about what I want, the way I see things, the way I want to do things, what I have, what I'm doing. And they didn't have the slightest clue what biblical love was. And no clue. I'm here to tell you this world talks about love. And religion talks about love. But I tell you what, we fall far short of what genuine godly love really is. And 1 Corinthians 13 is the greatest. Explanation, the greatest statements on what love is. How ironic. That a church that was so unloving, that was so selfish, that was so focused on them and their who they are and their righteousness and so focused on themselves. God, Paul, under the inspiration of God, writes one of the greatest treaties on what biblical love is I love chapter 13. Every Christian ought to be very, very familiar with chapter 13. And by the way, I don't have this, excuse me, I don't have this in my notes. But chapter 13 is not written about a husband and wife love for each other. It's not marriage of count that'sn't marriage counseling he's given in chapter 13. Of course it would apply But that's not what it's about. It's about Christians loving others the way God intends for Christians to love others Whether it's a husband or wife or a neighbor or a church member or an enemy. Charity. And more excellent way. A more excellent way. Though the church was very gifted, they had become obsessed with these gifts. That's what chapter 12, 13, and 14 are about. They had they had these the Holy Spirit had gifted them in tremendous ways, and they had taken what they called gifts and distorted it and perverted it. Brought in pagan worship and practiced pagan worship under the name of the gifts of the Spirit. And it was total chaos and it was all about themselves. They use these quote-unquote gifts to exalt themselves and praise themselves and honor themselves and lift themselves up and put others down. And in chapter 12, in verse 31, Paul says, Alright, covet earnestly the best gifts. Gifts are good, yes. God gives them. Biblically, what God gives But he says, let me tell you something. You're missing the point. You're missing the point. The gifts and ability God has given you are not given for you to lift yourself up, to make you think I'm better than others and put others down. He says you're missing the point. There's a more excellent way. That's not what this is about. I think to some extent he's saying this: listen, you can do better than this. There's a more excellent way. I believe the main evidence of a mature Christian is not how talented I am. The main evidence of a mature, godly Christian. It's not how gifted I am How smart I am, how talented I can administrate, or how well I can sing, or how good of how great of a teacher I am. That is not what makes a mature Christian. In fact, let me throw this out. How much Bible you know is not an indication of how mature you are as a Christian. I want to remind you, the devil knows that book better than you and I probably do. Paul says, listen, there's more, you're missing the point. If you would, look there in chapter 13, come over there towards the end. Notice he says verse 11. Now consider the context of who he's writing to and their behavior and their demeanor and their attitudes, their pride, their condemnation of everyone and anything others. And he says to them, When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child. He says, when I was a little kid, I was immature. I was a small child, I was very immature. But look what he says, but when I became a man, when I grew up, I did what? I put away that immaturity. I put away that selfishness. I put away that pride and condemnation criticism, saying this, I grew up. Listen, I think the greatest sign of biblical maturity is what the Bible calls charity. Loving people as God loves people. It doesn't matter how talented I am, it doesn't matter how intelligent I am Doesn't matter how gifted I am, doesn't matter how how uh how well I know that Bible, if I do not have charity, I am nothing Nothing. There's a more excellent way. And that excellent way is to have charity The main evidence of a mature Christian, if I understand this passage correctly, the main evidence of a mature Christian is a genuine love for God. A genuine love for others and a genuine love for the unsaved. Charity. Charity. Now, let's look at this real quickly. Said all that to put the context. Terrible church. Very gifted, very talented. Man, they had everything they needed to be what God intended them for to be, and they totally missed it. It was all about themselves, wrapped up in me and my and self-centered. And Paul says, charity. There's a more excellent way. Now, my first thought is this. Number one, a definition of charity. Now think with me a little bit. Everybody doing all right? Everybody out there okay? Alright, now we're gonna we we got the engine fired up, we're gonna start going forward here. Charity, what do you think of? Well just now just put aside everything I said. When you hear that word charity, what comes to mind? Charity, you think of what? Goodwill. You think of Christian crossing, right? Charity organizations. You think of sending uh blankets to Bermuda, right? Or chickens to China, or uh Uh what uh oh do you ever see do you ever see those stupid commercials and has some little doggy on there, his big eyes, and he's in this cage, he's so abused Send us four thousand dollars and we'll rescue this little doggy. And uh and we empty our bank account and send a help that puppy dog. Uh that's we think of that as charity, right? We think of charity as is giving food to hungry people or uh ho ho cl uh houses to uh uh homeless people And charity certainly includes that, but I'm here to tell you, it's a whole lot more than giving your used clothes to Christian crossing. It's a whole lot more than giving your old wore-out shoes to goodwill. When he talks about charity here, it's not talking to us about doing a little token alms to some poor people I noticed that most modern versions, which I really don't have time for to be honest with you, but most modern versions, if not all, replace the word charity with the word love. Now I believe that's a serious mistake. Because the word charity is a very detailed, very specific word. Describing an aspect of love. It's more than just the word charity is talking about more than just the concept of love. Which is very difficult to define. Do you ever try and define what love is? That's a challenge So I believe they make a mistake if they just say, well, love suffered long. Love is kind. I think they're making a mistake. God uses the word charity here for very specific reasons. It is more than just the concept in my head of love. Charity, get this. Now here's the definition. Charity is unconditional love in action. The word charity is emphasizing the active part of love, the display of unconditional love, the expression of unconditional love. It's not just the concept of love in my head. It's the living out that concept. It's the display, the expression. The uh uh carrying out of that love. You follow what I'm saying? It's a whole lot more to say, well, love is this. No, no, no. It is the expression of it It's one thing. It's one thing to tell someone you love them. It's another thing to express that love in your actions, your behavior, and in your demeanor. Charity is talking about the expression of it. The living it out Charity. It is the expression of unconditional love. It is the display of unconditional love. It's possible to have the concept of love in your mind and not have charity in your life. It's possible to have the concept of love in my head and yet be controlled by selfish ambition. Charity pushes that selfishness out, and that unconditional love of God is then expressed in my life. I think they make a mistake if they just put love in there. I think the word charity is exactly what ought to be there, because it's the expression of it. In fact, we don't have time to study this whole thing like I would like to We could spend four years in this chapter. I could. But if you'll look down through there, take some time to look down through there, every description of charity is an action, action, action, action, action. Not one time, not one time is charity in chapter 13 or anywhere else in the Bible for that matter expressed as an emotion. Or a feeling. Oh, when I see her, I just get this feeling all over me when I see her. I think I'm in love. I'm in love with him. How do you know you're in love with him? Oh, my little heart goes pitter, patter, bitter, patter, bitter, better. Listen, maybe you need a pacemaker, I don't know. But I know this, genuine biblical charity is not an emotion. Now it may affect us emotionally. But it's not an emotion. It is an action. It's a behavior. It's an expression. Charity. Charity. It is how unconditional love affects the one who possesses that unconditional love. In other words, I get saved, and man, I begin to grasp for the love of God, the unconditional love of God for me And the Holy Spirit of God begins to shed abroad in my life that love of God He's shown me. It begins to be expressed in my life Charity is how this love of God, when it gets a hold of me, how it affects how I live, how it controls my life. Am I making sense? Everybody with me here Like I said, it's not just the thought in my head, the concept in my head, it's not some kind of feeling. It is how it's affected me, how it drives me, how it governs my actions. Charity. So I think they make, just my opinion, I think they make a big mistake when they take the word charity out. They're missing what this is all about. Charity is a word in the Bible that has little to do with emotion. Now, here's my definition. I tried to explain it. Here's my definition. Charity is a d listen carefully. Everybody, everybody with me? Everybody listening? All right, turn up your hearing aids right now. Alright? Charity is a deliberate choice to act, speak, or behave for the well-being and benefit of another. Regardless of their behavior or treatment of me. It is the a deliberate choice That I am going to act, I'm going to behave, I'm going to speak, I'm going to treat another person in such a way that it is good for them, it benefits them, it's for their well-being, regardless of whether they're concerned for my well-being or not. Regardless of how they talk to me or treat me or when other, I'm going to unconditionally treat them in a way that is best that is best for their well-being. You follow what I'm saying? Let me read it again, just real quickly. A deliberate choice to act, speak, or behave for the well-being and benefit of another, regardless of their behavior or treatment of me. Unconditional The expression of unconditional love. Unconditional love. Charity. The expression of it. It's the expression of God's unconditional love for me, to my fellow man. How many people hear God loved you when you were unlovely? Yeah. God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet. Uh here here's the way most people want to look at that. God commended his love toward me in that while I was such a saint. I was so lovely. God couldn't help but love me. I mean, uh who couldn't fall in love with me? That's we don't say that, but that's the way we think, right? I deserve God's love. Yeah. I'm entitled to God's love for me. I tell you what, we're entitled to the judgment of God upon our sin. But God loves us anyway. And God loves us in spite of ourselves, and God loves us in spite of our pride, and God loves us in spite of our self-righteousness, and God loves us in spite of our judgment of others. He loves us unconditionally. And when I get a hold of that, charity is me expressing to others this unconditional love that God has expressed to me. Paul said, I want to show you a more excellent way. Listen, you can be the greatest teacher in the world. If you don't love the people you're teaching, you're not right with God. You're f you're you're nothing. The definition of charity. Let me quickly give you the priority of charity Look at verse 1 through 3 of chapter 13. He says, Though I speak with the tongues of men and angels and have not charity, he's talking about the ability to speak very, very well. And again, I don't have time for this, but I can't pass it without saying this. This tongues of angels is not an angelic language. You'll read your Bible, every time angels spoke, they spoke in an understandable language. Every time There's no suggestion in Scripture that there's some heavenly language that we don't understand. Every time God spoke, every time an angel spoke, it was in an understandable language. People knew what they were saying. So he's not talking about some strange thing. He's talking about a very oratorical, very gifted boy who can talk so good. I speak with the tongues of men and angels, so talented, so gifted in speaking, and have not charity I'm become as a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. Would you agree with me? Having charity is more important than being gifted in speaking. I'll take a preacher, listen, I'll take a preacher that loves his people over uh that can't hardly preach his way out of a paper bag over a preacher that can preach the roof down and doesn't care a lick about his people Say just tinkling symbol. Ting ting ting ting ting ting ting ting. It's all it is. Look at verse two I thought, and though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and knowledge, brother, this guy's a Bible scholar. And though I have all faith so that I can remove mountains and have not charity, the next three words are very important. What is it? I am nothing. Would you agree with me? Charity is pretty high priority. Look at verse 3. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor. That sounds like our world's definition of charity, just help the poor. And though I give my body to be burned and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. If we don't have charity, we don't have nothing. Not like Independent Baptist Church, we're going into Revival Week here in eight days. And I'll tell you one thing, me as pastor and as a member of this church, we ought to be praying, we ought to be working, we ought to be seeking God to give us genuine charity. in our hearts and lives. Because if we don't have that, we don't have nothing. And we can stand on the old King James Bible and we do and we will. And we can sing the old hymns and we can hold the standards high, and we have, and we do, and we will. But if we don't have love, all that is meaningless. Meaningless. We can have the best exposition of scripture of anybody in this country. But if we don't have love, we don't have nothing Love is priority. Charity is priority. Priority. We don't have charity, we don't have nothing. First uh we don't have time. First I put down first John three, verse fourteen through eighteen. If I can't love my brother who I see, how in the world can I say I love God who I don't see? You got hatred You got bitterness in your heart to your brother and sister. Don't go around telling folks you love God because you don't Charity is priority. God says if you don't have that, if you don't have that, you don't have nothing. A Christian that has bitterness in their heart, a Christian that has anger and hatred to others in their heart has a Christian that has nothing. Zero. It's what the Bible says. Charity. Revelation chapter 2 verse 2 through 4, and I wanted to go to these weekends. It was a church That was very gifted. They worked hard. Brother, they had something going on every single week of the world. They served God and they had a good stand. But the Lord said to that church, I've got somewhat against thee. He says, You've left your first what? Love. All those things were wonderful, but they lost their love. They lost their love for God, they lost their love for one another, and he rebuked them. He says, you need to get back to that. The priority of charity. He says, if I have not charity, I am nothing. Now that implies to me on a positive side that if we do have charity we are something. Right? If I don't have charity, I'm nothing. Then if I learn to get a hold of this charity, this expression to others, regardless of their behavior, their treatment of me I learn to love others the way God loves me and I express it, I carry it out, I act on it. Then man, I'm something. I'm telling you, I believe there will be churches and I believe there will be Christians at the judgment seat of Christ that are so far ahead of others and so more honored by God that didn't have big buildings and didn't have big budgets and Didn't have fancy programs, but brother, they loved God and they loved others. And God said, that is the excellent way. That is what I'm longing for and looking for in my people. It's priority number one. Priority. Then, last of all, the characteristics of charity. And again, this would be a series, years long. But he goes down in verse 4 and he describes what charity does, how it's expressed. I want to challenge every one of us to look at this very carefully, study this very carefully. If this is priority, if we're nothing without this, Then we better find out what this charity is, how it's expressed. And he does there. In verse 4, he says, it's patient with other people. Now let's be honest, it's just us here this morning. Let's be honest, how many people could use a little bit more patience with others? Yeah. Let's even get more brutal. Let's get even more brutal. How many of us have not been as patient with others as God has been patient with us? Ouch. He says that's what charity is. It suffereth long. It's kind. Just good old-fashioned kindness. Brother, we could use a dose of that. It's content. Charity envieth not. It's content. Will somebody else have something I don't have? All right, that's fine. I'd rejoice in what God's given me. I'm telling you, envy is eating up Christians. Well, why do they have that? Why'd God give that to them and not to me? You laugh, that's I'm telling you, folks are that way. Why do they have that? I do more for God than they do. Why do they have that? That's not charity. That's not love. That's self. Charity envieth not. It's content. Praise the Lord. Now I'm I'm telling you, uh, I'm telling you, I just, thank God, He's giving me anything. I know somebody put it this way. I've said it before. I'm not the sharpest knife in the drawer, but praise God I'm in the drawer. You know, Amen. Praise the Lord. Content. Humble. Charity vaunteth not itself. It's not puffed up. It's not all about me. How great I am. Look at verse 5. Doth not behave itself unseemly. In other words, it's appropriate. Acts respectfully, treats people respectfully. Does not behave itself, seeketh not her own. It's unselfish It's not easily provoked. It doesn't fly off on every time somebody cuts a Hedian line or it's just stable. Just don't react to stuff. Doesn't here, I just thought of this. Charity doesn't get triggered. That's the big word, you know, oh I got triggered. Why don't you just put the gun up and unload it and Notice it says there, thinketh no evil. It's positive. Give people the benefit of the doubt. Quit assuming that what they're doing is nefarious or some Terrible thing. Maybe they're doing right and you just don't have all the information. Huh? Give them a benefit of the doubt. Look at verse 6. Rejoiceth not iniquity. It's pure. Lives a pure life. Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth. It's positive, beareth all things. Believeth all things, hopeth all things. That's confident. And then it's consistent. Endureth all things. Charity never faileth. Charity never faileth. Oh, we I I buzzed through that. We could spend months studying them. I believe the chief characteristic of a mature believer is biblical charity. Charity is the basis Of my Christian behavior. Jesus said one, two, one, two, three, four, five times in John 14, Jesus said, if you love me, you'll keep my commandments. Charity, love for God, and love for others is the very basis of my whole Christian life. It's why I live. Hey, we don't do right so that God accepts us. We don't keep our hearts and minds pure so that God will accept us. We're accepted in Christ And we do right and we love others and we're kind and we're patient and we endure uh uh uh uh uh uh mistreatment. graciously because God has been loving and kind to us. Nobody yet has treated me as badly As I have treated God. I've treated Christ. And yet He loves me. He's gracious to me. He's patient with me. More than anything else, God wants us to love him and to love others. Charity is the very heart of the Christian life. Years ago, back when the telegraph was just beginning to take hold of our country and they were stretching telegraph lines all across our land, all across the west and north and south. There was a long-distance communication company that was developing these telegraph lines and machines. And they put an ad out that they needed somebody as a Morris code operator. The young man saw the advertisement in the newspaper and went to the office where they he was to go to apply for this. position as a Morris code operator. When he got in the office area there, there was a lot of hubbub uh uh typewriters going on around and a lot of noise in the office there. It was a big waiting area where he'd come in. And it was packed full of people. He obviously got there late. And there was a big sign on the wall there. And the sign said this, it instructed job applicants to fill out a form and wait until they were summoned to enter the inner office. So he went up there and there's all this noise going on and there's this Sounded like Morris code in the background and all this noise going on. He went and got the form, he filled it out and sat down. And everybody sitting there in this office, twenty-five, thirty people sitting there with their little forms waiting to be called in to the office to have their interview. After a couple minutes, this boy, young man, that came in last gets up Walks across the room, goes in the inner office, and closes the door. About four or five minutes later, he and the boss come out, and the boss says, all right, everybody can go home The position's no longer available. This man's just filled it. Y'all can go home. Man, people were ticked. They said, wait a minute. We sat here for an hour, he walks in, he doesn't even get called in, he just walks in there and gets the job. What's the deal? And he said, the whole time you were sitting here, the Morris code was saying, if you can read this, come on in my office, you've got the job And of that whole crowd, that young man was the only one that knew Morris Code. He heard that, got up, walked in, he got the job. I'm telling you, we live in a world a lot of noise, a lot of chaos, but we have a spiritual telegram from heaven The love of God that touches our hearts. And that love that God has shown us ought to stir us to get up and love others, even as we're loved. And to treat others as God treats me. And God said that's the more excellent way. Faith, hope, and charity, but the greatest of these It's charity. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to love as you've loved us. And not just in concept and in word, but our treatment, our actions of one another. And Lord, I know we get put off. People say and do things that put us off. I pray you'd help us to die, to self. And to love even as you love us. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there'd be some this morning who said, Preacher, I'm so glad God saved me. I know my sins are forgiven. I know I have a home in heaven. There's no doubt about that. But preacher, I need to learn to love with charity. The way God has loved me. Is there any who would say, preacher, God's Holy Spirit spoke to my heart? God's Holy Spirit has challenged me this morning. God bless you, hands all around. I tell you, I studied this and God worked me over. We tend to be so selfish, don't we? So self-centered. We get those ingrown eyeballs, and all we can see is me and mine. Need to get that turned around. I wonder, we got one week till our revival meeting. Let me ask our church folk. I wonder how we'd say, preacher, I'm praying for revival. Real, genuine, Holy Ghost revival in my heart, my home, my church. Any like that, preacher, I'm going to pray. I am praying. I'm going to pray That God meets with us in a great way. That we be the church that God intends for us to be, that we would live the lives God intends for us to live. Charity, loving, kind. There's someone here this morning to say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved. I don't know I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I'm here to tell you God loves you and He don't want you to go to hell either. He says if you'll come and trust him, he'll forgive you and save you. Is there any like that, preacher, I'm concerned about where I spend eternity? I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Any like that at all? How about it? Just slip your hand up. Any at all, preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled. I can't go to hell. I can't, I can't. I've got to get that settled. Any at all? Any at all. A lot of us know folks that need Christ. We need to love them. Do you do right, live right. Father, bless the invitation now, I ask. Have your way. Help us to be responsive. Change our lives, I pray. In Jesus' name.