Uh second First Corinthians. First Thessalonians, if you would please. First Thessalonians. We're beginning a uh new series. Helen uh came in for a ladies' visitation this morning, mentioned she had gotten a article from um Elizabeth or she brought in an article from Elizabeth Raynema over in Holland, a paper she had written for she's taking correspondence class And uh I got looking at that thing, that is really excellent, and I ran a copy off of it. I didn't ask Elizabeth if this is all right, but um If there is anybody interested in getting a copy of this, we'll get some copies made. Excuse me, I'm trying to put my microphone on. The title of it is Who Is a Strange Woman from the Bible? And I tell you, she shoots straight. You don't have to wonder what she's talking about or what she's getting to. She goes straight from the Bible. This is an excellent little paper I'm just curious how many folks would be interested in getting a copy of this and reading it. All right, that way I'll know how many copies to make. I said I'll make about fifteen copies, I guess, and uh we'll have that, Lord will, on Sunday If you stick around a little bit, we could run them off this evening real quickly for you. Something else before we get into the message. Of course, we are in the process of preparing for our trip over to our adopted country. And uh we had a great uh service Sunday um talking about it then But anyway, as we're planning on that, I got a call today from Chris Phillips, our missionary to Kazakhstan on his way. He was so excited this and I'm still ringing a little bit up here, Dave. It's ringing pretty good. He was so excited. Um he said, Pastor Lemon, I gotta tell you what's happening. I gotta tell you what's happening. I had just sent him an email not even five minutes before which he didn't get but um he's down in a meeting in Tennessee at his home and uh he said uh the other day at the church where he's going uh Temple Baptist He met a fellow who is a former missionary to Kazakhstan, a Baptist missionary that was there for a number of years And so they got talking, and uh he knows about the country, had been there for a while, for whatever reason he's not there now. And this, and I think I have this correct. I I should have had him type this up and send it to me, but Uh the way I understood him, this missionary's brother-in-law is still in Kazakhstan, has an orphanage there. I think he is Kaz. I think his brother-in-law is actually a Kaz uh nationality, has a orphanage there with a number of young people and they have a place to stay for Chris and his wife. They offered for him to stay there And uh with them so he wouldn't need a motel. He said it's possible they may have enough facilities there for all of us. And I said, well, you know, we need to know a little something about the fella and what the situation is and all of that But um appar and uh this guy has a contact there, knows a number of people within the country that um apparently Christians that were in the country when he left that we can get contact with and just opens a whole nother avenue of contacts and and uh different things. This fellow that's in country will be able to help us with translations and whatnot and getting around and those types of things. So that was very exciting. Then he said he was up in Canada in a missions conference and apparently In Canada, an American citizen cannot receive support from a Canadian church unless they go through an agency that is approved by the Canadian government. So uh brother uh Phillips is going through their home church, Temple Baptist, which is huge. He came, uh he called down and told them what the situation was. They said, don't worry about it, we'll contact, we'll get the arrangements made so it works out. In the meantime, they go out, they're traveling with the pastor of the church in Canada along an interstate. They stop at a rest area to get some lunch. Chris's wife is stayed home ill, and so he has the kids. He takes the kids up to the restroom or something. And he comes back and the pastor of the church says, Brother Chris, I want you to meet a fellow right here in his family. And so he takes him over, and here is a Korean man with his family The preacher just, I guess, gave him a track, just happened to meet him there, didn't know him, but happened to meet him there in the restaurant while they're eating. Chris introduced himself as going to Kazakhstan to work with Korean people. That's his target. They get talking, hear this guy. has a there he this guy is a Christian he's in a Presbyterian church though but their church supports a whole slew of Presbyterian churches in Kazakhstan. And so they got talking about the country and oh yeah we've got I guess there are Korean churches, a lot of Koreans And um so they get talking about this and talking about this, and in the conversation, Chris mentions that they can't get support from the Canadian Church. And the guy says, you know what? I work in the Canadian government with that division that approves those types of things. And uh he says, I'll get in touch with your church and we'll work things out and don't worry about it, it'll all work out. Tell me that's not of God Just out of the blue of all people, Chris was on cloud nine. He was talking in tongues and everything. No, not really But um uh he was fired up and uh so he's real excited. Uh he says this has opened doors. Of course the Presbyterian Church, you know, they're outside uh where we would be, but um uh there's contacts to be made there. There's Christians in country now that we can get a hold of and be able to uh make contact with and just it's just amazing what God is doing. Uh I told Ed and Ron and Paul we're working down in the barn today and as soon as I hung up I went down there and told them and um Uh Ed's Ed made the statement, he says, a little Rinky Dink church out in Western Maryland. Now I don't know who's Rinky Dink, but um uh Something what'd you say? Something like that. But a little church out here in Maryland and God using us to reach that country with the gospel. Isn't that exciting? And so uh I was fired up, Chris was fired up, and um I'm just thrilled with what the Lord's doing. All right, now let's look at First Thessalonians chapter one. I'm going to read the first ten chapters, which happens to be the first The first ten verses, I mean, which happens to be the first chapter of the book. All right, settle down, preacher, relax. Look what it says. Paul and Sylvanus, who is Silas, and Timotheus. unto the Church of the Thessalonians, which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be unto you, and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers, remembering without ceasing your work of faith and labor of love and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of God and our Father, knowing, brethren beloved, your election of God For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance, as ye know what manner of men we were among you for your sake And ye became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Ghost. So that ye were in samples to all that believe in Macedonia and Achai. For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achai. But also in every place your faith to Godward is spread abroad, so that we need not to speak anything. For they themselves show of us What manner of entering in we had uh unto you, and how ye turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son uh from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus. Which delivered us from the Wrath to Come. I've entitled the series of, as we look through this book, Rapture Ready And you'll find out as we go through here, that's pretty much a major theme through the Book of Thessalonians, being prepared for the rapture, and a church that was ready. Now tonight I'm entitled The Beginning, the Introductory Message, A Model Church. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. We look in His Word. Father in heaven, I do ask that you would speak to our hearts through your word. I pray, Holy Spirit, that you would fill me and speak through me. I yield my will to yours. Your will, dear God, I present my body anew. And you be our teacher and preacher tonight. Lord, open our hearts and minds that we can grow. And God, I pray that every one of us leave here tonight. We would be rapture ready That our hearts would be in tune, our lives would be in line, and all that needs to be done would take place so we can be prepared for your coming. Bless, I pray, Lord, our study in your word in Jesus' name. Amen. I think I'm still ringing a little bit, Dave. The Bible. Someone said the Bible has more meaning for our lives. And more help for our problems than any other book that has ever been written. I encourage young people. I think young people ought to go to Bible college. I appreciate Brother Moses' testimony, finishing up his finished up his master's degree and pursuing an education. I've always uh recommended that a young person give at least one year to Bible college I believe we live in a day and age when um and you know this is just my perspective, but I believe we live in a day and age when uh every young person ought to get a c college education of some sort. I think a person ought to know how to read to function at their potential. I think they ought to have a high school education. And I think it if there's any way possible they should have a college education. And uh, of course, one year at least being Bible college is my approach. But having said that, a knowledge of God's Word without a college degree is of greater value Than a college degree without the knowledge of God's Word. In other words, knowing this book will do more for your life and my life to enable us to be everything God wants us to be to be than the greatest degrees that the greatest colleges in the world have to offer. Now again, I'm for a college education. But what I'm more for is a Bible knowledge, so that that education can be built upon some foundation. Which, by the way, just makes me think of our Bible institution. on Monday nights. Maybe you're a cut, maybe you have you say, Preacher, I'm not going to Bible Institute. I've got a vi I've already got a college education, but uh Bible Institute would help you And all God's people said, Amen. We're beginning a study, I believe, of one of the greatest and exciting books of the Bible, 1 Thessalonians. I just want to quickly just give some introductory remarks. Number one, I'd like for us to consider the history of the city, that's Alonica, the book. And the church the book was written to. First of all, a history of the city. Thessalonica has always been a large and very important city in that part of the world. It was a seaport city, so you had ships coming and going years before Paul ever showed up For thousands of years it was a city of commerce. Ships would come from all around the known world at that point. And then there was a great highway across there. And so it was a very key city. Important, and many, many folks from different parts of the world would travel through it. It was for many years the capital city of Macedonia and that entire area. It was a very key defensive city, as the wars would take place there in the Middle East and in Greece and the surrounding areas. Thessalonica was a very, very important city. Thessalonica, I found out, I thought this was interesting, was named after Alexander the Great's sister-in-law. Now I was thinking what kind of city would I name after my sisters-in-laws? And uh I thought I better not mention that But um uh he named Klasalonica after his sister-in-law because of uh the significance of the city. And also there are uh there were and still are uh very famous popular hot springs. where people would go to for uh medical reasons and whatnot. I found out that Thessalonica was a very important uh base for the American allies during World War I During World War II, Germany captured Thessalonica, and when Germany took over, captured Thessalonica and took possession of that country, that city and surrounding areas, at that time there was six. sixty thousand Jews living in the city of Thessalonica, nineteen forty thirty-eight, thirty-nine, whenever he got down there, early forties, somewhere around there. Um at that time when Hitler took Thessalonica, sixty 60,000 Jews, every one of them were deported and exterminated. Not one Jew survived Germany's occupation of Thessalonica. In Paul's day, when he showed up in Thessalonica, as recorded in Acts chapter 16, Acts chapter 17, I should say, there were 200,000 people living in the city. There was a huge Jewish population there, and one of the large synagogues had been built in the city of Thessalonica. So this is no mean city to use Bible terminology. It was a very significant city. Very large, very key in the economic world of that time, very key city in military terms. And so that's the city of Thessalonica. We don't know a lot about its spiritual condition, other than there was a large presence of Jews there. This may be you I don't know if you'll catch the direction I'm thinking of this, but uh how would you describe the the the Jews religion as far as God is concerned? I don't know if you're gonna catch what I'm trying to say. Here. Anybody, how would you describe it? The Gentiles, the what they called barbarians and a lot of that, and the Greeks, they were what you would call polytheistic Now, what do you mean by polytheistic? Anybody take a shot at that? We talked about that in the Bible Institute. Many gods. Polly means many theistic gods. So the Greeks And the barbarians, who were non-Greek people, not Jewish, not Greek, they were barbarians, they were called. They were polytheistic. They worshipped a lot of gods. Whereas the Jews would be what Monotheistic. In other words, they recognize that there is one God, not many gods. And the Jews, of course, though they were very uh carnal in their worship and whatnot and gotten away from the word of God. Nevertheless they recognized there was one true God and who is Jehovah So the city was primarily Greek, so they worshiped many gods, but there was a strong monotheistic influence in the city through the Jews. So a little background of the city. What about the history of the church? There in Thessalica that this book is written to. Well, it was started during Paul's second missionary journey. Who was Paul's partner in the second missionary journey? Silas, remember, who was in the first missionary journey? Barnabas, correctly, and then they had a fallen out over John Mark. He goes back. He wants to go and uh see how the churches are doing. Barnabas, he gets Barnabas, let's go visit the churches. Barnabas says, Sounds great. John Mark says, Ooh, I wanna go, I wanna go. And uh Saul uh Paul says, There ain't no way you're going. You quit on the first missionary journey. You wait we we raised all that support and you went back and this that and and uh Barnabas says Nah, I think he's alright. He can work, he can make it this time. Let's give him a chance a chance. Paul says, over my dead body, he ain't going on that mission trip. Barnes says, if he ain't going, then I ain't going. Now I'm I'm elaborating here a little bit. But the Bible says the contention between the two was so sharp that they went separate ways. Now isn't that Sam? Now if you were in Bible Institute Monday night, you would know why I think who was right and who was wrong there. So you have to come back in four years for that lesson in Bible Institute. But nevertheless, Paul goes, take silence. And he goes out, and they're following up the churches that they had started, and the Christians the souls they had won on their first trip. And Paul has a vision from a man from Macedon. He says, come over and help us. So Paul goes over, ends up in Thessalonica, and starts this church. If you'll remember, he was in the city of Philippi. Uh he is uh the Jews got jealous, they persecuted Paul, had him thrown in prison. How many people remember uh uh the Phil Philippian jailer? Remember the earthquake? Uh what must I do to be saved? Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, I shall be saved. Finally, uh then uh the the uh Romans come and say, all right, just let him go out the back door. He says, no way, I'm a Roman citizen You put me in here. You're going to let everybody know you're letting me out. And so they let him out, and Paul goes over to Thessalonica. He's there. He starts the church in Thessalonica. Winning Souls. He goes there. The Bible says for three weeks he was in the synagogue week after week. Now, it's hard to imagine that he was able to start a church and get it established. To the point where it's able to go on itself in just a matter of three weeks. Now that's possible. God could do that. Amen? God could do that. I tend to think that maybe it doesn't necessarily mean he was only there three weeks, but of the period of time he was there, those three he spent three weeks in the synagogue. I can't say for certain. But nevertheless, he wasn't there a long time. Whether it was limited to just three weeks at his entire time there, or it was more and but either case it wasn't very long. And this church was established Now here's the amazing thing. The brief period of time that Paul was in Thessalonica and establishing this church, this church took off It flourished. People start getting saved. It starts growing. They become organized without Paul there. Just studying the scriptures, what they had. Letters that Paul was writing and whatnot, and they become organized, and the church at Thessalonica becomes a powerful witness for Christ. We'll notice that in a few moments. In fact, if you'll look with me at verse 8 here, In chapter 1, notice what he says about this church at Thessalonica. Now remember, he's there maybe only three weeks. However long he's there, it wasn't very long. And he says, For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achai. But also in every place your faith to Godward is spread abroad. I wrote in the marks of my Bible, worldwide faith They had such a significant testimony for Christ. They had become so strong that everybody knew about the church in Thessalonica, how much they loved God, how burdened they were for the loss. This is a unique church. They were composed, from what we can tell, composed mostly of Gentiles. They didn't have a background in the scriptures like the Jews would have, knowing the songs and the promises of a coming Messiah and the coming kingdom and all that. They didn't have all that background They were most likely Gentiles. You say, how do you know they were Gentiles? Look with me at verse number nine. Now pay close attention. He says, For they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you. Talking about when he showed up and how they responded. Look at this. How ye turn to God from what Idols to serve the living and true God. Most likely you wouldn't have Jews turning to the true God from idols. They knew about the true God. Now they weren't worshiping Craig, they weren't right with him They didn't recognize the Messiah, but it would if you have a group of folks who are turning to the true God from idols, most likely Gentiles So you have a little background of the church. They're not strong in their in they don't have a strong background of the scriptures Mostly Gentiles. Not a lot of time spent with them to lay a foundation, to get preachers in place and organization in place. They don't have any of that Nevertheless, this church took off. So you have the history of the town, the city, Thessalonica, the history of the church. What about a little bit of the book of Thessalonians? Well, the book was authored by who? God. God is the author of Scripture. Now I knew you were going to say Paul. I like to say it this way. It was authored by God, but penned by Paul. It's given by inspiration. So God is the ultimately the author, but Paul was the penman who recorded it. So it's pen by Paul. It is, as far as we know, the first New Testament book or any book of the Bible that was penned by Paul. This is the first one that has been preserved for us by inspiration. for us today. It was before 1st and 2 Corinthians, before any of the other books that God used Paul to record. This was the first one as far as we can tell. The book of Thessalonians deals with two issues Which is what attracted to me at this point in our study. First of all, the first part, he deals with the health of the church there at Thessalonica He couldn't stay. He was under severe persecution. Uh the Jews from Phil had sent some people over to persecute Paul there in uh Thessalonica and run him out of the city. And so he couldn't be there a long time. And he's very concerned about how the church is doing So he writes in the first several chapters uh concerned about the uh the health of the sa of the church. And then also the second half he deals the The primary theme, and it's throughout the book, but he deals with the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now that's interesting The church is a uh he's concerned about their well-being, the strength of their faith, their obedience, their spiritual health. He's concerned that they understand about the rapture of the church and the second coming of Christ. He's concerned for those two things. Now I think there's a reason that those two areas he was concerned for. Of course, God was behind all of it, but I believe it was because we find in the book the church was being severely persecuted By the same persecutors that Paul had experienced when he showed up there. The Jews from Philippi were moved with envy. They sent people over to Thessalonica. They run Paul out, and they kept the pressure on the Christians there. Now we may have a tendency to think, well, that church is flourishing, Paul's only been there a long time. They really don't have a strong background in Scripture, but yet it's a strong church, and they're winning souls, and uh uh man, they're growing and they're they're united, they're getting along, they're working hard, it's an ideal model church. In many ways, they must have had it really easy. The town must have been supporting them, and the government must have really been subsidizing them for them to be able to flourish like that. Fact of the matter is the exact opposite You know what scripture tells us and history tells us? That churches grow best and become stronger when faced with opposition and persecution That is when the church is strong. And I tell you, how many folks here have ever been concerned with the spiritual health of the churches in the United States of America? Anybody here? Getting so worldly, getting so self-centered, getting so uh uh far from scriptures. And I had a fellow in Bible college in the early years of Bible college at the time I thought he was nuts, but I'm becoming more and more convinced he was on to something. He would pray this. God send persecution. to the Christians in the United States of America, so we will get thoroughly right with you. Now I think he might have been on to something. Now I'm not at the point where I'm asking God to send persecution, but I am asking God to send revival. And many times, if you'll notice very carefully, revival comes as a result of hardships. And difficulties. And so this church was flourishing. It became, Paul says, a model church To all the other churches that he had started, he sets them up as an example, verse 8 tells us. Verse 7, they were an example What was it that that um uh uh what was it that fertilized Such strong faith and such growth, I suggest to you, persecution was a key factor And so Paul is very concerned. He's concerned for their faith and their health. He finds out, man, they're doing great. They're strong. And then he reminds them of the second coming of Christ. He deals with that and teaches them about the rapture. Now I'll tell you, one thing that brings hope in hard times is this: Jesus is coming again. It's not always going to be this way. We're not always going to be persecuted. Someday those skies are going to We're going to be caught up in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, we'll be raptured out of here. God is going to deal with this earth. And He's giving them some hope in the midst of their persecution. Rapture ready. And persecution. was a key part of that. And so we have the history. Also, something else I thought was interesting as I was studying this and preparing for this. You don't find a lot of the great doctrines Being dealt with that Paul deals with in other paths, in other books that he wrote. Romans, very doctrinal book. He deals with justification, he deals with the atonement, all that. You don't find any of that in here. Galatians, he's dealing with the deity of Christ. Colossians, he deals with the deity of Christ. You don't find any of that in here He doesn't deal with some of these very key doctrines in this book and um you know a little bit of speculation here but I suggest uh uh the church at Pastalenka those things settled. It wasn't a problem. It wasn't an issue. They were strong in those areas. They had studied the scriptures that they had. They had grown in their understanding of the Word of God. It wasn't something that needed to be dealt with necessarily there. So, uh a little bit of history of the book. Let me give you quickly, I'm just trying to give an overview as we set the stage for our study, not just the history of the city, the church, and the book, but how about a help that we get from the This book. Turn with me if you would, and keep your place here. I'm going to touch a few things and we're going to quit. But come back to 2 Timothy chapter 3. 2 Timothy chapter 3. Come over there with me if you would. You say, ah, who cares about a book that was written to a church 2,000 years ago? I mean, big, what's that have to do today? Turn to 2 Timothy 3. Look at verse 16 with me. 2 Timothy 3, verse 16. Notice what it says. Some of you might have this verse memorized. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. How much scripture is given by inspiration of God? All scripture, that's a very important word. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is what? Profitable. How much scripture is profitable? All of it. You mean Genesis? Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Haggai, Amos, Zechariah, Zephaniah, Haggai, Malachi, 1 Thessalonians, 2nd Thessalonians. That's prop yeah, what's it profitable for? Look, he lists a number of things. It is profitable for what? Doctrine. What is doctrine? Word self means teaching In other words, there are things in 1 Thessalonians that God says we will learn that will help us. There are teachings in the book of Thessalonians that will help us in our faith. He's given it to us by inspiration, and it is profitable to us for doctrine. That means one of the primary doctrines in Thessalonians, we'll find out, is the second coming, the rapture. You know what that means? That means it's important for you and I to understand the rapture and what the Bible teaches us. Is about the second coming of Christ because it will help us. It's teaching. It's profitable for doctrine. For what else? What's it say there? Reproof. What is reproof? Somebody talk to me. What does it mean for reproof? Who knows? Reproof would be the idea when your child is poking the cat with a stick and you come up and say, Stop it! Don't do that anymore. You know what you're doing? You're reproving the cat. Not the cat, the kid. You're something is taking place. It is a confrontation and says you need to stop that 2 Timothy 3. 16 tells us that all Scripture, even 1 Thessalonians, is given to us, it will help us in its teaching, but it will also reprove us. You know what we're going to find out when we study this? There's some things we might be doing that God's going to tell us to stop. Huh? There's some things, you better stop doing that. Because that's what Scripture does. It's what is the help? What help are we going to get from 1 Thessalonians? Well, we're going to learn some things that'll help us We're going to find out there's some things that maybe we're doing we ought not to do. God's going to reprove us. Look what else. All scripture given by us, praise God, is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for what You know what? There might be some things some of us are doing that we're doing it the wrong way. And we'll study the Bible. First Thessalonians, we're going to find out, hey, you know what? I'm really supposed to be doing it this way Some people have the idea it doesn't matter what you do for God, just go out and do whatever for God. No, it's not it we need to do things, we need to do the right things, but we need to do them how? The right way And so God corrects us. Your son's out there mowing the grass. And you know, he's going over the flower beds and across the neighbor's yard. Wait a minute, son, I'm glad you're mowing the grass. But let me show you how to do this. You're correcting him So he does it correctly. We're going to study 1 Thessalonians. Some of us are going to find out, hey, you know, I'm not doing this exactly right. I need correction What's the last thing that the Bible does? All scriptures given by the inspiration of God? It's powerful doctrine reproof for correction for instruction in righteousness. You know what? We're going to find out? Some of us are going to find out how to do right. Oh, here's the way this is what God wants. This is the right thing to do. And so we're going to get help from the book of Thessalonians. You say, wow, I didn't realize you get all of that out of First Thessalonians. I've got a secret for you. You get all of that out of every book of the Bible, out of all scripture. And so when we look in this, it's going to help us. Now, last of all, very quickly, I want to give you the holy model for the book of, uh for this church. The holy model. Look with me. Come back to 1 Thessalonians and look at verse 7. I just touched on this a few minutes ago. Notice what it says. So that ye were what? And samples. You were examples. You were a model for other churches to pattern themselves after. You were an example for other churches to follow. So what was it about this church that was so wonderful that other churches were to model themselves after, that we as Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church are to pattern ourselves after. Well, I just have a few things, and this is what's going to come out in this series. First of all, they were a saved church. Look at verse 4. Knowing, brethren, beloved, your election of God. Boy, that word spooks people sometimes. Some people go to seed on that. Without chasing any rabbits or here or anything, the word election in the Bible only is is only ever used to refer to saved people People who are already saved. You never find it used in any other context than folks who are already saved. So what is he saying here? The church was composed of saved people. Saved church members. The Bible knows nothing about unsaved church members. Every person that is a part of a local church is to be saved. You do not bring into your church membership of people who are openly unsafe. Now, is it ever possible for someone to go through the motions and make a profession and never truly been born again and end up being member of the church? Sure, that happens But the ideal, the motto is that every church member, that churches be composed of saved members. And so we notice something else. Not only is it a saved church, it was a surrendered church. Look at verse 6. And ye became followers of us and of the Lord. The word followers there has the idea they gave up their own path and followed the path of the Lord. If I'm following someone I am surrender. The person says, all right, they say, how in the world, a lady says, how in the world do you get from one end of the husband and wife go in a mall And the husband says, how in the world are we going to find our way through this mall? She goes, I know this mall like the back of my hand. You follow me And we'll make it through the mall just fine. Did they do that in the Philippines? Women know how to shop. And uh so the husband surrenders his will and he follows his wife through the mall. Nine and a half hours later. They come out, he's broke. But what is he saying? You followed us. The church, he's saying the church was surrendered to the Lord. Where he leaves me, I will. Follow. They were surrendered. The church wasn't doing their thing. Listen, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church has no right to decide what we're going to do. We are to do what God tells us to do. We're to be surrendered our will to the Lord's will Alright? So it was a surrendered church. It was a suffering church. Look at the last part of verse 6. And you're followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much what? Affliction. They were under persecution. And you know what persecution did? It gave depth to their faith. You get a person that gets saved and they start to grow as a Christian and everything is fine. And just everything goes good. There's no opposition, there's no difficulties, there's no failure, there's no struggles whatsoever. Everything's honky-dory. You're going to find a very shallow Christian But you get a Christian that gets saved and they're determined, I'm going to surrender to the Lord, I'm going to follow God, I want my whole life, every detail of my life to be in submission. to what God says. I want to be everything God wants me to be. You know what that person's going to face? Some opposition. When I got saved at the age of 19, uh guess what? None of my buddies came around and said, yay, Dennis is they call me Dennis Denny. They said, Denny saved you. They didn't do that. They said, what are you, a freak? And uh man, just all over me. You know what that? That was good for me. It strengthened my faith. It challenged my commitment. There was some resistance there. No pain, no. And they had a bunch of pain. And they were the stronger for it. So they were a suffering church. Number fo uh number four. Well, their model, they were a soul-winning church. Oh, by the way That they were suffering, that tells me, hey, listen, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we better not expect the world to be thrilled with what we do when we follow God I'm going to be thrilled with it. They're not going to be excited. The mayor's not going to call me up and say, uh, Pastor Levin, I just want to tell you we're so thrilled you're putting tracks on everything, all over the whole town, everywhere Well, that's green. They're not going to do that. Then it was a soul-winning church. Look at verse 8. We already touched on this one. For from you sounded out. I like that wording. From you sounded out the word of the Lord. What were they doing? They're going everywhere telling people about the Lord Jesus Christ. They're everywhere in the streets, in the alleys, in the apartments, in the ghettos, in the downtown city. They're everywhere with their Bibles, sounding out the word of the Lord They're just proclaiming it. It was a soul-winning church. They had a great burden for the lost. They had a great commitment to reaching the lost. They had a worldwide look at it, he says Your faith, in every place your faith the God word is spread abroad. Man, people everywhere. Did you hear about that? Man, there was some uh there there Philippi was a hundred miles away from Thessalonica The cities all around that area, somebody in the market, they're at McDonald's on the next morning uh drinking coffee talking and um one guy says, You wouldn't believe what happened to us last night. What happened Some folks from Thessalonica, 200 miles away, came knocking on our door, telling us we need to get saved. You gotta be kidding. I found a gospel track on my chariot. From that church. That church all the way up on top of the mountain. It's an hour drive away. And I found a gospel track. You know what? They were just everywhere. Everybody's talking about this church in that whole area About their burden for the loss and their concern. So it was a soul-winning church. Look at chapter 3, verse 8, and I'm done. One more and then I'm done. Look at chapter 3, 1 Thessalonians, verse 8 For now we live, if ye stand fast in the Lord. Now we don't have time to develop it, but what he's saying here is that they were steadfast. Brother, they stuck with it. They did not quit. I was reading my devotions the other morning and uh is it chapter 12 of Acts where Peter's in jail And the angel comes by and um uh kicks him on the side, and uh the doors open, and Peter thinks he's dreaming, and he gets out, and so he goes to the church, and the church was praying All night long so that Peter would get out of jail. And he goes and knocks on a door and a little girl named Rhonda, is that right Rhoda. A little girl named Rhoda comes and uh somebody uh hold it, we gotta keep you guys keep praying, someone's knocking at the door, I'll be I'll go see who it is She goes over, it's like two in the morning, something like that, and uh she opens the door. Uh who is it? Peter, it's Peter, it's Peter. Don't be so loud, don't hear it. It's Peter Who? Peter? Peter, who? You know Peter, the guy in jail It is Peter! She goes running back. You won't believe it. Peter's at the door. Everybody's, what, huh? Peter's at the door. It can't be Peter. We're praying for him. He's in jail. No, he's here And um you know what you know what Peter's doing? You know what the Bible says Peter kept on doing He just kept knocking. Yo dudes. I'm out here. I don't think he said that But the thing is, the Lord spoke to my heart about the question, was that the right thing for Rhoda to do? Leave them standing out there and go running? No. She should have said, come Come on in, Peter, quick. She didn't do right. She blew it in a sense. I mean it wasn't major, but she blew it. But here's the thing, Peter just kept right on knocking. Just kept right on knocking. Just kept right on knocking. And that challenged my heart. You know what? We go out and give out gospel tracts, and we knocked on these doors 10,000 times. But you know what we should do? Just keep right on knocking. And sometimes you come to church and somebody says something stupid and somebody does something that maybe hurts your feelings a little bit, and you say, oh, you know what you should do? Just keep right on coming to church. And just keep right. You say, well I gave my tithe and my uh I had a check bounce, and I thought if you give your tithe, God's going to take care of it. You know what you should do? Just keep right on giving it Right? Just keep right on doing what God says. Just keep right on at it. And that's what the church at Thessalonica did. They stood fast. They just stayed at it and stayed at it. stayed at it and stayed at it. When the crowds are big, we ought to get uh be excited and go after it. When the crowds are small, we ought to be excited and go after it. Just stay right at it. They were And then um, last of all, it was a submissive church. And the interesting thing is, I got looking at chapter 5. Look at verse 16 down Look what he says, rejoice evermore. Pray without ceasing. In everything give thanks. Clench not the spirit. Despise not prophecy. Do you notice what he's doing here? He's not elaborating on any of these. He's not telling them why they should do this and what happens if they don't and the blessings that'll be if they do these. He just says, you do this. And you know what? They did it. If he'd have been writing to the church at Corinth, he would have had to take three chapters and explain why you need to rejoice evermore. Because they had a hard time, uh they had a hard time being submissive to the Lord, Church of Corinth, but not the folks at Thessalonica. Next church. God said rejoice evermore? Okay. Well, do you want me to tell you why? No, we're fine. God said it, we'll do it. Well, you know, if you don't, you want to know what's going to happen? No, it's good. You don't have to tell us all that. We're Just tell us what. All right, quench not the spirit. Okay. You know what's gonna happen if you do? We don't care, we're not gonna do it. Oh well you know what's gonna happen if you do? We'll find out. You don't have to explain all that stuff to us. And it was submissive. Isn't it great? Wouldn't it be great if all of us could get to the point where God says something we're supposed to do it and we don't we don't have to get in a huge five-day argument with God? And we need to know every. . . How many here, when your kids were small, you ever said this? Take the trash out. Why should I? What'd you tell them? Because I told you to. How many folks here would be thr were thrilled when you said, take the trash out? Okay, Dad. He said, good night. Whose kid is this? Somebody else here. And that's the way the church was. I had the idea when I first started preaching, Brother Moses, I had the idea, well if I preach one sermon on tithing, then that's settled I don't ever have to preach on it again. You know what I found out? Don't work that way. Well, we all want to go soul winning. Well, that settles that. Everybody will be out soul winning. No, it don't work that way. You just have to hit it in it. But that's the way it was. Rejoice evermore? Okay. So it was a submissive church. And all of these factors, as we study this, we're going to find out, is what made this church rapture-ready. I would like when Jesus come back to everybody that's a member of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church be saved. Wouldn't that be great if the rapture took place on a Sunday morning that every person, every member was out of here? Isn't it an awful thought to think the rapture took place while we're having church service, there'd be church members left behind? That be sad? Wouldn't be rapture ready. So everybody needs to be saved. All surrendered to the Lord? Whole church just doing what God says? Submissive surrender. How about uh uh being faithful, even though the town's giving us a hard time? The rapture takes place. You guys are being faithful In your places, doing right. Steadfast, soul-winning church. I've often thought there's only one or two ways as Christians that we get out of this, get off this planet One is either through death or through the rapture, right? There's no other options. Either we die and go by way of the grave, either we go by the undertaker or the uppertaker. I've often thought, I mean I've got a gut. Last I checked, death rate among humans is a hundred percent. If I gotta go, I thought I would like to be knocking on someone's door or be standing with my Bible open, just leading someone to Christ. Hello, come up here. Wouldn't that be a great way to go just leading someone to Christ? Or be leading someone to Christ if the rapture But be leading someone to the Lord when you die. Wouldn't that be exciting? I've often thought knock on doors, somebody shoots I don't know, this is morbid. But someone every time I knocked on the door I thought waiting for a beef and a Kazakhstan, yeah, don't even bring that up, brother. Uh Model Church, Rapture Ready. I hope you'll get into studying this book. I know it was a little silly and I had a little fun. But um I'm going to challenge all of us to read this book over and over and over. I've read it three times in the last four days. You can sit down about 20 minutes, you can read through this book book very easily. And let's really pray that God will use this to prepare us. You say, preacher, are you doing this because Jesus is coming back May 21st, 2011? I'll tell you why I'm doing it, because Jesus might come back tonight at 11. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to be rapture ready. Our hearts in tune, faithful to you, pure and clean and godly. And Lord, I pray that in our study of this, if what we're doing wrong, you'd reprove us. Tell show us, Lord, we can stop and do right. If we're doing things incorrectly, we pray you'd correct us. Teach us about the second coming, Lord, what we don't understand. Help us to grasp it. And so that we're ready when you come back and you You be pleased. Their heads bound and eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, you don't have to get much farther into the book? And God's already dealt with my heart about some areas that That need adjustment. Maybe some things that ought not to be a part of my life, some things I need to be more faithful in. And you'd say, Preacher, God's already spoken to my heart. Even right here And we say, Pray with me that God will use this to help me grow in my faith and be what God wants me. Any like that, by the uplifted hand preacher, God's already dealt with my heart. Hands all around. Word. Let's bring that to the altar. Let's agree with God. Trust Him, obey Him, and let Him have His way. Father, bless the invitation, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.