Alright. Proverbs thirty-one. If you would notice, in fact, would you go ahead and read verse 28 with me? Let's read verse 28 together in unison. Her children, we're reading together in eunus, I'm sorry. Here we go. Ready? Her children rise up and call her blessed. Her husband also, and he praiseth her. Now let me read on verse 29. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all. Favor is deceitful, beauty is vain, but a woman, can I say this? A mother that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates. I want to speak this morning. My original title in the bulletin was A Mother That Makes a Difference. Studying a little bit and I have a little secondary title. I'm going to call it this. A virtuous mother A virtuous mother. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father in heaven, we come to you this morning. It is a special day in our society and here in our church. As we just take one day to recognize and express our appreciation, our love and our respect to our mothers And I pray now in this portion of Scripture that your Holy Spirit would speak to our hearts, all of us, men and women, young and old, regardless of where we fit into this. We know you have a will for each and every one of us. And so, Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, and that you would speak through me. And challenge all of us in our spiritual condition, our walk with you. And we want you to be glorified in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. A virtuous mother In Genesis chapter 3 and verse 20, the Bible says that Adam named his wife Eve. Did a little study on that name Eve. And It's probably perhaps one of the most sanctified and glorious names that could have been given to Eve He called her name Eve. The word the name Eve means this, a bearer of life. Or the mother of all living. And in fact, he made that statement. He said he called her name Eve because she is the mother of all living, the bearer of life. What a name. What a title to be given to the first woman. I believe one of the greatest responsibilities. uh is that of motherhood. I think one of the greatest honors that can be that someone can have is to be that of a mother To bring a child into the world and then to nurture that child and care for that child as they grow into adulthood, I'm telling you, that is to be respected. That is to be honored. A mother, a mother. We live in a mixed-up world. We live in a world that is turned upside down. I'm glad we have a God that knows what he's doing. We have a God that does not change And God has created each of us with a plan and a purpose and a role to play. Satan comes along and he tries to turn that thing upside down, inside out. I got thinking this week. I thought one of two things is true, or maybe they're both true. Either Satan is a tremendous salesman. Or mankind is awfully stupid. I got thinking about that. It's might be both. For uh and I again I don't really don't want to go down this road, but for a a person, a woman To be put into the highest judicial position in our nation and not be able to answer the question, what is a woman? Is total confusion. Is absolute devil turning things inside out and upside down? When there's an element of our society that is angry because they cannot kill their babies Something is gravely wrong. Somewhere we have gotten off track. God created mothers And God created mothers to bear children and to nurture and care and raise them up into adulthood. Thank God for mothers. They are to be respected. They are to be honored. And they are to be appreciated. Motherhood. Solomon is the penman of our text this morning, Proverbs chapter 31. Of course, God is the author. We understand that. God's the author of Scripture. Solomon penned this down. And we know and we won't take time to turn there, but if we had the time and if we did it, we could go back to 1 Kings chapter 2 and we would find in 1 Kings chapter 2 that Solomon understood the respect that his mother was to be shown. He was now king. David had passed away, his father, and Solomon was now king. And the Bible says his mother, Queen Bathsheba, came into his presence. And in verse number 19, the Bible says that Solomon, the king of Israel, the man given by God, supernatural wisdom. When he saw his mother enter into his presence where he was, the Bible says first he stood out of respect to his mother. I don't know about you. I'm still old-fashioned enough to think men ought to stand when a woman comes in their presence out of respect. I got one amen out of that If if you're able to, man, to stand. But um so Solomon stands when his mother comes in. Then the Bible says he bowed before her. Solomon understood that his mother deserved his respect and his honor. Someone of the caliber of Solomon To honor his mother in such a way. So this is the man that recognized the honor and respect that his mother should be shown. He's the one who penned Proverbs chapter 31. Now, we don't know if his mother, Bathsheba, was the pattern for this description given here or not. Whether he was describing his mother, we're not told that. Some have suggested that this description of the virtuous woman or the virtuous mother, in our case here this morning as we study it, some have suggested that this is an impossible standard. That it is impossible for a woman to live up to what is described here. Well, that may or may not be the case, but it's obviously an ideal That God is giving to mothers and to women an ideal set up there. In fact, if you would come back to verse 10. Notice how he starts it off He says in verse 10, who can find a virtuous woman? What does that imply? If he says, who can find this woman? It implies what? They're difficult to find. This woman is difficult to find. Who can find a virtuous woman? Her price is far above rubies. I put in the margin of the Bible. This woman is very rare. And she's very valuable. Very valuable. So I don't know whether Bathsheba was, he's describing his mother. Maybe she was the ideal mother. I have no doubt in my mind that as a boy growing up, her she influenced him in tremendous ways in his understanding. of the respect a mother should have and the work that a mother does and the responsibilities a mother has and I think that's reflected in here is uh no doubt her influence in his life We know that this description is given to us by God. This isn't some male chauvinistic pig, as people like to say, trying to say, oh, this is what a perfect woman is. No, no, no. This is God. Giving to us the description of an ideal woman, an ideal mother, mother. A virtuous mother, I would imagine Bathsheba influenced Solomon's understanding of what a virtuous mother is. Abraham Lincoln said, No man is poor who has a godly mother If you have or had a godly mother, you ought to thank God every day for that. What a precious thing. Proverbs chapter 31, verse 10 through 31 is the description, as I said, of a very rare person, a virtuous woman, and then verse number 10: her children rise up and call her blessed. A virtuous mother. A virtuous mother. Now here's the question. What does it mean to be virtuous? Oh, we don't use that word a lot. It's kind of a rare word in our society today. But the word itself, the word virtuous, means interesting enough, it has the idea of one who has a powerful influence for moral good One who has a powerful moral influence on others. To be virtuous means to have moral excellence, integrity. Now this is not describing, when you say this is a virtuous woman, it's not describing somebody who is a goody two shoes. Anyone know what I mean by goody two shoes? They go around, they're all better than everybody else, and they're uh they're the goody two shoes. Um this is not this is not presenting the idea of a holier than thou attitude. A virtuous woman. Well, I'm virtuous. I'm better than others. That is not virtuous. There's nothing virtuous about pride There's nothing virtuous about thinking I'm holier than other people. There's nothing, there's no moral excellence in self-righteousness So when he's describing a virtuous woman here, he's not describing somebody who has this holier-than-thou attitude, but rather, this is what he's describing A woman whose moral integrity, now you have to think this through with me, bear with me here. But he's describing this virtuous mother is a mother whose moral integrity influences others and her children and family in particular. Her moral integrity. She does right. She speaks the truth. She works hard. Look, read through the description And she does all that not to exalt herself, not to present this attention for me and see how holy and good and virtuous I am. But if you study this carefully, it is all for the good of her family. It is all to help others, the poor and the needy around her. This moral excellence, this moral excellent integrity is not to draw attention to self, but to be used to help and influence others. And that's where I get the idea, the influence of a mother. A mother that makes a difference. A virtuous mother. One whose moral integrity has a significant influence in others. One whose moral integrity is displayed in practical ways in everyday life. Now I have a few thoughts I want to share with you just quickly this morning. Number one, I put this down, a virtuous mother has had a conversion. A virtuous mother is a mother who's been converted. And by that I mean this. A virtuous mother is a mother who has trusted Jesus Christ as her personal Savior. I think it's impossible, uh let me let me rephrase that, it is possible to be very religious, but still be lost. How many people understand that? We talked about that a little bit in Sunday school this hour. It is possible for a person to be very religious. You can go to church very faithfully. You can sing these hymns. You can give your money to the poor. You can do any number of religious things and still be without the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, still be unsaved. My father was a religious man Most of you growing up in a conservative Mennonite home. Went to church, believed the Bible, sang the songs. But he never was saved until he was 30 years old when he came to realize he was a sinner and he needed a savior, and the church could not save him. And being religious did not save him. It is possible to be religious and still be lost. You can be a good mother. You can love your children, love their father And still be without the Lord Jesus Christ and be without God and without hope in the world and end up in a devil's hell. Do you agree with me? That's a tragic thought. It's a tragic thought. A virtuous mother is a mother that's been converted. She's trusted Jesus Christ as her Savior. It's possibly a very moral person and still be unsaved. 1 John 5 and verse 12 says that he that hath the Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. If you're here this morning, whether you're a mother or a father, whether you're a young person or single or whatever your situation may be, I want to be very honest with you. If you don't have Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you do not have eternal life. Take your Bible with me, if you would, in turn. Now keep your place here in Proverbs, but go to the New Testament, book of the Gospel of John. That's the fourth book in the New Testament. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. And go to John chapter 3. Now keep your place here in Proverbs But John chapter 3, this is where Nicodemus, this very religious man, very wealthy, very successful in business and in most of his life. And he comes to Jesus Christ and he notices that there's something unique about Jesus Christ. He's never met or heard anybody like Jesus Christ. And his heart is stirred, and I believe there's a sense of conviction about his, there's something missing in his life. Though he's successful, though he's a good man Now he's a very moral man, no doubt. But there's something in his heart and soul that is missing. And he sees and hears of Jesus Christ, and he's intrigued The Bible says in the beginning of the chapter of John 3, he comes to Jesus Christ by night. And he says, We know that you're a prophet come from God, but no man can do these things that thou doest except God be with him. He's saying Listen, there's something different about you. You're from God. I don't understand all of it. But you have something That I'm very, very interested in. And Jesus cuts right to the chase. He doesn't beat around the bush. He says, Nicodemus, ye must be born again. Nicodemus like, what? He said, how can a man be born when he's old? He didn't understand. He says, how in the world do I go back in my mother's womb? And be go through the process? That's impossible. What are you talking about? And Jesus explained himself. He said, that which is born of the flesh is flesh. You're born physically. But that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. He's saying, Nicodemus, there's something missing in your heart and soul. You've got the physical. You've been successful in the material world. You've been successful in this temporal world. You've got all that together. But there's something missing in your spirit. And you need to be born spiritually. You need eternal life. You need that spiritual life. And then Jesus goes on his swing. He says, How can this be? How can this be? And of course, John 3. 16, for God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. But everlasting life. He's saying, Nicodemus, I'm how this can be. You trust me, you put your faith and trust in me, and you'll be born again. Born into the family of God. Now, I want you to look at verse 18. This is what I was getting at. He says, He that believeth on him is not condemned, the him being Jesus. He that believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not Condemned already. Did you get that? Because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. Now it's important to understand when the Lord's talking about believing here, he's not talking about just mentally acknowledging. that Jesus existed. He's talking about a heart faith. It's like putting my trust in. I'm believing in him, trusting in him I'm relying on Jesus. He that comes to the point in his life, or she that comes to the point in her life. See, I need a Savior. There's something missing in my life. There's a spiritual vacuum I come to Jesus Christ. I'm going to trust Jesus. I'm putting my faith, my confidence, my trust in him. He says, when you do that, you have eternal life. Come over to the last verse in the chapter. Verse 36. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abideth on him. Would you agree with me? That's a fearful statement. The wrath of God abideth on that person. So here's my point. A virtuous mother. A virtuous mother is a mother who's trusted Jesus Christ as her personal Savior. And she has eternal life. That vacuum's been met. Can I make this statement? Every child deserves to have a Christian mother. A mother that knows Jesus Christ as Savior. A mother that knows the importance and power of prayer. a mother that understands and appreciates and lives by the Word of God. Every child ought to have a Christian mother. Christian mother. So, the virtuous mother, her children rise up and call her blessed. Her husband praises her Virtuous mother is a mother who's been converted, a mother who's been saved. It's impossible to be a biblically virtuous mother without being a saved mother. Let me give you a second thought here, real quick. A virtuous mother is not only a mother that's being uh being converted, but a virtuous mother also has convictions Has convictions. What does it mean to have convictions? What does it mean I have convictions? It means there's some things that I'm firmly convinced about To have convictions means that I understand there are some things that I am firmly convinced that these things are right. And there are some things that are wrong. Every mother ought to have biblical convictions. Every mother ought to raise their children, understanding and knowing what the Bible says is right and what the Bible says is wrong. Amen or not? We need that. We need that in our societies today. Mothers with convictions about what is right and wrong. And by the way, dads, fathers with convictions also. But convictions, knowing this is what the Bible. By the way, the Bible does say some things are wrong. And the Bible does say some things are right. Some folks, some some circles in Christianity have this idea, well, once you're saved, it's just whatever. I had a lady one time years ago shortly after I wasn't here too long and she was coming out a little bit and I preached something uh in a mild mild way I always do and uh And uh just uh but anyway, um she got a little worked up and so afterwards she came up to me. I was uh we were it was uh Sunday evening, I forget why I was down front, but she came up and she said, Pastor Leatherman And I was thinking inside, oh boy, here we go. And she says, as long as I love God, it doesn't matter what I do. Brother, that that has holes all through it. Um I gotta think about that this week. If somebody says, as long as I love math, doesn't matter how I add the numbers together Try that at the bank. Your your addition's all wrong. Well, I love math, so it doesn't matter Uh try that was try that with your wife. Sweetheart, as long as I love you, it doesn't matter what I do or where I go. Brother, you're gonna have a prime pan on your head for the end of the day. I guarantee it right now Listen, because we love God, it matters what we do. The Bible says there are some things. The Bible says there are some things that have no place in the life of a Christian. And there are some things that every Christian ought to make sure they have in place. And if I'm going to be a virtuous man, or if a woman's going to be a virtuous woman, or a virtuous mother, I have got to understand from Scripture that there are some things that are right And there are some things that are wrong. And it doesn't matter what the world says. I'm going to remind us as Christians, we're not going to stand before this world at the judgment. We're standing before Jesus Christ at the judgment. And that is who I'm accountable to, and that is who I need to listen to. Not this old world. This world will turn you on your head. This world will have Christians doing the stupidest stuff. Acting the fool. I told my wife the other week, I said, I think Satan just sits back and laughs at us. He gets us to do the stupidest things and we think it's the coolest thing in the world. He gets people to do the most ridiculous nonsensical stuff and they think it's cool. A virtuous mother is a mother that has some Bible convictions. This is right and this is wrong. We have lost our sense of right and wrong in our world today. Um we were I lived in Boulder, Colorado for a number of years and I was helping a friend of mine was starting a church there in the city. Now Boulder was at that time, this is late, this is the early 1990s. At that time it was uh self-declared New Age capital of the world. So this uh stuff today, wokeness, you know, they're woke. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I don't really fully understand that, but This wokeness. Brother Boulder was woke decades ago. I mean, it's just any anything went. The mayor of the city was uh was the uh CEO of the leading abortion clinic there in the city. That was the mayor of the city elected to that office So anyway, Brother Mark and I use the pastor. We were helping him start the church. We're out knocking on doors when I And uh we're in this apartment complex and this lady came and um we got talking with her a little bit and I it was my turn to talk and I said I'm Dennis Letheman, this is Pastor Mark Manning, we're starting the Flat Irons Baptist Church here and uh want to leave an invitation with you. She says, well, I'm not really much in church. By the way, uh they used to say out there, uh a lot of them would say this, I don't believe in organized religion. So I said, you ought to come to our church, you'd like it there. We're not very organized. But um anyway This gal, and so she goes, I'm really we talked a little bit. I said, let me ask you a question. You know for sure when you die your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven. She goes, Well, I don't believe there really is such a thing as sin I said, what do you mean by that? She goes, well I don't think uh and there's anything right or wrong. What you know it's just up to the individual. Whatever the individual thinks is right, then that's right for them. If it's wrong for them, then it's wrong for them. But she said what's right for you might be wrong for me, and what's Uh right for me might be wrong for you. There is no right or wrong. She was basically saying there's no standard of authority for what is right and wrong. Every man just does what is right in his own eyes. And I said, well, the Bible teaches that there is such a thing as right and wrong. God's given us clear commands, and you know, we break that God's law when we sin. Cheers, why I just don't think uh you know what's right for you is fine and what's right for me is fine and uh it's up to the individual. I said, ma'am, you mean to tell me That it sh we were standing there was a lamp right by the door, we're just in her door, raised a lamp there. I said, You mean to tell me if we show up total strangers, I took that lamp And I bonked you over the head with it, busted over your head, and you fell on the ground, and then I we go in here and steal your stuff and molest your children, that that would be that wouldn't be wrong. That would be okay And she thought for a minute and she said this. She goes, well, it might be okay for you, but it might be wrong for me. Would you agree with me? That leads to chaos. That's anarchy. That does nothing but destroy A virtuous mother, a virtuous person, virtuous Christian, has convictions There are some things that are right, and there are some things that are wrong. And God's the one that makes that determination. Not me, not you, not Hollywood, not Washington, not the preacher, but God in his word. And so a virtuous mother is a mother that has convictions. This is right and this is wrong. I believe a virtuous mother, uh Bible convictions are determined by the Word of God. I think we ought to have convictions about the Bible. This is God's word. This is our sole authority. This tells us what the future holds. This tells us who God is. This book tells us what God expects from us, how He responds to us, what His will is for our lives, what the future holds, what He demands of us. What is right and what is wrong? We need convictions about the old Bible. And it's the Word of God You look at a society, anytime a society gets farther from the Bible, it deteriorates, gets more dangerous, gets more violent, gets more perverse, the farther it gets from the old book. God give us churches that have some convictions about the Bible. God give us mothers and fathers and homes that have convictions about the Bible. This is God's word. It's the authority in our home. The Bible. I think we ought to have convictions about the Bible. I think we ought to have convictions about the family. The family. Man, this world has turned the family inside out. It's made it a joke. I'm telling you the devils in hell laugh at our world. They've made the family a joke We ought to have some fo of some convictions about husband and wife and the children. Husband and wife and the children. Amen or not? Say, preacher, you better be careful, you're gonna get thrown in jail. Throw me in jail. I'm gonna that book is true, whether the world accepts it or not. We ought to have convictions about the Bible, about the family. We ought to have convictions about the church. The church is the bride of Christ. God loves the church. He shed his blood for the church. Listen, you'll never find a perfect church, but you better be careful how you talk about the church. It's the bride of Christ. You better be careful about looking for all the faults in the church and better be careful about trying to run a run uh run around talk about how uh all the faults in the church. Listen, you're not going to ever find a church that doesn't have faults But I'm telling you, Jesus Christ loves the church. We ought to have convictions about the importance of the church in our lives. I think every child ought to be raised in a good Bible-preaching Baptist church. That's my conviction. At least a Bible preaching church. I prefer Baptist. I thought I'd get more amens than a couple chuckles there. Convictions about the church. Convictions about honesty. You agree we could use some honesty in our homes, in our marriages In our schools, in our society, in our places of employment, honesty. We just need to decide, hey, you know, lying's wrong. Abraham Lincoln said honesty is the best policy. I'd like to change that. Honesty ought to be the only policy. Convictions about purity. Young people establishing convictions. I'm going to keep myself pure. Amen. Husbands, convictions about I'm going to stay faithful to my wife. Wives, I'm going to be faithful to my husband. Keep my heart and mind pure. Convictions, Bible-proof convictions. So, number one, a virtuous mother has conversion. A virtuous mother has convictions. I put this down. A virtuous mother is consecrated. The word consecrated means set apart to the Lord. I love I love Romans 12, 1 and 2. Man, what a precious statement in the Word of God. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. That ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto the Lord, which is your reasonable service And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and perfect and acceptable will of God. What a statement, what a challenge. Presenting myself, Lord. It's simply saying this, come to the point in my Christian life where I just dedicate myself to Christ. I'm his. If you would uh come with me to Luke chapter number one. You're in John there. Come back to Luke. Matthew, Mark, Luke. Proverbs 31 describes this virtuous mother. And in Luke chapter 1, I think we have a description, the greatest description. Perhaps the greatest example of a virtuous mother in all of the New Testament, maybe all of the Bible. In Luke chapter 1, we are introduced to a young lady by the name of Mary. God chose Mary to give birth to the Lord Jesus Christ. To be the mother, listen to this, God chose Mary to be the mother of the Son of God. Virtuous. Study the life of Mary. Now, listen, Mary was not better than anybody else. She was a sinner like everybody else. She isn't the mother of God, but she is the mother of the man Christ Jesus. And Mary was a virtuous young lady. You study her. And one thing stands out, if you would notice with me, in chapter 1, and notice with me verse 38. Come back up earlier and uh verse uh thirty-one, the angel tells her, Behold, thou shalt conceive Receive in thy womb and bring forth a son, thou shalt call his name. He shall be great, shall be called the Son of the Highest, the Lord God. Then come down to verse 34. Mary, uh then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? And then they explain this virgin conception, the Holy Ghost will come upon you. Then come down in verse 37. With God nothing shall be impossible. Now look at verse 38. What a statement by this young lady. Look what she says. And Mary said, Behold, the handmaid of the Lord, be it unto me according to thy word. You know what she was saying? She was saying, Lord, I just give myself to you. I dedicate myself to you. I present my body to you. And however, whatever your will is for my life, I am yielded to that. That was Mary's dedication to the Lord. Be it unto me according to thy word. I think a virtuous mother is a mother that is consecrated, dedicated to Jesus Christ. Lord, I'm your handmaid. By the way, a virtuous man, a virtuous father, is dedicated to the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, I'm yours. I'm not my own. I've been bought with a price. I'm yours. I'm yours. Your will for my life Virtuous mother is a mother that's been converted. She's been saved. She's trusted Christ as Savior. Virtuous mother is a mother that has convictions. Thou right and wrong. A virtuous mother is a mother who is consecrated. Consecrated. And last of all, I am with this, a virtuous mother is a mother who's compassionate. Compassionate. I put this down. A great mother is a kind mother. A great mother is a compassionate mother. Has compassion for God, loves the Lord with all her heart. God, give us mothers who love the Lord. That love the Lord. A mother that loves her family or her husband and her family. Somebody said the best thing a mother can do for her children, one of the best things a mother can do for her children is to love their father. One of the best things a father can do for his children is love their mother. We need compassion in our homes. It grieves me to even have to say this to believers. But we need compassion in our marriages. We need husbands and wives to be kind to each other. It grieves my heart that there would be Christian wives and Christian husbands that hate each other. Hate each other. That is not virtuous. That is shameful. Don't leave me up here alone now. Help me out. Amen or not. A virtuous mother is a compassionate. She's kind. She loves the Lord. She loves her family. She loves her children. She loves others. Study, boy, if we had time, we'd study Proverbs 31 and how much this virtuous woman is doing for others, doing for others, doing for others. I thank God I look out in the crowd here this morning. I see mothers in our church and ladies in our church that do so much for others. Serve the Lord in different capacities, just give of themselves. I tell you, that's a good thing. That's a good thing. I'll tell you something interesting I came across. Last night I was going over this and I Came across this information. The Hebrew word in the Old Testament, the Old Testament is primarily Hebrew, where it's translated from. And the Hebrew word for compassion, get this, this is fascinating to me. The Hebrew word for compassion comes from the same root word as the word womb. And I thought, how in the world does the word compassion, how is that related to the word woo? What does a womb do? A womb produces life. The womb gives opportunity for life. And I come to this conclusion. When I show compassion to somebody, I'm giving them a new opportunity. To be someone. To be some. You say they hurt me. Yeah, but show compassion and it gives a new opportunity for that reason. Everybody follow what I'm saying? Compassion gives birth to joy. Compassion gives birth to hope. I tell you, a mother who loves her children gives hope to those children. Mama loves us. Anybody recognize the name Thomas Edison? Brilliant man. Brilliant. He made this statement. He said, I did not have my mother very long. She died when he was young. I did not have my mother very long, but she cast over me an influence that lasted my whole life. The good effects of her early training I can never lose. If it had not been for her appreciation and her faith, at a critical time in my experience, I should never likely have become an inventor I was a careless boy with a mother of a different mental caliber. Oh, he says I was a careless boy, and with a mother of a different mental caliber, I should have turned out badly. But her firmness, her sweetness, her goodness were potent powers to keep me on the right path. My mother was the making of me. And the memory of her will always be a blessing to me. A virtuous mother has tremendous influence for good and for God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you, you would help all of us. To consider our character. Dear Holy Spirit, I pray that you would challenge all of us to look at ourselves. What kind of mother am I? What kind of father? What kind of person? What kind of teenager? What kind of senior citizen am I? Would virtuous be part of that? Lord, we ask you to challenge us. I pray we'd be dedicated to you, establish convictions, know we're saved, and then be kind and compassionate. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder if there's some this morning, I'm not just, the imitation isn't mothers, it is all of us. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I need to work on this matter of convictions. And getting them established in my life. What's right and what's wrong, and making right and making wrong wrong in my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get these convictions established. God bless you. Hands all around. Now we need them to do more and raise our hand. We need to act on that. Decide. How about this matter of dedicating my life to Christ? I wonder if there's some say more this morning say, preacher, I've never really come to that point as a Christian. I just want to sell out to the Lord. I just want to dedicate my whole life to live for Jesus. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand Preacher, that's where I'm at. I just want to live for the Lord. God bless you. Hands all around. I just want to dedicate my whole self to the Lord. What if there's some say, preacher, I need more compassion? I need God to help me be more compassionate and kind. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. God spoke to my heart. I need that. I probably, if they were truth were known, we could all use a good dose of it. One last question. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I've never been converted? I don't know for sure my sins are given on my way to heaven. You don't want to go to hell. You'd say, preacher, pray for me, that God will help me get that settled. I want to know that God has forgiven me and given me new life, eternal life. Have a home in heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hands? Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get this settled. I've got to get this settled. Any at all? Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our invitation this morning. Have your way in our lives, just as Mary said, be it unto me. Have your way, Lord, in Jesus' name Amen. Let's stand together, heads are about, eyes are closed. James playing the invitation hand