Thank God for mothers and uh John and Terry have a slew of kids here today. How many you got in the service here, Terry? Five, just five. Yeah. Amen. Well it's good to have you. Some of you all have been here first time. God bless you. We're glad to have you all here. Be sure and get your visitors pack before you leave. And we praise the Lord for that. It's good to see you. I overlooked Steve Brandt. Good to see you, Steve. Glad you're here And grateful for Brother Steve. How many people recognize well let me read our passage here. 1 Samuel chapter 3. I'm just going to read verse number 1. I'm just going to read the first phrase of verse number 1. The Bible says the child Samuel, or chapter 2, I'm sorry, 1 Samuel chapter 2, and Hannah prayed. And said, My heart rejoiceth in the Lord, mine horn is exalted in the Lord, my mouth is enlarged over my enemies, because I rejoice in thy salvation. I notice that first phrase there It says, and Hannah pray. I want to speak this morning about a mother's prayers. A mother's prayers. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask your blessing now on them. on your word and the preaching of the message. I ask Lord that you'd speak to our hearts. We're so grateful for every single mother here. For those that have devoted their lives to raising children in the fear and admonition of the Lord. And I pray that today they would, at least for one day, feel honored and blessed and appreciated. And I pray you'd help the rest of us on a daily basis throughout the year To show and express our appreciation, our honor for our mothers. Lots of different backgrounds, lots of different personalities. But I pray that today they would understand That you've given them such a tremendous responsibility and such an honorable position. And help us to recognize that. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord. I yield my will, present my body anew Pray with all my heart that you'd fill me and speak through me. If there's anybody here, Lord, that's unsaved, I pray you bring great conviction they'd see their need of Christ and call on Him and trust Him as their Savior. And those perhaps are struggling in our spiritual life, that you give victory today and send peace. Give purpose in the heart and life. Those of us that know you as Savior Help us, Lord, to live for you and love you and serve you as we ought. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think people recognize the name Anna Marie Jarvis. Anybody recognize that name? Anna Marie Jarvis. She's the founder of Mother's Day. Now I did a little research on Anna Marie Jarvis and I found, but I believe from what I can tell she was a woman that had faith in God. She's a woman that had uh respect and fear of God. Um she actually taught a Sunday school class. Um And in one of her lessons, as she was finishing up the lesson, she taught in a little Methodist church down in Grafton, West Virginia, just off the mountain here. She finished up in the early 1900s, she taught a lesson, and at the end of the lesson, she finished with a prayer And in that prayer, she made a statement. She did not plan to make it, as far as I can tell. It was not written out ahead of time. It was just part of her prayer, pouring her heart out to God as she closed out the class. She made this statement in her prayer. She said, I pray that someone, sometime, will found a Memorial Mother's Day commemorating mothers for their matchless service to humanity in every field of life. She just made that statement in her prayer. But that statement rung in her heart and mind in the coming days and weeks and months And it began to develop into an idea and a plan. And finally, on May 10th, 1908, that little Methodist Church down in Grafton, West Virginia. She held a memorial ceremony, and the purpose was to honor her mother, who had died three years before that Then included in that memorial for her mother, she honored all the mothers that were in that church there in Grafton, West Virginia That was the first official observance of Mother's Day. Now Mother's Day is celebrated in nations throughout the world. It's been declared a uh uh a federal recognized uh day. And so I think it's appropriate that Mother's Day began in a church house in a congregation. Now this is just a little aside, as I was studying about Anna Marie Jarvis As Mother's Day began to take off and it got bigger and bigger and more and more people and and folks around the country and around the world began to celebrate, of course, businesses and companies got caught up in that uh card uh hallmark and different places like that. They saw an opportunity here to make a buck. And so that graded Anna Marie Jarvis. She despised the idea that Mother's Day would become commercialized and that uh people would try and make money. off of the idea of uh honoring their mothers. And she uh years later she made this statement very publicly. She said uh talking about the commercialization and cards and all that, she said this, a printed card means nothing except that you are too lazy to write to the woman has done more for you than anyone else in the whole world. So when I read that I thought, Praise the Lord, I can save a couple bucks Then she said this about sending candy to your mother. She goes, and candy, you take a box to your mother, then you sit down and eat most of it yourself Anna Marie Jarvis correctly understood the importance of mothers. She correctly understood the tremendous influence that a mother has. I believe a mother is without a doubt the earliest and perhaps the greatest influence in the life of a child. They say That from our mothers we learn the uh we learn to understand what responsibility is. From our mothers, they say that we learn how to interact with others. We learn that from our mothers very, very early on. And we live in a day when people have a rough time interacting with others, right or wrong. We live in a day where our understanding of responsibility is almost gone in large sections of society. And I would suggest to you that is directly related to the breakdown of the home and the failure on our parents' parts in many ways. So a mother The greatest influence, the earliest and greatest influence in the life of a child. I want to take that a step farther. I want to suggest to you this morning that mothers Are perhaps the greatest unseen influence on the course of a nation. Our nation is today very much the result. Any nation, really, I should say, is very much the result of the influence of the mothers. Every leader that a nation has was raised by a mother. was influenced by a mother. Now, we understand that God uh of course is the greatest influence and when a person comes regardless of the background, regardless of their uprising, If a person trusts the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, that changes everything. And if you have a godly mother that had a godly influence and taught the fear of the Lord, then God can take that and build on that in a tremendous way. But mothers, the importance and the influence that a mother has on a individual life, on the individual life, but also on the character of a nation. I thank God. I thank God. For godly mothers that are part of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Because I believe that a mother is perhaps one of the greatest influences on the future of a church. A church very much is influenced by the mothers of the members of that church We give a lot of recognition to pastors and this, that, and the other. And the Bible talks about, you know, the men of God, this, that. But I'm telling you, without mothers, the church would be nothing. Thank God for mothers. The influence they have. A child's character is developed very early in the home, and that person's character is a factor in the character of the church. What I'm trying to say is this. It is impossible to overestimate the importance and the influence of mothers. Let me throw another name out to you here this morning. Anyone recognize the name? I'm going to try and pronounce it correctly. Frederick Bartholdy. Frederick Bartholdy. Anybody recognize that name? Anybody here ever been to New York City? Anybody ever been to New York City? Anybody in your New York City? Do you ever happen to go out to Ellis Island? What's on Ellis Island? Statue of Liberty. Frederick Bartholdy is the French sculptor of the Statue of Liberty. As he began to develop in his mind the idea, the concept of making this statue and uh and uh presenting it to the United States as he was uh contracted to do that, he began working through ideas of who to use as a model for the Statue of Liberty. And he consulted various people and different ideas. They would all say to him, you need to use somebody that is a very strong leader, very strong in character, somebody that represents the power and the might and the character of the United States of America. As he went through all that, he settled on this person to be the model for the Statue of Liberty. He settled on his mother. And the sculptor's mother is the model for the Statue of Liberty. I think it's very appropriate that a mother is connected with our nation's greatness. connected with our nation the blessings of God on our nation. I think now as we look at our passage of scripture This is to me is a fascinating passage. I think one of the greatest men of God in all of Scripture, one of the greatest men of God in all of Scripture is the prophet Samuel. And what a tremendous man of God Samuel was, and how God used him to influence the nation of Israel as they established their first king. And uh and um and uh Samuel provided spiritual direction and spiritual warnings to the nation as they were making very, very significant decisions And it's no coincidence that one of the greatest men of God in all of Scripture also had a tremendously godly mother. And one of the chief characteristics of Samuel's mother, Hannah, was the fact that she was a woman of prayer. She was tremendous, uh, she had uh great humility. She had a godly testimony, but her prayers had a profound impact on the life of little Samuel I look at her prayer life and we'll take a look at it here in a moment. I noticed that she was very consistent in her prayers. It wasn't sporadic. It wasn't just in times of uh something stirring and going on and then she would pray and then it would die out. I noticed Hannah, I believe she was a woman very, very consistent in her prayers. It was part of her daily schedule, it was part of her life to pray. She was very earnest in her prayers. We go back, we could take the time and look in chapter one where she's praying earnestly for God to give her child. In fact She's praying so earnestly. She's praying in her heart and her mind before God. You don't have to pray out loud to pray. And as she's praying, her lips are moving her prayers, but there's no sound and Uh the prophet, the priest there looks and sees her, and he says, This woman's drunk. She's moving her lips not saying she says, I'm not drunk. I'm just pouring my heart out to God. I tell you what, our homes, our nation needs women who let the bottle alone and get a hold of God. She didn't drink. There's no way she's going to raise a godly boy, a godly prophet. She's putting liquor to her lips. No, she's not drinking. She's praying. She's praying earnestly, pouring her heart out to God to give her a son and give her a godly son. Hada was a woman of tremendous prayer, consistent, earnest, passionate in her prayers. I believe a mother's prayers can and will establish the direction of the life of that child. I'm suggesting to you Samuel was the man he was because Hannah prayed the prayers she prayed. Passion, earnest prayer. Let me throw let me offer you this encouragement. Not only can the prayers of a godly mother Establish the direction in the life of the child. But I believe the prayers of a godly mother can reclaim a delinquent child. Sometimes we do the best we can, but our children have minds of their own. And they have a free will, and sometimes they'll make decisions. And they'll go away that we didn't desire, or maybe we failed in some areas raising them up, and they made decisions, and they they went the direction they did. Listen. As long as we have the opportunity to pray, there's hope that God can and will bring that child back. And I believe the earnest, passionate, consistent prayers of a godly, humble mother. Can reclaim a child from a wayward path. Hannah had tremendous faith in God, and this faith expressed itself in a life of prayer This faith in God expressed itself in the intercession for her child. Let me ask you a question today. I'm addressing mothers, but really I'm addressing all of us. Do you pray for your child? We're here well into the May 8th, 2016, almost to noon. Let me ask you a question, mothers. Have you prayed for your child today? You've gotten alone with God and sought the Lord, that God would protect him, her, that God would direct them, that God would shelter and meet their needs and help them. How about us fathers? It's Mother's Day. We have an equal obligation to pray for our children. This is my question. Have you prayed for your child today? Have you prayed for your family? Your marriage. You pray for your church and your nation. I'm suggesting to you, our homes desperately, desperately need the prayers of a godly mother. Our church desperately, desperately needs the prayers of godly mothers. God has been awfully good to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. God has blessed us in tremendous Tremendous ways, ways perhaps we don't even understand. The opportunities that He's given us to serve Him and influence people around the world. And I want to suggest to you, one of the reasons we have God's blessing on Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is because of the prayers. of godly women that love this church love the Lord and love this church and pray for this church and so earnestly and so faithfully So we pray, our country needs, our country needs the prayers of godly mothers. And I'm not excluding fathers, but I want to say today's Mother's Day. And I do uh we cannot overemphasize the importance and the power of a humble, godly, praying mother, a praying woman. We have election year this year. I don't know about you, it's disturbing It's disturbing. I was reading uh I'll get political just for a second. I was reading my devotions this morning in Judges. And uh uh the nation uh the one nation um slips my mind, but they were looking for a new leader And they give a they gave a allegory, a metaphor there. They gave a little allegory. They said they went to the cedar trees, the great mighty cedar trees, and they asked the cedar trees to rule over us The cedar tree said, no, we'll not rule over you. We're not leaving our exalted position. They went to the fig tree and they said, fig tree, will you rule over us? And the fig tree, no, I'm not going to leave my delicious fruit uh to go roary. They said to the vineyard, uh the grapevines, would you roar us? They said, No, we're not going to leave the sweetness of the grapes And they turned to the bramble, the old scrubby, worthless uh scrubs, and said, Will you rule over us? And they said, Sure, I'd be glad to rule over you. And I thought that's pretty much what we got in the United States now. Isn't that sad? That's it. Well I got that off my chest, so uh let's get back to Mother's Day. Had nothing to do with the message, but I was stirred up this morning in my devotions. But uh our country needs. We have an election this year, and I think we ought to vote. We ought to vote intelligently, but I tell you what we need. More than we need someone new in the White House, we need some women of God, men of God, before the throne of grace, asking God to have mercy on this country Asking God to revive our churches and bespare his judgment off of our great land. I love America as much as anybody. I love with all my heart. I'm proud to be American But I'm telling you, we need God to do something. And mothers, you play a tremendous role. You play a tremendous role. All of us do, and you play a tremendous role. The prayers of a mother will impact the life of an individual. Very much determines the life of that child. Will impact a church and the character and the power of God and the protection of God upon a church very much impacts a nation, a mother. I want us to notice just quickly. And I'm going to try and get you out of here as quick as you can. But uh I want to notice quickly a few things about Hannah's prayers, the prayers of this mother. Number one, I noticed that Hannah was a saved woman Hannah was a saved woman. Look with me if you would at verse number one of chapter two of Samuel. And Hannah prayed and said, My heart rejoiceth in the Lord, my horn is exalted in the Lord, my mouth is enlarged over my enemies. Why? Because I rejoice in thy what? Salvation. Hannah was a saved mother. Saved mother. I cannot over-emphasize how important it is. That every single person get uh know that their sins are forgiven and that when they die, they go to heaven and not to hell. Hannah was a saved mother. Listen, you can be the greatest homemaker that ever lived. You could be a homemaker on the caliber of Martha Stewart. By the way. We had Martha Stewart here at our mother-daughter banquet on Friday night. It was amazing. She looked a lot like Tammy Barrett, but um it was amazing. Listen, you can be the greatest homemaker in the world. You can be the best cook and prepare the greatest meals for your children, your family, and all the world You can be the best caregiver to that little child as they grow through their teen years. You can be the best on that. But listen, if you're not saved, you're not giving that child what they desperately need. And what that child needs is a saved mother. Every little child needs a mother whose sins have been forgiven, who's been born again in the family of God. Every little child needs a mother who has the presence of the Holy Spirit of God in their life through trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. Hannah was a saved mother. I believe every mother should follow Hannah's example and make sure of their salvation. If a mother wants God's blessings on their life, As they raise their children. If a mother wants to hear God's, if they want God to hear and answer their prayers, that mother needs to be sure that they've trusted Jesus Christ. as their personal Savior. My greatest plea to every one of us here, not just mothers, but all of us, the young people, all the way through the senior citizens, here, you're this morning. and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. If there's any question, any doubt in the back of your mind as to where you're spending eternity, as to whether your sins are forgiven You need to settle that today. You need to be sure that God has forgiven you and saved you through trusting Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Hannah was a saved woman. But it's interesting, she didn't just get saved, but she wielded her will to the Lord. Now we don't have time to expand on this, but you study the life of Hatton, you find out not only did she accept Jesus Christ as Savior But she dedicated herself to the Lord. She dedicated her child to the Lord. In two weeks we're going to have baby day. And we always enjoy that. That's one of my favorite big days of the year. We have all the babies come in, march in here, we'll have the big baby pray. Uh all the children two years and under. And uh we'll give them pre uh pre uh little gift, present a gift to them, take a picture, and we have a great prayer of dedication. Sometimes we call it baby dedication. You know what baby dedication is? I'm going to say this again on that day. But baby dedication is really just the dedication of mom and dad to raise that child for the Lord. Just the dedication saying, yes, we're going to make sure this household knows Jesus Christ as Savior, that this household lives according to the principles of the Word of God. This household is dedicated. to the Lord Jesus Christ and to his gospel. Hannah was not just saved, she was a saved woman, but she went beyond that and she lived a life in submission to the Word of God. It's hard to correct. It's hard to correct a wayward child when I'm not willing to trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. It's hard for me to see a child grow up in the fear and admonition of the Lord if I have no fear and faith in the Lord. So it's so important. That every one of us be saved. Hannah was a saved woman. An unsaved pair. I wrote this statement down, and I don't mean to be unkind, but I believe this is true. An unsaved parent may be the one thing standing between a child's eternal destiny. Between heaven and hell. It may be an unsaved parent that's keeping a child from finding Jesus Christ. I'm going to heaven. Now I thank God for the scores and scores of young people through ministries of Mountain Lake that have come to Christ. Maybe don't have Christian parents, don't have saved parents. I thank God for every child that finds Christ, regardless of the home situation. But I'm telling you, that unsaved mother, that unsaved father could be the one thing that is keeping that child from spending eternity in heaven. God has given you and I as parents a uh an overwhelming responsibility. To introduce our children to Jesus Christ, and we have to know them ourselves before we can ever introduce them to Christ I remember when our uh boys were born, um I first held Samuel, just a little runt, looked like a raisin, and um They took that child and placed him on my hands just minutes old. I was so overcome with emotion, I began to just weep and tears rolling down my cheeks. I thought of what God has given me and the responsibility. That is an eternal soul in my hands. It's going to spend eternity in heaven or hell. And God has given me the responsibility to introduce that child to Jesus Christ. Then Daniel was born a little while later, and he looked remarkably like a raisin also. He had ingested some fluids when he was being born, his sister session, and he ingested some fluids and we knew right away something was wrong and he was gasping for breath and his chest I just still see his little chest just heaving So hard and uh scared and they uh they h clean 'em up and they rush them out and they put 'em, I guess, in an incubator, I think, and they put them in something to help him out and it kind of settled down. They said, Finally, Mr. Leatherman, you can come and see your son I come in there and he's in that little incubator so tiny and he's gasping for breath. I began to overcome with emotion. I began to weep and they said you can reach in there and they had a little place I could reach in as just as I touched him, his little hand came up and held my finger. That little tiny hand held my finger. I began to weep. I said, God, you've given me the responsibility for this eternal soul to introduce this child to Jesus Christ. If I didn't know Jesus as my Savior, how in the world could I possibly introduce that child to Christ? Mothers, you're the primary influence in your children. And I'm pleading with you on behalf of Almighty God, make sure of your own salvation. Make sure you know Jesus Christ as Savior. You cannot do for that child what that child desperately needs if you don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior. Hannah was a saved woman. Was a saved woman. I want us to notice something else about Hannah. Number two, I noticed that not only was she a saved woman, but I noticed the scope of her prayers. You read chapter 2 here, but we don't have time, but when you go down through those ten verses Brother Grant read a little bit ago, this is her prayer. I mean this prayer is profound. In its theology, it is profound in her understanding of who God is and what God is like. And the scope of her prayers. This prayer is not just a request for her child. This is not just some simple prayer. And don't misunderstand, I'm not trying to belittle any prayer. But she's not just saying, now God bless my little Samuel here. She's far beyond that. She understands that God is Almighty. She understands that God has a plan and a purpose for every single life. And that little child born to Hannah was not some accident, was not just some another kid on a planet. That child was planned by God for a very specific purpose that God had for that child. And every single life born, these little children born this week. And born throughout the ages, every child, regardless of the circumstances surrounding that child's conception Every single child is precious in the eyes of God and has a God has a plan and a purpose for that life. Somebody says, well, this child wasn't planned. Maybe not by you, but God's got a plan for that little baby. Well, this is this child's uh you know, they're just not wanted. We didn't really want this child. I'll tell you what, God's g God wants that child. That's one of the most hideous things, the most horrendous things in our country and countries around the world. Most horrendous thing Is that a country would legitimatize and legalize the taking of a life before it is even outside its womb? God have mercy on us. God has a plan and a purpose for that little child. It's not a mistake. It's not just a little blob of flesh and blood. is an eternal being made in the image of God for the plan and purposes that God has established. Hannah understood that. And you read that prayer she prayed, it is profound. She recognizes who God is and what he's like and what his plans are. It's not just a request for God to bless her child, but it's a recognition of God's goodness and God's holiness and God's power Here's a mother who understood the awesomeness of our God. Now, when I say and when the Bible says that God is awesome, It's not saying that God is cool. I want to suggest to you, God is not cool. And it bothers me when Christians, young and old, are worried about the world thinking that they are cool. Anytime you get a young person or adult or anybody starts worrying about whether they're cool or not, that's a red flag in my mind that they're out of fellowship with God. God is not cool. God is blindingly holy in every aspect of his being. God is so tremendously holy that even when the angels come into his presence, they fall on their faces and cry out, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. God's not cool. He's holy. He's righteous and just in every aspect of his being. He is incomprehensibly powerful. God spoke this world into existence. What kind of power is behind the being that can simply speak a universe into existence. How awesome and powerful is our God. And you tell me you don't fear him And we have the audacity and the arrogance to stiffen our neck and say, I'll do what I want before a God that created this universe just by speaking. God's not cool. He's holy. He's incomprehensibly powerful. He's incomprehensibly wise. I'm telling you, God knows what's better for you and I than we do. How foolish am I, how foolish am I when I decide I'm gonna lean on my own understanding. I'm gonna run my life the way I want when I have a God that is so wise. Here's the problem. The wisdom of God is foolishness to this world. You know why? Because this world is foolish. This world is ignorant. You think the world thinks they can run society and the world, the unbelievers, they can run their lives better without God, independent of God, than what God can. I asked you a question. Let's take a look at it. How's that working out How's that working out? Let's go down to inner city Baltimore where God has been run out. How's that working out? Hannah, the scope of her prayer is impressive. As she prays, she's not just praying some little sprinkly thing, oh God bless us all. I'm not trying to be little prayers, thank God for any prayer, but She understands this God I'm talking to is holy. He's all powerful. He's wise. Listen, this God we talk about, hey, that God that you take his name in vain, he loves you beyond your ability to even understand. That he would suffer an eternal hell for you and I. That he would love me that much. I don't know, I hate to even say this, but who in the world do I love that much that I would go to hell for them for all eternity? Man. And you blaspheme his name? You jokingly use that holy, loving, all-powerful name? As a curse word? Seriously? How do we explain that before when we stand before God at the judgment? Hannah understood who God was. She understood his holiness, his power. She understood his love for her. I want to challenge you sometime. Read this chapter. Read this prayer. It is profound God isn't cool, he's terrifyingly holy, he's incomprehensibly powerful, he's indescribably wise, he's unimaginably loving. Major aspect of Hannah's prayer here was that she recognized God's sovereign authority over her. She humbled herself and submitted to that authority by trusting God completely and following his every instructions. Was Hannah perfect? No. She was a sinner like you and I. But you read her and she trusted God and she did exactly what God told her to do. She trusted God Did exactly what God told her to do. And God gave her a child to one of the greatest prophets in the nation of Israel, Samuel. Prophet. Hannah was a saved woman. I noticed that she was also the I noticed the scope of her prayers, and I end with this quickly. I noticed the steadfastness of her prayers. Look with me if you would. At chapter 1 of 1 Samuel. And notice verse 9 and 10. Now this is before Samuel is born. She's praying that God would give her a child. In 1 Samuel chapter 1, look at verse 9. So Hada rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk, now Eli the priest sat upon a seat by the post of the temple of the Lord. And she was in bitterness of soul. Now, don't misunderstand what that's saying there. Hannah wasn't bitter at anybody. But it has the idea that her heart was broken. She was desperate. She was in bitterness of soul and prayed unto the Lord and wept sore. I put in the margin of my Bible the prayer of a broken-hearted mother. So she's praying there. Come down to verse 12. And it came to pass as she continued praying before the Lord. And this is where Eli thinks she's drunk, and Eli had the spiritual understanding of a donkey. And he begins criticizing her and making false accusations against her. Hey ladies, hey mothers, when you're praying, somebody criticized you for praying. My advice is just keep right on praying. You just keep right on praying. So she prays. She's steadfast in her prayers. People are criticizing her. She keeps on praying. People are mocking her, so to speak, and she keeps on praying. Look at verse number 50. And Hannah answered and said, No, my Lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before the Lord. Oh God, give us mothers who pour their souls out before the Lord. Look down at chapter 2 and verse 1 is our text for this morning. And Hannah prayed. And Hannah prayed. She prayed and she prayed and she prayed and she prayed and she prayed. Hannah was marked as a woman of prayer. I can think of no higher honor than for a mother to be identified as a mother who prays. Praise and praise and praise. In spite of her husband's indifference, she kept right on praying. Ladies. If you have a husband, you have family members who don't care about God or the things of God, I implore you, you keep on trusting God. You keep on praying and seeking the Lord. You keep on living for God. Our country, our church, our children need that. In spite of the hypocrites' accusations, she kept right on praying. She refused to quit. She kept on trusting God. In time, God heard her prayer, and God used her to give Israel one of the greatest prophets in all of their history. I believe one of the most powerful forces in a child's life is the prayers of a godly mother who prays passionately and persistently. For her children. Let me ask all of us a question this morning. Are you saved? Do you know for sure that when you die Your sins are forgiven. That you go to heaven and not to hell. Men? Ladies? Young people? Is that a settled fact? You say, oh, someday, preacher, someday I'll get saved. Someday I'll get saved. Do you know how many people are burning in hell today that were going to get saved someday? It's one of the most foolish things you can do. That's exactly what the devil wants you to do. Get saved someday. Are you saved? Do you know for sure God has forgiven all your sin? That the Holy Spirit of God is dwelling in you, that you have a home in heaven and not the hell. Make sure of that salvation. Let me ask you this question. If you're saved, are you living for God? Do you understand who and what our God is? How dare we? How dare we live a life? Try to live a life independent of God. We need to trust them and submit to him and say, Lord, I've put my faith in you as a Christian and I'll follow your instructions. I'll let you lead me. I'll do what you say. Don't fight God. Mothers, dads, young people? Are you saved? Are you living for God? And this is my message this morning. Do you pray? Do you pray? I don't know what it is. One of the great challenges in Christian life is to pray passionately and consistently. And what we need is much, if not more than anything, in our church and in our nation at this time is the prayers of God's people. Every day, praying for our children, for our marriages, for our families, for our church, for our nation. For God to have mercy and help us in revive. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask Lord that you would use these thoughts, as simple as they are, and I pray that you would begin a stirring in our hearts, in our homes, in our church here, in our nation. Mothers, fathers, young people, every individual, regardless of our standing. That you'd stir our hearts to establish our salvation, live for you, and pray, pray, pray. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, I know I'm saved, there's no doubt about it. But there's some areas of my life that are not in line with what God's will is. I know that. I know that's true. God's dealt with me. I know it's true. And you'd say, preacher, by God's grace I want to get my life my life in tune with the will of God as expressed in His Word. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I know there's decisions that need to be made. There's changes that need to be made in my Christian life. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. that God will help me make those changes. I can be what God wants me to be. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, I know they're there. I need God to help me. God bless you. Hands all around We're talking about specific things that God has dealt with your heart about that I need to address, I need to work on. How about it? Any others? Preacher, pray for me. God bless you, a number of others And whatever that may involve, baptism, church attendance, Bible reading, separation of the world, soul winning, whatever it may involve, we need to trust God and obey Him. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I know I'm saved, but my prayer life is pretty weak. My prayer life is pretty anemic. I really, really need revival in my prayer life, whether you're a mother, father, whatever. But you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. I need revival in my prayer life. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, I need God to help me. Get my prayer life what it ought to be. God bless you, hands all around. We're talking about individual, you and God alone on a daily basis. Pray. How about it? Others? Others? God bless you. I tell you that'll do more for us, our nation, our church, your family than anything else, I believe. One last question How about the ones here this morning? You say, I don't know for sure that when I die my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. I don't want to live like this. I don't want to take the chance. I want to know That God has forgiven me and cleansed me of my sin. I have eternal life. I know I'm going to heaven. Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to live a life in sin. I want God to forgive me and cleanse me and save me from sin and hell. Any like that up? Any at all? Uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I need to settle that in my life. How about it? How about it? Now, Father in heaven, I've seen a bunch of hands. Lord, you know our hearts. And I pray you'd help us this morning now to make those decisions and take those actions that are necessary To be the people you saved us to be. Bless them others in a very special way. We thank God for them. What a tremendous honor and what a tremendous responsibility And we ask you to bless every mother in a special way. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed