Peter chapter one, I want to begin reading in verse seventeen. You know you like these jokes. Everybody gives me a hard time saying, Oh, there's so somebody today at at the little party said, Your jokes are so lame, preacher. They like it. Verse seventeen. Verse seventeen For he received from God. Now remember the previous verse we preached last week, he talks about we're not following cunningly devised fables. Remember that? So that's not what we're chasing after, these imaginary stories. He says, verse 17, he says, speaking of Christ, for he received from God the Father honor and glory. When there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, this is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And this voice which came from heaven we heard. He's making a point here. This voice came out of heaven. We heard it when we were with him on the Holy Mount. And then he says this in verse 19. We have also a more sure word of prophecy, whereunto ye do well that you take heed. As unto a light that shineth in a dark place until the day dawn and the day star arise in your hearts. He says we have a more sure word of prophecy. I think verse 17 and 18, he's given us that information there. We're going to look at it here in a minute, to make the point of verse number 19, that we have a more sure word of prophecy. And so I just entitled it tonight, A More Sure Word. Let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, we do ask that you would speak to our hearts and you'd confront us and challenge us. I pray you'd reassure us in our faith in your word. And God, we as a church have declared 2024 to be the year of the Bible. Standing on your promises is our theme. And so we pray you'd use this passage of Scripture to bolster our faith and our confidence in the reliability of your word. So I yield my will to you, my thoughts, my thinking, I yield that all to you, give you my mind, and Lord, I present my body to you And ask that you would fill me and direct the words that come out of my mouth according to your will. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The more I study my Bible, the stronger I become in my Baptist convictions I'm not, you know, not out comparing to anybody. I'm simply saying the more I study the Bible, the more I see the biblical basis of the Baptist distinctives. And one of the reasons I feel so strongly about it as I go along, the more I learn, the more I walk with the Lord, one of the reasons I feel so strongly about that is the first Baptist Distinctive. And if you'll recall, the Baptist Distinctive, number one, is the Bible is our sole authority in all matters of faith and practice. The Bible's the bottom line. The Bible is our authority. And all of our doctrine. The Bible is the beginning point for all our doctrine. There's not one statement in our doctrinal statement that's based upon someone's experience. It's based upon the teaching of the Bible. It's not based on someone's research. It's not based upon someone's imagination or somebody's reasoning. Our doctrines are based upon the Word of God. That's our sole authority for all matters of doctrine and for how we live our lives. And so we go to the Bible To learn of God and learn of life, spiritual realm, heaven and hell. Bible's our authority. And the Bible is our authority, not just in determining our faith. Now this is where I'm getting at. The Bible is also our authority in defending our faith. When somebody comes and challenges and it happens, Somebody challenges one of our doctrinal positions. We don't fall back on reasoning or rationale or logic or experience. We take them to the Bible. And we say, this is why we believe what we believe. We defend our convictions with the Word of God. And if we can't defend our convictions and our doctrines with the Word of God, then we need to look at our convictions and our doctrines. And so the Bible is our sole authority, our sole authority In 1 Peter here, and we kind of touched on this last week a little bit, but it's important to note that Peter is now in a transition in his letter. He's transitioning from addressing their spiritual stagnations, the way I've been describing the first 15 verses, he's worried about them just getting a uh he's worried about them plateauing You know what I mean by that? Kind of plateauing in their Christian life, just leveling off. They're not going forward. They're not pressing on. They are uh they're established and not growing And so he's been confronting that. That's what that whole list there in verse 5, 6, and 7 we spent so much time on. Now he's transitioning over a little bit to the second threat. That was chasing tra uh uh uh uh uh threatening these believers. First was their spiritual apathy. The second is now false doctrine coming in And false teaching coming in. And as he transitions over this to this infiltration of unscriptural teaching, he does something, and I'm fascinated by this He does something first of all, he establishes the reliability of Scripture Before he addresses the false teaching, he wants to re-establish the fact that the Bible is our authority and it is absolutely reliable. And that's what this passage here we're looking at is about. He establishes the authority of Scripture. This whole passage, in fact, I didn't read. Verse 2021. Let's look at that real quick just for a second. Knowing this first that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private invitation. Here's one of the strongest statements on the inspiration of Scripture in all the Bible. For the prophecy came not of any of old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. And so here he's making it very, very clear that the Bible is God's word given to us by inspiration, and it is absolutely reliable. That's the whole point of this passage that we're looking at. And before he ever talks about these false prophets and these folks coming in doing so much damage, before he even addresses that, he says we need to clarify one thing. We need to get one thing established. This book is reliable. And so that's what these verses I just read. That's what they're about. This whole little back last part of chapter 1. So he states a couple things. I want to jump right into it. Number one, he states the testimony of God's Son. Look at verse 17 with me. Speaking of Jesus, who he referenced in verse 16, he says, For he, Jesus Christ, received from God the Father honor and glory. When there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, here's what the voice said: this is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. And he says, and this voice which came from heaven we heard when we were with him in the Holy Mount. Somebody tell me, what is this an obvious reference to? Yeah, Mount of Transfiguration. This is when Jesus, and if you're familiar with the Gospels, Jesus at one point gathered three of his disciples. He went up on this mount, and there he was, we use the term transfigured. before them, and there was a voice from God was heard by the disciples that were with him. It's a fascinating event. It's a significant event. And this is what Peter is referencing, talking about this voice we heard from God. And he says, we all heard it. It wasn't just me. There was others there who heard it. In Matthew 17 is where we find that. We'll look at that here in a moment. Mark chapter 9, verse 2 through 8. Gives Mark's account of the Mount of Transfiguration. Luke chapter 9, verse 28 through 36 gives Luke's account. And of this experience on this mountain. Now, three things I notice about this testimony of Jesus Christ, God's Son, is what Peter gives us here. The first thing I noticed, there was a visible display of God's glory in Jesus Christ. There was a visible display. Let me put it this way. There was a visible display of Jesus' divine glory. It says there, for he received from God the Father honor and glory. When a voice came from heaven. There on the Mount Transfiguration, Jesus was transfigured. And we'll look here at the description of Jesus in just a moment. But I'll tell you what's happening Jesus Christ, and we understand, Jesus Christ is God the Son. Fully God. 100% God, just as much God as God the Father and God the Holy Spirit. But Jesus was also a man. One hundred percent man. Just as much a man as as uh Ben is a man, just as much a man as uh, let's see, uh Andy is a just as much a man as Uh uh Nathan is a man maybe a little more so. But um no I I'm sorry. I was looking for someone to pick on, and you were just in the line of fire right there Jesus Christ was a hundred percent man, a hundred percent God. And his disciples and those around him, they understood his manhood. There's no question in anybody's mind Jesus was a man. And by the way, he was a man There's nothing effeminate about the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't let Hollywood and these people sell you on that nonsense. Nobody doubted whether he was human or not, a man. But he wanted them to understand that he was not just a man, he was God in the flesh. Now, if you would turn with me, keep your place here because we're coming back to this. Matthew 17. And here we have Matthew's account of this event when Jesus Christ reveals himself, visibly displays himself as God. And verse number one, after six days, Jesus taketh Peter, James, and John, his brother, and bringeth them up into a high mountain apart. So he pulls these three guys aside, and he takes them up on the mountain. They're up there by themselves. And this is, notice it says a high mountain. I mean they're up there, altitude. They're up Look at this. Jesus takes him and was transfigured. In other words, his appearance changed. While they were with him, he was transfigured before them. And here we have a very brief description of what they saw. His face did shine as the sun. Did you ever try to look at the sun? I don't recommend it. You can't. If you look at the sun, it'll burn your eyes, eyeballs. That's Jesus. Look who it says. His face did shine as the sun, blinding bright. And his raiment was white as light. His raiment, his clothing, just was white as if it's an LED light, as if it's a fluorescent light, his clothing glow. How many people say, wow, that's amazing? Whew. What's happening? What's taking place here? I tell you what I think is taking place. What Jesus was doing, he wanted at least these three fellas to see firsthand That he was more than just a man, that he was God in the flesh. And I believe what was happening, Jesus was, in a sense, pulling back the curtain of his humanity. And revealing to them the glory of His divinity. They were looking at God the Son And we don't have time, I wish we did, because I think it's a fascinating study. But if you go to the book of Revelation, you find Jesus described visibly almost identical So what's described here on the Mount of Transfiguration. When John was on the Isle of Patmos and he saw the Lord, and his face did shine, and his garments were bright as light. Jesus is revealing to Peter, James, and John his divinity. Whoa! He's a visible display of his divine glory. So Peter says, we saw that The honor and glory of who Jesus is and what he is. So what we're talking about is Peter's testimony that God, that Jesus Christ is God's Son. He says, we saw it. We saw it visibly. This man is not just a man. He is God Almighty. God the Son. Come back. Now keep keep something here in Matthew, because we may end up back here. So he says and receive from God the Father honor and glory. So that has the visible display of Jesus' divine glory. Then he says, we heard a vocal declaration of Jesus' glory. He says, this is what we heard. When there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, they're seeing the glory of God in Jesus Christ, and this voice Came from that. And this is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Whoa. Now think with me, Peter is saying this. He's saying, we heard the audible voice of God Almighty, the creator of heaven and earth. Would you agree with me? That's quite an experience. I know one thing, you and I have never had that experience. No nobody. Oh yeah, uh nine hundred foot Jesus showed up in my bedroom the other night. Liar, liar, pants on fire. My my this was my thought. This is the way my brain works. I thought, I wonder if he had an accent. I wonder what God's voice sounds like. Anyone ever think of that? What does God's voice sound like? What did it sound like when they heard this voice? I know on the radio on during the weekdays at noon they have uh the Bible in living sound. Anybody ever live listen to that? They kind of portray events from the Bible. Sometimes they get it, sometimes I think they're a little out there. But um Pretty good. But on there, just about every time God talks, they have thunder. Moses. Now that's their portrayal. I I don't know But I know this. We go back, if we take the time and look at it, when God spoke, those disciples fell to the ground. It was so powerful. It was so just the voice of God was so overwhelming. They collapsed to the ground. Just the voice of God. Peter said, we heard that. So we heard that with our own ears. We were there. The actual voice of Creator God, we heard it. Now, what did God say? I think just him speaking collapsed the disciples, but what did he say? Notice it says, This is my beloved son. The first thing God Almighty, when he spoke audibly to the disciples, is he cla he clarified to them His association with Jesus Christ. What he was telling them, he was saying, Jesus Christ is my Son, God's Son. Jesus Christ was not just a prophet, and he was a prophet of sorts. God didn't say, this is my preacher. And Jesus was a preacher of sorts. That's not what God wanted them to see. They understood Jesus was a prophet. They didn't have a problem with that. They understood that completely. They didn't understood that Jesus was a preacher. Yeah, that was He's a tremendous preacher. He didn't say this is my teacher. They knew Jesus was a teacher. There's no question about that. Greatest teacher ever. He said, This is my son, my only begotten son. Now, you and I are the sons and daughters of God by faith. Right? We put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. We're born in the family of God. And we the Bible refers to us as sons of God. But Jesus is a Son of God in a way no one else ever has been or ever will be. He's the only begotten. Son of God. He's the only eternal Son of God. Jesus Christ always was and always will be the Son of God. He did not become God's son on Christmas Day when he was born. He was God's son from eternity past. A son was given. It was a child that was born. He always was the son, but he became a man. You with me? And so God is clarifying to Peter, James, and John, they see God's glory, they see the glory of Jesus God. But God Jesus is blinding. Then they hear this voice of God Almighty Himself, and they collapse to the ground. And he says, This is my son. So he identifies his association. He declares his association with Jesus Christ. He's my son. And then he gives his approval Of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is my son. Look at verse 18. In whom I am well pleased. God says, He's my son. He's exactly what I want. I am pleased with him. So Peter's writing to these believers, and they're getting a little apathetic, they're getting a little stagnant in their Christian walk. He says, listen, you need these, you need to do these things, and don't you forget, you apply yourself diligently, do these things. You get fired up now. We need to understand, God showed to me firsthand personally the testimony that Jesus Christ is God Almighty, God the Son. Because I saw it. And that leads me to my third thought underneath this testimony of God's Son. There was various documentation that Jesus Christ is God in the flesh. Notice verse 18. There's a little change in his wording here. He says, and this voice which came from heaven, what's the next word after heaven? We heard. When we were with him in the Holy Mount. He doesn't say, and this voice which came from heaven I heard. When I was with him in the Holy Mount, Peter wasn't there by himself. The Bible says God said that if you're going to verify a witness, there needs to be two or three. To verify a witness. Peter's not writing them and saying to them, Oh, yeah, I heard this, and he can't verify it, he can't collaborate it. He goes, no, we did. There's other people that we can document that what we saw and heard actually happened. We So he says, I got various documentation here. I got John and I got James. I think Peter's point is That his testimony, the testimony of Jesus Christ, is reliable. He says, not just me, but we saw the blinding light of his face. We saw the glowing garments. We heard the voice of God Himself. And it wasn't just me, there were several of us. He's verifying the veracity, the reliability of what he's telling them. And I'm not an expert on this, but I understand that Mormonism was started by a fellow by Joseph Smith. And it all started in New York when he found some quote-unquote golden tablets hidden in the ground in a field where he was working. Now here's the thing that just puts red vibes up in my mind. Nobody else ever saw those golden tablets. It's just him. He translated them all, put a little thing, and he had these rocks that were kind of like glasses and looked through the rocks and he could translate it from Egyptian hieroglyphics. And he's the only one that saw it. And somehow they disappeared after And nobody ever saw. I'm not calling him a liar, but I'm saying he's I don't think he's telling the truth All right. And yes, I will get emails, I'm sure, on that one. It's Peter's not saying, Oh yeah, I was up there, let me tell you what I saw, and you just have to take my word for it. That's not what he's doing. He's he's he's uh laying some groundwork there. He's saying, Listen There's several of us there. We saw this. We heard this with our own eyes. Do you agree? He's giving some pretty pretty strong argument that this actually really happened. And he's doing what you would do to verify and document something that actually took place We saw his glory. We heard his voice. It's verified by others. This is a very reliable, trustworthy testimony. Now, all that, I think he gave hold of that to get to verse 19. We have also, what's the next two words? A more sure word of testimony. Now he went to a bit of a length here to verify and assure them that this was genuine. What I'm telling you is true. He says, but I've got something that's even more reliable, even more trustworthy, even more sure than a documented testimony of something we saw and heard. You follow? So my first point is the testimony of God's Son, about God's Son, Jesus Christ. Then he gives verse 19, the trustworthiness of God's word. Now this is where this is where it gets interesting, and this is the point he's getting at. He has all this I can verify, I'm telling you, it happened, it's true, but we've got something that's even more reliable than what I've just done. That firsthand testimony collaborated by two other witnesses, I've got something even more reliable than that. The word sure, that phrase more sure, means more stable. More reliable, more trustworthy. Notice he says we have a more sure test a word of testimony Whereunto you do well if you take heed. He says, we have a more reliable testimony than the audible voice of God. Now think about that with me. He's saying that what you and I have recorded in the Word of God, given by inspiration, verse 21, is more reliable than if we heard the audible voice of God. Now, I don't think he's suggesting that God's audible voice was untrustworthy He wasn't suggesting that at all, but he's saying the word of God recorded by inspiration is more reliable than any audible voice you might hear from God. Now, why would the recorded word of God be more reliable than an audible voice of God? Because Satan is a master counterfeiter. You read the book of Revelation, Satan, the Antichrist, the false prophet, they mimic the miracles and the wonders of God's people. God does. And you listen to me, Satan can convince someone that the voice they're hearing is of God when in reality it's of the devil. You be very, very careful about someone that comes around and says, Oh, I had this vision, I heard this voice. An angel gave me this message. You watch out. You put red flags up right there. And I'll be honest with you. I'm at the point now. I don't know. I'm at the point now. If they can't show it to me in Scripture, I'm not interested in what they have to say. Because that is a more sure word of prophecy than anything that uh we might come up with uh audibly. The written word is greater than a voice from heaven. An audible voice can be counterfeited. They've got artificial intelligence. Anybody ever hear about that? And they can take a picture, and I don't understand all this stuff. It scares the daylights out of me sometimes. But they can take something. And make and have this artificial intelligence make a picture that looks absolutely real. Huh? Has anybody seen that? And you can't tell that that's not a photograph of somebody They're talking about trying to regulate it a little bit. I'm telling you, we're already at the point. You don't know what's real and what isn't. You can't tell what's true and what isn't. I'm telling you, we come to God's word, we know exactly what's true. Right there. And I'm telling you, if somebody's message, somebody's word Alters even slightly from this book, we don't want nothing to do with it. We are committed to the more sure word of God's Scriptures. Amen? That's what Peter's saying. He's about to confront some false teaching. He's about to confront a bunch of lying, deceitful, tricky, sneaky, false teachers. And he wants his people to understand, first of all, hey, this is our authority. This book is reliable. This is what we go by, not what these yard birds are saying. I have people come to me often and they'll say, well, preacher, you know, this this here's in the Bible. And I'll say something like this. I'll say, you didn't get that from the Bible. You read that in a book somewhere. You watched some crackpot on YouTube somewhere. That's where you got that idea. You didn't get it from the Bible. It's nowhere found in the Bible. I tell you, we're getting more and more people are getting ideas, false ideas and false teaching about God, heaven and hell, Christian life. Angels, devils. We're getting more false teaching about that because they're not getting it from the more sure word of the Bible. They're getting it from some people out there Read it in a book, or I watched a video, or something. Somebody told me. We need to go by God's word. And you know this is true. I've said this from day one. If anything comes from this pulpit that is contrary to the word of God, you stick to the word of God. That's why you ought to bring your Bible every time. Amen? You ought to bring your Bible to church. You ought to bring your Bible to church. And if you don't have your Bible tonight, I'm not picking on you. I'm just saying you ought to bring your Bible to church, is it all right? So more reliable than the audible voice. Peter says, I saw it with my own eyes. I heard it with my own ears. Peter and Jane, uh James and John were there with me, but I'm telling you, you got something even more reliable than my own testimony. You have the word of God. That's what he's pointing them to. And then he says, end of verse 19, he says, more sure, word of prophecy, whereunto you do well to take heed Man alive. If God's word is more sure than the very voice of God that made the disciples collapse on their faces, if this is more sure, we better pay attention to what the Bible says Do you know that God said he has exalted his word above his own name? How many people agree with me? We ought not take God's name in vain. That's terrible. You agree with me? We not ought to play around with God's name. And let me just say, some Christians need to be careful because there's euphemism, they throw names around awfully easily. We need to reverence the name of God. And God says, I put my word above my own name. That means we do well to take heed. We do well. I've been saying this over and over. This year of the Bible, this standing on the promise, I've been saying it over and over. If God warns us about something, we ought to pay attention. We ought to take heed to that warning. If God gives us a promise, we ought to claim that promise. If God gives us some instruction, we ought to take heed and make sure we follow that instruction. If God gives us an example in the Bible, we ought to pay attention and follow that example, learn from that example. He says, you do well to take heed. You do well to take heed. When I um 19 January 1979 I started praying. And now you've heard this. God, you've got to help me. I come in two, three, four o'clock in the morning. Just destroying myself. God, you've got to help me. I don't want to be this kind of person. I'm going to die. I'm going to I'm going to end up killing myself. God, you've got to help me. And early on, just early in January that year, and I remember this so clear, 45 years ago, I heard, now let me, before you react, let me explain. God told me to read the Bible. It was not an audible voice But it was as real as an audible voice in my heart and soul. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Read that Bible. I mean it was so heavy, it was so clear in my mind. I had to get a Bible. I dug around in my room and I found a Bible that I'd given in Sunny School years and years before. Just stuck in one of my junk drawers. I pulled that thing out and I started reading it. I'm telling you, it was like it was written just that day for me Four or five o'clock in the morning, I'd be in my bedroom up there in the attic. I'd be reading, oh God, help me, oh God Five months of that until finally I knelt by my bed and I trusted Jesus as my Savior. Now here's what I'm getting at. Why that voice, whatever it was, so I don't know how to describe it, it was as real as it was if it was a voice, but it was not. Why didn't whatever that was, Holy Spirit, whatever it was, why didn't that tell me how to get saved just like that? Just with that communication that way. You know why? Because the Bible's more sure than even that right there. That's what he's saying. We cannot get to pass the fact that the Bible is the most reliable communication from God to man in existence. Paul told the Galatians, if an angel shows up and starts telling you stuff about God, it don't line up with that book. You don't pay no attention to that angel. Bible, the Bible. If we don't get anything else out of this year, we're still here I pray we end this year absolutely convinced of God the Bible is God's Word and reverence that book and take heed to that book. Amen? Let's pray. Father, pray you'd help us learn from what Peter's telling these folks here. Help us to trust your book. If it says it, we just absolutely trust it. No questions, it's so. I pray you'd help us to take heed to it and then live it and apply it to our lives and live it out. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if some would say, preacher, I need to improve my relationship with the Bible. I need to get back to the Bible. I need to apply myself and let it lead me and direct me. Maybe memorize, meditate in it regularly. Live it. Obey it. Is there anything like that, preacher? My relationship with the Bible needs improvement. God bless you. Hands all around. That's where revival begins. We start acknowledging stuff like this Maybe tonight we're going to go into a new week. Maybe kneel at an altar before we take Lord's Supper. Just say, Lord, I want to love your word. I want to live your word. I want to share your word. I want it to be everything you intend for your word to be to me. I want it to be that. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.