Second Corinthians chapter eight. I just want to read the first uh three verses of Second Corinthians chapter eight. I know Pastor Matt just read it, but uh and I had him read the whole context here But I just want to help us get us started here, verse number one. Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. Now he goes on and explains. How that in a great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded to the riches of their liberality, their giving, giving liberally. Then he says, verse 3, for to their power I bear record, and yea, beyond yea, and beyond their power They were willing of themselves. I've entitled the message, A Model for Missions Giving, and of course we're preparing for missions conference. this Wednesday through next Sunday. And so I want to kind of set the tone here and maybe God can use some thoughts from this passage to prepare our hearts For our involvement and our participation in what I consider, and I believe is clear in Scripture, the greatest endeavor in all the world And that is taking the gospel to every man, woman, child in every corner of this planet, every town, village, and city. And so let's pray together a model for missions. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would bless our time in your word. I pray that you would challenge us. I pray that you would touch our minds. And that our understanding and our perspective on this commission that you have given us as a church and really as individuals also This commission, this great commission of taking the gospel of Jesus Christ around the world. What an endeavor, what an overwhelming task that we've been given So, Lord, we need your help, and we look to your word to instruct us and help us understand, and then give us the plan, the method on how we are to accomplish this. I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew, praying with all my heart that you would fill me with your spirit and that you would be speak for me. You would be the teacher. The author of your word would be the teacher. in this message this morning. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It is extremely important to me. I'll uh and I think you understand this, but is it ex it is extremely important to me as pastor. And I believe as a Baptist church, a body of believers here, it's important to us that every ministry of our church has a sound scriptural basis to it. In other words, everything we do, every aspect of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, every ministry, every endeavor, has a scriptural basis for it, a scriptural justification. For us doing that. Whatever it may be. We want all of our ministries, everything we do, to be able to come to the scriptures and find a biblical example. of what we're doing. Patterning ourselves, not after some big mega church or the latest fad or some book on church church uh churches that somebody writes, we want to go back to the source and go to the Word of God. What does the Bible say about what a church should do? About how we should operate. A clear scriptural example or a pattern we see in Scripture that we can follow. That we can mimic and emulate here in 2025 in Garrett County, taking it from the scriptures. Now, we emphasize this all the time. We do it deliberately. It's by design The Bible is our ultimate authority in every area of life. The Bible. Again, as the Baptist Church, our number one distinctive. The Bible is our sole authority in all areas of faith and practice. The Bible. And as a church, this is our authority, but also as individuals This is our book. This is our pattern. This is our authority. You say, preacher, I'm not sure what's right and what's wrong. Tell you, come to the Bible. The Bible tells us It's our authority on what's right and wrong. How should a church function? What kind of leadership should there be in the church? What kind of activity should the church do? Well, we go to the Bible It's our authority, tells us. The Bible is our ultimate authority in all areas of life, as individuals and as a church. The Bible gives us the clear declaration of the will of God. Somebody says to me, and I hear this, I mean, fairly often, folks, as a pastor, when I was a youth pastor, I heard it from the young people pretty regularly. They would ask something like this, Preacher, how do I know what God's will is? Anybody ever in that situation? What's the will of God? Well, if we want to know the will of God, we've got to go to the Word of God. This is, you say, the Bible is the will of God. What this book says. If there's something that contrary to Scripture, then it's contrary to the will of God. You with me? You follow what I'm saying? I've had people over the years and when I was tra uh working on staff there at Bible time, we had these young preacher boys come in from the colleges, we train them, work with them In the summertime. And um a lot uh I heard a lot of times they say, Well, Brother Leatherman, this is God's will for my life. And I tell you, I can't find anywhere in scripture that def supports what they're saying And so and I'm not it's not across the board, but occasionally we'd run into that and I'd say, Well listen, you need to go to the Word of God and see what does the Bible say about that? What does God's Word say about that So if I want to know the will of God, I gotta go to the Word of God. And if it's contrary to the Word of God, it's contrary to the will of God So the Bible, everything, every ministry we have, every endeavor we take, every activity we engage in, we need to be sure we have a biblical basis for it. We're not violating the teachings of Scripture that were conforming to God's declared will, God's instructions, as a church and as individuals. Now, when we're following the Bible, if we're doing as a church what the Bible instructs us to do and the way it instructs us to do it, then we can be confident we're doing the will of God. You follow my reasoning? If I'm doing the Word of God, then, praise God, I'm doing the will of God. Let's take a church vote here. How many people vote we do the will of God? I vote for that. I second, third, that. All in favor, say amen. Amen. All opposed, same sign? Good. So if we want to do the will of God, if we're we're in agreement, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church wants to do or desires to do the will of God, then we've got to go to the Word of God and say, what does God's Word tell us to do? And if we do that, then we can be very confident we're doing the will of God. Now, we don't mean this in a boastful way, but isn't it reassuring To be able to be a part of something and say, I know we're doing God's will. Man, there's great assurance in that. There's great peace and joy. I'm in the will of God. I want to be in God's will as an individual. Can I get a witness? Anybody else? And I want to be in God's will as a church body In the will of God. And again, it comes back to the Word of God. So if we're doing what the Bible says, if we're following the Scriptures, then we can be very, very confident that we're doing the will of God. Same thing with our message. If our message is the Word of God, then we can be confident we've got the right message. It's a lot of voices out there. I mu the mail, I get flooded in the mail and emails now of course and phone calls and and uh everything in the world. Wanted to call us there. Used to be there for a while, I'd get these calls from uh down in Texas and Oklahoma and all over the place. We got this video series and we want you to take and use our video series to help your church and do all this. And it's only $7,242. Or whatever. And I tell you, I'm not interested in any other message than the Word of God. And when we're teaching and preaching and living and declaring and following the Word of God, we know our message is right. I do not apologize for preaching the Word of God. Because I know it's right. I know it's right. Preaching the gospel. I know it's right. We were out yesterday giving out tracts. Got to witness. I was telling Sunday school class. Got to talk to some ladies from Pakistan in Morgantown yesterday, sharing the gospel with them. I don't know if they understood a word I said, but I said what I said. And the great thing is I could walk away knowing I gave the word of God to them. My message was right. Not me, not my message, not what I think. It's the Word of God. It's the Word of God. And so when we follow the Scriptures, we're confident about that we're doing the will of God. We're confident that we are our message is correct. Not just what seems right to us. You've been saved any length of time, I venture to say, at some point you had in your head, this is the way things ought to be, or this is what I ought to do, or this should be alright Then I come to the Word of God and I find out God's Word tells me otherwise. Now I've got a conflict Between what the Bible instructs me to say, what my message should be, or what my behavior should be, I got the message tells me one thing, but I'm thinking this way, and I've got to make a decision Am I going to set aside my will, die to self, put away my understanding, and go with the Word of God? I want to go with the Word of God. Because I know it's right. I know it's right. I know it's right. Anybody here ever think something did something and you found out you were wrong? Anybody here ever think you were wrong, but you were really right? You were wrong about thinking you were wrong when you were right When we go with God's word, we know our message is correct. So we're confident in the will of God. We're correct in our message, and when we do the Bible, when we follow the Bible's instructions as individuals and as a church body We follow the scriptural instructions, we follow God's Word, we can claim God's promises. God has scores of promises, hundreds of promises in his word. Many for Israel, many for the church, many for us as individuals. Promises of God. And I cannot claim those promises when I'm neglecting the Word of God. If we as a church neglect the Bible or we disregard God's word, I can't come and claim God's promises. We've seen changes in the churches in America here, no doubt around the world, in the last hundred years, beginning in the early 1900s, probably a little before even before that. We've seen a shift away from the Bible in many of our churches, many of our denominations. Am I right or wrong? And it's becoming blanton anymore. I mean extreme. And yet many times a church, and sometimes as individuals, even within good churches, individuals or churches or even dominations will try to claim the promises of God while simultaneously rejecting the word of God. That doesn't work that way. The promises of God can only be claimed by those who are following the Word of God. What does Psalms 1-1 say? Blessed, blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the waters, and a leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. That verse is very, very clear. That passage is very, very clear. The blessings of God are only available to those who obey the word of God. There's nowhere in Scripture where God just arbitrarily throws out his blessings. Blessings are conditional. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation for when he is tried. You look up the word blessed, it's always in a condition with it. Now God's good to everybody, amen or none. Yeah, he's kind to everybody, loves everybody. If we want God's blessings on our church, then we've got to go by that book. Everybody with me? I know I'm beating this But it's important. I d I want God to bless Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I think He has. And our responsibility is to stay true to that book and follow what it says and do it the way he says it. The best thing for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is to do exactly what God's Word tells us to do. Now, what does God tell us to do? That brings us to our message. God's word tells us to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. We're told that numerous times. As a church, it's given to the church. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe whatsoever commanded So we're told over and over and over in various ways, word in various ways, that we're to take the gospel to everybody in all the world. We know that is what God's word teaches us to do. We know that. It's world missions, we call it. And by the way, that taking the gospel is to be in all the world, not just our community Sometimes, uh sometimes people get in their mind, they have a very limited view of what uh of the Great Commission, and they say, well, we need to reach our neighborhood We need to reach our community, sometimes we need to reach our nation, and there's other nations there on their own, whatever. No, no, no. God told us to go into all the world. Cross the road and across the ocean Go to everybody, everybody, everybody. So that's the word of God. That's the will of God. And so if we want God's blessing, And if we as a church want to do what God instructs us to do, it's very important we carry out this ministry, taking the gospel into all the world. World Missions. Our missions program is the primary ministry of our church, to be very honest with you. And it's important that our missions ministry is based on the teachings of Scripture. That we follow the examples given to us in Scripture. And this brings us to our text. It is vitally important, we're going into missions week this week, missions month really. It's vitally important that we follow the models. That God has given to us in His Word. How many people recognize the name Moses? Just testing, see if you're with me, alright? Moses was given very clear instructions by God. He was to do he was to have made the Ark of the Covenant and the Tabernacle. How many people are familiar with what I'm talking about? Alright, everybody with me? Everybody okay? He was given instructions to have designed and built, constructed the Ark of the Ark of the Covenant. Mercy seat, all that, the furniture and the tabernacle. Very specific instructions. I mean, to the point of the color of the coverings, the type of wood to use, the measurements. And they were told in Hebrews that those instructions that Moses had were models of the actual tabernacle in heaven, the presence of God. Hebrews tells us that they were made after the pattern of the realities in heaven. And just like Moses was to follow the pattern or the model that God gave him, he was to follow that It was the real. So we are to follow the pattern or the models we are given in Scripture. Now let's look what the Bible says in our text. Paul was writing under the inspiration of God to a church in Corinth. He had started that church. He had gone there as a missionary. He went into the markets and there was a synagogue there. He went into uh the the the the markets and started preaching Christ. Just very similar to what we do today. Uh and we're by the way, we're following his example. He would go in there and preach and Preached Christ and people heard and many, many people were saved. And he organized the church, established the church there, appointed some leadership, and then he moved on And go start churches other places. So he's writing back to this church. He had written 1 Corinthians. He was addressing a number of issues. They had really gotten messed up. And so he addresses them in 1 Corinthians, and they respond properly, and they get things in line, they clean things up, and the church has a revival, really. Now he's writing back to them, and in our text, he's addressing this matter of missions and supporting missionaries in particular. And he's exhorting the church there at Corinth, and he's using some churches as a model that they are to follow. Now that's what I want us to do. I want us to look at these churches that he used, Paul said, were examples, a model, and follow their example for us here at Mount Lake. Everybody with me? Everybody doing okay? Alright. Notice he says there in verse 1. He says, we do you to wit. Now you say, what in the world is that? Well, we do you to wit. What he's saying is this. We want you to be where I want you to be aware of what these other churches are doing and how they're doing it. I want you to have knowledge of these other churches. And uh he's hold notice what he says. He says, moreover, brethren, we do you the wit I want you to know, I want you to be aware of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. Plural, churches. So apparently there's a couple churches over in the region of Macedonia that are involved in missions giving. They're supporting missionaries. And uh Paul is referencing them. He says, look, I want you to understand, I want you to see, I want you to be aware of how they're doing it. And how that's working. They're a pattern, they're an example, they're a model for you to follow. Now, what in the world are these churches? Which churches are they? Well, if you study it a little bit, you find out there's no other conclusion. He's talking about the church in Philippi And the church in Thessalonica. We have books written to the church at Philippi. Paul wrote in a letter to them, inspired of God. So we have some information about the church in Philippi. We actually have two letters that Paul wrote to the church at Thessalonica in our scriptures, inspired of God, and we have some information there. So if you would, keep your place here. Go with me very quickly to Philippians. Just keep turning back there. You get 2 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians And notice with me, Wood, the last chapter, this little letter to the Filipino, the Filipino, uh the church at Philippine. And uh verse number 14. Now he's addressing this matter of missions. Notice what he says, verse 14, Philippians chapter 4. Notwithstanding, ye have well done in that ye did communicate with my affliction. Now it's important to understand that the word communicate means to provide support. You supported me. You met my needs. You sent resources. To enable me to do what God has called me to do. You did well that ye did communicate with my afflictions. Look at verse 15. Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel When I departed from Macedonia, I was there, I started the church, you guys did well. When I left Macedonia, no church communicated, no church supported me No church sent me resources. No church did anything to meet my needs. No church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only You're the only church that sent anything to help me, to enable me, to do what God's called me to do. You're the only one. Verse 16: for even in Thessalonica, Ye sent once and again unto my necessity. They're sending what we refer to as faith promise giving to them The church had taken up money specifically for Paul's missionary endeavor, and they sent it, and they sent it again. They made sure his needs were met. They were communicating with him. Supporting him. Not because, verse 17, not because I desire a gift But a desire fruit that may abound to your account. Now that's a whole nother message, but Paul is basically saying this. No other church is supporting me. I'm going over to Thessalonica. I'm going to preach the gospel. Lord will and we'll start a church, get a work going there No churches helped me, enabled me to do that, supporting me, but you. And you sent it again and again and again. And listen, verse 17, he says this, and every soul saved And every life changed. And every result of the preaching of the gospel, the word of God, that takes place, God's going to give you credit for that. It's going to be to your account. Isn't that something? And so, uh, by the way, that is something. And so this church of Philippi, here's an example. Paul is telling the church of Corinth, hey, these churches of Macedonia, this is the way they're doing it. This is the way you need it. Look, pay attention. I want you to be aware. This is what they did. Come over to Thessalonians So the church just keep turning back, you'll hit Colossians and you'll hit Thessalonians. First Thessalonians chapter one And uh and so the church he starts he goes to Philippi, the city, uh preaches the gospel, people get saved Uh he gets them organized, trains them, uh establishes a church, pr uh uh put puts leadership in place. He says, All right, God's called me, I'm going on a met I'm going on my mission, and I'm going over to Thessalonica, we'll try and start the same thing. Philippi says Church of Philippi says, Brother Paul, we want to support you here. We're taking up offering, we'll send it to you. And they get it, and he goes over there. The church at Philippi is enabling Paul to start the church in Thessalonica. So now look what happens in Thessalonica. Look at verse number 7, chapter 1. Now he's talking to the church at Thessalonica. Good, strong church. That is the result of the church at Philippi supporting Paul so he could go started. So that ye were ensembles. You're an example, a pattern, a model church. To all that believe in Macedonia and Achai, that whole region, you're an example, you're a model church. For other churches to follow. For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonian Achai. But also in every place your faith to Godward is spread abroad, so that we need not to speak anything. So get the picture. Everybody with me? Alright, here's the picture. Paul shows up Philippine, preach the gospel, people get saved, organized church sets leadership. So I gotta go to Thessalonica. God's called me. All right, Paul will support you. So they're sending their support. Paul goes over here, he preaches. uh gospel, preaches, uh teaches them the word of God. People get saved, he gets it organized, he trains them, puts leadership in place, and uh he moves on. Now the church at Thessalonica, they're stirred up We want others to be saved. So they start sending, get this, they start sending out of their church in all these regions, Macedonia and Achai, and even beyond that The Church of Thessalonica is sending missionaries out, sending soul winners out, sending preachers out. And the Church of Thessalonica is supporting them, sending support while they're going out. So Paul shows in Philippi, people get saved, church established, they support Paul. He comes to Thessalonos. And uh establish the church, trains them, uh he moves on, they start sending people out. Do you get the picture? The picture is this: churches start churches. Churches start churches. Churches send out missionaries. Now you know the This may be splitting hairs a little bit, but a missionary doesn't just go out on their own. God doesn't have Lone Rangers. Church sends missionaries. Sometimes I'll I'll get stuff come across my desk, some missionary, and oh, I'm going here, I'm going there, I'm going to do this. Well what church are you part of? What who you working out? What are you doing? Oh, I'm just doing it on my own. Now, they may be sincere and they may see souls saved and may have an effect, but that's not following the Bible pattern. The Bible pattern is churches start churches. Churches send out missionaries. You follow me? And then they support them. These churches support those missionaries. And so we have this pattern, this example. The church at Philippi sending out Paul, he's starting church at Thessalonica. In Thessalonica, they're sending him out. Churches start, churches send out missionaries. Now, these churches in Macedonia, they're a model, they're a pattern. We just saw that. Come back to 2 Corinthians, if you would. Now, I want to give you a few thoughts here, super duper quick. He's setting up the church at Corinth and saying, all right, this is the way these churches over in Macedonia are doing it. It's an example for you. Follow this pattern. Particularly how they give to missionaries, how they communicate to missionaries, how they support, supply the needs. For their missionaries. Number one, here's real quick. I notice their compassionate support. Verse number one, he says, We do you the wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. That word grace means in this case, in this context, means kindness, compassion. God bestowed, it means poured out, gave generously to the churches in Macedonia his grace. He showed them kindness. He showed them compassion. He blessed them. And that was the motive. For them giving to the missionaries going out. God's grace was bestowed on the church at Philippi, and their hearts are stirred, and they were so blessed. And they said we want people over in Thessalonica to know this God and how good he is and what he's done for us. So we're going to give and support so they can know. Then the church at Thessalonica, God pours out his grace on them and blesses them. He's so good to them And they said, we want the people all through the region. So they start sending out missionaries and preachers, and they're supporting them. It was compassion for what God had done for them, compassion for others God saved their souls from sin and from hell. He changed their lives. He gave them purpose and meaning in their life. He blessed their hearts with peace and joy. And they were just overflowed. They were bestowed with this. And it stirred them to give so that others can know the Lord. Is there anybody here, God being good to you? Anybody? Anybody hear God hadn't been good to you? God's good to us. How many people are saved? You know it. Say amen. You know what that means? It means Jesus Christ suffered hell for your sin, my sin. It means we're not going to hell. We have reserved seats in heaven, Peter says. Man, God's been good to us. If we know Christ as Savior, He has bestowed on us His grace, His kindness, His compassion. Anybody here have peace in your heart? Isn't that a wonderful thing? Knowing Christ, the presence of the Holy Spirit My life has purpose now. My life has meaning. I'm a very distinct individual in the eyes of God. He has a plan and purpose for my life How to live and and and uh conduct my he has God has been so good to us. And Paul says those churches in Thessalonica God poured out his grace on them, and that stirred them to give. They had compassion for others because God was so good to them. Compeled them to support missions and reach others. Their giving to Paul's missionary endeavor, their giving to missions was not out of obligation Well, we have to. Uh-uh. It was out of compassion. Would you agree with me? There's a difference between doing something for somebody out of obligation Or doing something for someone out of compassion. Would you agree with me? There's a world of difference. Compassion is from the heart. Obligation is external pressure. Well, I'm obligated. No, no, no. God's not asking us to give and support missions out of obligations. Now personally I think we are obligated. He's instructed us to. But our giving, the motive for our giving ought to be much, much more, much deeper than simply obligation. We ought to look at how good God's been to us and how much God has blessed us. I'm telling you, you can't be around this church very long and not say, God's blessed our church. God's bet poured bestowed upon us his grace, his kindness, his compassion, his goodness on us We ought to be stirred from our hearts in compassion and say, we want others to experience that same thing. Let me ask that, I just thought of this. How many folks here, when you got saved One of the first things in your heart was somebody else. You wanted them to get saved also. Anybody know? Yeah. What's true on individuals is true for a church. Oh, God's blessed us. God's done so. Oh, we want others And so their compassionate support, it was rooted in compassion. They sincerely loved God. Now get this mountain late. They sincerely loved God with all their hearts, and they loved others, and they wanted to reach them with the gospel. I put this down. It was a passion in their hearts that stirred them. To give to missions. So number one, compassion. Number two, I noticed their support was compassionate, number one. Number two, their support was costly. Look with me if you would at verse 2. Notice what he says about these churches, particularly uh well these churches in Macedonia. Verse 2. He says how that, what's that little two-letter word next In a great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty. Abounded unto the riches of their liberality. By their liberality means their generous giving. Notice their support for their missions wasn't something cheap, though. Wasn't something flippant. It wasn't half-hearted. Their giving was costly Now, if you're going to uh I would imagine this is true for most, I would guess if you have some common sense, if you're gonna invest a significant amount of money in something, a vehicle or a property, a land, a house. Maybe some investment. If you're going to invest a significant amount of money, you're going to give some thought to that, right or wrong. You're not just going to flippantly do it. You're going to think it through. You're going to pray about it as a Christian. I want the Lord's leadership. I want to know that what I'm doing is in line with God. And you're going to pay some attention to it. Because it's costly. Well, that's the way these believers were. It was costly. Notice the condition. Notice. He says, first of all, he points out they were in great affliction. When they're giving generously to support missionaries, they were in great affliction. The word affliction means tribulations, trials, troubles. They suffered greatly for their faith in God. It cost them to be disciples of Jesus Christ. We have got it so good in the United States They lost, many of them lost lives for no other reason than they were a disciple of Jesus Christ Families disowned them. I got looking up, did a little research, what exactly was the affliction. The Jews were persecuting them intensely, throwing them in prison. They hated them Their entire community, not just the Jews, but the pagan community turned on them. Their families turned on them. If you would, um, if you're there and if you still have First Thessalonians, Paul makes a statement in chapter three about something they were going through. In uh chap in verse 5 of chapter 3, he says this, for this cause, when I could no longer forbear, now Paul's writing back to that church in Thessalonica that he had started, they're sending out missionaries, he's writing back to them And he says, I send to know your fate, look at this, whether, lest by some means the tempter have tempted you, and I labored in vain. You know what that tells us? That tells us that Satan was attacking those churches there in Thessalonica. Satan was attacking. So they had the Jews turning on them. They had their own people, their own community turning on them, their families were turning on them, and on top of behind all that, they had Satan wreaking havoc Paul said, I'm concerned about you. And he says to the church at Corinth, they gave liberally in the midst of all that affliction. Now, your average person, when everything's falling apart, who takes top priority in our thinking? Me. You kidding? I lost my job, my family's turned on me, everybody in town, I go to Walmart, they're all throwing stuff at me. I go to the neighbor, he cusses me out, my kids come and call me names and hate me Because I'm a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, we draw in the shell and we said, I'm looking out for number one. I put my walls up and I am retreating into my shell. Not the Thessalonica church. They said, we're going to give. There, listen, the blessings of knowing Christ and all that Christ did for them. was so great that this affliction was secondary. You follow what I'm trying to say The joy and the peace and the blessings of being saved and being a child of God was so great it overshadowed all the affliction they were facing, all the rejection they were dealing with. Are you kidding? God's good. He says, abundance of joy. In the midst of all of that. Are you kidding? If we have to wait five minutes at the hospital trying to pull out, huh? That wasn't from experience. I saw other people doing that But they said, no, what God's done for us is so good. It's affliction. We want other people to know how good God is. And we're going to give and give and give and give. So we want others to know. We want others to know. It was costly. It's not easy to give when I when I'm taking heat. Trials can strengthen our faith if we stay faithful. They were determined Not to be deterred. They were not deterred by their afflictions. They were determined in their afflictions. Go ahead Mock me. Go ahead. Fire me. Go ahead. Turn on me. I still love the Lord. He's been good to me. And I want others to know him. Basically, their attitude. I'm not being deterred. Go ahead. Satan's attacks and people cuss him. I'm not being deterred. I'm not being deterred. I'm going to stay at it When trials come, missions is often the first to be dropped. I've seen it in churches. Thank God God's been good to us here. But I've seen it in churches where the difficulty comes, a rough time comes, one of the first things they do, they drop missions. They drop missions. I tell you what, I'd rather us meet in a tar paper shack and support missionaries that have the nicest facilities in the county and not have any missionaries. Oh preacher, we don't have this and we don't have that. Yeah, but we're supporting 89 missionaries. Thank God for that. Priority. And so in their afflictions, they gave and gave and gave. Notice he goes on, he takes it to a whole nother level. I've got to quit. He says, verse 2, and their deep poverty, deep poverty, extreme poverty, like you and I don't even imagine Yet they saw the need for others to know their Savior. They saw the need for preachers and missionaries to go out around the world and tell other people how they can be saved from sin in hell. Listen, again, I'd rather live in a tar paper shack and know that someday I'm going to heaven. than live in the mansion out by Harrington Lake and end up in hell. Huh? They're in deep poverty. Going to heaven someday anyway. Hey, let's get other people. He says they gave according to their power. That word power means ability. And beyond So how we we really can't afford to give this, but man, God's been so good, and the need is so great. We're going to heaven. Now don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I'm not saying destroy ourselves financially. But I am saying this. Now I want to be careful. I heard Um uh uh Dr. Comfort, Ron Comfort. Some of y'all know Ron Comfort, evangelist, great evangelist. He made the statement, don't let your bank account be the primary determiner in what you give to missions. Now he's not saying be negligent, be stupid, but he is saying trust God. Trust God, stretch yourself, have faith, step out in faith a bit. That's what they were doing. In fact, the implication is Paul was Kind of saying, no, listen, you guys can't afford this. And they're there, no, no, no. You take it Lou Rossi was preaching for us years ago. Just remembered this. It's been a long time ago, and there was a lady that was visiting, and man, God got a hold of her. And we took up offering and I said, like always do all the offerings, go to Brother Ross, so you want to support him. This is how God takes care of them. This lady came to me afterward and she said, Pastor Leatherman, at the end of the week, she said, Pastor Leatherman, I don't have any money. I don't have any So I don't have any. She goes, but I've got some jewelry here and a few things. I'd like to give this To help Brother Rossi go and preach in other churches and do what he's doing. And I got Brother Rossi and told him, and he goes, no, I can't do that. No, no, no, I can't do that. She goes, no, I want to support it. I want to do this. That's exactly what this situation. They were given to Paul. Paul said, no, you can't go. They say, no. In their poverty. Their giving to get missions around the world was costly to them. They could have lived in nicer homes if they didn't give so much to missions. No doubt they could have drove nicer chariots if they didn't give so much to missions. They maybe could have worn nicer clothes if they didn't give so much to missions. But their treasures were not laid up here on earth. They were laid up where? Heaven. They're investing in eternity. They're investing in souls. They're investing And that which cannot brought moth and rust cannot steal. So it's costly in their deep poverty. Too often our standard of living is more important to us than the salvation of the lost. And then last of all, end with this, the consecration of their support, the compassion they gave out of love for God and what he'd done for them. Costly they gave and gave and gave it cost them. And then their consecration. Look at verse 3, and I'll quit. For to their power I bear record, their ability, and beyond their power, their ability. They were willing of themselves, praying us with much entreaty. That we would receive the gift. It's implied that Paul was saying, No, I can't take that from you. No, they're entreating him. And take upon us the fellowship of ministering to the saints. Now look at verse 5 And this they did, not as we had hoped. I didn't expect this, is what Paul was saying. Now look at this next statement. I have it underscored in my Bible. But first gave their own selves to the Lord and to us by the will of God. That's consecration. I'm not just giving I'm not just giving my money. Lord, I'm giving me Given me, Lord, take me. Use me. However you see fit, whatever role I have, God, I give myself to you. That's what they did. Total submission to God, total giving of themselves to the Lord. The real issue in missions giving Or any aspect of Christian service is not my money or my abilities, but it's my heart. A heart. Give myself if I when I give myself to God, He has all of me. Right? Red Baffel was getting baptized. He was coming down the water and a preacher noticed he still had his wallet in his pocket. The preacher said, hey, your wallet's in your pocket there, your money. Better set that out. He goes, oh no, that's getting baptized right along with me. If we give ourselves to the Lord, He has all of us. He has all of us. Let me ask you this question. Have you come to the point in your life You gave yourself to the Lord. Say, oh preacher, I'm going to fill this out. I'm going to pray. I'm going to take it seriously. I believe what God wants me. I'm going to fill this out. I'm going to turn this in next Sunday and we'll totally up. Let me let me challenge you. Before you do that, now I'm not saying don't do that. But before you do that, maybe you just say, God, I give myself to you. All of me, all I have, everything has me. I give you my heart. Proverbs, he says, My son, give me thine heart. That's what missions is about. They first gave their own selves. I was reading about, uh I've I tell you, I got a tremendous book I'm reading right now on persecuted Christians, current, now, contemporary. By contemporary, I don't mean worldly, I mean m right now, concurrent with us. In Middle East, in China, in restricted countries that are being persecuted intensely And it's just accounts one after another. And it's amazing. Without exception, these dear believers in these hard countries, North Korea, China, the Middle East Every account, when they're in prison, they're being beaten, they're being tortured, some are executed, but every account that we have While they're going through that, they're doing everything they can to win others to Christ. It's amazing. In the prison, they're trying to tell others. The people that are the the people that are persecuting them, they're telling them of the love of Christ. One guy said, I I wish I had it. One guy said And he was being interviewed after and he says, you were trying to win the fellow that's beating you? You're trying to tell him? He said he said, I may be the only Christian he ever meets I may be his only hope of salvation. And he's trying to win that guy to the Lord. In that song. That's a heart for missions. That's a heart for others. They gave themselves. They gave themselves. Famous Violinist. Nicole Niccolò Paganini. Anybody recognize that? Classic? I didn't think so. I didn't either. He had a magnificent, finely crafted violin. And he would play that thing to thousands, huge concerts around the world. When he got older, he decided to donate it back to his hometown in Genoa, Italy. And he said, I want to donate this to the city. And they accepted, and they were very happy. They put in a beautiful case. People could come by and admire it. Nobody played it. Paganini didn't play it at all. He had donated it. It's sealed up in this glass case. People walk by, look at it. Oh. But as they watched, as time went by, they noticed something. The violin began to deteriorate The wood dried out. The strings became brittle. And it got to the point where it was unplayable, of no use. And the point was this, the lesson learned was this: the violin had to be used, played, if it was going to retain its condition. And what's true for a violin is true for a church. God has blessed us. We have nice facilities. We have good people. We have a family. God meets with us and blesses us. But the whole purpose for all of that is for us to reach people around the world for Jesus Christ. And if we don't do that, or we abuse it, or we neglect it, then we will lose what we have. You follow me? Let's give ourselves. And what's true for a church is true for individuals. God has a plan and purpose for my life and yours. If I don't do that, then spiritually I deteriorate. I become like the world, no different than the world. Let's pray. Father, I pray you'd use these thoughts, this pattern, these churches in Macedonia, what they did, how they gave. I pray you'd help us as a church and as individuals to follow that pattern, emulate that. And I ask, Lord, in these coming few days, that you be preparing our hearts as we make commitment next Sunday to support missions around the world and lead us and make it clear, help us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, God's been sure good to me, and I want Him to use me that others can know and experience? The goodness of God. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Goodness, what Christian wouldn't want that? I'm just asking our church folk, would you pray that God would lead you, what role you have? These coming days as we have this important meeting. Maybe you've never come to the point where, as a Christian, I've just given my whole self to the Lord. Let's dedicate my life to Christ fully, 100%. I give myself to him. And his will and his will alone be done in my life. I wonder if there's any like that. Say, preacher, pray with me. That's my desire. To give myself fully, completely to the Lord. Any like that? God bless you. Hands all around. Now, if you're here and you never trusted Christ, if you don't have assurance of sins forgiven, I'm telling you, you're missing out on the greatest blessing there is. To know that I'm saved, to know I have eternal life. We invite you to come. We can show you from the Bible how to trust Christ. Bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name.