Psalm 137 from the top of the chapter, first four verses. By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down. Yea, we wept when we remembered Zion We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof, for there they carried us away captive. For there they that carried us away captive required of us a song. And they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land? Now, the setting here, you're aware, a couple of different times the Babylonians came to Israel. They conquered, they they pillaged the land, took whatever they wanted, including a lot of the people, and uh kept them in captivity for many years. And this psalm is reflecting on one of those captivities and the awful circumstances in which they found themselves living in Babylon. Israelis living in Babylon. And they're reflecting on that here. Now I'm not going to spend a lot of time digging into that except to say that I I want to use it as a bit of a backdrop. For some things that I think are very, very applicable to us. A few months ago, the president declared what he called a national emergency About the southern border. Now, uh, you know, he's gotten a lot of heat for that, but uh oftentimes when you are right, you get heat for being right. And he was right, is right. And you say, well, how do you know that? Well, uh the reason I know that, I've been down to the border several times, including recently. In fact, over the years, a bunch of times. I have a meeting in January every year, uh right on the border uh between San Diego and Yuma In the Imperial Valley. I'm I've been there, I think this year will make twenty-six or twenty-seven times I've been there to that church. And that is I mean, that is on the border. And all you gotta do is go there and you you can see. It's not rocket science. We do have a national emergency. Now, when I think about America as a whole, and I look at this passage, and it reminds me that we have what I think all of us need to call a national urgency. I think we do have a national urgency. I think we have some mandates from God that constitute a national urgency on our part. And if I may, again with the passage in mind, I think it's urgent that we understand that Babylon and Israel are not the same. They are two different animals altogether. Israel is not Babylon, Babylon is not Israel. Now, you and I need to understand there is a difference between God, who is God, and the gods who are not God at all. There's a difference. And when men repudiate or refuse, reject the God who is God, they always wind up making gods, making gods. The God who made them they reject and they go make gods for themselves out of gold or silver or wood or stone or their imagination or something, they come up with something that dominates them, that controls them, something to which they give their allegiance and make their commitments, and that becomes the God that drives them And you and I have to back up, take a look sometime, and remember that there is a difference between God who is God and the gods who are not God at all. There is a big difference. God, who is God, is real. He's alive. He's omnipotent. He's omniscient. He's all of everything. And the gods who are not God are not even equal to a zero. They're minus Whatever. Now, there's also a difference between Christ and the philosophers There are a lot of there are a lot of people. People of the UN, people in the Congress, people in the courts, people in the universities, there are a lot of people who will, oh well, well Christ was a great teacher. I mean, I mean it's true, he was a figure of history and And very important, and he gave us a lot of good things. I mean, there are people who will acknowledge that, but they do it strictly from the standpoint of kind of putting him in the same class with Socrates and Plato and and whoever else And so uh it's like, well, he's a great philosopher and certainly if you want to read after him, why that's fine. But what I'm saying, you you and I I think it's urgent that we not only understand, but that we make clear in who we are, what we're about, and what we do, that Christ and the philosophers are two different things altogether. To start with, Christ is deity, Christ is God. He's the Son of God and God the Son. And uh and He died on the cross and arose from the grave and ascended back up to heaven, and He's coming as King of Kings and Lord of Lords one day. And and none of the philosophers, I mean that's just not going to happen. So there is a difference between God and the gods, between Christ and the philosophers. Just like there's a difference, and I think there is a need, an urgent need for me and you to understand and to articulate that there is a difference between the Bible and all of the books I don't need to press this crowd with the fact that the Bible is the inspired, inerrant, infallible, totally I mean totally everything, accurate, authentic word of God. We all understand that. We know that. We believe that. We'll fight for that. But what we do need to make clear is there's no other book that compares. Not the Kuki Koran. Or any other the so called holy books. Because of the ministry of the sword, I I'm into writing books, and I'm into helping others write books. And and we we we put the sword out every two weeks. And uh you know, and we work it we work it doing a good job. But uh but we have to keep perfecting what we do. With the Bible, God got it right from the get-go. I sat down, I was I was home Saturday night and Sunday night this weekend. September's been crazy traveling, and I hadn't been home very much, but I was home Saturday night and Sunday night, and I put sat down in my recliner Sunday night after church and I noticed a little piece of paper there and it had a note written on it and I thought, well that's sweet of Betty. She's writing she's writing me a note And she I mean she's sitting within six feet of me in a recliner. But I thought how sweet of her to write me a note. And I looked at it and she said on page and she gave me the page number and the sword. She said there's a there's a verb and a subject that doesn't match And I looked at I said, Oh those workers of the sort. I mean you know You say, why are you telling Well every once in a while we have something that's not quite where it needs to be. And uh that's not true with the Bible. And you and I, you and I, I mean on every street corner, everywhere we are, every every time we get a chance to raise our voice, we need to make it clear to people there's a difference between the Bible and other books. Difference between God and the gods, Christ and the philosophers, difference between the Bible and other books. There's a difference between the church and all other organizations. The church gets lambasted. I heard somebody say the other day, and I forgot who it was I heard somebody say the other day he was out knocking on doors and some guy opened the door and he said, Oh, he said, I he said, I'm opposed to all organized religion. And the guy said, Hey, you like our church. As disorganized as we are, you like our church You know, we we laugh, but that's not really that's not really very funny if it's true. I mean you know, it wouldn't be very tr I mean you wouldn't want to go to church there, I think. But uh But uh the the church is God's idea. It's God's idea. You and I have to work it, not messing it up. We need to be sure we understand. You know, maybe some other things in town, some other things in the community that are good things, but nothing like the church. There is a difference, and we need to make that urgent. There's a difference, and it's urgent we understand uh Christianity and all other religions. I mean, they're not the same. You follow Christ, you can go to heaven. You can follow those other things, and you'll wind up in hell. There's a difference. I think it's urgent that we make the case between truth and error. I I get I get I get a lot of folks frustring at me because we we can't we hammer on things we believe with the truth and when and we don't leave the gate open so well yeah a little of this little of that no if it's if it's clear in the Bible If it's not clear, then we'll tell you what we think our opinion is. But if it's clear in the Bible, we're not going to just say this in the opinion. We're going to say that is the truth. And there's a difference between truth and error. There's a difference between principled and unprincipled. You wonder why these talking heads can get on TV and tell you one thing on Monday and tell you exactly the opposite on Tuesday and vow and declare they will swear up one side and down the other all day long. They've told you the truth both times It's because they're unprincipled. They'll tell you anything to get their agenda. Anything to get what they want. And even if you catch them in a lie, they'll spin and twist and turn because they're unprincipled. You cannot depend upon them. There is a difference between principled and unprincipled. I'm the oldest of my siblings, and Betty is number two in the line of her siblings. And her parents are gone now, and so are mine. And we have a reunion once in a while. Her family has a reunion every year on Labor Day. And uh my family gets together about once a year as well. It's not always the same time, but we get together And uh because we are uh some of the older of the families, um and me in particular, I've I've taken I've almost always at all those things I get I get an opportunity to have the floor. They'll ask me to lead in prayer, they'll ask me to do this, ask me to do that, ask me to kind of moderate or whatever. I I don't know why, but both families do that. And um and I've I have taken it as my part of my charge To say to all of Betty's family and all of my family over and over again, I remind them about her parents and my parents. We're in the world because of them. They're gone now. But in both cases they were people of principle. They were people you didn't have to fill it out and triplicate and you didn't have to get a lawyer to make them swear to stuff. If they if they told you something, you could take it to the bank. Make the deposit, write a check on it anytime because their word was good. And I'm and I'm taking every opportunity that I have to remind the grandchildren and the great grands that are coming along. About the heritage of that generation that's just one generation from where Betty and I are. Principled Principle. Why you do that? Because we want our grands, we want our great grand, we want them to know the heritage they have, the legacy they have. We want them to be that kind of people. There's a difference between principle and unprincipled. There's a difference between godly and ungodly. It's urgent that we get that established. Godly is one thing, ungodly is another. We can camp there for a while. There's a difference between religion and salvation. It's urgent that people understand wise is one thing, foolish is another. Separated and unseparated. It's not popular in Christian circles to talk about separated godly living. So many, many churches in our town, probably in your town, they're doing anything but that. They're seeing how close they can get to being like the world. And still let somebody maybe think they're a Christian. There's a difference between loving and hateful. Big difference. There's a difference between vision and blindness. There's a difference between standing and not standing. Now, that that little list and you you could add to it very easily. I'm I'm just saying folks, Babylon is one thing. Wicked, adulterous, idolatrous, heathen cultures are one thing. God-centered, Christ-centered, Bible-centered culture is another. Babylon is one thing, Israel is another thing, and it's urgent, it's urgent that we that we understand that and give voice to that Second, let me say, I think it's urgent that you and I know that the world will make a full effort to enslave God's people. Just like Babylon came, invaded Israel, and enslaved them, the world that is Babylonian in our time will do everything it can to enslave God's people. They will lie to us Verse 3 talks about them wasting Israel. They will waste us. America's in trouble. Pastor, you said it. The atheists, the humanists, the secularists, the uh the materialists, the hedonists, the socialists, the socialists, the socialists, the communists, the socialists The Islamist. They're after you, after your family, after your school, after your church, they're after your country. And they're up to no good. Getting their way, they will enslave us to their mindset, to their habits, to their way of life. It's urgent, national urgency, that we understand there's a bunch of people out there wanting to enslave God's people. It's urgent that we acknowledge that there are times when the world does get the upper hand. If if the if they if they're in control of something, I think we ought to acknowledge that. They've had a stranglehold on the courts in this country. That's why it's so important who we elect for president. Nothing if the if the president doesn't do anything else, the fact that he's already gotten 150 judges approved by the Senate. And fifty-two or three of them as of last week. And consistently appointing strict constructionist judges, that'll have an impact on America for for a generation or two When the world gets the upper hand, you know I mean from the time I came to Maryland forty years ago Until now. There's always somebody saying, Well, you shouldn't talk about politics. Yeah, I know. That's what the Liberals want us to think. They want us to be quiet. But here's one one little short saw-off guy that's not going to be quiet. Have not, not about to start now. That that crab, they've schemed against us, they're up to no good. They'll get on the school board, they'll get on the city council, they'll get it they'll get in the legislature, they'll get in the Congress, they'll get on the courts, they'll get everywhere they can And when they get in control, you and I you and I need to acknowledge we've lost the battle, and uh that's urgent that we acknowledge that. I think it's also urgent that we remember that the world's way will never satisfy the saints of God Here they are. He said, we were down there by the rivers of Babylon. We sat down. It was not party time. We wept. when we remembered Zion. We remembered what it used to be. We remembered who we were. We remembered what it was about. And we were sitting down there under the under the the thumb of those Babylonian captors and we were weeping, crying our hearts out. Because the world's way never satisfies the saints of God. When the world dominates God's people, they're not going to be happy. It's not their normal self, they're not fruitful. And when God's people dominated by the world They're not they're not they're not gonna I mean here Israel was a long way from home enslaved in a foreign culture and they were not happy about it but the Babylonians said hey we want something from you guys anyway they're never gonna let us alone They said, Sing us one of the songs of Zion. Give us music and give us mirth. They said, we don't like it, you guys sitting around here weeping. We, hey, let's let's do the mirth. Let's let's have party. And it's pretty urgent we know where they're going to try to take us. But it's also urgent, I think, that we understand the Babylonians know the difference. They they they they know they're Babylonians and they know the Israelis are Israelis and they know there's a difference. I mean that's why they come out and say, Sing us one of the songs of Zion. They have music The Babylonians had music, but it was not like the Israeli music. And so they said: Sing us one of your songs. They know that our music is not their music Now, whether they're sincere in their request or they're just trying to taunt us, whatever the case, I make the point here. I think it's urgent that we understand the Babylonians know there is a difference. And when they're trying to suck us into the worldly system, we just need to stand up and say, hey dude, we're not going there. We know there's a difference, and we know that you know there's a difference. And so we're not going to do that I believe it's urgent that we know if we hang our harps, like they said they had already done, they got so So discouraged down there in that culture, that foreign heathen, wicked culture, they got so discouraged. I mean, I mean they're a singing people, but they put their hearts up on the willers, put them in storage And whenever we put our harps on the willows, I mean, we can expect the world to taunt us and mock us. They expect more of us sometimes than we do. But it's interesting, even though the Israelis were down there in captivity, they had not latched on to the Babylonian music. They were sick at heart. But they hadn't jumped on the cultural thing and just said, hey, we've got to go with the culture, whatever the culture wants. They had not done that. It's very easy when you're in a foreign culture to let it steal your song and make something of you that you're not. But the Israelis had not done that. And I think it's pretty urgent for us. I mean, you may be solid as a rock, but you can lose today, but you can lose your song before tomorrow. They were down by the riverside. Verse 1 says, Down by the river there they were. They were deterred. They were depressed. They were dismissive. Weeping crocodile tears. Whenever the altars get dry, you and I ought to weep some tears. Our buses are sitting up on concrete blocks, we ought to win some weep some tears When the church is merely going through the motion and letting its community die and go to hell, we ought to weep some tears. We ought to be down by the riverside, crying it out, figuring out why our hearts are on the well, why our voice is not being heard. You say, what do we do? What do we do? The culture is sweeping in like a flood. Well, if I may just suggest We could start by repenting, maybe of our calloused heart, repenting of our comfortable stand, repenting of of just standing by and and not doing what we could do. It's urgent that we do that, that we get right with God and report for duty and proclaim the truth boldly. I mean, I mean I mean we folks we need to get out of the middle of the road. You realize being in the middle of the road is a good place to get run over. And a lot a lot of our churches, a lot of our pulpits are so middle of the road They don't hit anything at all. It's all so quiet, so passive, so uh palatable to whatever God help us to raise the flag to the top of the pole early every morning. Cry out and spare not and give this generation a fit Just give them a fit. A lot of folks have the idea that the millennial generation and The Generation X. A lot of folks have the idea, you know, that uh eh, you gotta treat them with kid gloves. Yeah, that's a good way for them to use the gloves on you. They'll have you dancing to their tune if you play kid gloves with them. Going to these prisons and Man, a bunch of things, I guess you could better go in there and kind of take it easy. No, I'll go in there and preach heaven real and hell hot. You'll win some, some of the rest of them will draw back in their hole, but But you you can't you you can't make him mouse around with this stuff and get anywhere. And uh A lot of folks have the ideas, you know, that man, you're gonna reach you're gonna reach this generation of young people. You gotta you gotta entertain them and feed them twelve kinds of pizza and all that kind of stuff I'll tell you what reaches young people is is preach heaven real and hell hot. Preach this book like it is. Just just tell them what for. Love love them to death, but but preach the hide off of them My mama's been dead a little over three years now. Last couple years of her life, she was struggling with some some degree of dementia. I was up there to see her drove up to Kentucky three about three hours from us. I I went up one weekend uh went up on a Friday, was there Friday night and part of Saturday and I was I was leaving going back to Nashville to fly to Texas late in the day on uh Saturday and uh Saturday morning she was sitting in her recliner and and you know, had a little dog in her lap and we were teasing with her and stuff and and she said, I I said, Well mom, I'm gonna have to leave. I've got to go to the airport to catch a plane. She said, Where are you going? And she al it was always, I mean, no matter how long you were there, it was never long enough, you know. And uh she said uh she said you're leaving so soon? I said, Yeah, Mama got to go. She said, where are you going? I said, well, I gotta go catch an airplane. Well where are you going? I said, I'm going to Texas. She said, well, what are you going to Texas for? I said, I'm going to Texas to preach. She said, she said, well, what are you going to preach? And just off the cuff, I said, Mom, I'm going to go down there and preach the devil out of them Texans. And she kind of grinned and she said, You think they're going to like that? And I said, Mama, they'll get used to it. They'll get used to it. Now had a little fun with that. But you know the fact is, that is kind of what we're up to. Preaching this book, holding up, telling folks, hey, Babylon's one thing, and this this this rotten culture that's developing in our country, it's Babylonians. Babylon's one thing, Israel's another. There is a difference. And I think there is a national urgency that the president will not solve, whoever gets elected National election that our Congress will not solve, our courts will not solve. I I I want good people to get elected to everything from dog catcher on to the president. I mean I I want good people elected everywhere. And I want them to do a good job. And I'll be friendly to those that do, and I'll be I'll be an antagonist to those that don't But at the same time, the real battle starts in the pulpit and it starts in the church house. And you and I, listen, folks, don't don't give up on your town. Don't give up. Don't give up on what you're into Just determine by God's grace you're going to keep the flag flying top of the pole first thing early every morning and give your best. Give your best. And if I may reiterate what you heard the first hour, just be you. Let God use you To do what you do. You don't have to be anybody else. God made you, God uses you. You do what you can do. Let's stand up, we'll pray. I do believe we have a national urgency. And that's part of what we're trying to do with the sword of the Lord, sending it all over America, and literally sending it around the world to help others. Our Father, we pray this morning. We pray for strength. We pray for courage. We pray, dear Lord, for heart and for your help. We pray that you'd strengthen us in the battle. Thank you for men like Brother Lederman, Brother Cooper, and all of these men of God that are here today. We thank you, dear Lord, for the folks who run bus routes and help in the nursery and sing in the choir and sweep the floors and do all of the things that we do to keep a lighthouse going and keep the light burning in that lighthouse in cities and towns and villages all across America Dear God, help us to realize you put us where we are, and uh we can do what we can do And Lord, please empower us and fill us and help us and strengthen us and give us courage and help us to not be intimidated by the Babylonian culture. Help us to take heart, to be your people, do our job, be who we ought to be. Keep just raising the flag. Help us, dear God. Help us. We need your help and power. And we'll thank you for what you do in Jesus' precious name. The music begins, the altars are open, you listen to God and do his bidding. We'll wait for you.