Wood. We have to pray for our country. And um To me it just uh you know, as we see our spiritual condition of our country deteriorating, to me it puts greater burden on the church to make sure our house is in order and that our Hearts are right with the Lord and we get all like I've been saying on Sunday nights, you get all we get all worked up about all that out there and we tend to overlook the issues that God's dealing with us with us in our hearts. And so uh we definitely need to pray. Second Thessalonians chapter three. I just want to look at one verse and um If you'll notice here what it says verse number six, Second Thessalonians three six. Now we command you, brethren Uh, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly, and not after the tradition which he received of us. I want to talk tonight. This verse really stuck out as I was working all the way through here. And actually get over to verse 13, 14, and 15. It brings up the same subject again. And actually, the teaching of verse 6 and the teaching in verses 14 and 15 are that same teaching is found all through Scripture. All the way back into Genesis, you find it illustrated and practiced. And I call it the most neglected doctrine in the church today And it's the doctrine of separation. So let me just share a few things. I was really tempted just to get into this, make it a full-blown study, but that would take months And so I just want to kind of introduce it. We've preached on this before, but I just want to look at how it's addressed here in this passage of Scripture. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you for the Word of God. I pray, Lord, that uh you would challenge us as a church to be faithful and obedient to your word. Lord, you give us many precious promises, and God, you give us some commands that really are uh to uh some degree a pleasure to carry out and a real joy. They're not grievous. But Lord you give us some commands that are challenge and uh really go against our flesh and we want to be obedient thoroughly. We want to be faithful. And I ask that you would help me to lead our church under your direction to obey your word. I present my body anew tonight. I plead with you with all my heart that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I said, what's inter what's dealt with here in this verse is one of the most neglected teachings of the Bible. In fact I would suggest to you it's one of the most rejected uh teachings in Scripture. Uh not only do a lot of Christians and a lot of ministries um neglect this teaching. Some understand it and they see it and they deliberately walk away from it. And they deliberately reject the scriptural teaching and lean on their own understanding. A number of years ago Uh it's been quite a while and I've mentioned this in different messages over the years, but um uh we had our we have our wild game dinner every year and there was a fellow coming to that and really enjoyed the wild game dinner And what we were trying to do with that thing, uh out of not out of our church, from another church, another denomination, uh he's in a denominational church But anyway, he would attend some of our revivals and different things, and um became what I felt like somewhat of friends. He was organizing how many people remember Promise Keepers Way back in the day. Big men's organization around there, very ecumenical to the core. Well, they were having up at Garrett Community College, they were having, uh, it wasn't a promise keepers, but it was based on that They wanted to have a big men's meeting and and uh they were inviting all the churches in Garrett County and surrounding areas, all of them. Any stripe, and I use the term church very loosely They want everybody to get together and we're going to try and reach men. They had about, I think, eight or ten preachers lined up. Well, this fella that had been come to our wild game dinners and been coming out a little bit. He was one of the organizers, one of the on the board that was putting all that together. Well I got a call one evening I think if I remember correctly, it was a Thursday night after visitation. And he said, We're working on this thing. This was like in the fall and the the big meeting was in the spring. And he says you're uh we really appreciate what you're doing at the Wild Game Dinner and the emphasis on reaching men and and different things. He said, I would like for you to come and speak at this thing. Uh he says we're gonna have between five and six hundred men probably there. I think the figure was something like that. And uh he said we'd like to be for you to be one of the speakers. And of course I was very honored to be invited to something like that. And the thought went through my mind at the time, I should just say uh no, I'm sorry, I don't think I'd be able to make it And for the first time and the last time I thought, you know what, I'm going to try and explain to him why I couldn't get on the platform and be a part of a ministry with all these other churches and I'm talking Lutheran, Catholic, everything across the board. And um and so I thought this guy's a nice guy. I consider him a friend. He understands us. He's been here And I said, you know, I really can't. And he talked a little bit and I said, Well, I said, if you have a few minutes, let me try and explain to you why I can't do that. And the more I tried to explain to him what I understand the Bible to teach on the doctrine of separation, the madder he got. And um and I I had in my mind, if only I could show him from scripture, he would understand my position. and understand where I'm coming from. And as I said, the more scriptures I referenced, I was in the in our living room, I had my Bible out, I was going through that thing. And the more scriptures I referenced to him, the hotter he got And by the time our conversation ended, he was absolutely furious at me for even suggesting that maybe some of these other churches taught something different and something unscriptural. And uh the sad thing is he's never been to one of our wild game dinners, he's never been back to any of our meetings again. Um the point I'm trying to make here is is the doctrine of separation is very misunderstood. I believe it's very neglected. Sometimes it's distorted in some people, and I'll touch on that in a minute. But a lot of times it's just flat out rejected. People have the idea they would never say this, but it comes across, I don't care what the Bible says. I'm not going to do that. We're not going to operate that way. And so, um, let me let's look at this passage. We're going to look at a few others. I can't go in depth. I do have a study here that I thought was very good by a fellow named Dennis Costello. We use a good number of his materials in the track track back there, some of the brochures we have on a charismatic movement, the King James Bible, some of those things are from his ministry. And he wrote an excellent article and pretty in-depth on uh what does the Bible say about separation. So I ran a few copies of that off. If you're interested in this, after this introductory message type thing I have a few copies here. It's about three pages long. It's not real long, but it's a pretty good study. I'll have those available afterward. Now let's look at this verse. Let's break it down. Look at what a few other verses have to say along these lines and then see how it applies to our li uh our church and our lives. Look at verse 6. Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. The first thing I notice in this verse is that we are given a strong command. He says, now we command you, brethren, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. That word command is not a word to trifle with. When God's word says that we are commanded to do something, would you agree with me? We need to take that seriously. We need to pay close attention to that. In fact, the word command there has this idea. I was looking up how it's used. And it has this idea to order with authority. For those who were in the military, you know what it means to get commands. That is a command. There's no option, there's no questions, there's no way around it. It's it's a it's a it's instructions with authority. And then on top of that He could say, now we command you, brethren, that you withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly. But he doesn't say that. He piles on here, in a sense, the urgency, the importance of this, the strength of this statement, and he says, uh, we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now when somebody is doing something in the name of someone, what are they doing? What does that mean when there's he's commanding us in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ? What's that mean? Okay, he's speaking as a representative of the Lord. That would be good. Anybody else? In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh okay, the what did you say back here? Authority. Authority. That's the word I was looking for. He is speaking with the authority of Jesus Christ. Remember me telling the illustration on other messages? where I worked for the my uh my dad's cousin I guess was a farmer and he dropped me off I was just a little twelve thirteen year old boy he dropped me off to buy a several thousand dollars worth of feed and seed Anybody remember that story? Uh three. Good, I'll tell it again. Anyway, uh he had to do a bunch of runaround. He gave me a list of stuff, dropped me off at the plant at the uh at the um farm store, it wasn't southern states, it was that type of thing. And uh he says, I want all this stuff. Man, it's a couple thousand dollars worth. I'm a little kid, 1972, you know. And uh he goes in there, he says, tell them to put it on Danny Leatherman's account. That was his name And so I went in there, 12-year-old kid, I'm ordering all this thousands of dollars worth of materials. I probably don't have five dollars to my name. And uh, but I was doing it in the name. Of Danny Leatherman, my dad's cousin. I had his authority to make that order. Well, that's what's happening here. Paul says, we command you. And then he piles on, he says, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, with the authority of the Son of God behind me. I am commanding you this. Would you agree with me? This is a strong command. Man alive, he says this. This is not advice. This is not a suggestion. It's not something that, hey, think about this. Church of Thessalonica, you believers, just think about this maybe. Look at it this way. No, no, no. There's no wiggle room here. This isn't Paul's opinion. This is a command of God. I believe this is some of the strongest language in all of Scripture as far as instructing believers to do something. I command you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Look what he could now consider what he could have said here. Look at the verse again. He could have said Start just ver in the beginning in the middle of the verse. Withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly. If he'd have just said that, it would still have the weight of scripture, right? There'd still be a tremendous authority behind that if he just said that. But he doesn't. He says, we command you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I can't say this for certain. This is total speculation, but I'm wondering if it isn't presented this way, with God anticipating that Christians would resist this. That we would try and find some way around this and somehow to bypass this. And God said, and God, uh understanding the importance of this doctrine uses this language. In other words, God takes this very seriously. I command you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ God takes this very seriously. So number one, my first observation here is that we're given a strong command. Boy, that ought to perk our ears up. We ought to snap to attention when this is when we read this and be prepared for what he's about to tell us to do. Number two, second thing I notice here is there is uh separation from a Christian First, there's a strong command. Now there's separation from the Christian. Let's break this down. Command to the net, brethren, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother. That walketh disorderly. Now the word brother or brethren is used twice in this word. Who is the first one referring to? Notice right there, now we command you, brethren. Who's that referring to? The church. Yeah, the church. Any particular church. Yeah, the church at Thessalonica. He's addressing the church at Thessalonica. Let me ask you this. Spiritually speaking, what type of people were the people at Church at Thessalonica? They're Christians. They're saved people. In fact, the term brethren is only used when addressing spiritually is only used for Christians. So now we come down to this and we find the word brethren used again. That you would draw yourselves from every, it's another form of brethren, brother. That walketh disorderly. So who is it that he is strongly commanding us to separate ourselves from? What type of person spiritually? Okay, let's let's look at it and read it through real carefully. Alright? Now we commend you we command you, brethren. Alright, that's the church. Save people in the church that that's not God. In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly. Is this a saved person being addressed or an unsaved? This is a saved person. Now, here's what I'm trying to draw out of this and draw your attention to. He is commanding us that there are some Christians Who we are to withdraw ourselves from, who we are to separate ourselves from. Um the word Christian, the every brother, is obviously referring to some uh referring to uh Christian, saved people. There are some Christians that we are to keep ourselves away from. Now let's back up a little bit and look at that word withdrawal How would you define, I'll give you my definition, you'll probably you'll probably cover it, but how would you define the word withdrawal? Alright, pull away from, remove yourself from. Anybody else? Different aspect on that? Don't associate with them. Here's an interesting thing, as I got looking this up, it's actually a word that comes from a word, it's a nautical term, the word it comes from, has the idea of unfurling your sails Letting the sails down, opening the sails up. When a ship is putting the bringing the sails down and opening them up to catch the wind, what are they fixing to do? See, they're leaving, they're moving on. They're putting distance between where they are and where they're going from. And that's what he's saying here. He's saying, withdraw yourself. Put some space between. Unfurl the sails. Did you ever hear this? Did anybody ever study this? When you were growing up, your parents ever say this to you? Keep your Distance from that guy. Ever hear that? Keep your distance. I'm pointing at Mark. Keep your distance from no, I'm kidding. Keep your distance from that guy. That is exactly what this word is talking about. Now, this for some Christians lies in the face of our understanding of Christianity. What? We're supposed to all just get along Uh well couldn't Jesus pray in John chapter 17 that they would be one? Even I as in the I and the Father are one? And that is the cry of the ecumenical movement where it's all get together, we all just unite ourselves together. A Christian should never be divided from another Christian. But that is contrary to Scripture. The Bible teaches that there are certain brethren, certain Christians, that we are to separate ourselves from. It's the doctrine of separation. The doctrine of separation, the teaching that we are to keep ourselves from certain activities and certain teachings and certain people. Is based in the holiness of God. God is absolutely holy. Let me ask you this: how much sin can the holiness of God tolerate? None. How much disobedience can God's holiness tolerate? Never God, in fact, the word holy implies a separation from all that is unholy, all that is impure, all that is not good. God's holiness is so pure That when sin was placed upon his son, he separated himself from his own son, Jesus Christ. When Jesus Christ was on that cross, legally speaking, in the courts of heaven, my sin and your sin was placed on Jesus Christ. And God's holiness demanded that he, because his son is now sin for us, God separated himself, and what did Jesus cry out from the cross? My God, my God, why hast thou what? Why hast thou withdrawn thyself from me? Why hast thou separated thyself from me? The reason being is because God's holiness cannot tolerate the presence of sin. And thus Jesus Christ became sin for us. Suffered the wrath of God's judgment on himself for us so that we can be united with Christ. Our sin could be paid for, and we would not be separated from God. So the Bible teaching of separation. Is based upon the holiness of God. And if God is holy and is separate from sin, then certainly he would expect his people, his children. To be holy and separate ourselves from sin. Which of course we can't to the degree that God does simply because we're we're sinful beings. I think most believers, see if you agree with me on this care if you do or not, but see if you agree with me on this. I think most believers understand that we are to separate from bland sin. Right? We do agree with that. Just about any church you go to, even the most liberal, they would have a certain point where they say that can't be tolerated. That can't be accepted. So, most believers would say, yeah, we need to separate from sin. I would say most Bible believers would say, yes, abortion is wrong. We need to separate ourselves from that activity. Would you agree with me on that? So, my statement is this. Most believers understand that we are to separate from blant and sin, but I think many, I want to say most, fail to see the degree of separation that the Bible requires of us. And say, oh yeah, preacher, uh uh uh Christians shouldn't be involved in that or this, that, and the other. Then we look at what the Bible says and the degree of separation that the Bible requires of us and they say, well, you know, that's going a little too far Well, I kind of like that there. I don't need to think I need to separate from that if you like it. You don't have to separate from it. And hey, that person's a Christian. We're supposed to get on it. It doesn't matter what they're doing or what they're involved in or or what their doctrine is, if they're a Christian then we need to get along. And that's where the Bible makes a higher uh level of uh of uh separation than what your average Christian would Be involved in. Let's look at a couple verses. We won't be able to look at all of them, but let's look at a couple. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. Just a page earlier here. Not chapter 2, chapter 3, verse 6, the one we just read. We just looked at it. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 5. I was just seeing if you were awake. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 5. Look at verse number 9. Man alive. He gets clear here. Notice what he says in verse 9. I wrote unto you in an epistle not to keep company with fornicators. And we all know what fornicators are. He said, and what are we told not to do here? Not to keep company. We are to withdraw ourselves from them. We are to separate ourselves. If somebody well let's read on here uh I wrote unto you in epistle not to keep company with fornicators. So If the guy or the gal's a fornicator, don't keep company with them. Yet not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous or extortioners, or such or with idolaters For then must she needs go out of the world. What's he saying here? He's saying, Listen, you can't avoid interaction with these people that that live this way in the world, because if that was the case, you have to go out of the world, right? Uh yeah um you know you go to the store you've got to interact and you've gotta uh do business or whatnot. You've got to interact with people who are living lifestyles we would not approve of. We would not want to be a part of And so he's saying, listen, don't keep company with fornicators and this whole list there. But not I'm not talking about the ones in the world. If you're separated from them, you have to go out of the world Verse eleven he narrows down what he's talking about. But now I have written unto you not to keep company if any man that is called a what? Brethren, a brother. Ah. If he's a Christian, he calls himself a Christian or she. They claim to be a child of God. They claim to be saved. But they are a they be a fornicator or covetous or an idolater or a railer or a drunkard or an extortioner with such a one know not to eat So here you've got a person he's addressing that claims to be a Christian. And they are living uh the the this lifestyle that he addresses here, and he says. Listen, separate yourself from them. Don't be hanging out with them. Don't be spending time with them. Don't be partakers with them. Even in just getting together, just keep your distance. Set your sail. Then read on. He goes on. For what have I to do to judge them that are without? Do not ye judge them that are within But then uh but them that are without God judges. Therefore, look at this next phrase, what? What is it? Therefore Put away. Therefore, withdraw. Set your sails. Avoid. Put some distance between Put away from you among yourselves that wicked person. He's addressing a Christian here. Now, boy, we could just spend hours and hours in this. You can go back in the Old Testament and you find a beautiful example. That. In the life of Abraham and Lot. Abraham and Lot. Abraham was a godly man. Would you agree with me? He had his faults, he had his ups and downs, but for the most part, he's a godly man. He's the father of the faithful. Lot was not. Hey, that's pretty good. Lot was not. Um, but uh Lot was not a man of faith. He apparently was saved, we find that out in Peter. He was a just man, his soul was vexed by the lifestyle of Sodom and Gomorrah. But there came a point where Abraham had to separate himself. From Lot. They were going two different directions spiritually, and there was a whole lot of other issues involved. And they had to go their separate ways. To save men. But they had to withdraw themselves. Um uh Now, when we're talking about separating from a brother or sister in Christ, we have to be very careful. Not only is this doctrine neglected, people say, oh no, you simply that or reject it, sometimes it's distorted. Sometimes Christians will separate from other Christians for unscriptural reasons. Can anybody think of anyone in the Bible that separated from believers and did not have a scriptural basis for that? separation. One instance very clear. Want to remember? In Galatians, Paul had to approach Peter and rebuke him because when Peter was, when the Jews were not around, Peter was associating and fellowshipping with the Gentiles who had gotten saved. Believing Gentiles. But when the Jews showed up, what did Peter do? He withdrew himself, the Bible says. He got away and says, Oh no, no, I don't have nothing to do with that. It was an unscriptural separation, and Paul rebuked the sharply before everybody. He did not have a scriptural basis. I put it this way, some separation is sinful. If I'm separated from a brother because I'm worried what others will think if they see me with them, that is a sinful separation. For Peter, it was if they were Gentiles. Um for in our day and age, what would be a sinful separation in our day and age where somebody stays away from a blood in Christ simply because they're worried what other people will think. What would be a situation where that would be the case? I'm thinking, what about some corpos? And I'm eating over some folks that are very poor, maybe a bus family or something, they're saved and all that, and I'm fellows and the other, and boy, all my rich buddies come along and say, Oh, what are you doing with them? Can you see that scenario? What about the color of a person's skin? Uh what about uh and all these other things? You can come up with their nationality. Can I tell you that something that that a little pet peeve of mine gets under my skin? Can I do that? I want to anyway, so you know what I I understand there's two buttons and and I'm I won't make a big deal about it, but I'm braven tonight, so I'll say it. Um I'm I don't like the idea of having a Korean church and a uh a uh German church. I think if they're safe, it ought to be the Church of Jesus Christ. I break down in Houston one time, it was a German church, and it was all just Germans. And I was right smacked out uh in the uh in Houston and there was all There was Orientals there and there was all kinds of other people, but they were felt so out of place because it was all Germans. In fact, it was called German Baptist Church. And uh, you know, they're good people, I believe they're saved, but And I thought, why would you do that? Why wouldn't it just be the church for people who are saved to come into? You follow what I'm saying? And a well discovered, well, we like our culture, and that's great. And I'm not asking you to sacrifice your culture. But in Christ there is no German or Korean or American or Brazilian. In Christ we're in Christ. Follow what I'm saying? And so that would be, in my mind, an unscriptural, a sinful separation Because of someone's nationality or the color of their skin or their financial level. So there's sinful separation, but then there's also silly separation. What I call silly separation. That's where a guy won't won't preach with another guy because he has a blue shirt on and not a white one. Now is that silly or what? Uh because of maybe some little way uh he doesn't wear cufflinks or something, or you know, I'm being silly here, but I'm telling you, I'm out in there in it. It's there. Uh I had a preacher tell me one time. Uh we were having lunch together and I think I had a turn on similar to this and we were eating and talking of different things and I had preached for him before and he wasn't having me preaching anymore. And we got talking of different things and uh bringing up stuff and I was trying to in a sneaky tactful way find out why I wasn't pleasing there anymore. That's how we call him again. He doesn't let anyone preach behind his pulpit that doesn't wear a white shirt. And the last time I'd been there, I didn't know that. I had worn up dark church and never had me back again. To me, that's silly. Now, if you had told me you're a stinky preacher, I'd I would agree with them. I said, Oh, okay, that makes sense. I understand that. Uh but the color of a shirt, come on. Um there I I You can be a good Christian and wear a pink shirt with purple polka dots. You might look dumb, but it's not sinful. And then there's scriptural separation. So we have to be very, very careful. This is what I'm trying to say. When we're going to implement this command that God has given us that we're to separate from Disobedient Christians. Reverend. It requires great wisdom. It requires great tact. God is Because you know what? If we dug deep enough, we could find something wrong with every one of us. No? And this is where I this is where it takes great wisdom. Where do you know how where to draw the line? Now it would take time, and the Bible, I think, clearly lays out where that line is. There's about twenty to twenty Verses in the New Testament that tell us very clearly who we are to separate from and why. But uh it takes wisdom to know. That's at the point where I just need to back away and just back off a little bit. So it requires great wisdom. And let me say this before I give you my last point. I can't see the clock. Oh, I've got lots of time. It requires great wisdom, but I also put this down. It does not ever involve unkindness. Are you with me? There's one thing to keep my distance from somebody. There's another thing to be unkind to somebody. Are you with me? I'm always to be kind to people. The most, you know, sodomy is in the news, and it's just Just crushes me. But you know, we come across the side of my we're supposed to be kind. They're sinners. Just like anybody else. Come across a drunkard, somebody's addicted to liquor, uh and uh a drunkard, I'm gonna be kind to them. I'm not gonna hang out with them, I'm not gonna go to the bar with them, not gonna have lunch with them, maybe a drink and lunch with them or anything. I'm not going to be unkind to him either. There's nowhere in scripture I find where there's justification for being unkind to anybody for any reason. I can withdraw myself, but be very kind about it, very gracious about it. What did Jesus say in Matthew? Is it chapter eighteen where he says, If your brother offend against you, go to him one-on-one? I'm paraphrasing here Is that chapter 18? And then uh and then he says uh if he doesn't hear you and that doesn't resolve it then take it somebody else with you go too. And if that doesn't resolve it, then take it to the church, and if he won't hear the church He is to be unto you like unto a publican. Now, question, how were Christians supposed to treat publicans? What was our interaction with them? We're going to try and win them in Christ. We're going to try and show them and be kind to them. Praise still we don't beat up the unsaved. In other words, what he's saying was if you have to separate yourself from someone because of as a even a brother in Christ, because of Biblical reasons, you keep your distance, but you don't be unkind to them. You try and win them back. You try and and win them back into fellowship with you. Right, so I feel like I'm losing you all. Um uh do not allow what he's saying here is don't be unkind. Make sure you be tactful about this and wise. Make sure you have a biblical basis. But don't let that first person, that brother's sinful behavior, influence you. Don't let it influence you that you begin to accept it and you begin to see it from his perspective rather than the biblical perspective. My wife and I were talking this afternoon when she got home from work, talking about the news today and the And the Supreme Court decision on sodomite marriage and all of that. And I said, you know, I really believe we're ending up entering a period of time in our nation's history where Christianity, Christians' faith is really going to be tested. I'm telling you, the time has turned. We are no longer the popular uh people in our country. The government itself has taken a unbiblical position on some of the most basic things of life. And we are really going to be under the gun to have our faith tested. Now this This is what I mean by that. Because of the influence of the media and the influence of our society being so anti what we believe the Bible teaches, we're going to be tested at into we're gonna be tried into questioning whether our faith whether we are correct in our faith It's good as that. Well maybe I'm man everybody's uh for this sodomy marriage. And uh man they're so strong against our position. saying that's wrong, we're gonna there's gonna be a lot of Christians are gonna start saying, boy, am I really right? Maybe uh maybe I'm wrong. Maybe the Bible is outdated. Maybe the Bible is wrong And as that pressure comes down from the world on all sides, our faith is going to be tested. We're going to be influenced by the world. And that's what he's saying here. Don't be unkind, don't be stupid, don't be unscriptural. But some people you have to withdraw yourself from so that they don't influence you and redirect your lifestyle or your fate. So, then go number three. Then he tells us here in this passage, 2 Corinthians 3, in this case, who they were and we are to separate, to withdraw ourselves from. Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you withdraw yourselves from every brother that does what? That walketh disorderly And not after the tradition which you received of us. So my third point is this. There's a certain characteristic we're to look for. In this verse particularly, and go to others, and there's other characteristics. So there's a strong command, there's a separation from a Christian, and there's a certain characteristic. We're to look for. In this case, a brother who walketh disorderly. Now that does not mean that his room is a mess. I can't have fellowship with you. Your room is a mess. It's all disorderly. That's not what it's talking about. If that was the case, most of us couldn't have fellowship with a lot of the others. So when he uses the word disorderly, he's not talking about being in a mess. It literally means this: somebody who is living out of rank. How many people remember Gilbert Pyle? Remember the opening of Gomer Pyle? They're marching. Is Don't have the right show where they're marching and the whole the whole unit turns and they're marching and Gomer Pyle keeps marching and also turns around and run. Everybody remember that? How many people don't remember that? Yeah. Everybody under thirty is like, What Gumar who. That's the idea of this word disorderly here. Completely out of rank. Uh out of step. March along and he's got the wrong remember when he had to adjust himself, he's constantly trying to get his march in line. That's the idea here. Out of rank. I like this definition. They are living out of the prescribed principles given to us by Scripture In other words, they are living their life outside of the principles God has given us to govern our lives. What's another way to put it? They're not living according to the teachings of Scripture. They're disorderly. They're out of the order that God gives us in His Word. The Bible says we are to withdraw ourselves from them. And then he goes on and says this, and fr and not after the tradition which he received of us. Now we talked about traditions before There are man's traditions where the man just came up with it and just passed it on down through the years, and nobody knows why we do it. For instance Did I talk about the covering on while we put a sheet over the the communion table? We were doing that last time we had Lord's Supper. I said, Carolyn, why are you putting that sheet on there? I don't know. That demands traditions. There's nowhere in scripture it says thou shalt put a sheet over the elements of the Lord's table. Um there's nothing wrong with it, but it's just a tradition. What he's talking about here is not a man-made tradition. Look at very carefully at the wording. He says, and not after the tradition which he received, last two words of us. Paul had given them, in fact, the word tradition there means a set of instructions. Man-made traditions are there's a way to do it. Why? We've always done it. The instructions given by Paul were the Word of God. I think he's referencing 1 Thessalonians. The entire book of 1 Thessalonians. These are the instructions we gave you as a church. This man is not walking in rank with what those instructions are. He's not living his life in the principles that we gave you. And therefore you are to withdraw himself. A Christian that refuses to live by scriptural principles is to be avoided. He's not to be gossiped about. Amen. He's not to be ridiculed. He's not to be treated hatefully. He's not to be shunned. Now I'll be very personal with you for a moment. When I was 14, we were in another church, another uh whole different denomination. I was fourteen, my dad had gotten saved, he was just starting to attend the baptism Church a little bit. Oh, my my mom left us, left the family. And the denomination that we're in, they shunned her. And I'll tell you, even to this day, 35, 40 years later, 40 years later almost, I still remember being in the grocery store, Hennings Grocery Store in Hardingsville, Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania. I was about a 13, 14-year-old kid, and we're there. There's a couple folks in the church that we had gone to growing up. We knew them just as well as we know each other here. When they saw my Mom, I was with her. When they saw my mom, they all turned their backs to her and would not talk to her. She tried to say hi to things they absolutely would not talk to her. And to this day I remember And you know, that is wrong. And I've often wondered, and and you know, I mean there's so many things, but I often wondered if those people they didn't have to hang out with her. But I'm wondering if they've just been nice to her. How different things might be Father, what I'll say. If somebody's living disobedient to the instructions of Christian or brother or sister, withdraw myself. What's distance between? I'm not hanging. out with them. I'm not their best buddy. But I'm nice to them. I'm praying for them. I see them, I greet them, and be gracious and kind to them. them. But I'm not I'm not allowing myself to be influenced by their disobedience. FB Meyer, boy, if you ever get anything to read by FB Meyer, fantastic. He actually pastored Charles Spurs' church a little while years ago. Listen carefully. I'm going to read this a little lengthy, but listen carefully. He sums this up beautifully. He says it is often argued that we should stay in the midst of churches and bodies whose sins and follies deplor. It's the with the hope of saving them for God and mankind. In other words, they're saying, well, the church is doing wrong. Well stay in it. So that way you can influence it and it'll end up Doing right. He says such reasoning hasn't put the old force in the first stages of decline. A strong protest against error may stop the gangrene. In other words, if something is just starting to go wrong, or a church or a movement is just starting to go wrong, maybe standing up and speaking that may stop that from going wrong. Wrong. But as time advances and the whole body becomes diseased, when the protests have been disregarded and the arguments trampled under foot, when the majority have clearly taken up their position against the truth, we have no alternative but to come out and be separate. The place from which we can exert the strongest influence for good is not from within, but from without. Lot lost all influence of his life in Sodom. But Abraham from the heights of Mamory was able to exert a mighty influence on history. Man, what a In other words, you and I will do more good for a brother or a movement that has totally become disorderly. We will do more good for a brother. from them from a distance in a sense than we would if we were right in there with them. I had a roommate in Bible college, my first year in Bible college, John Chan. His name was Kim He's from South Georgia. That kid, that guy's, he was a fine fellow. We were friends to some degree. But after my second year, I moved out and got an apartment, and he had gotten another apartment. I saw him one time and we're talking about the Lord different things. He said, I've got a new witnessing approach. I said, How's that? He says, on Saturday nights I've been going down to the bars and I'll sit down and have a beer with the guys And then while we're drinking, I'll uh witness to that and give them a gospel trap. I say, Kim, you're wrong. You disobey God. You're doing something. That is wrong, try and do something right. You know, he would have had far more influence if he just said, No, I'm not going to drink that with you, and here's why. And it's sitting down With them and engaging in that. I guarantee you they had no respect for them. He was no different than they were. And the Bible says, come out from among them. Be easy. Separate. Don't be unkind, don't be rude, don't be hateful. But keep that distance. Don't let that influence you. You who think you stand, take heed lest you what? I hope this makes sense. It can be so abused. And some churches are separate over every little thing, and that's not right either. Must be scriptural. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, as a church, to be wide. Help us, Lord, as Christians. Withdraw ourselves from every brother that's disobedient. Doesn't walk according to the teachings given us by the In the Word of God. Help us to be kind and gracious. Lord, I have no doubt some of us are thinking of someone in particular, a friend or a family member that's saved, but disobedient. Help us to be wise.