Verse thirteen, Second Peter chapter three, it says, Nevertheless, we look we, according to his promise, look for a new heavens And a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. I want to talk about looking for a new heaven and a new earth. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take the little bit of time we have left tonight, and I pray that you would take this one statement here and this information that you have given us about a future event, and I pray you would show us how it affects our lives now. And how we should live with this in mind of a new heaven, new earth coming. Fill me with your spirit is always my prayer, Lord, as I yield my will, present my body Pray you'd take me, you'd speak through me. And Lord, help us finish out this Lord's Day as we go into a new week. That our hearts would be in tune with you. Our will would be yielded to you And you fill each of us with your Spirit, that we be a good testimony, and bless our efforts to be a witness this week. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you remember, and it's been a couple weeks, but if you remember, Peter's been discussing in detail, really, the destruction of the current earth and the current heaven that we now have. If you would come back to verse number seven, just a brief refresher. He said in verse number seven, but the heavens and the earth which are now The earth we live on, the heavens we look up in the sky and see, the earth, the heavens and the earth, which are now by the same word, the word that brought them into existence Are kept in store, look at this, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. Of course, that being a reference to the great white throne judgment. And then the earth on fire, the heavens on fire. Come down, if you would, to verse ten. And again, we looked at this, just a refresher But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, look at this, in which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise. That's night sky we look up to. We talked about it a little bit this morning. That's going to pass away with great fire, great noise. And the elements shall melt with fervent heat. Very elements that make up matter. Very elements are going to melt with fervent heat The earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burned up. Verse 11, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved. What manner of persons ought we to be? Verse number 12, looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire. Shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. Twice he says they'll be dissolved. Twice he says they're going to melt. The very elements That make up all that is are going to melt, are going to be dissolved. So nowhere else in Scripture do we have that level of detail given as to how this whole thing comes to an end. How this world and this heavens, the universe is gonna uh its demise. And so he gives us tremendous detail. I have in my library some books written by Bible-believing scientists, very highly intelligent men, believe the Bible and are solid in their faith, and they go into detail about uh how uh this could all transpire and and uh and and the uh the nuclear type reactions that may be being described here not nuclear bombs, but that that that reaction that we have in all the universe. It's a fascinating, fascinating, hor uh terrifying event coming up. And so Peter's been describing this. He's taking it very, very seriously. He's he's warning his uh his writers, you know, uh his uh the people he's writing to he's he's uh uh r reminding them warning them listen It's very, very important that we understand what the future holds. Now, look at verse 13. He starts off with a word, nevertheless. In other words, the world doesn't end with the end of the world. That word, nevertheless, has the idea of on the other hand. There's heavens and earth, they're going to melt, they're going to be dissolved. Nevertheless, on the other hand, he says, we look. For a new heaven and a new earth. That word look there is interesting. I always study all the words, look them up. And the word look there has the idea of patiently anticipating. It has the idea of patient expectation. We're looking for it. It doesn't mean that, oh boy, we hope so, maybe, you know, we're looking. No, no, no. It means we're looking for that. We're looking for it. Do you ever somebody go your spouse or somebody, one of the kids or parents away, somebody calls up so-and-so and there, no, but I'm looking for them to be here any minute. It means you're expecting them, anticipating them anytime. That's what Peter is saying. This whole thing, everything, it's all gonna the very elements that make up uh existence are gonna melt, they're gonna be exalted. Nevertheless, on the other hand That's not the end. There's a new heaven and a new earth coming. Notice he says there in verse 12, 13, and 14, he uses the word look three times. Verse number uh twelve, looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of the Lord. Verse 13, nevertheless, according to his promise, we look For a new heaven, new earth. Verse 14. Wherefore, beloved, seeing we look for such things, we're expecting it, we're anticipating it. We're looking for the day of the Lord. We're looking for that new heaven and that new earth. It's not the destruction of this world that we're looking for. It's the new heaven, new earth that we're looking for. Some people are so wrapped up in the coming Antichrist they forget the coming Christ. Sometimes we get so wrapped up in the destruction of sin we forget the victory of our Savior. And in the end, God wins with a new heaven, new earth, new heaven, new earth. Um we mentioned Derek and I drove we went up to Pennsylvania. We went down 135 down through Luke and the old the old paper mill down there. They're tearing that thing down. Anybody been down there lately and every time I go by there's a few less buildings there. And what I'm waiting for is that smokestack to come down. Whenever that's coming, I want to be down there. I want to see that. Wouldn't that be cool? I love it when stuff falls apart and break and But we're not looking for the destruction of this world. We're looking for a new heaven, new earth, wherein dwells righteousness. So uh he he says, Nevertheless, three thoughts real quick. I see what time it is. Let me give you a three f Three thoughts real quick. Number one, our confidence in this coming new heaven and the new earth. Our confidence. Notice what he says. Nevertheless It's all going to burn up, but on the other hand, we according to his promise Look for a new heaven, new earth. According to his promise. Our faith in the return of Christ, our faith in the end time events, as they're laid out in Scripture is not just a hope-so faith. Well, I think so, maybe. We have absolute confidence that what God says is going to happen, it's going to happen. We have absolute confidence that there actually is a new heaven and a new earth out there on the horizon And it's it's uh uh he's come he says um uh according to his promise. Our faith has a firm foundation. It's in the promises of God's Word. It's in the statements of God's Word. That is our faith. One thing I love I wasn't raised a Baptist. I got saved as I study the Bible. I uh gravitated to the Baptist church, the Baptist doctrine. And I tell you, one of the things I just thank God for, one of the things that attracts me to the Baptist Distinctives is the number one, the Word of God is our sole authority. The Bible, not a Pope, not a denomination, not a preacher. The Bible is our authority, and when God says there's going to be a new heaven, when God promises there's going to be a new heaven, new earth, you mark it down, there's a new heaven, new earth coming. So the confidence we have in that, in the Word of God. God had promised Israel centuries previous That he was going to give a new heaven, he's going to make a new heaven, new earth. Keep your place here if you would. If you would, real quickly, go to the book of Isaiah. We can find Isaiah pretty easily back to the Old Testament. If you get the Psalms are too far Towards the front. Then work your way towards New Testament and uh Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Psalms, Psalms. You run into Isaiah. Chapter number six uh thirty-four, Isaiah chapter thirty-four And like Pastor Matt Burry eloquently pointed out this morning, it's right before right after thirty-three. And right before chapter thirty-five. Isaiah thirty-four. Look with me if you would at verse number four. This is what God had promised to Israel. He says, and all the hosts of heaven, look at this, shall be dissolved. And the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll. All their hosts shall fall down as the leaf falleth off the vine, and as a falling fig from the tree. That's exactly basically what Peter's telling. God had promised that. When he says, according to his promise, he's coming back here to Isaiah. Come over to chapter number 65, Isaiah. And um he touches on this again. 34, he talks about the dissolving of this world, heavens and earth. Verse 65, look at verse number 17. Now God's speaking here very clearly, very directly. For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth And the former shall not be remembered nor come to mind. Turn over to chapter 66, Isaiah. And look with me at verse 22. For as the new heavens and the new earth which I will make Not might, not could be, not possibly. He's going to. He promises. Shall remain before me. And now he's talking to Israel. He says, saith the Lord, so shall your seed and your name remain And by the way, what he's saying there is Israel is an everlasting nation. And they're going to remain all through into the new heaven, new earth, the nation of Israel. So our confidence in the new heaven and new earth is based on the promises of God, as Peter said there, uh according uh to his promise. Number two, I want us to notice the creation of this new heaven and new earth. Verse 13 of back in 1 Peter or 2 Peter He says, nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for a new heaven, a new earth. That word new means recently made, fresh, unused. It's a new heaven, new earth. Now, I gotta be honest here. We've studied this for many, many years. I gotta be honest, there's a little bit of uncertainty About the new heaven, new earth. This is the uncertainty. Is the new heaven and new earth, the old heaven and earth that is melted, dissolved? and then redesigned into a new heaven and new earth, or is the current heaven and earth Is it completely eradicated, completely vaporized, nothing exists anymore, and he creates a new heaven, new earth, just like he created The f the current heaven and earth back when he's spoken in existence, which is it? There's a little uncertainty about that, and let me tell you why In Psalms chapter number 78 and verse 69, the Bible says very clearly, the earth is established, listen to this next word, forever If something is forever, how long does it last? Right? Just like we're promised the eternal life, we'll live forever. And so Psalm 7869 says the earth is established forever. Ecclesiastes chapter 1 and verse 4 says, the earth abideth forever. If something is forever, it lasts forever. Now we come to Peter and his passage is in Isaiah, and it says the current earth that now is is going to be dissolved. It's going to melt. And so, how do we reconcile those two? Let me ask you a question. Are there contradictions in the Bible? No. We know they're not contradictions. And so here is That here is what we th this is where the uncertainty is. And this is I tend to I tend to think this in studying scripture The current earth, the current heavens, the elements that make it up, the atoms, the neutrons, the now there's even smaller stuff than that. What are they? Quarks? Quirks? Yeah, we got quirks in our church. And um uh quacks. No, I'm sorry, it's quite Uh uh all these tiny little elements and here's the idea. And and and they're dissolved. And then God tak he completely dissolves it And then he reforms, redesigns the new heaven and a new earth out of the remains of melting and dissolving the current earth And the idea is this, and this is why I tend to lean that way. One is the Bible says very clearly, the earth will abide forever, established forever. So what he made when he first spoke It's going to last forever. Now it's stained with sin. It's been affected by the devil and his influence. God melts it all, just dissolves it, melts it all, and redesigns. And here's where uh maybe this would help us understand that. The Bible says that you and I are going to have new bodies, glorified bodies. But they're these bodies, but they're redesigned. They're remade. They're glorified. When we get to heaven, here's this, some people ask me this sometimes. We get to heaven, I'm telling you, we will recognize each other. We'll have very similar characteristics. My glorified body will be this body, but it won't be this body. It'll be a new body. You follow what I'm saying? And God will resurrect this old sin-stained, corrupted flesh, and he'll make a new creature. Not just my nature new, but my body will be new, this body, but it will be new and sinless and glorified and like unto his body And so that same concept we believe is what is taught in Scripture that God will take this whole world, He's going to burn it up, He's going to melt it. And then out of those components, he will redesign a new heaven and a new earth. Um it I I And this is a fascinating study. I can't spend time on this, but this new heaven, new earth will be in many ways, I believe, similar to this heaven and earth that we're in now. Although I believe there'll be mountains, there'll be valleys, there'll be rivers. We see all this described in Revelation. There'll be vegetation. There'll be animal life. There'll be relationships. We'll know each other. We'll interact with each other. In the new heaven, new earth. Not talking about the millennium. We're talking about the new heaven, new earth. The difference is no more sin. All the stain and effect of sin will be gone. Turn with me, if you would, very quickly, and I'm winding down, Romans chapter number 8. Romans chapter 8, and look with me if you would at verse 21. Romans chapter 8 and verse 21. Verse 21. Because the creature, and that's referencing critters, but also all of creation. It's a term the Bible uses to refer to creation. Because the creature itself shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption unto the glorious liberty of the children of God. For we know That the whole creation, that's heaven and earth, groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. He says this old creation, this creature, this creation, is groaning and travailing, longing For that new heaven, that new earth. Just how many people here are are groaning and travailing in this old body? Every morning, 5 30. Groaning and travailing. Oh, uh, how many people are looking forward to that new body? Woo! That's gonna be something. And Romans says that this whole creation, the heaven and earth, of course he's personifying it here, he's illustrating, but they groan and ache, longing for a completely new design, new creation, new creation. And that's something. It'll be it'll be a I think it'll be a lot like this I think uh this this current heaven and earth. Um I wonder this is just this is Leatherman but I wonder if we won't be able to inhabit and travel. Planets all through the universe. This place is infinite. Maybe we'll just fill this place up. Who knows? Who knows? But it'll it won't be the same. But it'll be similar. Geography will be similar. And there's no ocean. There's no more sea, the Bible says. No need for the sun and moon. No night there. And so, but it will be similar. It's going to be a literal heaven and earth. Literal. It's not figurative, not some spiritual thing, but it's going to be sinless. It's going to be curseless. That new heaven and new earth will be eternal. This one's temporal. This one's heading forward, dissolving, melting. But that new heaven, new earth is going to be eternal forever, ever, ever, ever, ever. It's hard to comprehend, isn't it? It's an amazing thing. It's an amazing thing. Go with me real quickly to Revelation chapter 21. I wish we could take time, just work our way through this chapter. It's a fascinating chapter Revelation 21, look at verse number one. John on the Isle of Patnus. God reveals to him. The Holy Spirit of God opens his spiritual eyes. He sees this. He sees this this vision, this revelation is given to him. And he says, I saw a new heaven, here it is, and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem. I think that's the heaven that people are, I think that's the heaven where my daddy is right now. Loved ones. Jody's mama passed away. And uh new heavy, I saw the uh the holy city of Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, prepared. As a bride adorned for her husband, I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men And he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be there and be their God. God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. This is in the new heaven, new earth There should be no more death and no more sorrow, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. Come with me if you would over to verse 23. And again, he goes through and describes so much of this new Jerusalem. It's on the new heaven, new earth. Verse 23, in the city, this new Jerusalem had no need of the sun. Neither of the moon to shine in it. For the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof, and the nations of them which are saints shall walk in the light of it, and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honor into it, and the gates of it shall not shall not be shut at all by day, for there shall be no night there They shall bring the glory and honor of the nations into it, and there shall no wise enter in anything that devileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, nor maketh a lie, but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life. Look at chapter 22, verse 1. And he showed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the land. And in the midst of the street of it, on either side of the river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month. And the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. And there shall be no more curse, but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and his servants shall serve him. And they shall see his face, and his name shall be in their foreheads. And there shall be no night there, and they need no candle, neither light of the sun. For the Lord God giveth them light, and they shall reign forever and ever. And he said unto me, These sayings are faithful and true. Man, what a world. What a world. The creation. The confidence we have it's going to happen The creation of this, how it all transpires, we look, we try to understand. And then last of all, I am with this, the character of this new heaven and new earth. Come back to Peter real quickly, one more statement he makes. Nevertheless, verse 13, we, according to his promise, based on what God has promised us, look for a new heaven and a new earth. Look at this. Wherein dwelleth what? Righteousness. It's gonna be right. It's gonna be right. Anybody here ever complain about stuff that's wrong in this world? You're not gonna some folks are gonna be bored in the new heaven, new earth. There's nothing to complain about. It's gonna be made right. It's gonna be made right. Imagine what the news will be: righteousness! People doing right. In the streets, being honest, kind, loving each other, helping, serving, serving the Lord. That's going to be the headline news. Righteousness. All sin will be removed. All sin will be removed. How many people get disgusted with yourself, your old sinful nature? Just say, what's wrong with me? I'll tell you what's wrong with us. We're sinners. That new heaven, new earth, that old sinful nature is going to be gone. No more internal conflict with the old man and new man. Just holiness unto the Lord. Won't that be something? All sin is removed. All that sin has damaged. Will be repaired. I'm telling you, all sin does is damage. It hurts. It kills. It destroys. And all that's going to be removed in the new heaven and new earth. What a day that will be. I'm telling you this. Believers have every reason in the world to be optimistic. We don't have to go around with long faces and mad and griping. And there's injustice. Don't misunderstand. There's heartache. There's unfairness in this world, I tell you. But if we know Jesus Christ as Savior, we got something coming that is out of this world It's an amazing thing. We don't have to be pessimistic and negative and critical and walk around mopey-dopy, grouchy, grumpy, nobody loves me, everybody hates me, I'm gonna eat worms. We don't have to be that way We can rejoice in the Lord. Amen? Are you with me? By the way, we'll win more people to Christ being excited about the future than griping about the present. This whole world groans and travails. Anybody been watching the news over in Myanmar? Thailand You know what that is? That ground seven point something, shake it. You know what that is? That's this old world groaning and travailing. Longing for to be made new. We get up and we groan and travail. Longing to be made new. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you would help us keep this promise of yours. In the forefront of our mind, there's a new day coming, there's a new world coming. And all the years, people have tried to establish a utopia here on earth Through politics and religion and social experiments. God, what we really need is this whole thing made new. And help us, Lord. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many people would say, Preacher, I gotta get my eyes off of the here and now to start looking forward to the great day coming. Anybody like that, I just need to rejoice in that. God bless you. Hands all around. Let's not get let's not get our roots too deep in this old world. Because there's a new one coming. Father, bless our invitation now as we look forward to the coming week in Jesus' name. Amen