Bibles tonight. We're going to go to Esther chapter three and verse number ten. Esther three Verse number ten, and if I can have thirty minutes, that takes us to eight fifteen, are we gonna be good with that? Uh Esther chapter 3, verse 10. And let's all stand. I'll give you a moment to stand. Let's read this verse together. Says this, and the king, notice this, took his ring from his hand and gave it unto Haman, the son of Hamadotha, the Agagite, the Jews' enemy. Lord, we come to you tonight. I thank you for this time. We look into your word. I thank you for the liberty that we have to meet here tonight. Something that has not always been available and possible even in our own nation as we look back historically to the days of the colonies. And Lord, I'm thankful for those who made the sacrifice and stood up then. And Lord, I pray that you would just show us our duty in this day. And Lord, protecting our liberty to preach and practice the whole counsel of God. And bless us now tonight, I pray, for we ask in your name. Amen. Thank you, may be seated. In Luke chapter 11, verse number 17, Jesus said this about the Pharisees, but he, knowing their thoughts, said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation. And a house divided against a house falleth. And he made the point that we can draw from that, and that in that verse that if you want to destroy a nation, as is true with any organization, as is true with the church itself, if you want to destroy it from within, you must first divide it. And folks, America tonight is a divided nation. And it's not by accident. It's not by accident. And I'm going to spend a little time giving you a little more history. building a little bit on what we did this morning, not repeating that those particular some of those points, but build on that a little bit. Because in the mid-1800s, a godless secular humanist by the name of Karl Marx came up with a plan to create the perfect society. Anybody in any political party, and we have to all be careful of this, that promises you they can fix all your problems, you need to be very careful about that. We live in a sin-cursed world. There is going to be trouble. There is going to be hardship, and nobody is going to make it perfect. But that was Karl Marx's plan. He himself, if you ever read any of his history his personal bio uh a biography of Karl Marx, he was one of the most wicked, ungodly, worthless, despicable human beings to ever walk the face of the earth. And that's can be historically backed up. But his plan required a revolution, and by the way, he never worked a day in his life, but his plan required a revolution to overthrow the current governments in the world at that time was kind of a broad reaching wherever he could find an opportunity and he found that opportunity first in Russia, where he proposed dividing society. That is the point I'm making right now. Dividing society, in that case, pinning the working class, the proletariat, as we know them today, the oppressed. against the property owners, the bourgeoisie, the oppressors. And his theory was that if you could essentially steal the property of the bourgeoisie The property owners, you could redistribute their wealth and create the perfect world. If you study Karl Marx's writings, he literally believed the day would come when you would not need government, you would not need police The world would be a perfect, everybody would just wake up, and by the way, no private ownership of property in any sense of the word. Everything would belong to the community as a whole, and it would all work perfectly. By the way, what does that go back to? The truth that they that the left never acknowledges, that man has a sin nature. It's not gonna work that way. But that was Karl Marx and his theory that he put forth. That theory failed and more than a hundred million innocent people died under communism in the 20th century. And millions more languish today under severe poverty and persecution in third world countries. You come to the early 20th century of America, Marxists attempted to carry out the same plan here, but capitalism, which has a biblical foundation to it and the worldview the on which our nation was built, uh things were going so well that the communists uh idea of dividing the worker against the property owner really didn't work, especially when you come into the twenties and thirties and people are are beginning to prosper and and they're buying their own houses and it's like why would I Why would I attack my my the owner of the business where I work? That wouldn't make any sense. And so it did not sell uh well here in America. So they struggled with that But you come to the day, and actually it goes back to the nineteen fifties, uh they devised another strategy to establish the same goal, and instead of dividing us by class, the socialists are using race, gender, and economic status to sow dissension. Often referred to today accurately as identity politics. They convince people who identify as having some particular characteristic or behavior that they are victims that they are being oppressed, that they bear no personal responsibility for their problems. Again, as we said this morning, society is the problem, not the person, in their view And it's all the fault of the oppressors. And that as leaders of the movement, they can solve all of the problems To the point, it is Marxism wrapped in a different package. But it's the very same thing Just cutting back to what we mentioned this morning, the whole concept, the terminology, critical race theory goes back to a group of Marxists who met in nineteen eighty-nine, not that long ago. That's where they coined the term critical race theory. But They were all Marxists in that meeting. Simply put, it remains a quest for power based on lies. And we went through that this morning with critical race theory and DEI and how that all fits into that picture. So we're going to uh not repeat that tonight. But here's the question. You've got these Marxists, these secular humanists, these godless people who are literally trying to, their answer is burn down society as we know it. rebuild it in the after really a Tower of Babel, uh rebuild it in the in the nature of man. And how do we stop them again? Because what they are proposing is not going to work. It's going to fail horribly. How do we stop them? So that's what brings us back to Esther chapter three and verse number one. And the story of Esther, which again, for the sake of time, I'm going to assume that most of us in this room and even those watching online are familiar with the story of Esther. So we won't go into all of the uh details of it. Essentially, you have a situation where a godly man by the name of Mordecai, who is a one of the princes, the not the top-level prince, but One of the princes has a position politically at least in the land, sits in the gate, as was the custom back in those days. You have him, and then you have another man, prince of the rulers, named Haman, a godless man, as we find out And so the situation, the problem essentially manifests itself when Haman is walking to his job as Prince of the Rulers every day, walks through the gate And the protocol was for all of the leaders there in the gate, all the leaders under him, to bow to him when he walked by. And so here comes Haman, he's walking in, he's now Prince of the Rulers, and there is some debate as to whether it was that Mordecai would not bow or whether he would not use the correct pronouns. I'm not we're not sure what it was yet. But he was not. The point is this he was not politically correct And he would not bow. He would not bow. Why? Because his faith was in the God of heaven. He bowed to nobody. It was his personal faith in God. Which by the way, I would suggest that that same personal faith in God is one that would make all of us say, you know what, I'm not going to buy into this lie of preferred pronouns. Haman becomes full of wrath, we see in Esther three verse number six. And notice verse 3, verse number 5, notice verse number 6, and he thought scorn to lay hands on Mordecai alone. That's an interesting wording there. He thought scorn to lay hands on Mordecai alone. In other words, there was an option there. Haman could have just taken out his anger on Mordecai. Maybe he could have got him to lose his job. Maybe he could have gone to the king and said, look, get rid of this guy. He won't bow down to me. And he could have personalized it and dealt with it personally, but the Bible says he thought scorn to do that. In other words, he says, no, that's not enough. That's how evil of a man Haman was. He had a personal issue with Mordecai, and he decides, as we see in the rest of verse number 6, to take his anger out on all of the Jews. For they had showed him the people of Mordecai, which we know was a Jewish people, wherefore Haman sought to destroy all the Jews. What a wicked individual That were throughout the whole kingdom of Ahazuaris, even the people of Mordecai. Now, the government of Esther's day was a very different form of government than we have in America today. It was a monarchy. not a constitutional republic. But the commonality is found in the fact that both Haman of that day And the radical left of our generation need something to carry the same thing to carry out their evil plans. They need the power of government. They need the power of government. Haman could not go through the land and kill every Jew himself. He needed government's power. And by the way, that's what government is, it's power. He needed government's power. Look down to Esther 3, same chapter here, verse 8. And Haman said unto King Uhazueris, and he goes on and describes there's a certain people scattered abroad. He goes on tells lies about the Jewish people, says they are bad citizens, which there's no evidence of that. So he lies about them But look what the king did in return, unfortunately, verse number ten, notice this, and the king did what? Took his ring from his hand And gave it unto Haman, the son of Hamadatha the Aggite, the Jew's enemy. So our text verse right there, he took his ring and gave it to Haman. Haman writes his law. We see that in verse number 12, and sealed it. The last part of verse 12 says, and sealed it with the king's ring. Now follow me tonight. The king's ring represented the power of government. In order to pass a law to achieve his goal of killing and destroying all the Jews, Haman had to have the king's ring. So he writes, he gets the ring, he writes the law, he seals it. Now at that point, the onlooker might conclude it was a done deal. Just like you might find believers in America today who believe it's a done deal. We've lost, they've won. Let's just hide behind the wine press and wait for the rapture. Folks, I believe the rapture could happen any moment. But I'm telling you this, I'm 61 years old. My entire lifetime, Christians around the world have been being arrested, persecuted, and martyred for the cause of Christ. If we're not careful, we come up with this idea that persecution is for third world believers and American believers, we do the rapture. Thank you very much. Folks, again, the rapture, I would be thrilled to join everybody in heaven by this time tomorrow. Amen? But I'm telling you this: God does not owe American Christians a fire escape. When in many cases the case where when the case can be made that it is our own apathy and indifference that has put us in the place where we are could face at some time, at some day, if this continues in this direction, persecution. But that could have been the conclusion, even more so in Haman's Day, you've got a king It's the law of the Medes and Persians. Nothing can change it. Folks, if you're if we think we're in desperate straits, how would you have done in this situation But not so fast, because two godly people, by the names of Esther and Mordecai. Refused to throw in the towel. When they learned what had been done, they responded in two ways. Number one, they appealed to the God of heaven. Go gather all the Jews that are present in Shusham and fast ye for me, Esther said, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day I also and my maids will fast likewise. And folks, I would encourage you to take a day and fast and pray between now and the election. I would encourage you to do that. They appealed to the God of heaven Secondly, what happened at great sacrifice and in her particular case at great risk to her own life Esther personally took action and engaged with the leader of government, the king. And so I will go in unto the king, which is not according to the law. She said, and if I perish, I perish. I realize we're living in a world where some Christians might be coming to the conclusion, if I stand up for my religious beliefs in my workplace. I may lose my job. And by the way, Christians are standing up, and Christians have lost their jobs. But again, nobody in America is losing their life at this moment for their faith. And by the way, if you are in a situation where your workplace is forcing you to violate your, I mean you're doing everything else just like you're supposed to. But your religious faith, your belief in the Bible, your belief that you should only use pronouns as they are applied, that's a belief with you, like, hey, that's lying to do anything else. Your belief in marriage, your belief in whatever it is, that that is costing your job, there are more than half a dozen at least. religious liberty lawyer associations across this country who will take up your case and defend you free of charge And let me know, and I will help you to connect to some of those. I can't guarantee the outcome, but I can promise you this. Folks, my point is this. Okay, if we're not going to stand up now, can you tell me when we're going to stand? Esther, at the risk of her life, went before the king. She was willing to stand up against the evil, come what may. Mordecai and asked her did the little they could do, and trusted God to do what they could not Folks, until believers are willing to get involved today, I believe, and stand up to the evil, we're not going to win this battle Now you know the story. Here's the point. They did the little they could do, and what happened? God divinely intervened I mean, an amazing thing. The whole thing turned on Haman. Haman, again, you know the story, so we won't go into it. Haman was hung on his own callows. Man who nobody saw that I promise you this Haman didn't see that coming. Amen. He wouldn't have ordered as good a rope as he did, amen, if he'd have seen that coming, Amen God divinely intervened. And I'll tell you that, folks, we are in a situation in America, let me tell you something. I personally I'm voting for Donald Trump, that's me, what I'm doing, but I'll tell you this Donald Trump is not the salvation of America. And no political party is the salvation of America. We are in a situation in America, and by the way, four years from now Win or lose, he's going to be off the scene. We're in a situation in America where we need divine intervention. And as Christians, we need to understand that. God divinely intervened. But that was not the end of it, because the law to kill the Jews was still in force. Look down to Esther 8, verse number 2. Esther 8, verse number 2, because this is critical. So now Mordecai, God divinely intervenes, he puts Mordecai in a position of favor with the king, and notice what happened. And the king took off his ring, notice this, which he had taken from Haman and gave it unto Mordecai. And Esther sent Mordecai over the house of Haman. Now look down to verse number 8, where the king instructs Mordecai. He says, Write ye also for the Jews a new law, is what he's talking about. as it liketh you in the king's name. Notice this, and seal it with what? The king's ring. Skip down to verse ten. And he wrote in the king of Hazuerus' name, talking about Mordecai, and sealed it with the king's ring and it spread it across the land, published it across the land. But pay special attention to what the new law did. Where verse number 11, wherein the king granted the Jews which were in every city to gather themselves together, and I love this phrase in the verse, and to stand for their life. The new law gave them the authority to stand for life. Then it continues to destroy, to slay, and to cause to perish. All the power of the people and province that would assault them. They did not the new law didn't give them permission to do to others what the others had wanted to do to them. You know what it gave them permission to do? The permission and the legal authority to protect themselves. And the law actually gave them the authority to take the spoils of those who attacked them But if you read the whole story, you'll find the Jews never touch the spoils even of those who attacked them and who they killed under the new law. Because they weren't interested in the spoils. All they were interested in was the ability to protect their own lives But here's the point. The power of government in the hands of the ungodly was used to pass a law to kill and destroy. That very same power in the hands of a godly man was used to protect life and provide a defense. The ring that sealed the law, allowing the destruction of the Jews, was the very same ring that sealed the law, providing for their protection and defense. It was all about who controlled the ring. And not much has changed in 2,500 years. Good and evil still compete for the power of government Whichever one controls it, controls the destiny of that nation. when it comes to America from those days is the article in which that power is vested. In America it's not who has It's who has the pen. This pen says Kim Reynolds, governor, on it, and has her signature etched in it. This is one of several pens that was used on April 2nd of this year to sign the religious Freedom Act, the Religious Liberty Freedom Act into law in Iowa. The Religious Freedom Restoration Act. Giving, as I mentioned in West Virginia, the same law passed a year and a half earlier this morning, I mentioned that, giving fundamental religious liberty protections to believers across our state. As I mentioned this morning, that was a nine-year effort in Iowa by our pastors and good godly legislators. But here's the point. Without the ink from the tip of this pen on that piece, you can pass it through the House, you can pass it through the Senate You can put it on the governor's desk until an ink from this pen or one like it in America is on that law, and we're talking about the same thing now in Washington, D. C. The moment that it hits the paper, or whenever the law says it goes into effect, at that moment, because the signature is on the paper, it becomes the law of the land. It's all about who controls the pen. And like Haman in Esther's day, the left wants the power of this pen to authorize the destruction of a society built on God. And folks, you want to know where you're going to find the left? If you're wondering where they're at, go to the dome of your capital and underneath that dome. They understand better than many of us as Christians the value of the power of government. They understand you can use the power of government to force your will across a state, across a society. You don't have to convince everybody, you just need to have the power of this pen. In every election, folks, the power of this pen in America is up for grabs. They want to use it, the left, to kill and destroy. You know what we want the power of the pen for? For protection and defense. You know it's amazing to me how some people I I don't understand this part of the mentality of the left. Why does somebody why would anybody want to wake up and force everybody to think like they do and do and control ev why do you why would anybody want to control everybody else's life What we want as believers is just give us the liberty to practice our faith freely. That's all we're asking for. Protect life and provide a defense for ourselves. Every election, the power of this pen is up for grabs. And folks, you know who gets it? Whoever wants it the most. And make no mistake, the left wants it desperately. The good news for us is the same good news that Mordecai and Esther enjoyed. We have the God of heaven and truth on our side. The only question is, are we willing to make the sacrifice and have the courage of Mordecai and Esther to do the little we can do so that God can intervene on our behalf and do what we cannot do? So, in conclusion, how do we stop the godless secular humanists and Marxists doing the same thing that Mordecai and Esther did? Identify the enemy and understand their tactics. Pray for God's divine intervention. Pray for God to replace the godless leaders in government with courageous leaders who have a strong biblical worldview. Take personal action, inform yourself, vote, contact your elected officials with your concerns. Because we're blessed with that avenue that Esther and Mordecai did not have. Stand for truth. In society, even when it means personal risk and sacrifice, and then trust God with the results. As Esther, as Mordecai said to Esther in Esther 4. 14, says, For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time Then there shall enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place. And I say this to Americans, we're not the Jewish people. God was going to protect those Jewish people at that time, no matter what happened Esther would not have been protected if she had not stepped out boldly, is what Mordecai was saying. Don't think you're going to get away with this. God will provide folks. In America, I think we are the defense that needs to stand up. But he said to this, he continued, he said, But thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed. But then he made this statement, which we all know well, and who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time? As this. If not us, then who? Lord, we come to you tonight. I thank you for this time. We look into your word. Lord, this liberty that we have been granted that has become so easy for us to take for granted, this liberty that has enabled us to reach our communities with the gospel has enabled us to freely share you not just here, but to focus our attention on on funding missionaries to travel around the world. Why is America The lighthouse of the gospel, it's because we have liberty here and we can focus our attention on reaching the world. Lord, all of that is at stake today. And Lord, I pray that you would help each one of us To seek you, to pray, to seek your divine intervention in our society, Lord, to help us to be right with you in our own hearts so that you can bless us. And Lord, that we can see this nation, the liberty that we've enjoyed, the religious liberty that we've enjoyed, we can see it passed on to our children and our grandchildren. And bless down this altar call if we ask in your name