Psalm chapter number forty. We're working our way through here. We've we've uh been very uh very deliberate as we're working our way through here. But verse one says, I waited patiently for the Lord And he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of a horrible pit and out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock and established my goings Now, verse 3, he says, And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it and fear, and shall trust in the Lord. I want to talk about this new song that God put in David's mouth after he brought him up out of this horrible pit and out of this miry clay. So let's talk a little bit about this new song. We have a Christmas cookie fellowship immediately following this, so most likely we'll be extremely brief. Because I gotta run tomorrow. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you for a good day. Lord, I'm so grateful for our church. And Lord, the fellowship we have, the love for one another, the Spirit of Christ just seems like your spirit is so evident here so often And I give you, I praise you for that. And Lord, as we're finishing up a year and we're coming into Christmas on Thursday, I just pray you meet with us again tonight. I pray you would, your Holy Spirit would take your word And through my lips and through this message that you would speak to our hearts and challenge and help us. Lord, my prayers, I studied this, my prayers for myself and for every one of us that we would have this new song. in our mouth, and that many would say it and fear the Lord and trust the Lord. So fill me, Lord, as I yield myself to you, fill me with your Spirit, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. As we've been noticing and working our way very slowly through these first verses of the chapter, David had been through a, to put it mildly, a very unpleasant situation. He had a very unpleasant circumstance, and that's probably the understatement of the day. We don't know any details, as we've pointed out. We don't know the details of what he went through. We speculate some things. We don't know what the duration was. I don't know how long he was in this situation, this circumstance that was so horrific. We don't know any of that, but we do know how he described it. The words he used, and we've looked at this, is he described this condition he was in, the situation he found himself in, he described it as a horrible pit. Can't get out of it He's trapped in this situation, whatever it was. And the term horrible tells us it was very unpleasant. He calls it a miry clay. That's the terminology he used, of course, under the inspiration of God. So whatever it was, it was very, very unpleasant, however long it lasted He couldn't do anything about it, he felt, not of himself. And so what did he do? Talk to me now. What did he do? He's in a horrible pit. He's in Myrick Clay. What did he do? He prayed. Starts off the psalm with that statement. I waited patiently on the Lord. And he inclined unto me and he heard my cry. David couldn't get himself out of it, but he knew God could. And so he prayed, and he prayed very patiently. And the idea there is, and we've already looked at this, but the idea is He just kept praying, just kept praying, just kept praying. I waited patiently on the Lord. He made his request. I went out of this pit. I went out of this Myrie clay. God deliver me from this And he just waited on God and kept praying. There's a tremendous element of faith that if he just waits on God, God will hear him, God will come through. Just trust him. And he does, and God comes through. So he prayed very patiently, he prayed very passionately. We talked about that. He said, I cried unto him, and God heard his prayer. Now here's where I'm going with all this review. God not only brought him up out of that horrible pit, got him out of the miry clay, whatever that was. God not only got him out of it, but in the process, God completely transformed his life When he was brought up out of that pit, when he was brought up out of that Murray Clay, he was a different man afterward than what he was before. Notice what he says. He said he brought me up out of out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay. And again, we've looked at this, but he says, He set my feet upon a rock. He established my goings. Everything's different now. Um, God used the trial to make David a better man God used a situation that, according to the terminology he's using here, was overwhelming. It was more than he could handle. And God used that to make him a better man. Now, David had a role. His role in all this was to pray. His role in all of this was to trust God, submit to God, let God take care of this, let God get him out. He waited patiently. He cried unto the Lord. That was his role in his circumstance and this transformation that took place. But God's the one that used the horrible pit in Myrick Clay to change him and make him a better man. We all have trials, right or wrong? We all do. Job said, sparks fly upward, or born unto trouble. We all have trials. We all have heartaches. The hymn history tonight, uh, man, I don't know about you. That that touched my heart. That stirred my heart to think What he went through and and what God did in his heart. We all have trials. Some of us have horrible pits. Some of us deal with miry clay. And we some of us find ourselves in situations that are just overwhelming. Maybe emotionally, mentally, financially, whatever it may be, physically, we find ourselves in this horrible pit in this miry clay. So we all have we all have trials, we all many have horrible pits and miry clay But these trials, these trials and these overwhelming circumstances that we get into many times not of our own making, sometimes it is But it's not going to do me any good. Going into a trial, going into a heartache, going into a horrible pit, finding myself in my clay. That's not going to do me any good. It's not going to change my life. It's not going to make me a better man if I don't learn to pray and trust God. Some people go into horrible pits and they come out bitter and angry, hateful, resentful, mad at the world, God and the world and everybody. Because they went into a trial. Others go into maybe the same trial, deal with the same Myri Clay And they come out a better man, a better person, stronger faith. David When when God brought him up out of that horrible pit, when God brought him up out of that miry clay, David said that his life was more stable than it was before. We preached on that, I think, was it last week? He said, he set my feet upon a rock. The implication being is that before he was in the haropit, his feet were not on a rock, his life wasn't stable. And God used that trial, God used that that circumstance, that Myri clay, God used that to stabilize his life, to get him consistent, to get him planted where he needs to be, doing what he ought to be doing, faithful, consistent, stable. in his Christian life. But I get the impression before this he was on again, off again, hot, cold, in, out, here, there. But now that's all changed. God used this unpleasant circumstance to make him a more stable, consistent Christian, believer. How many people here you say, preacher, I could use a little more stability in my life. Yeah, you know, sometimes the only way to get it is to go through a horrible pit. Sometimes the only way to get is see God bring me up out of miry clay. God put me through a difficult situation. Stability God changed his life. God used this trial, this horrendous situation to make him a more stable man, more consistent, more trustworthy. And then he says he established my goings. And he's settled. The direction of his life now is settled. He's not just out there floating. Not just whatever the day brings, that's what I'm going to do. Now his goings are established. He's got a direction. He's got purpose in his life. He's got someone he's living for now And now we come to our new song. So God stabilized him, God settled the direction of his life, and God got him singing. God gave him a new song in his mouth. Now I got looking at that phrase, new song. I found it's used nine times in the Bible. That phrase, new song, is mentioned nine times in the Bible. Six times here in the Psalms, it will refer to a new song, a new song. Once in Isaiah and twice in Revelation, where in glory, in the presence of God, they sing a new song. I got to look it up what it means. What is a new song? So I focused on the word new. And the word new, as it's used in every one of these cases, every time this term is used, the word new has the idea of a fresh song. A song that is renewed. A song that is restored. It had been in place. It had been what uh uh uh a song being sung, then it fell out of use. It It dropped by the wayside, and now it's back again. It's revived. It's restored. It's regenerated this song. And I found it interesting One of the definitions, one of the dictionaries, the Hebrew dictionaries, they made this statement very deliberately. They said, it is not new in style. But it's new in its life. A lot of contemporary Christianity, and I'm you know, I'm I'm not oh there's good people that You know, there's people who love the Lord. I think there's people saved, get caught up in this contemporary stuff. So I'm not mad at anybody. I do believe they're mistaken. I seriously do. And they'll use this phrase, a new song, to use that to introduce a new style of music into the praise and worship and service of the Lord. into the church. They'll say, well, we need a new song. But that's not what it's talking about. It's not talking about a worldly style, a a different style. It's talking about A song that was in place, that's grounded doctrinally, that's grounded scripturally, and it has new life. I I I agree, I've been in churches, and I'm a little off the radar here a little bit on this. I've been in churches where they sang good old songs, but they were as dry as dust. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean just dead as last year's cat. Good songs that uh are just trying to us. And so the solution is, oh, we need new songs My approach, this is the way I see it, I'm just telling you, the way I see it is we don't need new style of music because the good songs are are sung in a dead way, a a dry way. What we need is the Spirit of God back into the good songs. The presence of God into our praise, not finding some br change in the style and bringing uh some new stuff from the world in. We've got to liven this up. I tell you the way to liven up your song service is get the Holy Spirit back in it. Don't need to bring the world's hype into it. So anyway, that uh that's free. That just comes along with the message. So the idea, the message here is a song that David had before when he says he he put a new song in my mouth. It was a song he had that had died out when he was in the horrible pit and he got in the miry clay, he got overwhelmed, and he lost his song. He lost his praise. He lost his joy, his his uh his awe and wonder of Of God and what God had done in life, and all of that was overshadowed by the horrible pit in the miry clay And when God brought him up out of that and brought him out of that in response to his prayer and his faith and waiting on God, God brought him out Now God gave him that song back again, but this time it had life in it, this time it had vigor in it, this time it had meaning, it had significance Because he experienced what that song was about. You follow what I'm saying? It's a revival of a good, solid song that God brought back again. So, a new song. God changed his life. Went into this situation, went into this horrible pit, Myry Clay He prayed, he waited on God, John. I'm just trusting you, God. I'm waiting on you. We don't know how long it went. He said he waited patiently, probably a long time. And finally God turned the page Finally, God responded in God's timing and brought him out. And he says, Man, now I'm stable and I have direction and settled in my direction of my life. I've got purpose and meaning in my life. I'm back on track. And God put this song in my mouth that I had before and I lost it. I want to give a few thoughts about this new song. Number one, this new song was placed in his mouth. It was put there. Notice, look at verse 3. He said, He hath put a new song in my mouth. I looked up every word in this verse. I looked where it comes from, how it's translated, other places, what it means. The word put means to give to somebody. He said he put a new song of mammoth. God gave him back this song, gave him this revived, lively song. It means to place or to deliver, like you would deliver mail, the UPS guy The other day stopped by said I just want to check on your wife. There's no deliveries today. I wanted to make sure she was okay. And um so never mind. And she's watching, so I'm in a horrible pit right now, I think. I need to start praying. I'm crying out. It means he put a new song in my mouth. This is the idea of the word. God delivered this new song into me. God gave it to me. In other words, it wasn't something that David worked up. It wasn't something that David was manufacturing. It was there. It was there. Did you ever have a walk with God where the songs of God, the great songs of the Lord, were just there in your heart and mind and mouth? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Ah, it's often I'll get up in the morning and just for whatever reason there'll be a song in my heart and mind. And and unconsciously while I'm Should be jogging. Um that song is just in my mark. God puts it there And that's what he's saying. He said, I didn't work up some song. I didn't try and, you know, well, I'm going to sound I want to sound spiritual and sing. No, no, no. It was there. God put it in his mouth. It was a byproduct Of David's prayer and faith in God. He saw what God did, he saw and experienced how God had helped him, and he couldn't help but sing. He was just put there. It was a product of God's deliverance, of God reviving him. I think one of the indications of a revived Christian. Is there's a song in the heart. You study Ephesians, you find a person that is filled with the Spirit, there's a song in their heart. God gives them a song. He couldn't help but sing. He couldn't help but sing. God put it there. So number one, I noticed this song, this new song was placed in his mouth. Number two, I noticed this new song was Praise Unto God. Again, look at the verse. He said he put a new song in my mouth. Then he describes, he explains a little bit about what this song was What it was about, what the subject of the song was. Even praise unto our God. Praise. What is praise? Praise is adoration. He couldn't help but adore the Lord for what he did for him. He adored, he praised God. This song was just filled with adoration to the Lord for being so good to me. The term praise is used throughout Scripture to express, to uh describe an expression of gratitude. I think what David is saying here is he's saying, God delivered me, brought me out of the spot, but he settled me, stabilized me, he gave me, settled the direction of my life, and I'm so grateful to God for what he's done for me. So grateful to God for how good He has been to me. And it came out in song. And God did it. God did it. He could not contain his gratitude for what God had done for him. It just came, it was on his lips. God put this on my list. Just praise unto our God. I tell you, it would do our churches a heap of good to learn to start to just praise and adore God for all He's done for us. Can I say this? I believe it would heal a lot of open wounds in our homes and in our marriages if we would just get back. to praising and adoring our Savior for all that He's done for us. It would remove the clouds That hover over us. If we look beyond that and we look and say all that God has done for us. Dr. Bob Jones Sr. made this statement. He said, when gratitude dies on the altar of a man's heart, that man is well-nigh hopeless. When gratitude dies on the heart We don't have time. I wanted to go there, but if you'll study Romans chapter one very carefully, it implies there, it tells us there that Behind all the ills of society, all the wickedness and sinfulness of society, is the fact that man is not thankful. He says, neither were they thankful. And as a result of that, they changed the glory of an incorruptible God into a corruptible beast. And they worshiped and served the creature more than the Creator. And then you study that chapter and it just deteriorates In the lowest, most perverse form of wickedness. And it all begins with the statement: neither were they thankful. God delivers me, maybe it's an addiction. Maybe God delivers me from some besetting sin. Maybe God gets me out of an awful circumstance. And He gets me back up. And I fail to be grateful. And I fail to praise him. And I think that is one of the reasons we end up just going right back. Into that horrible pit, back into that my replay. Because we fail to praise God, we fail to express our gratitude. I'm convinced somewhere behind every act of sin There's an ungrateful heart. I'm convinced behind every act of rebellion against God is an ungrateful heart. I'm convinced behind every act of disobedience to God is an ungrateful heart. Ungrateful. I think the great sin Of our society and our churches, our homes, and our us as individuals, the great sin of this day and age is a lack of gratitude. To God for his goodness. David said, He brought me up. I prayed, I prayed, I prayed and prayed, and I waited on God and I trusted him. And God brought me up He got me out of this horrible pit. He got me out of that miry clay. And he put my feet on a rock. My life is stable now, and I have direction. He established my goings. And I can't help but thank him and praise him for what he's done for me. That's what David said. So God put this song in his heart, in his mouth. The song that it consisted of praise and gratitude to God Number three, it was public in his life. Now he makes a statement here that caught my attention as I was looking at this. It says, He hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Now look at this next phrase. It's almost you'd almost think you know he misspoke here. Now it's a song, a new song, and where did God put the new song? Look at the verse. Where did he put the song on his what? Mouth, put it in his mouth, even praise unto God, and it looks to me, it should say, and many shall hear it. But it doesn't say, many shall hear this new song that's on my mouth. It says what? Many shall what? See it. How do you see a song? How do you see gratitude? Many shall see. I looked up the word see. I said, alright, that's I know it's not a mistake, because there are no mistakes in the Bible, right? So I looked up the word C. And it means what you think it would mean, to observe. I thought, well, maybe the word there means here. Maybe C means here. C doesn't mean here. It means to observe, to look at. It's it references something that is visible Doesn't say many shall hear it, says many shall see this new song I think what he's saying is this. This new song was more than just a tune on his lips. It was a truth that was visible in his life. In other words, what he was singing and what he was living were exactly the same. Right? Wouldn't it be an amazing thing? I'm telling you, we'd have revival in our country if every Christian would live throughout the week the songs they sing on Sunday. Right? You know a lot of our songs are prayers. Have thine own way, Lord, have thine own way. Thou art the potter, I am the clay. Mold me and make me after thy will, while I am waiting, yielded and still. Do you agree with me? That's a great song. I'll tell you what's even greater. Living that song. And people seeing, ah, he is the clay. God's the potter. I can see that in his life. I don't just hear it on his lips. I see it the way he talks, the way he acts, the life he lives, his integrity, his godliness, his honesty, his kindness, his compassion. I see what he's singing, I see in his life. David said, God did such a work in my life through this horrible pit, this miry clay, that it changed my life. And people can see what God did in my life. The song I'm singing, they see it in my life. Too often, how we live contradicts what we sing. The message of his song, this praise to God, was an outward expression of the condition and attitude of his heart. It wasn't just a song. Years ago, before I was saved, I was just caught up in all the world's music, and we'd go to these concerts just so wicked. And a lot of times you didn't even know what they were singing. You didn't even know what the words were. And after I got saved, I started paying attention. It took me a little while until the music weeded out, not real long. But I started noticing what they were saying. Actually, it happened some before I even got saved. And I noticed what they were saying, what I thought was so awesome, and I got listened to it, and I thought, no, I don't want to be that. That does not reflect my values. That does not reflect what I understand to be right and wrong. I don't want to live. And too many times we'll sing one thing and we'll live something else. And I'm here to tell you, people watch. The world's paying attention. And he says many are going to see it. It's going to affect them. And that brings me to my last thought here, and that is this. It was powerful. This new song was powerful in its influence. Look what he says, many, even praise unto our God, many shall see it, not hear it, see it in my life. And look how it affects them. And they'll what? Fear. And shall what? Trust in the Lord. They saw David was for real. God had changed his life. God had brought him out of a terrible situation. It impacted him so powerfully. His song, he's singing this new song. He's living the truth of that song, and people see it, and it's affecting them. It's affecting them The word many there means just what you think, large numbers of people David's life, just what God did and how he was living his life, they see this song in his life, and large numbers of people saw it I want to suggest to you that you and I have a lot more influence in this world than we realize we do. You and I, by the way we live our lives, by our attitudes, by our actions, our interaction with people, the way we talk, the how we treat people, how we live, what w do what our rights and wrongs are, the integrity of A lot of people are influenced by your life and my life more than you'll ever dream. I'm absolutely convinced of that. And David said, many people, large numbers of people saw what God did in my life. And it affected them. It says they fear. And fear. The word fear means to be in all of. To have reverence. In other words, this is what I understand he's saying here. God brought me out of the situation, He changed my life, stabilized it, settled my direction, put the song in my mouth I'm saying it's my life, it's being reflected, God's doing it in my life, my life uh matches the song, and so many people see it, and it's producing, it's influencing them. To reverence God. It doesn't say they're fearing me, they're fearing God. They're in awe of what God did in his life. They're in awe of his attitude and his spirit and his stability. They see that, and they don't praise in awe of David, the awe of God. They reverence God, what amazing God He has. That would affect his life in that way. And then it says, Many shall fear and trust in the Lord. It simply means they put their faith in God. They heard his song, they saw it in his life, and they said, I'm going to trust the God he's trusting. I'm going to put my faith in the God that did that for David. I want that for me. We don't have to be the biggest or the best of anything, and we're not We're not in competition with anybody else. But one thing we have to be is we have to be real. We have to be genuine. We have to fight pride and hypocrisy with every molecule of our being. And praise God and be thankful to God. And our lives, not just on our lips, but our lives reflect At the gratitude we have for what God has done for us. Amen? Are you with me? We just have to be faithful. Just be faithful. To my God that's been so faithful to me. How can I not be faithful to God when He's been so faithful to me? Many shall see it and fear and shall trust in the Lord. We just have to be right with God. We just have to be right with God. We don't have to be the biggest. We don't have to be the best. We just need to be real, be faithful, be right with God. And God will do a work. God will use us. God will use us. I'm convinced of that. I got saved. I worked in that meat packing plant. You've heard me tell it a hundred thousand times. And um it was a rough crowd there. I'm I'm just being serious now. It was. And A lot of heavy drug users there. I mean, bad, bad, bad, bad. I was right in the mix of all that. And God saved me. And God brought me up out of that, and I'm telling you, it was a horrible pit. It was my reclaim. I could not get out. I wanted out so bad And there was nothing I can do. And I called God. God heard me. And in his mercy, he forgave me and saved me and delivered me out of that. And I'm and I don't know why, and it's not the same for everybody. I say this so often, I don't I don't understand why God did it this way for me, but he did. And he changed me over, I mean literally overnight. Completely different And there was a fellow there, his name was Mark. He was he wasn't like our Mark, he was short. And he wasn't bald, he had long black straight hair about down to his waist. Some of y'all are gonna know, I probably shouldn't say this, some of y'all are gonna know what I'm talking about. He was back then we called him deadheads. Anybody yeah, all you hippies know what I'm talking about He loved the Grateful Dead. It was a a rock group. He was just worship them. Tells you a lot about somebody, their group is Grateful Dead. But anyway, and he was like he was like your typical nineteen seventies hippie, hey man, well you know And so God changed me. It was like a week. I got saved Monday, Tuesday I come in, I'm different. I mean a horrible pit. My feet are now on a rock. He's established my going. I got this new song. I'm just amazed at what's happening to my life. About a week later, Mark's work and we're cutting meat. It's hanging meat and we're boning it out and he's beside me. He goes, hey leather man. I said, Hey. And he looked at me, and serious as a heart attack, he said, You scare me I said, what do you mean? He said, you scare me. I said, Mark, what are you talking about? He goes, I don't understand what happened to you. There's no explanation. Whatever it is, it scares me. Sometime later I read this passage, many shall see it and fear. I was I didn't I didn't know how. I I didn't know how to go about it. So my time there, I was there maybe about a year. And I never was able to personally lead any of those fellows to Christ, the saving knowledge. I tried to be a good witness. I talked about the Lord. I mean they just solid. But I never was able to sit down and go through like it did today or Derek did uh go through and show someone how to be saved. Uh uh I shared it, uh gave track stuff like that. I found out later, years later, I found out that a whole slew of those guys in the following years after I left trusted Christ as Savior. Now I never knew whether Mark was one of those who trusted Christ or not, but I always rung in my ears when he said, You scare me. He saw what God did. He knew it wasn't me. He saw what God did. And I think that's what David's saying. Many shall see it and fear. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I don't know how you would take these this passage and apply it to our lives. Every one of us is different. Every one of us is different places. Lord, we recognize that But I do pray that your Holy Spirit would challenge us. Wherever we're at, maybe someone's in a horrible pit, maybe someone's in Miery Clay tonight. Help them to pray. God help them to trust you and wait on you and just hold on in faith. Lord, a lot of us, you brought us out. Lord, help us never, ever, ever to become ungrateful for what you've done for us. I pray you'd help us that our lives would reflect what our songs we sing here in the church I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder someone say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart tonight. Is there anybody like that? God spoke to my heart. I want to be grateful. I want to walk with God. I want to be a testimony. I want to be real The Lord, God bless you. What kind of Christian wouldn't want to be real? And so let's ask the Lord to help us. We go into this Christmas week. We interact with people. We affect more people than we realize. Let's ask the Lord to fill us and use us. Father, bless the invitation now. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand again.