Second Corinthians and chapter number five. We're going to look at verse seventeen this morning. Uh little girl's daddy was the preacher of the church and um she noticed that every time before he preached a message he would bow his head and pray. And she asked him, she said, Daddy Uh, why do you always pray right before you preach? He said, Well, I pray and ask God to help me bring a good message. She said, Why doesn't that God ever answer your prayer then? I do not have any girls, so that is not a personal testimony. 2 Corinthians 5, 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a what? New creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. I want to talk about this matter of being a new creature. Let's pray. Father, please, again we ask your blessing on the preaching of your word. God, I again, repeatedly and publicly acknowledge, Lord, I have nothing in and of myself of any eternal or spiritual value. Lord, if we gain anything here today, it has to come from you and your word. And so with that in mind, Father, I present my body anew. I yield my will to your will And I ask, Lord, with all my heart, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, speak through me. And I pray we would be the people you intend us to be. We pray that your way would be um how we live our lives and what we are that we would be what as I said and you intend us to be open our hearts and minds Lord make us willing To trust you and obey you, I ask. In Jesus' name, Amen. This is a very familiar verse for many Christians. read across this in my devotions uh several days ago. I thought back to when I first got saved and was taken in by two young men uh in the church I was at then and they discipled me I knew very little of the Bible other than what I was taught as a kid in Sunday school and my daddy's witnessing to me. And um but uh they took me in and they one of the first verses they helped me memorize was 2 Corinthians 5, 17. I believe every Christian ought to be very familiar with this verse. At the very minimum, I believe it would be good to underline it in your Bible, and even more so, establish it in your heart. As a believer, this is a very important passage. This text, to be very honest with you, is packed full of powerful truths I think a person could very easily, a preacher could very easily preach a series of messages just from 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ. He's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. You could preach a series on it. A person, a preacher could very easily write an entire book on the truths presented here, powerful truths. Of course, we're not going to do a whole series on this or write a book about it. But what I do want to emphasize. Is the fact that I believe this verse, 2 Corinthians 5:17, captures the essence of true salvation. I think this verse is expressing in a very concise and powerful way what it means to be genuinely saved, to be born again This verse tells us that salvation is more than simply a free ticket to heaven. Now, praise God, when I get saved, I have in, so to speak, a free ticket to heaven. Right? Free to me cost Christ a bunch. But it's free to get heaven. We were in Indianapolis. Uh we gave out a lot of tracks in the city there and uh we didn't do the track month, but we regularly uh distributed uh thousands, hundreds of thousands of tracks. One of the fellows of the church, a good man, uh very zealous for the Lord and for souls. And uh he came across a track A free ticket to heaven, it said on the front. Then the back it had the plan of salvation, which was nice. And I really didn't think anything of it. Here's distributed One day I was out soul winning, I asked the person, I said, Do you know for sure if you died right now you'd go to heaven? And the person says, Oh yes, absolutely. Well you don't hear that too often. I said, wow, I'm surprised. I said, what makes you so sure? What gives you that confidence? And he reached in his pocket and he pulled out one of those tracks. And he says, I've got this free ticket to heaven. Now, he misunderstood what that tract was, right? But I'm afraid we have a lot of people That their understanding of salvation is simply a free ticket to heaven. I get to go to heaven when I die. I've said this prayer, I signed this card. I've done this little thing. Now I've got a free ticket to heaven. This verse tells us very clearly that salvation is more than just a free ticket to heaven. Salvation that we glean from this verse, and of course many others, is more than simply a relief for guilt. Somehow I get rid of this guilty feeling I have. Man has a lot of different ways to deal with guilt. And by the way, I've found that if a person feels guilty, they probably are. Oh, I just have this feeling of guilt. Well then you probably are guilty. But man looks for ways to relieve his guilt. And sometimes I'm afraid some people get the idea: well, I'll pray this sinner's prayer. I'll Trust Christ in some shallow form, meaningless form, and oh my guilt went away. That's not what Christianity is. And by the way, praise the Lord, when we trust Christ, He removes our guilt. Amen? What I'm trying to say is it's more than just getting rid of that feeling. It's more than just a ticket to heaven. As we study this passage here, we find that Christianity is not Salvation, genuine Christianity, is not just adopting a lifestyle. Some people have the idea: well, if you're gonna uh if I'm gonna be a Christian, then I've got to live the Christian lifestyle Now we're going to find out that genuine salvation will affect my lifestyle. But salvation is not just adapting some lifestyle and just changing the way I live. If that's all salvation is, maybe I'm talking to some of this morning. I don't know. And this morning, all your Christianity is If all your salvation is in your mind is simply a ticket, I'm going to go to heaven someday. And if that's all it is to you, I want to urge you to reconsider your salvation. That's all it is. Then you need to seriously examine whether you have genuine biblical salvation or not. Now I'm not trying to confuse anybody. When we get saved, praise God, we end up in heaven someday. But if that's all it is. There's something wrong. If all it is is I try and remove my guilt, then I would say if that's all your Christianity is, if that's all your salvation is just a means of alleviating guilt. Then you need to reexamine whether you've got gen got the real thing. If all your Christianity is, is just living certain lifestyle. Sometimes we're out visiting and knocking on doors and we'll talk to people and uh I was out yesterday afternoon it was so nice and I was giving out tracks and knocking on doors, just talking to people and had a very pleasant time. And um Came across, met Donna, saw her, and she's out today, so praise the Lord for that. We're glad you're here. And um this didn't happen yesterday, but many times when I've been out doing that, folks have said something like this. I'll share the gospel and they'll say this. Oh, I could never live that life. I could never live the Christian life. That tells me something. That tells me they misunderstand what Christianity is. Christianity is not living a certain lifestyle. And if that's all it is to you, well, I'm a Christian, so I have to live a certain way. Then you're missing a very important part of what Christianity is. Alright? Everybody with me so far? I don't want to confuse anyone. I don't want to cloud any issues But I do want to say, Christianity is more than just a superficial, shallow, hope, someday I'm going to heaven, that's it. It's a whole lot more to it. Look at your Bibles here with you, if you would, with me at 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Therefore If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. That's telling us that when a person becomes a Christian, they are no longer the same person they were They become a new creature. They receive a new nature. There is a fundamental change that takes place within their very being. It's a supernatural thing. God makes that believer a new creature, a new creation. We receive a nature. I'm talking to folks who we wouldn't take the time now to do it, but that could stand up and testify, you know, when I trusted Christ. Things changed in here. What I am changed. Became a different person. That's what this verse is saying. Salvation changes what we are, our nature. It changes our thinking processes. A new creature, a whole new creation. I see God Like I didn't see them before. I understand them in ways I didn't understand them before. I see myself Differently than what I saw myself before. I view the world and people and others and material things and the spirit world differently than I saw it before. There's been a fundamental change take place. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Now, I don't know about you, but I like new things. Amen. Man likes new stuff. You notice successful businesses always coming out with something new. Something new. McDonald's always got some new thing. Uh they'll take a burger, put the bacon on the bottom instead of the top, call it a new burger, and uh new bottom laying baker burger Man loves new things. We like new cars. How many people like to get a new car? New cars. We like new houses. We like new clothes. We like new shoes. Don't start that with my wife, please. New shoes. Uh we like to get a new coat. We like to get a new suit. A new tie? By the way, some of y'all guys could use some new ties. You've been wearing that same one for thirty-seven years. Uh we like to get a new gun. We like to get a new we like to uh get a new phone, you know, they're constantly coming out with new phones. Uh we like to get new computers. Like to get a new job, some of you? I thought there'd be amens on that. By the way, I like my job, so I don't want a new job. We want a new store in town. We wish our town would get a new restaurant. We'd like to have a new place to live. We'd like to some people like to get a new facelift. Huh? Some of y'all could use it. But um get a new face lip, get a new face. Um you know, some of these movie stars, it's like You know, I when I was protesting out, I thought Michael Jackson blesses heart. It's constantly a new face, something new. Man wants new things, a new face, a new chin, a new nose. We want new furniture. We want a new lawnmower. We need new tools. We need a new purse to match the new shoes. We need a new this. We need a new that. We need a new something else And somehow we get it in our minds that if I just had these new things Boy, then I'd be better off. If I just had a new this or fill in the blank, whatever, then I'd be happier. Then I would be more relaxed. Boy, if I had a new one of these, then people would, I'd really be popular and people would really like me. New, new, new! The sad fact is, none of these new things change us. They may change our appearance, they may change our image They may change people's thoughts of us to some degree, but they do not change what we are And therein lies the problem. Our happiness Our fulfillment in life, our peace of mind, the is not found. The problem with all those things being missed in our lives. Is not because of something we don't have. That peace of mind that's missing, that lack of fulfillment, that emptiness, that frustration. That unhappiness is not because of set some external lack or because what I have is old. The problem is because of what I am And none of these new things we mentioned change what we are. What man needs. What individual people need is a new nature. To become a new creature where there is inner peace, where there's inner joy, where there's hope for our lives. Been in the I was saved in May 7, 1979, 31 years this year that Christ saved me. I can't hardly believe that. Been in the ministry since nineteen eighty-five, preaching in various areas of the ministry. And I found something to be true, and scripture agrees with it, is that generally speaking Until a person comes to what I call the end of themselves Until a person comes to the point where they are dissatisfied, not so much with what they have, but they become dissatisfied with what they are. They see themselves as they really are, as God declares us to be. Sinners. Now, this is a little strong, but it's scripture. Until a person sees himself as deceitful and desperately wicked. Until we see ourselves that way, this idea of a new person, being a new person changing my nature, really has very little appeal. Until a person comes to that point. Until we see ourselves as God sees us. We're usually not too interested in this new creature stuff. Now, I want us to notice a few things from 2 Corinthians 5. 17. So change takes place. First of all, I'd like for us to notice the possibilities of this verse. The possibilities of this verse. Now notice it says therefore. Now anytime the word therefore is there, you need to look and see what it's there for. And this is a whole nother message, so I'm not going to dwell on it, but I believe the word therefore refers back to verse 15. Where tells us that Christ died for our sins, pay the price for our disobedience to God. Suffered hell, the judgment of hell for us in our place, buried and rose again. And because he did that, therefore I can be a new creature And by the way, it is the only way I can get a new nature is through the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Now I don't mean to offend anybody and I don't mean to be a smart addict, but the Pope can't do that for you. In fact, if the news reports are to be believed, he has a whole heap of problems with his own nature. Huh? The only one who can give me a new nature, change what I am, fundamentally change what I am as a person. Is the Lord Jesus Christ, and the only way he could do that was by taking the form of a man. Dying in my place and rising up again so that I can have new life. So that I can be a new creature. I can have a new nature. And so that word, therefore, is a very important word. It's explaining how this all takes place. Now, come back to my point. The possibilities here. Now I like this next phrase. Therefore, if any man Thank God for that phrase, any man. It's used throughout the Bible in various instances and referring to various issues But I like when it comes to the matter of my soul salvation, when it comes to the matter of God changing me and making me into something good, something that is pleasing to him. I'm glad the Bible says, any man. You know what that means? No one is excluded. No one's excluded. Not one person living. Who would there's not one person living who could not come to Christ if they so desired. Not one person living. Hey, don't buy into this nonsense teaching that God has chosen some people for salvation and others for damnation. Don't buy into that. God says whosoever. God says any man, any person sitting here this morning under the sound of my voice. If they so desired, could come to Christ and be made into a new person, have that old sinful nature forgiven. Be given a new nature, a nature that is pleasing to God, a nature that desires to live for God, any man. The possibilities Of whosoever, all men. If you study throughout scripture, you find that the Bible divides all men into two classes of people. You find what we often refer to as the saved and the lost. Those are the only two classes of people on planet Earth. The Bible The Bible puts no value more or less on the rich or the poor. Salvation does not distinguish between the educated and the uneducated. There's only two classes of people, as far as the relationship with God is concerned, and that is the saved. And the lost, the spiritually dead, and those who are spiritually alive. Jesus, when he would address the crowds, and many times when he was speaking directly to the Pharisees, who were nothing more than religious hypocrites. He would often, you read through the Gospels, he often divides man into two these two categories. Now he doesn't always use the term saved and lost. He doesn't always use the term spiritually alive and spiritually dead, but Jesus would speak in parables. He would take everyday events and he would make spiritual application And so he would refer to folks as the lost sheep and the sheep that is found. He would make reference to uh he uh several times he makes reference to salvation being uh a meal A relationship with God being a meal and dividing people into those who were invited and refused, and those who were invited and accepted the invitation. Jesus makes reference to sheep and goats. He refers to those who are prepared. And those who are unprepared. And several times in the Gospels, Jesus makes reference to those who end up in heaven. And those who end up in hell. Now the fact of the matter is, Jesus preached more on hell than he did about heaven. If you study your Bible very carefully, you'll find that Jesus spoke more about an actual, real, literal hell than any other person in the entire Bible. God's Son! Spoke more of hell. He warned more strongly. About the reality of a person going to hell than any other person in the Bible. Regardless of a person's past, regardless of a person's social standing, regardless of a person's wealth, they fall into one of those two categories. Saved or lost, sheep or goat, prepared or unprepared, heaven or hell, every person falls into one of those two categories Now, this verse, and there's others, but this verse we're looking at this morning tells us that a person who finds themselves becomes aware of the fact that they're in the category of being lost. Unprepared to meet God, still in their sins, bound for hell, This verse tells me that person, regardless of their past, their wealth, their education, regardless of anything, that person can come over into this category. If any man, if any man, a person is lost and they want to be saved, that person can be saved. No one excluded. So the possibilities for a person to have a new nature, to be changed what I am, into what God intends for me to be, no one can be left out of that. Anybody that wants to be a new creature, anybody wants to have their sins forgiven and be made over and be born again. Anybody can Yesterday afternoon, well we had prayer, men's prayer breakfast in the morning. Boy, that was great. Really good time of prayer. Pray with Brother Jerry. Just stir my heart. We went out for breakfast, that was pretty good too. Anytime you go out to eat it's pretty good And came home and I was gonna make some visits and brother Tom said, Well let me look at your truck. Anybody notice my really sharp dodge decoder over there? Things nice It's the one with the duct tape around the edges. So mu Tom and I Tom helped me so much and helped worked on it and got that thing running for about twenty minutes and that's broke again. But uh So I went out as I said, and uh so I want to go out and do some visiting so I was knocking on doors and going around, met a lot of people, it's a very enjoyable time I got home and I got thinking about it. I met some young people, talked to some fellows that had some pretty nice, obviously had a decent income. I saw some others by old parents that didn't have much of an income. I got home and I thought about it. Every one of those people I talked to, if they wanted, could have a new nature. Could become a new person, could have their sins forgiven, and be made into a person that God intends for them to be Isn't that wonderful? The possibilities. You read through the Bible of the various people who Became, so to speak, a new creature. Now they didn't necessarily use that term particularly in Old Testament, but the truth is there We are preaching on Sunday nights on the life of Elisha, and we looked recently at a woman who lived, whose name was Rahab. Rahab Was the lowest Rahab her lifestyle was the lowest rung that a person can possibly live. And that was that of a harlot. It's a Bible term, prostitute. There is no lower standing morally. Than for a person to be or to use the services of a harlot. In my mind, that's the bottom of the barrel, morally speaking. Anyone agree with that at all? Listen, don't let Hollywood glorify that lifestyle. Don't let these romance books think that this is a this is a wonderful thing and boys, it's not. It is nasty Rahab was a harlot, but Under the Old Testament economy, so to speak, she came to Christ. And God made her a new creature. And she became The great-great-grandmother of King David. And she is in the lineage of our Lord Jesus Christ. God took a person who is about Morally as nasty as you can get. And he made her into something new Beautiful. Someone he could use. That even today, thousands of years later, has a positive influence on people. Prostitute? Yeah. I think I'm naming. We're preaching, we preached on Naaman Leprosy, the captain of the Syrian army. You talk about rich, you talk about powerful, you talk about influential, but he was a pagan sinner, hard, coarse, mur uh Responsible for the death of who knows how many hundreds, perhaps thousands. And yet God saved them and changed them. Now, don't think that becoming a Christian or getting this new nature somehow makes a man effeminate. Naaman did not lose his masculinity. What he lost was his depravity. Changed his nature. A Syrian captain of a war of an army? A prostitute? We read of widows, we read of beggars, we read of rich men, of businessmen, of kings. All walks of life, all stratus of the moral spectrum Coming to the Lord and being made new. So the possibilities, if any man be in Christ. Next thing I notice is the position If any man be in Christ, what in the world does that mean? To be in Christ, well let me put it this way. A person, there are, let me let me stick to my notes here. There are three positions That one can be in in relation to Christ. Now we said there's two classes of people, saved and lost. But as far as a person's relationship with Christ, there are three positions a person can be in their relationship to Christ. One is they can be without Christ. That would be an unsaved person, right? Everybody with me? Persons without Christ, they're unsaved, they're still in their sins. And again, the Bible is very clear: if a person dies without Christ, they are separated from God for all eternity in the horrors of a place called hell. Maybe religious, maybe civil, maybe uh upstanding citizen, maybe a wino in the streets, but if they are without Christ and they die in that condition They are lost for all eternity. Lost for all eternity. So without Christ The second position a person can be in in relation to the Lord Jesus Christ is they can be in Christ. That is a saved person. That is where my standing before God is that I am in Christ. I am in Christ's righteousness. I am in his position. My standing before God, God sees when he looks at me, he sees Christ. Now that's hard for us to comprehend. Say you go to God, say, God, what do you how do you see Dennis Leatherman? Well he says, as of May 7, 1979, I see him as holy, as just, as right Righteous, as pure, as good as my son Jesus Christ himself. Now some of you say, what in the world, Dennis Leatherman, are you talking about? Now, practically, I certainly don't live up to that, and that is not the time to say amen But we all know that it's true for me, and you're all looking at me so pious. It's true for you too, by the way. I don't live up to that. But I'm in Christ, and so when God sees me, as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, when he sees me, he sees the righteousness of Christ. That's what verse 21 in our text is all about. And then the third relationship I can have, a person can have, position they can have in their relationship with Christ is without Christ, which is bad. Which is uh in Christ, which is good, and then ultimately to be with Christ. And that's where those who are in Christ will someday end up. In fact, many of us here, we have loved ones who are right now with Christ. They have body their life physical life passed away. They've gone to be with the Lord. Absent from the body, present but with the Lord. So a person I'm talking to some folks perhaps right now who are your relationship with Christ is this. You're in the position you're without Christ. You say I take offense to that, I'm a church member But if you've never been genuinely born again, if you've not received Christ genuinely as your Savior, doesn't matter if you're a church member, you're without Christ. I'm talking to some folks, no doubt, that are in Christ. I don't think I'm talking to anybody right now. It's with Christ. Right? They're all there. So if any man be in Christ, salvation is changing from being without Christ to being in Christ. John chapter 3, Jesus was approached by Nicodemus. Many of us know this story. Nicodemus complimente the Lord, and then he says, the Lord says, Except a man be what? Born again. Cannot see the kingdom of God. He says, what are you talking? I'm putting this in my own words. I'm trying to save time so we don't turn there. But Nicodemus says, What are you nuts? What are you talking about? He said, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. So how can a man be born when he is old? Later on, the Lord says, What you're a teacher of the of Israel and you don't even understand this? And he says, I'm not talking about, and again, I'm paraphrasing here, the Lord said to him, I'm not talking about Being born again physically. You've already done that. But you are without Christ And you need to become a new creature. You need to be born again. And that word again there is translated other place of the Bible, born anew. You need to be born, you need to become a new preacher. Because how do I do that? Because well this then he goes on and explains the spirit plays a role in all that. But what he's saying here is That the new creation, becoming new creature, is being born again. Becoming a new person, not physically. A lot of times a person gets saved, there's little outward physical appearance. Now they may clean up a little bit, dress a little differently, wear their hair a little differently, but for the most part they don't The color of their skin doesn't change, the size of their nose, um, the hair on their head doesn't get more or less No comments. They don't only get they don't get any more or less hair in their ears. So physically there's not a change take place. But it's inward. For that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit, the Lord said to Nicodemus. You're born of the flesh, know what I'm talking about. You need to be born of the Spirit. You need to be a new creature. There's a number of verses. John 5:24, he says, They that believe in the Lord have passed from death unto life. A fundamental change has taken place. Where there was spiritual death, where there was spiritual, where there was no spiritual life, now they've changed into a new creature that is spiritually alive. Ephesians 2. 1, you have he quickened who were dead in trespass and sin. A fundamental change has taken a place There was no spiritual life there, there was no spiritual awareness, there was no spiritual connection with God. But by believing in the Lord Jesus Christ, because of what He did for me, when he died, and the buried, rose again. Now I'm a new creature. I have spiritual awareness. I have a spiritual connection with God. I have spiritual sensitivities. So there's the possibility, then there's the position in Christ, then there's the product. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature Now it's interesting. Do you got your Bibles there? Everybody holding up alright? Everybody doing okay? Look at verse 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he what's that next word? He is. It doesn't say he should be a new creature. Well, you know, if you if you trust Christ, then you should do this. This should be true, this should be true. Bible doesn't say that. The Bible says if you're in Christ, then you are a new creature. You are what? I don't say you should be. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Now that word new is very interesting. Although, what does he mean a new creature? What is that? He says, if I'm in Christ, then I will be a new creature. What's a new creature? Well, the word new means a new kind, it means to be very novel. You know, something's novel with boy, that's unique. That's a novel thing. Um it means, I like this one, not previously existing In other words, when I trust Christ, when I become in Christ through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, I am made into something I was not before. I'm a new creature. It is that word is never used to refer to something that has been renovated. God doesn't say I just take a person and clean them up and fix them up. He goes, no, no, there's something they never were before. This is a brand new life. This is a brand new nature. This is a brand new creation. When a person trusts Christ It never refers to something that is made over. There's a show watched occasionally it's uh called a makeover something makeover. What is it called? The stream maker where they fix the house up and all that, the things all falling apart, and they go in and say, Oh, we'll buy this and the this, this, that and the other. I could do that too. If I was them, but I'm not, so I can't do it. But they fix that thing up. Man, when they're done, it's something else. Wow, beautiful. That's not what this word is referring to. It's not taking something and just cleaning it up and fixing it up. It's making something brand spanking new. The word new always refers to something completely new. It refers to something that man cannot make. Well, I'm just going to straighten up and I'm going to be a new man. That's not what this is talking about. So it's something only God can do. A new creature. What in the world is a creature? I've married a person who's kind of like a creature. The word creature simply means a created thing, not a remodeled thing, something that is made out of nothing. In the beginning, God Created heaven and earth. There was nothing there before, and he made something And in the heart and soul of an unsaved person, there is no spiritual life. You were dead in trespasses and sins. If all you have, if you don't have the new birth, all you have is the physical birth. You're a soul, but you have no spiritual life. No connection with God. But when I trust Jesus Christ as my Savior, God creates within me a spiritual being, a spiritual life that is in connection with God. A new creature. In and of ourselves, particularly as an unsaved person, we have nothing spiritually to offer God. That's why, and I'm not strongly against it, I'm not saying, but I just have a little bit of a problem when people say, give your heart to God. My heart's filthy, rotten, nasty, wicked. What I need is a new heart. You follow what I'm saying, I know I'm splitting hairs there. But I have nothing to offer God of that, all right, here's my heart, God, make something out of it. He goes, no way, I'm giving you a new one. Have you ever heard Dr. Lester Roloff preach his message, Dr. Law and Dr. Grace? Classic, beautifully illustrates. Opening the heart of a man and that heart is corrupt and wicked and no good. He says the only thing I can- I can't do nothing with that heart. We need to put a new one in. That's what he's talking about. A new creature, a new creation. I have nothing. I have nothing to give God to work with. So we have the possibility, any man can experience this, the position, if they're becoming Christ, the product to become a new creature, and last of all, the process. Any man being Christ, he's a new creature. Doesn't stop there. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new Now that phrase old things is referring back to the original things. The original condition. In other words, here I was, May 6, 1979. Sinner, lost, on my way to hell. May seventh, I trust in Christ as Savior. God made me a new creature. Inwardly, outwardly I look the same. Handsome, strong, attractive. But anyway God changed me. By the way, my son was looking at some pictures from when I was in college. This is the truth, this wasn't Sam. He said, uh, I won't tell you which son it was, but it wasn't Sam. But um He says, Dad, you were pretty cool back in college. I said, Yeah. That's what I've been trying to tell everybody all these years Um I forgot was I got got distracted by that thought. Old things, when I trusted Christ as Savior, outwardly not much changed, but inwardly God made me a new creature. Now that doesn't mean I was instantly everything God intended it for me to be. But there was a new creation there. And from that point on, a process began. Old things began passing away. And that's the idea, the tense here. Old things are passed away, old things are in the process of passing away. You know what happened in the coming days and weeks? Now it's different for folks get saved. People grow at different rates, just like physically we do. Some people grow quicker than others and the changes were dramatic for me. So so I'm using this as illustration, but In the coming days and weeks, all of a sudden things started old things started dropping off. For instance, the cigarettes and tobacco dropped off. Now, don't misunderstand personally saved and still struggle with that, but that begins passing away Follow what I'm saying? It wasn't long after I got saved, suddenly the music I was listening to was like, this doesn't appeal to me now. There's a fundamental change that's taking place in my heart and soul. And they started dropping off, started passing away. The language started dropping off, passing away, some of that. Attitudes Bad attitudes towards people. Things that started dropping off, passing away. The way I used my schedule, invested my time. The old ways, the original way of using it and investing my time, started dropping off. Old things began passing away, and old things began to become new. And again, the idea there is a process, becoming new. And suddenly, I found myself wanting to do things I never wanted to do before. Can I be very honest with you? I'm being completely honest. If I'm never honest with you, I'll point it out. I'm being honest with you now. One of the first things after I got saved, you know what I wanted to do? Go to church The day before, I have no desire to go to church. What are you nuts? Twenty-four hours later, I want to go to church. All things were becoming new. Honest truth, I became obsessed with reading my Bible. I could not read it enough. In fact, my mom was living there at the time and she said, She goes, What in the world got into Denny? Now, my mom is allowed to call me Denny. Now she has to call me Dr. Denny, but then I let her just call me Denny. She goes, What in the world is God in a Denny? All he does is read his Bible. There's a new nature. I wasn't trying to impress anybody. Just something down inside me was a new nature. New desire. Things were becoming new. My interest in my old friend started dropping off. Suddenly I became attracted to people who were going to church and were reading their Bible and interested in the things of God and trying to live right. Things become new. Things become new. God begins, when we trust Christ, He makes us a new creature. God begins working in our lives. And he starts changing us. And that new creation begins to develop and grow. And it is a lifelong process. You never arrive. Until we go to be with Christ. There's constant things becoming new. Hey, if there aren't changes taking place in your life, even though you've been saved 10, 15, 20 years, then something's wrong. There's a continual growth process. Old things dropping away. I'm going to read this and then I'm going to finish up. Turn with me if you would, just quickly, to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. And the Corinthian church was an ungodly church. They were very worldly, very wicked. But they were saved and they were new creatures, and God was working in their life, and Paul was trying to get them to see what God was trying to do. And look at verse 9 of 1 Corinthians 6. Now, this is pretty strong, to be very honest with you. We don't have time to explain it all, so I'm just going to read it 1 Corinthians 6, verse 9. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived. Neither fornicators. Now that's a person who engages in premarital physical relationship. Of whatever stripe it is, it's before marriage. Nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate. That's uh men becoming effeminate and relishing in it. Sodomy, nor abusers of themselves of mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God. Now again, it's a pretty strong statement here. He's not saying that if a person happens to do one of these, then they're not saved. He's saying this is their lifestyle. This is the way they continue on. But look what he says. This is what I want to get to, verse 11. And such, what's that third word? Were some of you But ye are washed, ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. What's he say? He's saying a fundamental change has taken place in your life when you trusted Jesus Christ as Savior Those old sinful things that were characteristic of your life, those old things that were part of the way you live, are dropping off. That's the way it were. That's the way it was, but God is making you into a new creature. All things are passing away. Behold, all things are becoming new. And that, my friends, is what biblical salvation is. Trusting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior simply by faith Calling on the Lord. And then in response to that, I am made into a new creature. And God begins working in my life and changing me and molding me into the person He intends for me to be. That is salvation. That is salvation. A famous Christian writer years gone by said this: anything not eternal is eternally useless. A businessman had contacted a realtor. And the realtor said, I've got a warehouse, I think you might be interested. And the realtor contacted the business. He said, I got a warehouse I think you might be interested in. I said, okay. I got together, they drove out to the location. There is this warehouse that had sat empty for years Bandles had spray painted graffiti all over the sides, the windows were knocked out, the doors were hanging off their hinges. It went in, all the light bulbs were shattered, the floor was decayed. The ventilation system was full of mold and mildew. But the realtor said this to the businessman: he says, I know it's in rough shape, but this can all be fixed up. You replaced the ventilation, you can put new floors down. He went through the whole thing. And he took a long time to explain how all this could be fixed up. And the businessman responded this way. He said, I'm not interested in fixing this place up. He said, I am interested in building a brand new building. I simply want the site. Can I suggest to you that's what the Lord looks at mankind? I don't intend to fix your life up. I intend to give you a brand new life. You just come and trust me. You give me the sight. And I'll build a new building. You give me your, you make yourself available, and I'll create a new life for you. I'll be very honest with you, my mind's going back because it's that time of year to when I got saved. And the day before, the day that I trusted Christ. When I came to trust to Jesus Christ Savior, I wasn't trusting him to escape hell. I wasn't thinking about heaven and hell. All I knew was my life was a disaster. I knew that my life was empty, there was no purpose, I was eat up with fear. All I needed was a new life. I just needed a new life. I came to Christ and He gave me a new life. And I'll do that for you. And I'll do that for anyone who calls on the Lord. Now once we trust Christ, then we yield to him. We let him have his way. Let him make those changes. Let him get rid of that old garbage. Let him make that new life for us. And the way we do that is just yield to him. Take my hands off, God. You're the builder. You're the creator. You do it. I'll let you have your way. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Help us. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed this morning. You say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I know God came in my life and saved me. He's given me a new heart. He's given me a new, He made me a new man. I know that But you say, preacher, um I need to cooperate with the Lord. I need to get my hands off and let him have his way. And the Lord's been convicting you, and God's been dealing with you in your heart about areas of your life that he wants to old things that need to pass away. He has some new things he's wanting to do for you, new attitudes, new frame of mind. But we fight them. We try and hold on to the old and we try and resist the new. God's been dealing with your heart. And this morning you need to come and say, Alright, I'm going to let go and let the Lord have his way. Let him get rid of the old. Let him Develop the new. Is there any like that by the uplift hand? Preacher, pray for me. God's Spirit is dealing with my heart about areas that He's trying to change and mold and work. How about it? Uplifted hand. How many this morning? God bless you. Hands all around Now listen, that's the Spirit of God dealing with you. He's trying to mold us and make us. He does it with all of us that are willing. Why don't you come this morning, the invitation, and say, Lord, have your way.