Good question. Would you rather revival come by us purposely pushing back the creature comforts of this world? and discomforting ourselves and maybe moving into some things that maybe we're not real, you might say, used to Or would you rather some catastrophic event happen that will push us that way? Now I don't know about you. I would rather not see revival come out of desperation. I'd rather it come out of the determination of God's people. And there's enough of God's people here tonight that we could see the beginning of revival tonight. So thankful for that song, because God's Word does stand against all things, amen. And so We need to look at the fact that God gave us this country, as it says in the Mayflower Compact, in Washington, D. C. , in the Museum of the Bible, for the advancement of the Christian faith. And yes, we love the peace and prosperity. We love all the niceties of our society, those things that basically the luxuries of life, because other people endured such hardness But we need to realize, as God's people, that we right now can see revival It's not too late for us. I want you to see and turn with me to Psalm 85. This is a Patriot's prayer. For revival. Patriotism is something that should be first and foremost in our life as a patriot, first of all, to the Lamb. Patriots of the Lamb of God. Amen? We should be true to our Savior and His cause, to seek and to save that which was lost. To read the Bible, to grow as a Christian, to get on our knees, to use our time and resources for others. And Psalm 85 Verses 4 through 6, I want to just give you a few things here and pray and get into the message tonight. I'll be cognizant of the time and uh get you out of here uh hopefully in a in in a in a pretty good time frame. But I want to give you something tonight that I think if you really got a hold of, uh it could not only change your life, the life of this church, but our entire nation. Here tonight. It says the sweet psalmist of Israel in verse four, Psalm eighty five. Turn us, O God, of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease. Wilt thou be angry with us forever? Wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations? Wilt thou not revive us again, that thy people may rejoice in thee? I truly believe that God is ready to show us mercy, but we need to be on our knees asking for it. And then putting feet to our prayers. Heavenly Father, as we come before you with this patriot's prayer for revival. Help us, Lord, not just to hear with our with our ears, but God, to open up our hearts to the truth that's in thy word. Father, use this thy servant. To do only what you can do, and through your miraculous hand of mercy Your power of your blessed Holy Ghost, move us, dear God. Holy Spirit, we ask that you would come in. To this service tonight, that your presence would be sensed by every person here this evening. Father, as I step back and surrender everything that I am. To the Comforter. Oh God, we pray that you would do a miracle in our lives. We ask you through and by the power, the merit of the authority. Jesus Christ. We'll be very careful, Lord, to see your name exalted. Amen. So, revival. David watched his nation go from disobedience to degradation to dissolution. And because he loved his land, he loved Israel, he got on his face and composed this psalm, not just for that time, but for all time. For us as well, right here. We were called and called ourselves the second Israel. Washington said Blue will be our color. The red coats, yes, the British. Blue will be our color because he said that was the color that the people of Jerusalem The people of Israel chose in the silent years when they were trying to throw off the tyranny of the Maccabeans So if it's good enough for the people of Israel, it's good enough for the people of the United States. So many times he went to the Bible and to his knees and he had been most disparaged, the president, first president of our country, and General George Washington. But it was said of him by his contemporaries, not these revisionist historians that didn't know God, that you would walk in on Washington praying and you wouldn't want to move because God's presence was so palpable He would pray, pray down miracles. And he was the very thing you might say that That God wants us to understand again today. Yes, this was to the nation of Israel, but we claimed not a theocracy But a republic, as I said this morning, and that we're going to be the second Israel. Many men in those days were named for Israeli names, like Mordecai and Israel Putnam. Because we wanted to draw a kind of similarity between us and the fight for tyranny against the king of England as they were fighting the tyranny of the Pharaoh in Egypt. We see today, our nation, America, same thing happening that was happening in David's time. Values are disappearing. The results are families without foundations. Many aspects of our government without God, and a growing number of pastors without principles. Even to the point where independent Baptist pastors Have had signs on the back of their churches proclaiming cultural identity. To the culture. God's people is specifically independent fundamental Baptists, we've always been counter-cultural. You know why? Because God's Word Cultural. Not the culture of this world. No. And the result is run reasoning Only looking at this much, not opening your mind. Too many people watch the news and they walk around simply parroting the news. They're just regurgitating what they've been told by news medias such as Communist News Network And MSLSD and ABC and CBS and all the rest of them. Hey, run reasoning. Look, we've got to have a circumspect walk, extraption of common sense Unbridled lusts, sexual perversion. Listening again to the dictates of the culture, hate We live our lives not by the news. We live our lives. Our manner of our life is doctrine, truth of God's word. That's what we need to base everything on. We need to base our lives on that. We need to base our nation on that. And by the way, our nation's motto still is in God we trust. That good? When you get back to that, don't you think? Start trusting in God instead of these people that say they're gonna do this or that. You know liberty Is a unique thing, but needs to be guarded. It was written, the tenets of liberty, that actually were Transposed over and over again and given to us in the Declaration of Independence by a Baptist preacher that was jailed in the Newgate prison over in England. I've been to the Newgate Prison I wanted to see where it was. Back in those days, you see, if you didn't have someone bringing your food in jail, you'd starve to death They didn't give you any food. Not in those days. And so people would bring this Baptist preacher milk and and some bread and some other things. But the carton of milk or the bottle of milk was uh covered by this by this piece of paper that you can unfold and be about this big. So what he did was he got a stick and dipped it in the milk and wrote the seven tenets of liberty. And when he told them there's something unique on this piece of paper, they took a a li little candle and they went underneath it and everything that he wrote came out to be visible. Those tenants of liberty were smuggled out of that jail, then written by Roger Williams, who brought them to America. Benjamin Rush read them and published them in his two treaties of government, and Thomas Jefferson used them in the framework of the Constitution of the United States. That's where liberty came from. It came from a man that had taken, had basically had his liberty taken from him. God created mankind as a social creature, so that we could live among others in communities. And we have a desire to interact with other people. Communities especially the number of people. But these include things As what's called the body politic. What are they? Rules and laws for governing conduct. A method of creating regulations Leaders to formulate those regulations, someone to execute those laws, our law enforcement, judges to decide who has transgressed these laws and someone who basically puts these people into jail or punishes the lawbreakers so that we can live In peace. That's biblical government. That's the first and most important thing that we need to understand. That the Bible makes clear that God is the author of government, as it says in Romans 13. But you know today what we've done? America has been on a collision course with God Because we've allowed our government agencies to decide things that we should be deciding, or at least telling them and guiding them in what to decide. The Bible says, woe to those who call evil good and good evil. But that's exactly what we, because of our lack of involvement and interceding in prayer, have allowed We've allowed those people to call evil good and good evil. Isaiah 59 and verse 14 says, and judgment is turned away backward, and justice standeth afar off. For truth is fallen in the street and equity cannot enter. We've allowed our nation. Get this now? Because of our lack. Well, look We all like peace and prosperity, but peace and prosperity can also be dangerous if We forget where it came from. If we forget God, and the reason why we have liberty is because God gave us liberty. Through the Holy Spirit. Where the Spirit of the Lord, there, where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. He's the author of liberty. But if we forget that, you know what happens? Then we just start getting so very comfortable that we become what is called apathetic. Which is, I just don't have time or I don't care about this or that. I I just don't I don't have time to go to the voting booth. Oh my vote won't even count. Oh yes it does. I think we proved that in this last election, where the people of America woke up to the extent where not only did this man win the electoral but the popular vote, and then over 80 counties in our country Now, I don't know about you. You know what that shows me? People finally woke up and said enough is enough. But we should have woken up a long time ago We have this complacency, this apathy because of our creature comforts. We need to fight against that if we want to see revival come to our country. And by the way, revival can come to our But right now, we need to realize some things. We need to come to grips with some things that our culture has ridiculed absolute truth and called it pluralism. Our culture has worshipped other gods and called it multiculturalism. Our nation In the greatest degree, has endorsed perversion. Perversion and called it alternate lifestyle. Exploited the poor and called it lottery. Rewarded laziness and called it welfare. Well, Brother Harden, that's not compassion. Look, I know there's some people that actually need welfare, and I am not opposed to that But most of the people on welfare right now don't belong there. They're able-bodied, they can get to work, just like most of the homeless today. They can work. I tell people all the time, hey no, McDonald's is hiring Amen. Other people hiring. Kill the unborn and call it a choice. It's not a choice, it's a baby. Neglected discipline called it building self-esteem. That's why our work Public schools are off the rails. You know, I can remember going to school and the worst you would have was a little fisticuff between two guys, you know And uh I c I can remember you had disagreement and y I'm gonna meet you out by out back by the bike rack. Okay? And and you fight until one of you had a bloody nose or or they got beaten up to a batch where you know, you then you shook hands, you were friends and you went home and and the crowd dispersed. Uh I I've been in some of those fights when I was younger. I wa I was lost. I mean, you know, that's why my nose, I have a Roman nose, it roams all over my face Because it's been broken so many times. It goes this way and that way and this way and that way, like the old Scottish song. And I and I got scars in my eyebrows and I used to have a lot of scars on my and my because that was a lost young man's way of uh basically uh dealing with problems. But now you go into a public school and you have to go through a magnetometer Now it's not fisticuffs out by the bike rack. Now it's guns and knives. Now it now they're hellacious things being perpetrated upon the young ladies of our schools. And not just by other students, but by teachers as well. We've abused power and called it political savvy. Our founding fathers never intended for any political career to be had by anyone You were supposed to come in for a few years, get back to this country that had given to you, and then go back to private life. And we have people that have been there for decades, that are in their 80s I mean it's amazing to me. You know why? Because power and prestige is addicting. If you're not a person that's safe. People say, well, why don't we call for term limits? We have them. Called the elections. The problem is we don't get there. Christians are infamous for not voting. That's why we better vote. This midterm election. Oh, because As I've already said, let me give you another example. Elections affect us spiritually. See, back in 1954, July the 2nd, in the 11th hour. LBJ from Texas tacked a little something called, and tax appropriation bill, a little something that said, you people of faith, you people of the 501c3 exempt status, better get your nose out of the public square Law, culture, education, the arts. If you don't, you might just lose your tax exam No was there. For all of those years, the pulpit went silent because pastors were afraid of losing their tact exempt status. And how would they pay the tax on their building of their parking lots. Well just recently, because President Trump is now in charge The IRS has just rewritten their rules that says a pastor can promote and endorse a political candidate to their people of their church Amen? Now that's a good thing, don't you think? Before you had to be very, very careful. Now you don't. And the beauty of it is, I say, well you can only do it. to the members of your congregation. But there are things such as live stream that goes all over the country. Amen? What I'm saying is say, that wouldn't have happened if people didn't get out and vote Voting affects us spiritually. Now a pastor can actually make a difference their people in all areas. We polluted our air with profanity pornography, called it freedom of expression, ridiculed time-honored values and called it enlightenment. What I'm saying is the possibility revival, a lot of times people say, Well, it's too late for America. Look, if it was up to us If it depended on us, it would be too late. But I love the fact that God has some things in His Word that we need to listen to and understand. And one of those things is over and over again, turn Us again. God's the source of revival. What we need to do is ask him to turn us back to him You want to have revival? Why don't we start praying biblically and understanding? Look, I refuse. To believe it's too late for America. It's not too late. We need to pray, pray believing. That's our part. The source of God, revival, that's his part. And look, I've studied revival And I found God in his mercy has been sent to us in the darkest of times. Mankind, yes, is insatiably wicked. No more than he was since the fall. Man hasn't gotten worse. He's always the same. Wicked. Man is born and the sparks fly up. Amen. You don't have to teach a child to be wicked. They're born wicked. You know, they're crying when they don't have any reason to cry. Amen. Right? You know that. Maybe some of you remember that, some of the younger ones. Okay? You just cry because you want some attention, right But what I'm saying is, look, wickedness, apostasy, and all the distractions in all ages have never prevented revivals. When God's people paid the price, and it's still true today. The world is not beyond God's power. Don't think our culture is beyond God's power It is not when we look at our Savior and the gospel and the divine resources that we have at our beck and call for revival This world, you see, needs some answers, and we can provide those answers. It's all in belief. Will you believe it or not? I believe it I believe God's Word. That makes me a Baptist because I believe it. I don't just adhere to it. I believe every single word and even the commas and all the rest of it in God's word. We have the answer that the world needs. I'm not willing to make any concessions to distractions of social media, luxuries, or other pleasures. God Can bring revival. But how hungry are you for it? Here's the problem. We're all well fed. Buy food. We're all well entertained. We all have nice clothing and nice automobiles and Have nice homes and even go out to eat. I mean, I don't see restaurants empty. People are out eating all the time. You know why? Because we live in a nation that provides us an amazing amount. You know That's why I think every once in a while, listen to me carefully now. I think that's why every once in a while it's good for us to ignore the flesh. And to fast and pray. Hey folks, hear me. God answers praying and fasting. Unlike anything else. You say, well, you know, I have some medical conditions so I can't well you can you can fast from twelve o'clock noon to twelve o'clock noon. Try that. Amen. But it's good to cause our physical being to be a little bit hungry so that our spiritual being can become hungry for revival. Amen. That's what we need to. We need to get that. How hungry are you? See, too many times we are so comfortable in our lives. We are so pleasantly satisfied with our lives, it's hard to fight against that. But we can, because we're not supposed to be natural. We're supposed to be supernatural. Are we not? So we need to discomfort ourselves. That's part of preaching. To discomfort the comfortable and comfort the discomforted. Sounds like a oxymoron, but it's not. Amen? What I'm saying is, how hungry, how thirsty do you want revival? I don't know about you. I want it. I can see it. I know God can provide it. It's not too late. Well We're an apostasy. Israel was an apostasy several times. But God still answered revival after revival after revival when they got hungry enough for it. World conditions cannot stop revival. My oh my. Therefore, said he unto them, The harvest truly is great. Labors are few It's plentious, you see, but there's so much few people. You understand time and time again Throughout our Bible and throughout the nations and the history of our nations, look, we see even the dark ages. When massive revivals broke out, when it was against the law to even have a Bible And you can be burned at the stake. I stood where they had Saint Bart's Day. You know what part of the entertainment in St. Bart's Day over in England was? I mean in England. was when they trotted out the men and women and children who had no other type of violation against the law, but they had a Bible in English. And they came out with their Bibles chained to their necks and they burned them at the stake. Well, everyone ate the niceties of food and this sort of thing, and watched these people burn in agony. As we as humans don't burn the same way that animals burn. Our flesh literally drops off of our bones like wax off of a candle. And they laughed and See, what we need to understand is this. The Clarion call for revival should be clear, concise It it it needs to understand we need to understand uh it doesn't make a difference where we are in our culture, where we are in our history. God's he's just waiting. Three things and I'm done. Three things. You want revival? If you really want revival, first thing you need to do. is to get thoroughly right with God and others. I mean you would go before God and you confess anything and everything the Holy Spirit brings to mind. You confess it, and then you forsake it. Amen? That's part number one. The second part of number one is then you get right with others. If you're treating someone wrong, you need to confess that. Look, why should we do this for these young people right here? Some of them are coloring, okay? But I think they're paying attention. Yeah, but at least they know it's important for their for their parents to be in church, so it's going to be important to them one day. For these little guys back back here, you know, some of these guys probably have no idea what's going on right now. Okay? They're just back here having a good time and waiting for church to be over. But some of them are listening We need to get hungry and thirsty and get right with God and right with others for their sake And for the some of the teenagers in here, the young people. Why? Because don't we want them to grow up in the same country that we grew up in? Or do we want any chance of the government saying you can't think that way You can't do that. No, you don't belong to your parents. You belong to the state. And that's what the Maryland State Board of Education is saying. Oh your children don't belong to you. They belong to the state And statism is part of communism. So we so look folks, this would help everything if we got real serious. If we got real serious about prayer tonight and we said, I don't care what I have to do. I don't care. As long as it's biblical, I'm going to get right with God. I'm going to get right with others. Because I want to see our country go forward. And I am hungry. You ever been really, really hungry? Huh? Look at looking at a lot of you, you've never really, really been hungry. Hey man, that was a joke, okay you can laugh, okay? Sorry. But if you've ever been really, really hungry, you can almost taste it, can't you? Oh my. You know, I I've walked well, we walked out of our hotel. Someone was cooking steak Hey, a after the service the other day for the men, I I could I just followed my nose over to the brisket. It was heavenly, Amen. Say is there going to be brisket in heaven? No, but it was heavenly that day, amen. And I just it was wonderful. And you know, you you can you can almost taste the food when you're hungry If you've ever been really thirsty, where your tongue cleaves to your mouth of your to the top of your mouth, my oh my, you think about water. Not even cold water, just water. Amen. That's revival. And if your phone's ringing, pick it up. Amen. What I'm saying is, folks, we need to discomfort ourselves. If we don't, mark my words as I stand here at this moment, if we don't, God may discomfort us by another national catastrophe. And I will guarantee you then everyone would get real serious about revival and about prayer and about getting to an old fashioned altar. Churches will be filled to overflowing if that happens. You know in Great Britain people would go out on the weekends and they take their pic picnic baskets and they go enjoy on a Sunday And then the Battle of Britain occurred. And churches and homes were being bombed and people were dying. And and churches, even if they had been bombed and were damaged, people were flooding churches. And the pastor said, Yeah, you know, it's too bad we weren't doing this all along, because if we had been, perhaps this wouldn't have happened. I'm not saying it will, but I wouldn't put the possibility out if God was willing to chastise his people. He's willing to chastise us. Why don't we be proactive and say, Lord? I'm gonna get hungry. I say, well, I'm not really hungry right now. Spiritually, you can ask God to make you hungry. I really don't have a desire to read my Bible as I should, then you can ask God for that desire. I've got some things before him and others that I know aren't right. You can ask God to give you the desire to confess and forsake those things. First and foremost, get right with God and others. Secondly, avail yourself unto God. That means ask God, bring to my mind, not just in the morning when I pray, but all through the day Revival. Oh God, revival. Lord, make me hungry. Make me thirsty for revival. I want to see it. I want to see it. I don't want to see it just break out here and there. I want to see a national revival. A national revival. Our country began with the Great Awakening. We're One third of our population was saved. 200 years later, the second great awakening, national. Again, multiplied, hundreds of thousands of people saved, if not millions. Two hundred years between the first and the second. You've heard me say this before. It's been 200 years since the second. It's time. Right now. I don't know about you. I want to avail myself to God. I want to be in on it. When we get to heaven And the Lord said, hey, you were in a pivotal time of your nation's history. And were you part of praying for revival? Well, God will know that, but he'll probably want us to answer. Yes, Lord. Oh. Well done, thou good, faithful servant. Of many things he'll ask. He'll also ask, I gave you the greatest nation in modern history. What did you do for it Third, make yourself accountable to someone. Husband, wife, friends, young people, make yourself accountable. To someone, did you did you pray for revival today? Hey, let's pray for revival right now. Those three things, those three things, every time those three things were done, The man that was called a revivalist, by the name of Charles G. Finney, said, if those three things were done, a revival will always follow. It's simple and yet challenging. I I'm going to do those three things. We'll continue to do those three things. My wife's a- my wife's my accountability person. She knows. She sees me praying. I prayed all day today. You said I thought you said you'd got a nap. Yes, I'd pray and then I'd and then I'd Come two again, I'd pray and then I Yeah but I prayed all day. I prayed and I napped and I prayed and I napped. It was kind of fun, okay? But I prayed. We're all made the same way. We all love our country. We all love our God. But why don't we take that love for our God and our country and do something with it tonight Do you believe, Brother Harding, there could be a third national revival? With every fiber of my being. That's our heritage. That's how we began. That's how we continued. Wouldn't you love to see that as we end as a nation before God calls us home? That last Great revival, and the whole world look at us and say, What is going on in America? And we can say, Not what? It's who? It's God. But we need to pray. We need to pray believing. Well, I believe it. How about you? Well, you say, well, I I I don't know. Then you can ask God to help. Your unbelief. I love that. Look, all the sources of the Almighty belong to us His word is available to us. He's the sovereign king of the universe. His power, his authority, his compassion, his graciousness, he's ready to extend his mercy and love to us And God wants us to occupy till he comes. That we may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation among whom He shines lights in the world, holding forth the word of life. That one day you'll hear. Oh, you didn't run in vain, neither did you labor in vain. So I'm asking you tonight. This is not a time to get comfortable. This is not a time to act on, well, I just don't want to go to the altar tonight. If you don't want if you don't want to do something as simple as come to the altar, then you know what? The rest of it you might as well just forget about. That's just plain speaking. Yeah, it is. When we come to Dalton, we submit ourselves to God Submitting is one of those things that we need to do. So I'm going to ask you tonight, how bad do you want revival? Will you do anything biblically in order to see it happen? I've already made up my mind. Oh yeah, I'm going to. So if that's you tonight Would you stand? I'm not going to ask the piano to play. I'm just going to ask you to stand right now. Come forward to an old-fashioned altar. And let's do business with God.