Proverbs twenty-nine, eighteen in your Bible, please. Proverbs chapter twenty-nine I'm going to try to abbreviate this a little bit tonight for time's sake. Uh it's interesting that Miss Marie chose that song and sang that song. That is the song that was being sung when I surrendered to missions. And uh so that speaks Speaks in my heart every time. Let's pray together. Lord Jesus, thank you again for your precious word and what it means to us. Thank you for the privilege we've had every day of our lives to open a book and know that the words we read in it Are the very words of God. A God that does exist. A God who knows us. God who made us. A God who wants a relationship with us. May we value this book. Help us tonight as we look at some thoughts about the preciousness of the Word of God and where we would be without it. Speak to us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Proverbs 29, 18, the Bible says, Where there is no vision, the people perish. But he that keepeth the law, happy is he. You've probably heard sermons about this from this passage of scripture. Your pastor's probably preached on this verse before. And you probably know that this verse or this word vision is not talking about The ability to see into the future. This word vision is not talking about our plans and our ideas about what needs to take place. If you go into the average Christian bookstore today, you'll find a lot of books about the subject of vision in leadership. All of us want to be part of a church that is pastored by a man who has some vision And your pastor has vision, amen? Uh and I some idea what God wants to do through this body of believers to impact this community for Christ, and you have the bus ministry, and you have the radio station and you have many other things I don't have time to mention tonight. and evangelistic efforts because you have a pastor who believes God wants to work through you, and that's that's a good thing, isn't it? But the word vision in this verse really doesn't refer to that at all The word vision in this verse, and let's just talk about the vision, it says, let me back up to that other slide. It says, where there is no vision The people perish. The parallel word in this contrasting statement, in this proverb, the parallel, I'm sorry, the contrasting word is law. So where there is no vision, the people perish, but he that keepeth the law, happy is he. We could say this, and I'm not doing damage to the scriptures, I'm just I'm just explaining, where there is no vision, the people perish, but he that keepeth the vision, happy is he. Or where there is no law, the people perish, but he that keepeth the law happy is he. So the vision really is nothing more than the revelation of God. It is the written word of God. And where there is no word of God, the people perish. Are we okay with that so far? So the vision is what? It's the word of God. Let's prove that by looking at another verse. Hebakuch chapter 2 and verse 4. The Lord said to this prophet, Write the vision and make it plain that he may uh plain upon tables that he may run that does what? Readeth it. So the Lord told Habakkuk, write down my word so people can read it. So where there is no written word for the people to read, the people perish. Now let's talk about the absence of the vision. The absence of the vision. We could talk tonight, we could preach a whole message on Christians who have the Word of God but they neglect it. They fail to read it, they fail to study it, they fail to apply its truth to their lives. And I want to suggest to you that to the degree you are rejecting or neglecting the Word of God, you are putting yourself in a state of perishing. We could talk about America tonight that is rapidly rejecting the Word of God. Amen? The only word I know to use concerning what's happening in America today is the word insanity. If we've ever lived I've heard this all my life, Pastor, and I know you have too. We call evil good and good evil. If we've ever lived in that day, it's today. We're turning away from God at a rapid, rapid speed, and America is perishing because of her rejection of the Word of God. I could talk about pastors who neglect the word of God. You say pastors who neglect the word of God? Oh yeah, I've been lots of places where the people get psychology lessons and self-help counseling, but they don't get the preaching of the word of God. And those churches are perishing. But we're going to talk tonight about people who don't have the vision. Not habit and neglecting it, or neglecting it, or having habit and are rejecting it, but they don't have it. I've already given you these numbers, but I want them to be not only in your mind, I want them to be in your heart, 4,219 language groups in the world today that are without the vision. Without the vision. So now let's talk for a minute about the perishing of the people. This word perish doesn't just mean that someday they'll die and go to hell. This word perishing, or this statement here, where there is no vision, the people perish, is a present-tense, active description of what is happening to a people that do not have the Word of God. They are in the process of perishing. Their lives are being wasted. Not just they don't have God's word, so they're going to go to hell someday, but they don't have God's word, and they're in the process of a wasted life. that has no purpose and no meaning and someday will result or end in eternal damnation. If you're neglecting the Word of God, the same word can apply to you. If you're neglecting the Word of God, your life is in a perishing condition because you're not allowing the Lord to use you for the purpose for which He created you. So neglecting this book means I'm perishing. My life is being wasted. And that's the condition of these people. Here's the definition of the word: to be left naked. Without restraint, out of control, allowed to run wild, and this phrase right here caught my attention, without clothing in which to appear before God. You know, someday I'm going to stand before God clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Amen? And these people without the Word of God are going to stand there with no clothing. And in the process of living their lives, they are naked. They're without restraint. They're out of control. They have nothing to guide and direct. They have nothing to place a hedge or border around their activities and their lives. So every view of this word, however you want to define this word, every view of this word portrays a state of despondent misery. A perfect scriptural illustration would be in Exodus chapter 32 when Moses came back down from the mountain receiving the Ten Commandments on two tablets of stone and found the people worshiping a golden calf. And the Bible says in Exodus 32 and verse 25 that Moses saw that the people were naked. It's the same word Without control, allowed to run wild, without the restraint, without the guidance and direction of God's Word. So what happens with these people who are without the vision? A writer by the name of Charles Bridges wrote a commentary in 1846 on the book of Proverbs, and here's what he said. Take the most awful illustration of this proverb that can be imagined. If to be without vision be the mark of a perishing state, what ray of scriptural hope dawns upon the heathen world? Being without Christ, they are described by infallible testimony as having no hope. Salvation is indeed free to all whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. But how shall they call without faith, believe without hearing, and hear without a preacher if there be if there be therefore if therefore there be no vision, how can they but perish? Matthew Henry said, I'll get to that in a moment. In the next few minutes here, I want us to think about them. Those heathen that are without the Word of God. I want us to put ourselves in their place. In the DVD a few moments ago, I I uh asked this question or I made this statement, it takes some time for us to think about what their lives would be without having ever having read the scripture, without ever having read the Word of God in their own language. So, before I talk about their lives, and I want to give you a series of questions here, before I do that, I want you to know something about these people. These people that are without God, these people that are without hope, that are without the Word of God, I want you to know every single one of them was created to know God. God never created anybody that he didn't want to save. Amen. So every one of these people was created with a with a desire in their heart, according to Romans chapter 1, verse 19. Because that which may be known of God is manifest swear? In them, for God has showed it unto them. Every person on the face of this earth was created with an inner conscious awareness that there is a God and a desire to know that God. And they can look at the creation of this world and know this this God is amazing. Look what he created. The Bible says the heavens declare the glory of God. The firmament showeth his handiwork, day into day uttereth speech. And night and the night showeth knowledge. There is no speech. I love the words of these verses. There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. God wants them all. But they have no knowledge of God because they have no vision. So if their created know God, but they don't know anything about Him, imagine the frustration of their lives. Imagine the despondent misery that they live in. Imagine the awful situation in which they find themselves wanting to know God and having no information about who He is. What he is, how he is, how I can come to him. And so I want to introduce to you a series of questions Matthew Henry said, How bare does a place look without Bibles and ministers, and what an easy prey it is to the enemy of souls. So here's a series of questions I want us to think about that these people are asking that have no answers. Question number one, I'm going to go through these quickly and we'll be done. Where did I come from? You know the only place you can find the real answer to that question is in this book right here. The Bible says, in the beginning, say it with me, God created. The heaven and the earth. Genesis 1. 26, God said, Let us make man in our own image, and God created man and woman. God's the creator. Do you know what that does? I've often wondered about this. Have you ever wondered why the very first verse of the Bible introduces God as the Creator? Why why didn't he start with John 316? Isn't that a wonderful verse? Shouldn't everybody know God loves them? Why didn't he start talking about his grace and his mercy and his his his love and and his desire to save all men. Why didn't God start out describing all those wonderful things? The first verse we first verse of the Bible we find out God is the creator God and that does several things. Number one, it distinguishes him from all other gods. When Paul preached on Mars Hill, and they had all these idols that they had been worshiping, and they had one idol there to the unknown God. First thing Paul said is, whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you. And he starts out his sermon with these words, and I'm not quoting exactly, but it is a reference to the God who created heaven and earth. He's the creator God. He's apart from all other gods. And then the fact that He is the Creator God means that we owe something to Him He gave me life. He has authority. He is the ruler. He is the Lord. He is the sovereign. He is the king. He gives me breath. I have a responsibility to the Creator, God. But these people without the vision don't know where they came from. Siv uh societies and cultures around the world that do not have the Word of God all have these legends that are passed down from generation to generation about how people got here on the earth. But those are not authoritative legends. Those are lies that come from the devil himself. Because they do not know they were created by God. Here's what else that does. It gives your life meaning. To know that God created you gives you significance, gives you a reason to exist. Otherwise, as is the case with these people without the vision. Your whole reason for existing is to get up in the morning and find clean water to drink and good food to eat, and tomorrow you get up and do the same. That's what life is all about, just existing, but no purpose and no reason. The second question they're asking that has no answer is who should I worship? You know the only true information that you and I have about who God is is found in this book. Everything your pastor preaches and teaches about God, he learns out of this book. Anytime people talk about who God is and what his character is like and what his attributes are, they learn it from this book. So people without the vision are are are created to worship, right? They're made to know God. And they have that inborn that that inner awareness of uh and a desire for a relationship with him with him, but they have no idea who he is. So you know what they do? They create their own gods. That's what you saw in the video just a few moments ago. They have they have chosen to worship a God that does not exist because they're created to worship. You can correct me about this if I'm wrong. But I believe every culture in the world without God's word is polytheistic, meaning that they worship multiple gods. Many different gods, God of the rain and the sun and the moon and the stars, and a god of the harvest, and a god of the field, and a god of the mountain and the river, because Who is God? Oh, he must be out there somewhere, so let's bow to the trees. Or let's bow to the mountains. Who should I worship? Here's what else they don't know. How should I worship? Can you just shout out one-word answers to tell me how do we worship our God? Just give me a way that we worship God. We worship in our spirit. What do we do to worship Him? We offer sacrifice, the sacrifice of our lives. We Clue. We pray. We sing, as we just heard a wonderful song here a moment ago. We preach. Those are all acts of worship, aren't they? We give. That's an act of worship, isn't it? You know where we learned all of that? Right here. So if you don't have the Bible to teach you how to worship, you make up your own way. And that's why they spin these metal cylinders with Buddhist mantras inscribed on them and consider that an act of worship. Can you tell me what good that accomplishes? Nothing. They believe every time they spin one of those wheels, prayer wheels, every time they spin it, every revolution it makes, it adds more good karma to their future, so when they die and they're reincarnated as something else they'll come back in a little better condition than they were the last time. So that's why they walk around that that Buddhist idol there every morning starting about six o'clock. Sometimes for an hour or two or three they spend their every day spinning that wheel, spinning that wheel, and the next one, and the next one, and the next one. They have these giant prayer wheels that are bigger than bigger than this whole part of the platform up here, they have little prayer wheels that are solar powered that they put in their windowsill or on the dash of their car so that so that the solar power will keep it going because that's more good karma. And and eventually if they come back enough times They'll make it to the state of nirvana or eternal bliss. Does that sound reasonable to you? No, it doesn't, because we have the Word of God. But they don't. So they've devised their own ways of worship. I watched people that that Buddhist stupa you're looking at right there, that's the idol. That's not a building, that's a structure. It's just a big pile of concrete and dirt, all shaped. And they march around this thing. This is the street right here at the bottom. They march around this thing. It's an entire city block around that And I watch more than one person prostrate themselves all the way out on the ground and stand back up and take about three steps and prostrate again and stand up and take three steps and prostrate again and go all the way around that stupa because they believe that pleases their God. Here's something else about their worship. Worship among Bibleist peoples is always dominated by fear. See, think about this. They believe if they don't appease the anger of the gods, bad things will happen to their family. Would you like to worship like that? I don't worship God out of fear. You say, well, preacher, the Bible says we should fear the Lord. Yes, but that's talking about a reverential awe, a holy awe of who He is. It doesn't mean you're supposed to be afraid of Him. I don't worship God because I think He's got a big stick in the sky waiting to bonk me on the head if I get out of line a little bit. I worship him because I love him. And you know why I love him? Because he first loved me. And you know where I learned that? From this book right here. They don't have that. So their worship is dominated by fear. Number two, it often includes immorality. And I won't tell the stories tonight. I will only want to tell them in mixed company about the different perverted things that take place among false religions around the world, and they consider it an act of worship to their gods. It's all spawned out of hell itself. These are all substitutes for true worship. And the way we can change the whole story is to give them a book that tells them who God is and how we can come to Him. Isn't that great? Isn't that true? The next question is, how am I supposed to live? You know, everything I know about how to live my life successfully comes from the Word of God. How to have a marriage, the right kind of marriage, how to raise your children, how to handle my finances. You just name whatever area of life you want to talk about how to have a good relationship with people. All of those things are to be guided in my life by principles I learned from this book. And so for these people, let me ask you this, who makes the rules? Who makes the rules? What's the foundation of authority? What's the source of moral behavior? Because without the vision, they don't have that source. So everything I know about living my life comes from the Bible. They don't have that. Think about this. The foundation of our society is the Word of God. As much as we're turning away from the Bible today, nobody can refute the true fact that America was founded on the principles of this book. Our society is founded on the laws of God, based on the laws of God. But their societies are not. So who gets to make the laws? Who decides what kind of punishment to carry out? And we could go from country to country to country right here and talk about the the insanity of the way people are governed. Or not governed. And for example, in a village in Papua New Guinea, a missionary friend there told me this story. The young man's little uh son died. And he decided he was going to kill his daughter. Because his daughter, without her brother, her life is useless, so let's just get rid of her too. Will do that make any sense to you? Well, it comes from a society with no moral foundation. Think about these quotes right here. Daniel Webster said the Christian religion, its general principles, must ever be regarded among us as the foundation of civil society. How about these two? The moral principles and precepts found in the scriptures ought to form the basis of all our civil i constitutions and laws. All the evils which men suffer from vice, crime, ambition, injustice, oppression, slavery, and war. Proceed from their despising or neglecting the precepts contained in the Bible. One more quote. By renouncing the Bible, philosophers swing from their moorings upon all moral subjects. It is the only correct map of the human heart that's ever been published. So our society has the benefit of being founded and based on the laws of God. You felt safe enough to come out of your house tonight and come to this gathering to worship in freedom because you live in America. People without the Word of God, they don't have any of this. Think about this one also. Consider our reaction to trials and sorrows. Do you know what's the first thing you say when something difficult happens in your life? Yeah, but not exactly what I was looking for. But I bet maybe the initial shock causes you to be grieved, but I bet it doesn't take you long as a child of God to eventually get to something like this. Well, God must have a reason. Don't you go to Romans 8. 28? We know that all things work together for good and them that love God and them who are called according to his purpose. I've even heard lost people say things like, Well, there's a reason for everything. Because we all have this concept in America, we all have this concept of a sovereign being who guides and governs in the affairs of men. But what happens when you suffer a great loss and you don't have the Word of God to look to What's the what's the mental framework you go through? What's what what happens in your mind about why you have suffered? And these these people have all kinds of reasons And it happened because I did this. I didn't give enough in the sacrifice I made last week, so my daughter's sick now. Unbelievable things that they turn to because they simply don't have the Word of God Next question, where am I going when I die? I want you to know something. These people live with no knowledge of where they came from. They don't know who God is. They don't know how to worship God. They don't know how to live their lives. And then they close their eyes in death and they open their eyes in the flames of hell. And I would imagine they begin asking questions like, why am I here? And w and and where am I? And why is it so hot? And how m long am I going to be here? And why didn't someone ever tell me, anyone ever tell me about this place? How would you like to live that way? Know knowledge of the God who created you and longs to know you and bring you to Himself, but you're now under the condemnation of that God because you never had the vision. The last question goes right along with what I'm just saying is, am I still accountable to a God I don't know? And yes, they are. Because every man has this conscious awareness of God, and every man has creation to look to, every man is responsible to take those two witnesses and pursue the knowledge of God. instead of turning to false gods. The Bible says in Romans chapter 2 and verse 12, for as many Let me find those verses here. Let me just read it there. For as many as have sinned without law shall also perish without law. We could say this based on Proverbs 29:18. For as many as have lived without the Word of God. will also perish without the Word of God. Does this break your heart? I hope it does. Romans 120 says, For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen. Being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Hebrews 9. 27 says that once we die, we face the judgment. So these people are without God. They are without the vision. They do not have the Word of God to guide them, and they are perishing. I also said in the video a few moments ago, I believe every Christian, in some way or another, ought to be involved in the propagation of God's word to those who are still waiting for it. You see, it's one thing for a people to have the Bible and not read it. It's one thing for a people to have the Bible and reject it, but it's an entirely different picture to not have the Word of God. They must have the Word of God. I want to ask you to do two things tonight, and I'm closing. I want to ask you to pray one simple prayer with me that you can pray right here tonight. And then I'm going to ask you to commit to praying another prayer that you can begin tonight and pray for the rest of your life. Number one, I'm going to ask you to pray a simple prayer of surrender. When we bow our heads and close our eyes in a few minutes, I'm going to ask you to pray this simple prayer. Lord, where do you want me and what do you want me to do in the propagation of your word to Bible as peoples? You say, are you asking me to surrender to missions? No, I'm not asking you to go be a missionary. I'm asking you to surrender your life to the Lord's leadership. That's all. Every Christian ought to be able to say to God, whatever you want, wherever you want, for as long as you want. My life is yours. Can I get an amen right there? If you're not willing to do that, I I hate to tell you this so boldly, but you're not surrendered to God. Now, praying that prayer doesn't mean you're going to get called to the mission field, but it means God can do with your life what He wills to do. And you're giving him that life to be used for the propagation of the gospel. So I want to challenge you in a few moments to surrender yourself to God. That could mean for somebody in this room the call to missions. I'm not forcing that or pushing that, but there is no question in my mind that God's calling people all the time. And I and not enough are responding And so the next prayer I want to challenge you with is something you can commit to doing every day for the rest of your life. And it is so simple My family decided a long time ago that every time we pray, we're going to add these words to our prayer. Lord, please send more laborers to the unreached fields of the world. I want you to turn with me, we're finished, but I want you to turn with me to one place in the Bible, Matthew chapter 9, the very end of the chapter, Matthew chapter 9. Verse 36. Matthew chapter 9 and verse 36, the Bible says, But when he saw the multitudes, this is Jesus. He was moved with compassion on them because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. I believe what Jesus saw were the lives of people without the guidance of God, as we have described tonight. Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but here's the problem, the laborers are few. Now, if you've never accepted this as a fact, I want I challenge you to accept it tonight. The next verse we're going to read is a command from God for you. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. So we decided a long time ago, every time we pray, whether we pray in the morning at the breakfast table, at the lunch table, the supper table, before we go to bed at night, whenever we're praying, we're going to add these words to our prayer. Lord, please send more laborers to the unreached fields of the world. I don't want to stand before God having not even asked him to send laborers to these Bibless peoples. Do I not care, do I not even care that much? Say, well, I don't think I will ever be a missionary. That's not what I ask you, and that's not what the Lord said either. He just said, would you care enough about these people that you obey the command I'm giving you? These people scattered a sheep without a shepherd. Would you get on the same page with me? And ask me to send laborers to reach these people with the gospel and with the Word of God. Now, how long does it take you to say, Lord, please send more laborers to the unreached fields of the world? What does that take? Six seconds? Five seconds? Sometimes we get the idea that when somebody says we need to pray more, we think, well, I ought to set my alarm two hours earlier every morning so I can get up and pray. That's not what we're being asked to do. We're just being asked to give a simple request to God. You know, the Lord's Prayer, the model prayer Right in the middle of that, there's a there's a uh what is it, a five-word phrase, six words, give us this day our daily bread. That doesn't take long to say, does it? Or would you provide our needs? We say that when we pray, don't we? So Lord, would you send labors to the unreached fields of the world? A pastor told me a while back, he said, I heard you say that, and he said, I took out my smartphone. How come nobody ever admits to having a dumb phone? He said, I took out my smartphone and I set an alarm on my phone to go off every night at 938 p. m. Matthew 938. 9 38 p. m. my phone is going to beep and I'm going to bow my head and ask God to send labor to the unreachable. fields of the world. Isn't that simple? Would you commit to doing that tonight? Would you care enough? Here's what Adonirum Judson said. I can't give you the quote because I can't remember how it starts. We oh here it is. We do well to remember that this gracious God who was condescended To place his Almighty power at the command of believing prayer looks not lightly upon the blood guiltiness of those that neglect to avail themselves of it for the benefit of the perishing. God has chosen to put his harvest laborers in the hands of your prey. That is powerful. Do you commit to praying for labors tonight? Let's bow our heads together, please. Lord Jesus, we thank you for the Word of God. I pray that our appreciation for the Word of God has grown just during the the last few minutes of this message. I pray that we will cherish it. I pray that we will cherish the opportunities we have daily to open it and read it and hear from you. And know who you are, and know how to worship you, and know how to come to you, and know that you came to us. Please change us tonight because of what we've heard. In Jesus' name, with our heads bowed and eyes closed, would you stand quietly, please?