So, 1 Peter chapter number 2, and we'll begin reading in verse number 9. We began this last week. I'm going to read verse 9 and 10. 1 Peter chapter 2. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. Look at this next phrase. A peculiar people. That ye should show forth the praises of Him who hath called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. Which in time past were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy I took that little phrase there in the beginning in the middle of verse number nine to use for my title, a peculiar people. For the Tom, when he was going out this morning, said, Pastor, should I dress differently tonight for being a peculiar people? And uh I said, no, you're just fine right that way. And uh let's pray together. Father, we ask your blessing now and our study of your word tonight. Lord, I like to horse around a little, but help me now, Lord, to settle down and to uh Lord help us give our attention to your word. And that you would speak to us and help us grow. Lord, I'm praying for revival in my heart, our church, our nation, the churches of our nation. We need you, Lord. And so fill me with your spirit. I yield my will to you. Present my body anew. And I pray, Lord, with all my heart, you be the preacher tonight, and just speak through me, through my tongue and my lips In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you remember, Peter is writing under the inspiration of God to believers who are being persecuted for their faith. They've been run out of their homes or run out of their cities. Some have given their lives, some have paid a heavy price, lost jobs, lost family members. No doubt many of these, as other believers in the book of Acts, have been beaten, scourged, imprisoned And so they lost just about all of their earthly possessions for no other reason than that they are disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. They've paid a heavy price for their faith. And he's writing to them again under the inspiration of God. And if you remember chapter one, it reminds them of who they are and what Christ has done for them. He challenges them towards the end of uh chapter one to uh be holy even as God is holy. Challenge them to you know uh stay the course, stay close to the Lord, do right. Don't don't let your persecution uh uh get you out of the will of God and get in acting in unchristian ways. We get to chapter number two and uh he again has challenged them, lay aside all malice. Stay in the Word of God as a newborn babe. You desire the sincere milk of the Lord of the Word. I tell you, it's always a blessing to me, especially Sunday nights. A number of folks come in. They say, Preacher, I read my Bible every day this week. Others say, I read through my Bible. I tell you, that's a good thing. And that's a sign of a healthy Christian reading their Bible regularly, consistently. So that's what he challenges them And then he comes down, he starts uh addressing Christ as the cornerstone. And we looked at that. Um he says uh verse 5, your lively stones talking about them, a spiritual house, uh royal, a holy priesthood. And he talks about the cornerstone, then he gets to verse nine, and this is where we picked up last week. He said just that little phrase, but ye In verse 9 there. But ye. Now, verse 7 and 8, he is pointing out that Jesus is the chief cornerstone that was precious to these believers, that they believed in Jesus is this chief cornerstone, but he was rejected of the disobedient. They were disobedient to this cornerstone, and he's now become the head of the corner. And he says, but ye, you're not like them. And we noted the first point of the message, actually, we got to last week, is the contrast of God's people. And what he's saying to them, you are not like the people of the world. You are contrasted. From the people of the world. They've despised this cornerstone, Jesus Christ. They've rejected this cornerstone. They've pushed him aside. But you believed on him. You've received him. He's precious to you And he's reminding them that they are not like those that are persecuting them. Now, I want to reiterate here, we are uh how many folks here tonight say do you know it? Say amen. I want to remind you we are not like the world. We're not like the world. Now, this is the one I want to get at. We're not better than the world. We're just as we're just deserving of God's wrath as anyone else But God has extended the offer, the imitation, to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. And by His grace, when we put our faith in Him, He saves us and gives us a new life, makes us new creatures. And so we have to remember when we get frustrated and the world and all that, just remember we're not like that. God's changed us. We're not better than them, and we have an obligation to take the gospel to them But we're not like them. Then he reminded them in verse 10, you're not like what you used to be either. He says, you were in time past, you weren't a people, but now you're the people of God. You didn't have mercy, now you have mercy I don't know about you, but I'm glad I'm not the person I was before I got saved. You think I'm a mess now? You should have met me then. Wow. How many folks here are glad you're not the man or woman you used to be So you're not what you were, you're not what you were. And he's reminding these believers that are uh being intensely persecuted or paying a heavy price for their faith. Listen, you're not like the people doing it. You're not better, but listen, that's not where we're at. And you're not what you were before. Don't revert back to your old nature to respond to this. And then we pick up in verse 9, he says, but ye are And now, this is my second point in my message, we didn't get to last week. Notice the characteration, characterization of God's people. He's reminding them. In fact, he says four things here that are true about you. He makes four statements. that are true about these believers he's addressing and by application that are true for you and I that know Jesus Christ as Savior. I believe Part of his motivation now this is speculation on my part, but I'm speculating that part of Peter's motivation of himself in writing this to them was to uh encourage them because I believe they were in danger of being immoral demoralized. How many people would agree with me that if somebody's hounding you, they run you out of your house, you get fired from your job uh they beat your uh uh family members, throw you in prison unjustly. How many people that would take its toll on your on you a little bit? Sure, that would be discouraging. Anybody here ever get cussed out because of your faith And you walk away and say, man, you feel terrible. Can you imagine the level of persecution they're facing? And he's writing to them, he's encouraged them, hey, listen, here's four things about you that you need to remember, four characterizations. uh of these people, of these believers. Um in four ways he characterized them. By the way, when we start looking at these, and I'll try to we'll just have to watch the time a little bit But I'll try to, it's interesting, all four of these that are said about these New Testament believers, about you and I, are also said about the nation of Israel. Look at him here real quick. It says, a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. Now that's a little touchy there. A holy nation. A peculiar people. We can go back in the Old Testament and find very similar statements made about the nation of Israel. And what he's saying is some of these characteristics of the nation of Israel are also true about the New Testament believer. Now, I want to stop and caution very strongly right here. The New Testament church is not the same as Israel. The church is not spiritual Israel. Israel, the nation of Israel, was God's people in the Old Testament. God made covenants with them. We're gonna, Lord will, and we'll see it here in a little bit. God made covenants with them Made promises. He had expectations from them. And Israel failed to live up to their expectations and it went on and on and on to the point where finally God says, Alright, I'm going to set you aside. They went into captivity. God did everything he could to get them back in fellowship, fulfill their responsibilities as God's people. And finally God says, all right, that's enough. And of course I'm putting my own words here. And he set Israel aside for a period of time. In the place of Israel, God raised up the church. And we are the witness now in the world. We are. Now God's not done with Israel. It's coming a day. And that's part of the rapture, the tribulation. All that is part of God restoring Israel's relationship with Him. and then establishing the nation of Israel as the cornerstone of the nations of the world during the millennial reign. So God's not done with Israel. But I thought it was very interesting That things that God says is was true about Israel in the Old Testament, some of these positions they had in their relationship with him, is very similar To the statements he makes about New Testament believers. Now, some of you all will keep will follow what I'm trying to say here But maybe you've read through the Old Testament and you read Israel, and do you ever read some of the Israel as a nation, their actions, and you think, those people were really dumb bunnies. Anybody ever anybody know what I'm talking about? What are they thinking? Why would they do that? And I read and I get frustrated with them. You knuckleheads, what's the deal? And I get thinking about it and you know what? It's a whole lot like me. And I find myself end up doing many of the things Israel and how many people know what I'm talking about? And so I thought it was pretty interesting these four statements he makes about um the people of God that he's writing to these believers Many of them are very similar, if not identical, to what God says in the Old Testament about the nation of Israel. He's comparing the privileges of Israel in the Old Testament to the individual believer in the New Testament. So, as a New Testament, as believers in Christ, as God's people, we have a very specific A very distinctive identity. And here he gives it. Let me give you a few of them. Number one, this is under the characteristics, characterization of God's people that God gives us here. Number one, we're a select people. We're a select people. Look with me at verse number nine again. But ye are a what? Chosen generation. What an interesting statement to make about the believers. Ye are a chosen generation. It's interesting that word chosen or some form of it is used three times in this section. Look up at verse number four. He says, to whom coming as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of man, the stone, Jesus Christ, but what? Chosen of God. He says Jesus Christ was chosen of God to be this chief cornerstone. To be the standard. Then come down to verse number six. Wherefore also it is contained in the scriptures, behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone. What's that next word? Elect, same word as the word chosen there, exact same meaning. Elect, precious, speaking about again, Jesus Christ, this cornerstone. God chose Jesus Christ. To be that cornerstone, to be that standard by which everything is measured by. Then he says here about the believers, ye are a chosen generation. Now, what does that word chosen mean? It means exactly what you think it does. It means to pick out. Uh I was up at Walmart the other day, and right when you walk in the entrance, right when you walk in there, they have these big bins. They have three big bins. Anybody been up there and see that? Huge bin. Anybody? Nobody. Well, they are. They're there. And they're f usually, if you go first thing in the morning, they're full of watermelons. Uh And so you go through, and I don't know what the secret formula is for picking out the best watermelon, but I have a little process I go through. I'll pick it up and one thing I look for is if there's yellow on the bottom. If there's yellow. Then the other thing I look for is if the end is dried up, the little um stem is dried up there, if that's dried up. Then the other thing I do is I hold up to my ear and I knock on it. And I have no idea what any of those mean. It's meaningless. I just do that. And I got home the other day, we got one, I cut it open, the whole thing's white inside. I mean it was just terrible. It was like the whole thing was a rind. And I did my little formula. But the point I'm trying to make is I go through there and I look at 'em and I pick this one. I choose this one. It's just shot in a dark, but I choose this one. and take it home and hope it's good. That's the idea of this word chosen here. A chosen generation. Now I don't know about you, but if I was visiting a church and the preacher was saying what I'm saying right now, I start asking myself, is this guy a Calvinist? Where is he going with this? What's what how's how's he how does this play out And I don't think what Peter is saying here, I don't believe for one minute what he's saying here is that God chose them to go to heaven and chose other people to go to hell. You can't find that in Scripture. I believe what he's saying here is, because they put their faith in Jesus Christ of their own free will They're putting faith in Jesus Christ. God says those are the people that are going to be my people, the ones that trust Jesus Christ as Savior. I believe strongly in the free will of man. I do not believe in work salvation, but God has given to us the ability to choose or reject the cornerstone. Choose or reject Jesus Christ as Savior. And God says everyone that puts their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, those are the ones I choose to be my people. And by the way, anybody and everybody in the world can put their faith in Christ. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. One of the biggest problems I have with Calvinism is you've got to redefine too many words. Whosoever shall call upon him, if God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son of whosoever believeth in him. And so God has, in his sovereignty and in his wisdom, has chosen that those who of their own free will accept Jesus Christ as Savior He chooses them to be his children. As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. See? And so God doesn't choose who is going to have faith. God chooses those who exercise their faith. So he's chosen generation. We are a select people. The word generation there means the offspring of, or the family of, or the kindred of So, in a very real sense, those of us that have trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, every one of us, every single person in the world. Any country you name in the world, any color of their skin, any any level of wealth or lack thereof, whoever puts their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, God says, that's my family. Those are my children. And in a very real sense, every one of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, you and I are brothers and sisters in Christ. We're part of the family of God. Now I don't think, can I be very honest with you? I don't think we appreciate that as much as we really should That we're in a family of God, that we're brothers and sisters in Christ. And I tell you what really struck me was years ago, old Mike Stubler got saved. I talk about Mike. Many of you remember Mike Stubbler. What a fella. I don't think I've ever met anybody that grasped what Christianity was so quickly as Mike did when he got saved. He was about 40 years old, he got saved, 45 maybe. And he just started coming out of church, got baptized. The guy is growing like a uh what grows fast? Weed. I don't want to call him a weed, but um I mean that guy is just growing and developing. And one day, it was not long after he had gotten saved, it was coming out, and everything he did was deliberate. He thought it through. He thought it through. It was very deliberate. And one day is something, and I referenced Brother Mike. And he stopped and he said, what? I said, Brother Mike. And it kind of rattled him a little bit. And that next week, and it happened so often, but he called me up, said, Pastor, can I swing by and talk to you? I said, sure, come on. He says, Sunday you called me Brother Mike. What does that mean? What do you mean brother? I explained to him, I said, when you get saved, you're born again, you're born in the family of God. God's our father. You and I are brothers in Christ. The ladies are sisters in Christ. So we're part of the family of God. Now, if you remember Mike's home situation, that was profoundly significant to Mike. For him, when somebody would call him brother, that meant the world to him. And he fell in love with the family of God. God, Peter writing under the inspiration of God to these New Testament believers that are persecuted and beaten, rejected by family. Cost everything they had to the point they had to flee throughout that whole region. And he writes to them and he says, You are a chosen generation. You are a select family of God. Now you'll never convince me that didn't mean the world to those believers. Family. We're family. We're a select people. Sometimes, I don't know about you, but oftentimes my spiritual family, oftentimes our spiritual family is closer than our physical family. Isn't that true? I love my family. I thank God for it. But can I just say between you and I and the whole world on the internet This thing has its disadvantages sometimes. This is my family. Is here. Out lake. Believers in Christ. That's my family. I love my family. I thank God. Don't misunderstand. Don't misunderstand. And I'm I'm grateful for the family I have. But this is as much family to me as any blood family I have. Anyone know what I'm talking about? A chosen generation. God has selected those of us that put our faith and trust in Christ. Those are my people. That's my family. That's my quote-unquote generation, my kindred. God is our Father. Man. That's an amazing thing. Let me give you the second one real quick and we'll we'll end there. I'm not going to get through this. First of all, we're a select people. The second I see here is we're a special people. Look again at verse number nine. But you're a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. A royal priesthood. The word royal there means what you think it would, regal or kingly. The priesthood, we studied that up in verse number five, a spirit uh uh a holy priesthood. Here he says you're a royal priesthood. And if you remember, we spend a long time, a number of messages on that priesthood of the believer, in that we have full, complete, unhindered access to the throne of God. And the priest's responsibility in the Old Testament, physically, materially, was to represent the people of God before God the Father. He would come on behalf of the people and offer up their sacrifices and offer up prayers. But you never find one time in the Old Testament, not one time, does God allow the king to function as a priest? That was strongly forbidden by God. In fact, there was a fellow, a king in the Old Testament, Uzziah Who took it upon himself to enter into the temple and to offer up sacrifices. Anyone remember what happened to that old boy? Leprosy. God says, no, the king has authority over the people, and the priest can come before God. Now God had his reasons for doing that. But Peter writes to these New Testament believers and he says, you have a privilege that the Old Testament kings did not have. You can, as a king, come into my very presence as a priest, a royal, kingly priesthood. I got thinking of that and looking at that and thought, well, how does that apply to me? What is that? And I really don't think we're going to appreciate That opportunity, that position that we have as believers, I don't think we're going to fully appreciate that until the millennial reign I think there, the fact that you and I are kings and priests, I think that's where we're going to fully grasp the significance of that. You say, preacher, uh uh, I got saved, you you're saying I'm a unkingly? Yeah You and I are going to rule cities and nations, the Bible says. That's a whole nother subject. But uh I've told God so many times, Lord, I want to be king of Mountain Lake Park And we're gonna build gymnasiums and we're gonna build put big high towers up during the millennial. We're gonna do everything. And uh but uh uh special people, a special people. I'm telling you, we're just scratching the surface of who and what we are as believers. The God of this universe, the God that inhabits eternity. He's our daddy. He's our father. You and I are brothers and sisters. And he says, hey Dennis, you're a king and a priest. I'm not sure what the king part yet. He's oh you'll see. Millennial, you'll see. You have full access to God That's special, isn't it? That's special, isn't it? Um I just thought of this. I'll end with this I forget who the prince was or somebody over in England at the what's the big castle in England where the Queen lives? Windsor Castle, Buckingham. So they were over at Buckingham Windsor Castle. Graceland. And anyway, there's a little boy came up. Of course they got guards everywhere. A little boy came up and wanted to go walk into the the palace there And the guard said, son, you can't come in there. It's real short with them. The boy walked away crying. A little bit later, he came walking up holding hands with another man And they got to the garden, he walked right in. That little boy's daddy was the prince. And the guard didn't recognize the little boy. But because of his relationship To the prince, he had full access to everything that castle had. And you and I, because of our relationship with Jesus Christ We have all full access to all that God has for us. I tell you what, that'll make a Presbyterian shout right there. Might even make a few Baptists shout. That's pretty good. So this week we go into a week. I mean this world is nuts. Turn uh can I say this has nothing to do with the message. Turn that stupid TV off It doesn't mess you up, mess us up. We get so discouraged. I get I watch that and I look at I don't watch TV when I don't have cable, but I look in the news on the c on the internet and stuff, I get so discouraged Let's stop. Think about these New Testament believers that Peter's writing to. Let's remember the privilege we have, as a child of God, as a family of God. And as kings and priests before our God. Father, please fill us with your spirit as we go into this week. I wasn't able to get to what I wanted to, the To show forth your praises into this old dark world. Lord, help us get a hold of this and just be a joy-filled Bright shining light to this old world, to the grace and goodness of God. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many like me would say, Preacher, I want to I want to live the life that God intends me To live as a Christian. Any like that? Boy, I want that. We come up so short, and we're so often content to come up short. God says, here's what you have. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Let's ask the Lord to convict and challenge and direct us that we can be a good witness this week to his praises. Father, bless the invitation I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes.