Told it again 'cause Matt laughs at all my jokes, so you all don't. He has to, or he gets he has to, or he gets fired. All right, 1 Peter chapter 2, look with me at verse number 9. The Bible says, but ye are a chosen generation. A royal priesthood, an holy nation, and look at this next phrase. A peculiar people. I circled that phrase in my Bible That ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Then verse 10 he says, in which time past were not a people But are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. I took that little phrase out of verse 9 for the title of the message, a peculiar people Let's pray, and um we'll get caught up where we're at here and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Bible that we can come to and you can speak to us, you can direct us. challenge us, encourage, and help us through your word. And I thank you for the church that we can assemble together. And we, as was mentioned in testimony, Lord, I just want to thank you that we can freely meet without harassment of the government and without opposition uh from the community, that we can have such a tremendous opportunity and privilege. We know there's people in our own country now of all things, Lord, that do not have that same opportunity. and people around the world. So we don't want to take that for granted. And Lord, my prayer is that you would send revival to my heart and to our church. And God, we could be a church that is alive, a church that is being used of you to impact our community and our world with the gospel. And Lord, we need you to help us do that. So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. Lord, with all my heart, again, I pray and ask you fill me with your spirit And you speak through me as I preach this message. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We pointed out the other couple weeks ago when we started this passage here that God loves people. God cares deeply about people. In 1 Peter, he is writing to these believers, as we always point out. These are believers who have been intensely persecuted because of their faith in Christ. Many of them no doubt were Jews. They had turned to Jesus Christ as their Messiah. Their families have turned on them. They've been run out of their homes. They've been run out of their communities. They've lost their jobs. Some of them lost their own lives, were were martyred because of their faith in Christ. And Peter's writing to them under the inspiration of God. And he's giving them instruction, he's encouraging them, and he's challenging them. And one thing we noted first of all that we pointed out in this message in the first part of verse number nine, that he contrasts the people of God with the people of the world. He says, but ye to transition. The verses before that, he had been pointing out that the world had rejected the cornerstone, the Lord Jesus Christ. They had uh denied him, they had pushed him aside. But these dear folks had received Jesus Christ. They had trusted him as their Savior. And he's saying you're not you there's a contrast here And he contrasts two things, if we remember, we mentioned, first of all, the people of God are not the same as the people of the world. We live by a different standard. We've been talking about this on Wednesday nights in our study of King David. We live by a higher standard. We live by a different standard that the world does. Now we're not better than the world. Amen. We're not better in the world. We're just sinners just as much as anybody. And we need the grace and mercy of God as much as anybody. But when God saves a soul When God forgives the sins of an individual and he imparts into that individual eternal life, he makes them a new creature. And we have a new understanding, we have a new sense of values, we have a new perspective on the world, we have new priorities, and we have a different standard we live by. And he's writing to these believers and he's reminding them, saying, hey, listen, this whole world is persecuting you. This whole world is cursing you. This whole world is uh uh is uh driving you and uh and uh uh persecuting you severely. Just remember, we're not the same as that. We live by a different standard And then he pointed out in verse ten particularly that there was a contrast not just between them as children of God and the people of the world, but also a contrast them as children of God now They are not what they were before they got saved. How many folks here your life changed after you trusted Christ as Savior? Is there anybody here who would say I'm not the same person I was after I got saved than I was before I got saved? Anybody? Sure, I certainly can say that And he's reminding them. See that in there in verse 10? In time past you were not a people. You weren't the people of God. But now you are. In time past you didn't have mercy. You were under the judgment of God. You were under the wrath of God. Without Christ, you were without hope, and without God in the world, you were, if you died in your sins, you'd be lost for all eternity And he says, that's not the way you are now. Boy, thank God. I appreciate Zach's testimony. Thank God that Jesus Christ died on that cross for you and me, that we can be forgiven and we can be the children of God. And he's reminding them. There's a contrast. But ye, you're not like you're not the same as the world. You're not what you were. Uh you made you new. And so uh we pointed out the uh contrast of God's people. Then this is where we were being in in in our last message. uh the characterizate characterization of God's people. Now he gives a list here in verse 9. He says, but ye, the world rejected Christ, you didn't But ye and he lists a number of things here. First of all, he says you're a chosen generation. I put it this way. We are, as believers, we are a select generation people, a chosen generation. And we pointed out here that word generation has the idea of family, a chosen family, a chosen uh a kindred A kindred relationship. And if you remember, we said that as believers in Jesus Christ, we are brothers and sisters in Christ. Now I like that. I like that. I like I like uh now we don't say this about the ladies. I don't know why, Brother Matt. We say oh brother Matt and Brother Ed and Brother James and Brother Baron. Uh we don't say sister so much about the ladies. Some places. they do, Sister So and So, uh Sister Courtney and uh Sister Uh Mary and um Sister Uh Melissa and um you get the idea, right? I just won't keep saying it. But we're a family, we're a family. And I don't mean to re-preach this whole thing, but I always think of Brother Mike Stubler and what that meant to him Family had rejected him because of his faith in Christ, and I called him brother. Remember that? I said, brother Mike. He said, what? I said, Brother Mike. He said, what's that mean So we're brothers and sisters in Christ. We're brothers in Christ. We're part of the family of God. I'm telling you, he never got away from that. Of course, he's with the Lord now. So we're a select people. And then we pointed out that we are a special people. Look at Verse nine, you're a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. The word royal means kingly, uh regal, and then a priesthood we have direct access to God And so we're a very special people. We have access to God. Now listen, I don't want to misrepresent this. We are a saved person is not better than an unsaved person We're no better. But a saved person, a person that's trusted in Christ, a child of God, has privileges that an unsafe person does not have. You follow what I'm saying? We're not better. We don't deserve it any more than anyone else. By the way, every unsaved person can trust Christ and have those same privileges also They'll just come and trust Christ. But there are some privileges we have as children of God that we can come directly into God's presence And we can speak directly to God. Oh, I'm glad we don't have to go through some priest, a little confessional thing Go through some order or ceremony. Tonight before I go to bed, my wife and I can kneel and we can come directly into the presence of God and pray and pour our heart out to God. My what a blessing. We're a uh uh uh a royal priesthood, and so uh we're a special people in the eyes of God. Uh then I think that's where we ended Now I want us to notice here a third thing, a characterization of God's people. And look what he says. You're a chosen generation, one, a select people, a royal priesthood special people. And then look, a holy nation. A holy nation. Um the word holy there uh means to be set apart in the eyes of God. It has a lot of aspects to it. It could be well part of it is we are set apart from sin. We're set apart from wickedness and ungodliness. We preached this morning that uh there are some things A child of God ought not to do. There are some attitudes a child of God ought not to do. There's some things we should put off. They shouldn't be part of our life. We looked at that in Colossians. There's some things that ought to be true. And God says that you and I, as believers, let me ask you this. Let me stop right here and ask this. How many folks here tonight? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. Now if that's true, then this is who we're talking about, those of us that trusted Christ. And he says we are a holy priesthood. We are In the eyes of God, set apart. We are holy, separated unto the Lord. And then he says, we are a holy nation. Now what do you think of when you hear that word nation? Somebody tell me, when first thought comes to mind, we're a holy nation. You think of a what? Huh? A a particular country. Um, right? Is that what most people think? You think of a nation. We're a holy nation. A particular you think of the United States, uh, or Canada or uh uh Peru Or Congo, or you think of Cameroon, or India. We think of political boundaries. We think of a political country. That's not what he's talking about here. Listen, you and I, as Christians, the church, the people of God, we transcend political boundaries. You follow what I'm saying? The church is not a political nation. Now I'm not an expert on this. I can't speak with dogmatically on it But uh as as I understand it, the Catholic Church kind of views themselves as a nation. Do you know the United States of America has an ambassador to the Vatican to the Catholic Church. We treat them like if they were a political country. They have their own little army there. Did you how many people knew that? They have their own army. We have an ambassador there, and they like to view themselves to some extent as a political entity. Listen, the Church of Jesus Christ is not a political entity. We transcend the Church of Christ, the family of God transcends political boundaries. uh political uh uh nations uh as far as countries are concerned. Um uh I tell you, I have more in common And I have more, I can relate more to a believer, a Filipino believer, than I do an American unbeliever. Follow what I'm saying? I have a more connection. I have a more of a relationship there. Now I love my country. You've been around here much. You know I love my country. And I'm as burdened for America as anybody. I'm uh uh you know I'm very, very concerned about the condition of our country. But I tell you what, before I'm an American, I'm a Christian My loyalties, my loyalties, as loyal as I want to be to my country, my loyalties are to the Lord Jesus Christ. And the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And so when he says you're a holy nation, he's not suggesting that the church is some sort of political entity, that we're some sort of thing. That word nations there has the idea of a people group Now we talk about that when we talk about our adopted country, Kazakhstan. There are people groups. They have a common culture. They have often have a common language, a common lineage. A lot of times they'll have common laws, cultural type things they do that ties them together. I want to suggest to you the family of God is a spiritual people group. Do we not have a common lineage? Take us back to the Lord Jesus Christ. How many people hear Jesus is your Savior Yeah, see, we're all kin that way. God is our father. One of the great things about Christianity. Jesus emphasized this through the Gospels. God is your Father. They said, uh, teach us to pray. He says, All right, this is how you pray, our Father, which art in heaven. And so we are a holy nation, not a political nation as we think of today. But a body of people, a body of believers who are united in our common believers have a common culture. I get down in Australia. There's a brother down there, brother Medina. He may be tuned in. I don't know. Sometimes he tunes in. Down in Sydney, Australia, Filipino, came down from the Philippines, started a church down there doing a great work. You know what I found out We see eye to eye on just about everything. We get the Bible out. Amen, brother. We're right on the same page. A common culture In um uh when we went to Kazakhstan, Brother Dave and uh Pat Browning and who else uh Jerry Vogel was with us, the four of us went over there, took a little survey trip. Chris uh um uh one or uh Chris Phillips was with us and a couple others. Anyway, uh we got over there and we're visiting and uh um one of the fellows with us, Ken Fielder, uh he was able to contact some pastors in the country. We had lunch together with each day a different pastor in in the in the country there. And we just want to get a feel for it. Some are a little different stripe than we would be, but for the most part Bible believers And we'd ask them questions, we'd talk, what's it like? What's it like? What's the need? What can we do to uh to help? And um you know the amazing thing was Here as different political backgrounds, as different cultural backgrounds are concerned as far as the countries are, when we sat down together and we bow our heads to pray, there was a unity there It's an amazing thing. And uh the I don't know if you remember this day, the s first the last day we were there, the second last day we had a little free time And one of the fellows in the from the country there said, we want to take you up through a translator. We want to take you up in the mountains. And we'll just do a little sightseeing. So we drove, I don't know, was an hour and a half, two hours up I mean like the Rocky Mountains, it was incredibly beautiful up outside of Almadi. And we got up there and there was an old military satellite base there or something, it was all dilapidated from Cold War. And we're there looking around and kind of exploring, and old uh Pat Browning's climbing up on top of everything like a kid. He's running around And this band came up and a bunch of key people came piling out, and lo and behold, here it was some believers that we had met a few days before. Just happened. To be up there the same time we were. And they got piling out and said, hey! And they're like, go, go, go, you know, in Russian or whatever, I don't know what they're saying And um so uh we we all got together and we're laughing and through the interpreter talking a little bit. And I don't know how it came about, but uh we just started singing, Oh Lord my God When I in awesome wonder consider all the world's thy hands have made. I see the stars, and we're singing in English, they're singing in Russian I see the stars, I hear the rolling thunder, thy power throughout the universe display Then sings, my soul. And I'm telling you, we got singing. And there was a bond there Two different languages, two completely different backgrounds, as different as you can find, but yet one in Christ. And there was a unity, there was a kindred spirit, there was a people group displayed that I've experienced very seldom in my life. And that's what he's talking about. He's saying, listen, you're a believer in Christ. You're a holy nation. You are a people group. You are a set of people that are set apart in the eyes of God from the rest of this world. You have a bond, you have a a lineage, a culture you share as the people of God That this world does not have. That this world does not have. Do you ever been on vacation somewhere or you're s uh off uh somewhere in a in a store and uh somewhere and you see somebody, you hear them talking, just kind of look the way they're dressed. and you say, I bet they're Christians. Anybody ever seen that? I wonder if they ain't Christians. And so I don't know what you do, but we always go stand nearby them and say stuff like, praise the Lord. And we look and see if they respond in any way. Well, amen. And now and sometimes and then you'll say, Praise the Lord, and their heads will all snap. Did you say praise the Lord? Yeah. Did you hear us? Yeah. Are you a Christian? Yeah. So are we? And there's just something about them that connects. It's kind of like if you travel overseas. Some of you guys might, some of you folks have traveled overseas, you go there and you look and see someone Uh down in New Zealand I see this sometimes I see someone I think they look American. I wonder if they're from the United States. And you get over and you listen how they talk. And if they're saying stuff like this, hey madey then I thought, well, no, they're not American. But if they're saying, y'all been to the store yet, ah, they're Americans. And or they say, uh, New Joycey, we're from New Jersey, ah, they're Americans But the way they talk and the way they act identify them in a certain way. And he's saying to us, you and I as Christians are that way. We have a we're a people group. We're a holy nation set apart unto God. And so we're a very sacred people. Now Israel was set apart in God's eyes from all other nations, and though we're not a nation, but we as believers are set apart. uh from all other people. We're not like the rest of the world. Here's the thing. Israel forgot that they were not to be like the rest of the world. And they got wanting what the world had, and they wanted to look like the world, and they wanted to operate a world. We want a king just like the other nations, and we want a pagan god, just like the other nations And I tell you what's tragic. I tell you what's tragic. Our churches today are wanting to be just like the world. We want the world's music. We want the world's dress. We want the world's entertainment. We want everything. And God says, no, no, no. You're not like the world. You're a holy nation. You're a holy people group. You have a holy culture set apart from the world. We keep saying over and over, we live by a different standard. We have different values. God has put in our hearts. Israel was set apart from all other nations, uh, and uh Christians are set apart. God has called us to live up to this holy position, this holy standing. So we're a sacred people. We're a special we're a select people, chosen generation. We're a special people, royal priesthood. We're a sacred people, a holy nation. Then here's one I've been wanting to get to the whole time. Look with me here. A peculiar people. I put it this way. A secure people Now when you hear that word peculiar, what do you think of? That's a peculiar people there. Those people are peculiar Strange. You think of it odd. Those people are just or weird. You know, oh they're peculiar. Um A guy was at a psychiatrist and the psychiatrist said uh uh he told the psychiatrist, he says, people tell me I'm weird because I like corn cakes, Ron He said, I'm weird because I like corn cakes. And the psychiatrist said, Well, I like corn cakes too. There's nothing weird about that. He said, Really? Come over to my house. I got closets full of them everywhere. Now that's odd It's one thing to like corn cakes, another thing to have closets full of them. When he says you're a peculiar people, he's not saying we're odd or we're weird or we're strange. Now the world might think that But God doesn't think that of us. The word peculiar has three aspects to it. By the way, I can preach louder than any baby can cry. I'll tell you that right now. Just go go ahead. Bring it on. Bring it on. I'm ready. No, I'm teasing. God bless you. But that word peculiar there has a um has uh three aspects to it, three ideas to it. One is this, I like this. One of the definitions I found from the word it comes from and how it's used other places is this, to be the property of somebody. God says, you're my peculiar people. You're my property. You're my possession. Did you realize that when we got saved, we were no longer our own? That we've been bought with a price, we're no longer our own. Our bodies are not our own. They're the Lord's. I like the old story. I've used it a number of times over the years. A guy was in a train traveling and he was sitting there in one of the uh The cars are traveling along and uh the guy sitting around there got out a deck of cards and they were going to gamble and they passed around the cards and and the guy uh just sat there and his arms were down below the table and they threw him the cards, he didn't touch them And they said, hey, how about playing a deck, playing a game of cards with us, gamble, and maybe win some money? And the guy said, no, I can't. And they said, what do you mean you can't? He says, I don't have any hands I said, what do you mean you don't have any hands? And he says, I don't have any hands. And they said, well let's see. And he brought him up and put his hands out like that. They said, you got hands? He goes, no, they're not mine. They're the Lord's. I can't do that. These aren't my hands. And that's the idea, the word peculiar people. You're not your own. We're the Lord's. You know when when God loves us. And when you love someone, when you love someone, you want them for your possession. You follow what I'm saying? When the little kids, uh how many of you remember when you're little, they had Valentine's Day at school. And everybody brought in the Valentine's cards. Anyone remember that? And you put a little candy and um and uh and uh that brings a flood of memories back. But um And we would write this on the card. I like you. The guy would write it to the girl, I like you. Will you be mine? Anyone remember that? Yeah, yeah. And check yes or no and send it back, will you be mine? And if you liked it, you liked her and said, I want her to be mine. And the girl would say, I want him to be mine. You know what? God loves you and I. He saved us. And he says, I want you to be mine. You're mine. That's the word peculiar. Secure. So the one definition is to be the private property of God. You and I are not our own. We've been bought with the price. And then another aspect of that word peculiar means this, and this kind of fits in with how we think of it today, is distinguished from all others. In other words, unique from all other people, you are a peculiar people. You're distinguished from all others. Now again, we're not better than anybody else. Lord knows that. We know that. But when God looks down and he sees his people, his children, They are distinct. They're different than the way he sees all the others. All the others. Read John chapter 3, verse 18. Read John chapter 3, verse 36. The rest of the world is under the wrath of God, is under condemnation, but his people no longer. And that sin has been forgiven, that wrath has been removed, that judgment has been carried out And we're his very unique than the rest of the world. We're not better. We're not better. The Lord knows that. But we're unique. We are peculiar people. Then the last third idea behind that word peculiar and this is the one that stirs my heart especially. And it means this, and you're going to have to think about this a little bit, but it means to be encircled. Encircled. You have a piece of paper there and a and a pen. Get you a piece of paper and put a dot. Put a dot there on that piece of paper. Just put a dot there. And uh if I had a chalkboard, I'd do it up here on a chalkboard. But put a dot there. Then around that dot, put a circle Around that dot, somewhere out around that dot. Very good. Pastor Matt makes good circles, doesn't it? Put a dot and then a circle around it. That's what the word peculiar means. That dot is you and I. That circle is God. And it means to be encircled or encompassed about by God. And this is, I believe, this is what the idea is behind when God says you're a peculiar Peculiar people. I believe this is the idea. We are encompassed by God. In other words, nothing can get to me except it has to pass. through the permissive will of God. You follow what I'm saying? I'm that God. That circle is the Lord And whatever the devil or the world throws at me, whatever life comes at me from life, I'm a peculiar people. I'm an encircled people. By the grace and goodness and power and wisdom and love of God. So anything that comes into my life, I can be confident God, it might not necessarily be his will, but he has allowed it. And if God allows something to come into my life, I can be confident he can use that for good in one way or another. How many people are familiar with Romans 8. 28? Anyone familiar with that verse? Listen to it. And we know That all things work together for good to them that love God, who are the called according to his purpose In other words, the people of God are encompassed by God, are peculiar, and all things Can work together for good. Do you ever have something happen? Ever have an event or situation in your life, and you thought there's no way in the world anything good can come out of this? Anybody ever been that way? I've been there. How in the world can anything good come out of this? God is telling us, hey, as hard as it may be, and as confused as you may be You're a peculiar people. You're encompassed by me. And I can take that and turn that around and bring some good out of that. How many people find encouragement from that? We're a peculiar people. We're an encircled people. Wherever I go, I'm that dot. That circle is around me. Monday morning, Thursday afternoon, Friday night. I'm a peculiar people. I'm encompassed by God. I put this down. Peculiar people are God-filtered people. God-filtered people. It has to go through the filter of God. And we can rejoice in that. We can praise the Lord for that. And so we're a secure people. The characterizations of God's people select chosen generation. We're a special people, royal priesthood. We have access right to God. We're a sacred people, a holy nation, people group Set apart, different than the world. We're a secure people, infiltered by God, encircled, encompassed by God. Oh, by the way, that I'll back up a little bit, that idea behind the peculiar people that we are his possession, possessed private property of God. Do you know when somebody famous or somebody popular in the world, if they possess something, that thing becomes much more valuable. You know what I'm talking about? If you get a baseball bat that was uh Babe Ruth baseball bat, how many people understand that bat would be worth more than your other bats? Because of who had it I was watching a news clip, it's been a month ago or so. Uh President Trump was at some fire hall, he's speaking, and uh after the event was over they kept the cameras on him, he didn't know it And they kept the cameras on him and he gathered a bunch of the firemen around and he had a pen and he would sign a piece of paper. He'd sign it and he gave it to the guy and he says, Here, sell that on eBay, you'll get ten thousand bucks for it Some guy handed him a hat. He signed it. He said, Sell it on eBay. You'll get 10,000 bucks. And everything he touched, he would sign it and give it to him. And it immediately went up in value because of whose it was. Hey, you and I are not the president, we're not owned by the President of the United States. We're owned by the God that created the universe. Don't tell me your life isn't of no value. Don't tell me you're of no value. You know Jesus Christ as Savior. You're of a tremendous value your own. Uh when uh and it doesn't matter who the president is, they sign, you ever notice when they sign some documents they'll use 25 different pens? They'll make one letter, trade out another one. And those pens become very, very valuable. Hey, if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, you're peculiar. You're of incredible value to God. Incredible. The characterization of God's will, and then I need to end with this. Notice at the end of verse number nine. Look what he says Chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. By the way, you think when those believers being persecuted and run around living out in the streets and under bridges, wherever they are, they're run out Uh, do you think this might have encouraged them for Peter remind them who they are and they're standing before God? Man alive. I tell you, we uh Let me just say this. We as Americans are awfully spoiled. We're awfully. . I got thinking about this when I was reading over these notes again this week. And we we live in the nicest house some of the nicest houses in the world. We drive cars that most of the world would never dream of being able to drive. We wear clothes That much of the world, and you know what we do? You know what we do? We gripe and complain. Because some little thing is in our way and uh something doesn't satisfy me personally and some little thing. I uh and I'm preaching myself as much as anybody. I believe, but I'm I'm becoming more convinced We stand before God, we are going to be judged hard for our ingratitude. And God has done so much for us, and if it isn't absolutely perfect in every way. Then it's terrible. Then it's awful. It's lousy. I'm telling you, these people had nothing because of their faith in Christ. Nothing Peter writes them and he says, and by the way, remember, they had joy unspeakable, exceeding, rejoiced exceeding. And they didn't have a tenth of what you and I have. I'm telling you, we've got it pretty good. If we didn't have the house, if we lived under a bridge And we wore rags and we ate stale bread. What he says is true about us in verse 9 ought to be enough to make us shout and rejoice and praise God. Amen or not. I think I uh w we're worried about our country. You say, oh the solution is the election. Listen, I'm all for it, don't misunderstand. But I don't think that's the solution to our nation's problems. I think the solution to our nation's problem Is us Christians, if nothing else, just getting grateful for what God has done for us. Humbling ourselves before God and being grateful So he writes to them and says, hey, this is true. Don't forget this. These are true about you. And then look what he says. Then the commission. We have the contrast, we're not what the world is, we're not what we used to be. The characterization, we're select, special, sacred, secure people. And then he gives a commission. Look at the end of verse 9. That ye should show forth the what? Are you looking at it? Look at it there with me. That ye should show forth, say it. The praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Somebody says, I don't got I don't got nothing to be to praise for. Wait a minute, are you saved? You know Jesus, Savior? Here's your commission. Here's my commission. Go out in this whole world and show forth the praises. Of him who hath called us. My life, my language, my attitude, my demeanor, my behavior. To show forth the praises of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I know I'm probably harping on this too much. But we get out and we grouse and we grump and we complain and we criticize and nothing's right and everything's terrible. Let me ask you a question. What does that say about my God? What does that communicate to the people our community about our God? Boy, you must have a terrible God I know unsaved people that are more grateful than some Christians. And they don't have a tenth of what you and I have spiritually. Here's our commission. Here's our commission this week. September 20th through 27th. Here's my challenge. For Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. This week. Here's the challenge, the commission. Let's go out of here tonight in a little bit. Morrow all week. Let's show forth the praises of him who hath saved us and called us Let's show this whole world how good our our God is. Anybody hear God been good to you? Anyone hear Jesus been good to you? Why don't we talk about that? Why don't we show that? Why don't we lift that up? Speak that up. That's our commission. Go forth and show the praises. Go, the word go phrase go forth there means to declare, publish, make known with your life and your lips. The praises of him, things that God has done for us that are worthy of praise. Here's my challenge. Let's go out and tell people this week, as many as we can, let's tell them what Christ has done for us. How many people accept the challenge? I'm going to go out this week. I'm going to tell people Of great things Christ has done for me. Just tell them. You know what? That might do more for our country than getting on the computer and writing hateful stuff and getting all worked up about everything. Might just go out and start praising God. Might do more. Turn this thing around and getting all worked up. Am I right or wrong? Amen. Uh A. W. Chriswell He was a very well-known Southern Baptist preacher out of Texas. Pretty good. I got some of his books. Powerful Bible teacher and preacher. And back um it was right when the the the Cold War ended, the the wall, the iron curtain came down, I think it might have been just before, but he got special permission. Now He was a big dun in the Southern Baptist Convention years ago. And uh again, a powerful preacher. He was a good guy. And he had the opportunity to go to Russia. Now this was before Parestroika, I now uh recall. And when he got there, he had special permission that he could visit a church under the condition A Bible preaching church, Bible meeting church is kind of underground. They knew about it. And I don't know all the details arrangement, but this was the condition. One, that church was not to know ahead of time that he was coming. He was just supposed to show up. And number two, he was to be tailed constantly with a Russian operative, a lady that would stay right by him. And her object was to present to Dr. Chriswell a positive view of Russia. But also To monitor what he said and did. In fact, when he came back, he said that they listened in on every conversation. She was right beside them all the time they talked. Anything she could find out, information So finally the day came. They were going to meet this church. They were going to show up. And he said they were driving him, of course, and uh there were the the all the Russian operatives were around him. And uh he said we went down this little road and finally got to this dark alley. It was at night. This little dark dead end alley. He was a little anxious where they were taking him And he says, as they came around the corner, down at the end of the dead end was a huge crowd of people The Russians thought they were controlling information, but they got word that he was coming somehow. And there was a huge crowd of believers there waiting on him, excited to get to hear the American preacher. And they pulled up, and the Russian lady that was his bodyguard, whatever you call her, she began trashing those Christians. She called him this. Listen to what she called them. Oh, she was called the tourist guide And as they approached the crowd, she began to speak. This is what he said. She derided the believers gathered at the end of the street. She said, Look at them slugs and drones. They're parasites. They're draining the resources of our glorious nation. And she went on and said horrible things about these believers. That Chriswell was approaching to speak to them. Finally, he kept his mouth shut. He was quiet as long as he could, as she berated the Christians. However, finally he spoke up. And he said to her, Don't say that. These are my people. These are the people of God. He said, Though you speak ill of them, though they have nothing in this world, they are destined to inherit heaven, and they shall reign with Christ. Do not speak ill of the people of God. I thought, wow, what a challenge. You and I, as we go out, let's understand we're a holy nation. We're a peculiar people in the eyes of God. And our commission is to go out and lift the praises of the one who's died for us. And saved us. Father in heaven, I pray you'd stir our hearts and challenge us. Lord, convict us all week to remember who we are and who the people of God are. Help us, Lord, to lift high the Lord Jesus Christ and show forth his praises daily at work, at home, in the market. Show forth the praises of our Savior. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I really have to change the tone of my attitude? I need to remember who I am and what Christ has done for me. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I could show forth the praises of Christ, this whole world. Anybody like that? My hands raised. I need this. How about it? I need to be a testimony of the goodness and grace of God for all he's done for me. I want to hear what say, preacher, I know somebody that's unsaved. I know somebody that's lost. And they're without God, they're without hope in the world. And you'd say, Preacher, I want my life, my lips and my life to be a testimony of Jesus Christ the Savior and draw them. Anybody like that? Anyone like that? God bless you. Now we're going to go to the Lord's Supper here in a bit. Maybe before we do, the Bible says we should judge ourselves. That we'd not be judged Maybe you want to kneel at an old altar tonight. Just ask the Lord to search us, change us, convict us, forgive and cleanse us. We go into this Lord's Supper. Bless our invitation, I ask, Lord, now. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. James playing the invitation.