I want to bring a message this morning that I've really wrestled with. I told preacher yesterday that it's just really been Difficult to come to grips with, and uh yet I know uh the Lord has led me, and it's the Lord's purpose that I I bring this message And uh I I trust that you will take it as a message from the Lord and uh not from man. But what I want to speak on this morning is a subject that I just as soon not preach about. I've entitled this message A Place Called Hell. A Place Called Hell I'm going to preach about that this morning, but before we do, let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Our loving Father, we do thank you and praise you. for the redemptive power of the cross and the blood of Jesus Christ that was shed for the remission of our sins. We thank you this morning, Lord, that we have a bold, wonderful message to proclaim to the world that will save their lives, spare their souls. And take them to a land that is beyond our comprehension. I pray this morning, Lord, for this last day of the Missions Conference 2026. That your power would be demonstrated, your presence would be known, and the Lord Jesus would be exalted We pray for souls to be saved, and we pray, Father, for the church to be stirred. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to have to say to you this morning that we are living in a day of comfortable Christianity. We would rather have messages that soothe us than to poke us We want to come into the church and be comfortable and hear the message and go out the door and hopefully it didn't have much or any of an effect upon us. The sermons that some preachers preach today are nothing more than soothing, not shaking But when I look at the life of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, and the message that he preached, he did not only explain the truth. But he plainly proclaimed that truth without apology. When I look at the life and message of Jesus Christ, I think it was a message that was very clear I think it was a message that was frequently proclaimed. And I think it was a message that was forcefully given. And no one spoke any more on hell than what our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, spoke. Uh when you think about it, it's a it's not a preacher's invention. It's not a medieval myth When we think about hell and that place where those people go that do not know Christ as their personal Savior, it's not a metaphor for inconvenience. When we talk about hell, it's revealed in scriptures. It's a message that is warned by the Savior and to be avoided by every person in this world. We need to hear about what Christ has done for us. You avoid salvation, you turn from salvation, and your destiny Your destiny and the road that you are traveling is a sure highway to hell. Do you know why we have a church Do you know why Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is right here in this place and this community? It's because of a place called hell. You want to know why this church runs buses, go out and pick up kids and families and bringing them in and Bringing them to Sunday school and special events and programs. You want to know why those buses run? It's because of a place Called hell. Do you want to know why this church has a soul-winning program on Thursdays, I believe, is soul-winning day here Why people go out on Saturdays and work bus routes and talk to people about the Lord Jesus? It's because of a place called hell. Do you know why that track rack is out there in the back and those tracks are there right there conveniently located for you? to get as you go out the door. You know why that track rack is there? It's because of a place called hell. You want to know why you have the fingerprint ministry Why you gather together and have that special occasion to put these scriptures together is because of a place called hell. A place called Hell You wonder why these missionaries are gone? Do you wonder why they're going to the Dominican? Why they're going to down to Guatemala and Why do you have ninety-two missionaries that you support around the world? You don't know why? It's because of a place called hell. Faith promise giving is not about budgets. It's not about money. It's about burdens to see people come to know Christ as their personal Savior. Faith promise is not about equal giving. It's about equal sacrifice. What we're willing to sacrifice to tell someone else about our lovely, wonderful, glorious, triumphant Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Faith promised giving is not what we have. It's all about what we believe God is able to do through us. to reach this world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. So I say to you this morning that a missions is not a program. It's a rescue operation. What we sing about rescue the perishing, care for the dying, snatch them in pity. That's what missions is all about. And I I'm sure thankful today God rescued me. And I I'm sure if you really No, the Lord is your personal Savior. You are jumping up and down on the inside of your heart, rejoicing for the day that God rescued you. Now can you say amen right there This rescue mission is urgent. This rescue mission is about lost people. This rescue mission is about eternity, where people are going to spend eternity. A place called hell. That's why we must go A place called hell, that's why we must give. A place called hell, that's why we must pray to get out the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. So there's several things I want you to think about. The place of hell is why people need to hear the gospel. Matthew chapter 25 and verse number 46, the Bible says this. And these shall go away into everlasting punishment. But the righteous into life eternal. Everyone in this room this morning is on a road leading somewhere And when we talk about eternity, there's only one of two roads you're traveling. You're either traveling that road that is leading to an eternal city or where Jesus has gone to prepare a place for us. What a glorious place it's going to be. We can talk about the streets of gold and uh we can talk about that tree of life and We could talk about that river that flows through that and the glorious foundations that that city is going to be built upon. But the most glorious, triumphant, and victorious thing uh about heaven and that city that he's building is that Jesus is there. We're going to be able to see them face to face. And if you know Christ as your personal Savior, you're traveling that road that has a distinctive and clear destination called heaven. But there's another road. Another road. Only one of two roads that we travel in life. And that road, that destination, that road that leads to that place called hell is just as sure and certain as the road that leads to heaven. You turn your heart away from the Savior. You reject His message of salvation? You're going to continue on that road till one day That destination is going to lead you to a place called hell. So, why does the world need to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ? It's because hell is not a theory, it's a destination. It's a clear road. A clear road. That leads to a place that I even hate to think about. Hell is a real, eternal destination, and millions and millions of people around the world are on that road. The Bible says in the book of Matthew, chapter 7, and beginning with verse number 13: Enter ye in at the straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way. That leadeth to destruction. It's not difficult to get on that road. In fact, you're on that road the day you were born. It's a wide road. It's a road that'll accommodate the peoples of the world. And the Lord told us that it's a wide road, a literal road that leads to destruction. And many, many are on that road. Hell is a real eternal destination. Hell is a real place for real people The Bible tells us in the book of Luke, chapter 16, and I'm sure you're familiar with this passage of Scripture, the account of the rich man that died and went to hell, and the beggar that died and went to heaven. The rich man didn't die and go to hell because he was rich. Neither did Lazarus, the poor man That was fed from the crumbs that fell from the rich man's table when he died. He didn't go to heaven because he was poor. The rich man died and went to hell because he rejected Christ. The poor man went to heaven because he received Christ. And the Bible tells us in Luke chapter 16 and in verse number 23, and in hell. And in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. He saw those things. Hell is a conscious place. Every continent of the world has souls that are going to that place. Every culture As sinners in need of a Savior. Every on-reach people groups of this world Represent millions with no escape plan whatsoever. So why must the world here Because their only way out of that dreadful, dreadful road that they are on is Jesus Christ. Hell is a place Many never heard about. And I fear, Brother Leatherman, I was talking this week about it. I fear that our pulpits in America are getting silent about this place Because it's a message that people don't want to hear. It's a message that people don't want to really face. It's a message that they want to reject. They would rather be soothed and comfortable and stroked, not stroked, but not poked, but just kind of stroked in a way that they feel pretty good about themselves The world needs to hear about Jesus. The book of Romans, chapter 10, and verse number 14, a verse that was shared with us this week, how how how then shall they hear on him in whom they have not believed, and how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they that hear how shall they hear without a preacher There's three questions that are asked in that passage of Scripture. How shall they call? How shall they believe? And how shall they hear? People's eternal destination is dependent upon them hearing the right message. The right message, the gospel of Jesus Christ. Have you ever stopped to think about why we'll send them? Why we should go? I believe we ought to be telling the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ because time is short and eternity is long. The Bible tells us in the book of Hebrews, chapter 9 and verse 27, it's appointed unto men once to die, then after this the judgment. Do you realize every second someone takes their last breath? Someone enters into eternity while we've sat here this morning, and before we go home at noon Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people around the world are going to slip right out into eternity. Someone is going to cross that line that cannot ever be uncrossed. They've got to hear because the church has been commanded to go and tell them. It's our responsibility. I shared with you this week that uh every church that names the name of Jesus has a responsibility of not only uh local outreach to their communities and surrounding areas with the gospel of Jesus Christ. But that same church has a global responsibility of reaching around the world, sending the message of the gospel to Jesus Christ. And that is what faith promise giving is all about. But not only do we need to see the place called Hell Because the message has to be preached. But I want to remind you about the pain of hell, a real place of suffering. We've had notable individuals that once believed this message and have turned from that message And they no longer preach on that subject called hell and talk about the fire and the torment and the destruction that is going to be present in that place. But the Bible is very clear In the book of Luke, chapter 14 and verse 24, and he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me And send Lazarus that he may tip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue. That was a place of conscious pain. He could see. That rich man could see. That rich man could feel When you die and you go to that place called hell, your strength is not lost. Your feelings are not dead. Your remembrance is going to be very clear. People that die and go to hell are are able to reason. I'm thankful that here on this earth that we have meds that we can take that kind of Suppress the pain. You get a headache, you pop a Tylenol. You get a backache and you take two Tylenols. You get like Chester and you can't see, you you take a bottle of Tylenol I'm thankful that there are meds to suppress the pain that we have here in this world. If you've ever had a kidney stone, you're thankful for morphine. I've I've had multiple kidney stones uh through my life and uh I've I remember very clearly going to the hospital and and uh being racked with pain that we you wanted to just cry and uh and you wanted to scream and and they come in and they put that in your arm, you can feel the The morphine just working its way right down through your body, and oh my, what a relief it is, but there's no morphine in hell There's no Tylenol in hell. There's not a single med that is going to be able to comfort the suffering and remove the pain of that place called hell. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing will reverse it. Nothing will deaden it. Nothing will suppress it. Hell is a place of continual pain. Constant plane, no breaks, no relief, nothing to ease the suffering and torment of that place. Mark 94 says, where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. I'd have to say to you this morning that hell is a place of consuming pain. Matthew chapter 25 and 41 Then shall they say unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed into everlasting fire Prepare for the devil and his angels. Do you know God never meant one soul to go to hell? God didn't prepare hell for one single soul. He prepared it for one purpose, and that's the devil and his angels. But because people side with the devil and turn from the Savior, they suffer the same hell and torment that Satan is going to experience throughout all the ceaseless ages of eternity. Fire in hell is real. It's not a figment of man's imagination. It's not misconstrued and falsely interpreted in Scripture. God said it, God meant it, and it's there. Hell is a place of fire. Literal fire. Intense fire, painful fire, a fire that never destroys I I've I've never looked into a firebox that it didn't remind me of hell. It's a place you'll never escape. Every soul in hell, if we could pray them across this platform this morning, Just take one. I think you would hear them say something like this. That sin was not worth it. I I I I think you would hear them say delay, it's deadly I think you would hear them testify. I I re I regret rejecting the Savior. I think you would even hear them say, missions is urgent Send someone. That rich man cried out and he said, I have five brethren. Send somebody. I want to say something to you this morning. God forbid That people in hell would have a greater burden for souls than what we do. There's something else I share with you about hell. I want you to see the permanence of it. It's a final condition. The Bible says, and these shall go away into everlasting punishment. There's no verse in the Bible that you'll ever be able to find or discover. Where there's an escape from that place called hell. There's not a scripture that suggests that one day this is all going to be reversed That God is going to have mercy and compassion and give people in hell another chance, one more time. In order to get out of that dreadful place, not a verse in Scripture that would support that Luke 16, 26, and beside all this, there's something fixed, a great gulf. Uncrossable. Uncrossable. It's fixed. We talk about something being fixed, we're talking about something that has been absolutely, unmistakably a static Talk about something that is fixed. We're talking about something that is unchangeable. We're talking about something that is absolutely permanent. The Bible says that there's a great gulf. It's fixed. There's no way out for you. I can't come to you, and you can't come to me. There's no appeal after death. You're not going to hear just as I am without one plea, but that thy blood was shed for me. You're not going to hear that Those songs are not heard in hell. There's not an altar that's constructed there, and a preacher that is preaching there, and an altar call that is giving there. It's all over. It's final. There's no pleas. There's no cries. There's no calls for people to come to Christ. That's already been settled. There's no crossing over. Hell is a fixed duration. Forever. No ending point. Eternal. No final moment, it's eternal. No, no eventual relief It's eternal. It is endless, continuous pain and torment, and regret and suffering for all eternity. Hell is a fixed condition. There's not going to be moral improvement there. I I I hear the foolish thoughts of some individuals, but Me and the gang, we're when we get to hell, we're gonna party and have ourselves a time. You're gonna have yourself a time all right. But it's not going to be classified as a party There's no spiritual awakening there. Do you see why missions is so urgent? Why it's so necessary? Because of a place called hell It's fixed, permanent, forever. Hell has a fixed memory People are going to be able to remember those pleas and those messages and those tracks and those tears that was shed from Mother's eyes, father's eyes, children's eyes. They're going to be able to remember those things They will remember the sermons that they ignored, and they're going to remember the warnings that they dismissed. People that die there and go there are gonna remember when they were almost persuaded but didn't come. Well is fixed in its memory. It's fixed in its separation. The Bible says in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1 And in verse number nine, who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord. Hell is permanent. Hell is painful. Hell has no escape. But now I come to the relief part of it all. And I feel a shout coming on right now, Dale. I want you to think about the provision that is made to keep you from hell. Well I I I feel like kicking out the slats right now. I I I feel like swinging from the raptors right now. Because our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, did something. He becomes sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made, fashioned, molded in His righteousness Why? Because we have no righteousness of our own. People in the parts of this world that have never heard the gospel They need to hear that message because it's the message that's been provided for them to keep them from that place called hell. Or aren't you thankful you heard it? Or aren't you thankful you made the decision? Or aren't you thankful that Jesus paid the descendant of your life? The provision has been made. That's the message that we want to get to the far corners of this world. There's hope, there's deliverance. The salvation in Christ, in Christ alone. I I I make no I make no apology this morning. Appealing to you and urging you to do whatever God lays upon your heart when you fill out that pay piece of paper this morning. I make no apology for that The only regret that you're ever going to have in eternity is the regret that you didn't do more. And with that provision, there comes a promise. I feel another shout coming on right now, Brother Ken. I feel it. It's rolling in my soul. So There's been a promise that has been made, not only a provision, but a promise. And here's the promise: he that believeth and hath the Son hath life I've got eternal life. It started the day I received Him as my Savior and will go all through the ceaseless ages of eternity. God made me that promise. He not only made the provision, but he made the promise. And he's also given us a plan. Go. Go. Go, church, go locally, go Go! Why? Because of a place called hell. Not only go, but look unto the fields that are white unto harvest. Why? Why? Because of a place called hell. Give give why give because of a place called hell I said the other night, if we don't go and we don't give and we don't pray, we're living in disobedience before a God that loved us and gave his only begotten Son to redeem us. Listen to me carefully, and I'll be done. Not every one of us are called to go to the field. To the foreign field. Do you understand that I've been called to do what I'm doing. Have I ever made myself available to go to a foreign field? Absolutely. But not everyone is called to do that. They're not like the Mendezas that have a distinct and clear calling to go back to the Dominican Republic and do something for Jesus there. But there's not one of us, not one believer that can't help. I remember A few years ago I was preaching in North Carolina in a missions conference, and a little lad, oh, I I guess he might have been five or six years of age. You ever you ever see those MM uh uh uh containers, little bottles? You can put quarters in them. They're that round. They're about that long He came up and he said, I want to put some quarters in the missions project. He said, I always go to my daddy and see if he has any quarters. And I promise the Lord that whenever I get a quarter, I'm going to put it in my MM container, and when it's filled, I'm going to put it in the offering plate for faith promise giving. And he said, Would would you take one and go make some Bibles? You know what that says to me? Little kids can be involved in faith promise given I've known kids, young people that have had car washes and washed cars and mowed lawns and raked leaves to make some money, to give, to faith promised giving. Young people can do it. Young adults can do it. Moms and dads can do it. Us old codgers. None are here except me, but you won't us old codgers. We we can do that We can invest in reaching this world with the gospel. Why, why, why should we help? Because of a place called Hell. That's my message. That's my message. Let's stand with her heads bowed and her eyes closed. While every head is bowed and eyes are closed and the pianist is getting ready to play on the piano. I wonder how many people here this morning can say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. I can point to a time when I know the transaction took place. I was delivered from the Darkness of Satan into the glorious light of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And here's my hand in testimony to that. I know, I know that I know I'm saved. No question about it Amen. God bless you can put your hands down. Maybe you're here this morning and you couldn't raise your hands with the others and You'd say, preacher, that's me. I really don't know. I'm not sure about that. I sure don't want to go to a place called hell, but I want to make sure that I'm on my way to heaven Would you pray for me? Just flip up your hand. I I'm not here to single you out. I'm not coming back to talk to you. I sincerely want to pray for you. Anyone like that, I couldn't raise my hands with the others I'm really not sure, preacher. Please pray for me. Please pray for me. Maybe you're here this morning and You want to get involved in faith promise giving. From the bottom of my heart, I would appeal to you. Allow the Lord to use you. And give through you to reach this world for Christ before it's eternally too late Father, I pray that you would move upon our hearts this morning. There might be people here today that are just struggling with it, Lord. I I sure would encourage them to come and pray and seek the face of the Lord here at the altar today, asking for your direction Maybe there's someone here this morning, Lord, that you've been tugging at their heart to go to the mission field. I pray that they would come and let us know that we could join with them in praying. Helping them, directing them. Do a work in our hearts today, Lord, as we look onto the fields that are white to harvest. Well, her heads are bowed, her eyes are closed, the penis is playing. God has spoken to you. We'd encourage you to find your way