Chapter number nine, if you would, we're gonna, Lord will, and finish up this chapter tonight. We're preaching our way through the book of Ecclesiastes. And chapter 9, I'm going to begin reading in verse 13. I'm right down through the end of the chapter. And just to get us up to speed where we're at, the book of Ecclesiastes was penned by King Solomon. Of course, God being the author, God is the author of Scripture, and Solomon recorded this through the inspiration of God. And it is a, it is, if you don't understand the book of Ecclesiastes, it can be a very disturbing book. And if you don't understand what's taking place, he makes some statements in there that on the surface don't seem to jive, if you would, with the other portions of Scripture And to me, until I really understood a key phrase in the book, the book was uh was a uh uh a mystery to me of sorts And as I've studied it over the years, there's one phrase, and most of you know where I'm born with this, there's one phrase that stands out and is repeated throughout the book of Ecclesiastes. And when we see that and understand what he's saying, then the book begins to make sense. And that phrase is what? Under the sun. Under the sun. Under the sun. I took a pen a pen underscored and I think I might have even circled, yes, circled that phrase. in my Bible and then I come back with a yellow highlighter and highlighted it just to reinforce and and refocus in my mind when I'm reading through it what the approach is, what this book is about to understand it. And when he uses that phrase under the sun, he's referencing his attempts Now, in the later years of Solomon's life, he got far from God. He was the wisest man that ever lived, by Jesus' reckoning. Yet he began to lean upon his own understanding, and he pushed God, as difficult as this is to grasp, he pushed God out of his life And he determined that he was going to live things his way. He was going to lean on his own understanding. I'm going to call the shots in my life, so to speak. And that turned out Disastrously. His testimony was stained, and he ended up involved in things that almost are unspeakable. King Solomon. And his conclusion, as he sought to find purpose and meaning in life without God, I'm just pushing God out. Or actually, he didn't totally push God out. He just tried to push he he let me put it this way, he tried to put God on a leash. God, I'll I'll call the shots here and he doesn't deny God. He just puts God on a leash, pushes him aside. And his conclusion is he tries to find fulfillment, he tries to find meaning, he tries to find purpose, living in a world without God. And his conclusion of the whole matter was, his conclusion he came to was all his vanity and what? Vexation of spirit. And he worked hard to try and find purpose and fulfillment, and he said it was vain and it was frustrating. It was empty and I'm frustrated. He sought wealth and he had more of that than most anybody, perhaps, that ever lived. And he said it was empty and it was unfulfilling and it was very, very frustrating. He sought after wisdom. He pursued the greatest education that was available of his day, and he was in a position to get the best education that was available. And when it was all said and done, he said it's vanity, vexation of spirit, frustration, empty. He pursued wickedness. And that is where if you kind of read behind the between the lines a little bit, he fell into some depths of uh pretty horrific sin. And when it was all said and done, he said it was empty, it was vanity, it was vexation of spirit. And so he gives the first six chapters, he's kind of giving testimonies relating how what is the the what his thinking process was that led him into that type of lifestyle and that type of living And then chapter 7, on to the rest of the book, he starts giving some conclusions he came to and lessons he learned. And some of them are really just common sense type stuff. Under the sun, under the sun, under the sun. And now in chapter 9, we started looking at this. He relates this incident of this little city. Now let's pick this up here in verse 13. He says, This wisdom have I seen. So this is something he observed. He saw this. This wisdom have I seen under the sun. This is excluding God. I just observed this. And it seemed great to me. There was a little city and a few men within it. And there came a what? A great king. Now this is a little city, but this great king comes, and this great king came against it. And besieged it and built great bulwarks against it. Now there was found in this little city a poor wise man. And he, by his wisdom, delivered the city. Yet no man remembered that same poor man. Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength. Nevertheless, the poor man's wisdom is despised. His words are not heard. The words of a wise man are heard in quiet more than the cry of him that ruleth among fools. Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroyeth much good. Uh poor wise man. Let's pray, and uh we'll briefly touch on what we said before and pick up some new thoughts tonight. Father. It's been a good day. It's been a joy to be around your people and to fellowship. Lord, we've sung. We've prayed together. We've laughed. Now we, God, we just ask that you would speak to our hearts and you would challenge us, that our faith would be in you, and we'd see above the sun that there is more to life than just what's under the sun. And that we would live accordingly. I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Spirit and that you speak through me and that you would challenge us, each of us, in our own individual, specific situations and conditions that we're in. Give us open hearts and minds, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. We pointed out in the last message when we started this section. the scenario that he presents here. If you remember, I suggested that this was apparently a literal event. He says, I saw this, I observed this. And so this was actual event, I believe, that Solomon witnessed take place, this great king coming against this little city with just a few men. I said that the little city here was, in my mind anyway, an unlikely target. It was an insignificant city. There was uh by all accounts we can tell There's nothing of value in it. There was no resources there that would prompt this uh uh great king to come against it. So it's an insignificant city and we said this is an overwhelming assault. And as I was studying this, I thought this uh this verse fourteen, a little city, few men and this great king and he besieged it and he builds great bulwarks against it. In my mind, if you'll remember, I suggested this is an this was overreaction This was overkill. And I was asking the question in the last message a couple weeks ago Uh I'm trying to figure out what in the world would motivate a great king with a great army and all this artillery and all this uh resources, military resources to build such a bulwark against a little city with just a few men. And I couldn't come up with a reason and I tried to make applications. Sometimes things happen and people do things that in our minds make no sense However, Brother King was thinking. I'm always impressed when we have a couple people thinking when I'm preaching. It's very encouraging. And he said there could be several reasons, and he suggested some that I thought were pretty good. So I'm running all my sermons through him first and get them No, not really. But he said this, and they had a good point. He said there could be several possible scenarios here. Maybe the somebody in that city had done something to spite the great king And though it was irrational, yet this king may have been filled with rage and was out for revenge. I think that's a plausible. uh motivation there. Uh he said that may have been a strategic location. Maybe he had eyes on a bigger prize. And his this was simply one step in the advancement of taking something of greater value, but this because of its strategic location may have been motive may have what motivated him. And be that as it may, we're not told. We don't know what the reason was. And again, I come back to my application. Sometimes things happen in life that we see no reason or rhyme to. And we'll we'll see that here mentioned again in another in a couple verses here. So it was an unlikely target. We said that it was interesting to note that the city was lacking in leadership. They couldn't find anybody. They found one little wise man. Very poor wise man, and then we pointed out that the city was uh liberated by wisdom. Was liberated by By wisdom. And uh and then the ma the wise man was lost from memory. Now I want to get this is I'm trying to rush through that a little bit. I want to get to verse sixteen. So we have this scenario of this little city with a wise man in, and he's delivered from this great king and this great military maneuver on the city. Now we come to some statements That Solomon makes about this event. Verse 16, if you would notice. It says, then said I Now remember, back in verse 13, he says, This wisdom have I seen. So he watches this, he sees this event unfold. Then he comes back and he says, here's my conclusion. Here's what I've learned from this. This is what I've observed. And uh he comments on this event. And I thought about just that little statement by King Solomon I think that reflects the fact that he says, I saw this, and here's what I have to say about it. I think that reflects back a little bit on Solomon's wisdom. I believe a wise person, one characteristic of wisdom is the ability to learn from observable events. Right? One of the characteristics of wisdom is somebody stops and see they see this event play out and they say, hey, I learned something from that. I can be a better person. I can be maybe more successful. I can maybe have some victories in my life. I can be a little stronger in my faith or my understanding by observing something and learning from it And the challenge is to you and I is let's pay attention to what is happening around us and let's learn from it Let's observe it, take some things from it. Foolishness, one characteristic of foolishness, is the inability to learn from events. Inability to learn from things we see all around us. How many people how many people ever drove down Broadford Road? You ever drove out here sometime? And you saw a policeman sitting down by the school down there. Anybody ever do that? Anybody ever happened to have opportunity to speak to that policeman at all or anything? The speed limit's 25. And so they sat down there, and I noticed that a lot of people in our community have opportunities to speak with the policeman there. One character of wisdom would be say, you know, I saw a policeman down there pulling people over. And I learned from that. I'm going to be very, very careful that I'm doing the speed limit whenever I drive down there. How many people say that would be a wise observation? A foolish person, on the other hand, sees the policeman there, sees get people getting pulled over, and he just goes flying down there anyway, doesn't pay any attention to it. Hope you'll agree with me. That's a foolish person I think it was Benjamin Franklin said, a fool and his money are soon parted. And so that I think is what's happening here. Solomon saw this little city, he saw this great king attack it, he saw the poor wise man give suggestions, and they followed his wisdom, and they were delivered protected from the attack through the advice and the and the information, the directions of this wise man. So we learn from that. And so it's good for us to learn from others. It's good for us to learn from life. And the tragic thing is, and I want to be very careful here, but the tragic thing is sometimes a parent or somebody will do some foolish things And the child, rather than learning from that and correcting the behavior and trying to do a little better, they just go down the right same road. They see the same thing And a wise person says, you know, I saw that, I saw what it did to some of my loved ones, I saw what that sin or that behavior, that liquor, or whatever, I saw what it did To a somebody dear to me, and I'm not going down that same road. I want to learn from that and be better. You know what I'm saying? And so I commend Solomon here and it challenged me to watch others and see events and look what's happening and gain conclusions from that. Now what did he What did he uh uh statements he made here? Now one I'm injecting. It's not stated directly here. I'm kind of injecting the first one, and that is this. Life is unpredictable. Life is unpredictable. The older I get, the more I realize how little control I have over my life. When I was twenty years old, when I was twenty-one, twenty-two, I I went to college when I was twenty, my first year of college, I was twenty-six when I graduated. And uh I got a four-year degree in that brief period of time. And uh boy I tell you when I came out of Bible college, I knew everything. I had the tiger by the tail, I had I was gonna And uh man, events took place, things happened, and I found out there's a lot of stuff in life that is not predictable. There's a lot of great kings that show up out of nowhere and throw bulwarks up against me I'm about to be overrun. And life is very, very unpredictable. That seems to be a recurring theme through this book. Did anybody notice that? Under the sun, life can be very, very unpredictable. There's a little phrase that I reference sometimes in preaching that's found throughout the Bible different times. It goes something like this, and there came a day. And there came a day. And whenever that little phrase is used, I pay attention because something is about to happen. That was unanticipated. Classic example of that would be who? Who do you think of? Job. Job. I'm telling you, Job never saw it coming. The loss, the devastation was absolutely unpredictable. And so, and we see it in other places throughout Scripture. So it is impossible to predict or even to explain God's ways, God's actions, or God's purposes. Sometimes people say to me, Preacher, why? And then you fill in the blank. You know what my answer is when people ask me, why did God do this? Why did God allow this? Why did God uh uh uh work things this way. Why didn't God do this? You know what my pat answer to that is? I don't know. I don't know. There's a lot of things in the Bible that God does not give us the answers to. There's a lot of unpredictable events in life that from under the sun From down here, we see no purpose. It looks like it has no purpose. It looks like it has no plan. It looks like it's just chaos from under the sun. But what we have to keep reminding ourselves is this. There is a God that dwells above the sun. And there is a God that does have a plan and does have a purpose and it is not chaos. And God allows these things that we never would have anticipated. God allows these things That we never would have predicted would take place. Yet God allows them. God allows them. I'm convinced this little city never saw it coming. Never saw it coming. If you would, keep your place here, if you would, just quickly turn with me to the book of Isaiah. Now, if you're in Ecclesiastes, you go towards the back of your Bible a little ways, you get to Isaiah. Chapter 55, one of my Most fascinating passages in Scripture. Now I have about 1,275 fascinating passages of Scripture, and this is one of them. Isaiah chapter 55, and look with me if you would at verse number 8 and 9. Isaiah 55 and verse number 8 and 9. Now the theme of Ecclesiastes is what? What's the statement we always refer to? It's repeated. Under the sun. Under the sun. God's pushed out of it. God is not a factor. God is not factored in at all. Look at all these events. God's completely not a factor. Isaiah is approaching life from above the sun. And he's saying God is a factor in the events of life. God is a factor in the unpredictable things of life. And look at verse number 8, Isaiah 55 For this is God speaking, for my what? Thoughts are not your thoughts. Now it's interesting that word thoughts there That he uses twice, my thoughts are not your thoughts. That word there has this idea, my plans and purposes for you. Now think of it this way, my plans and my purposes for you are not your plans and purposes for your life. We've got it all figured out. Solomon says he pushed God out of the picture. This is the way life ought to be, this is how it should be. And all these things happened. Great kings attacked little cities And unpredictable things come in and things and it looks like chaos and it looks like there's no meaning or purpose and God says, hold it My plans, what I'm doing, my plans and my purposes don't sync with yours. I'm approaching this whole thing from the top. You're looking at it all from under the sun. Then he goes on and he says this: My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are my ways your neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. Then he goes on, verse 9, he explains, for as the heavens are higher than the earth. There you got that sun under the sun thinking a little bit. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. That phrase ways there has this idea, manner of operating We look at our life and we look at circumstances and we think, now we might not say this, but we think this, boy, if I was in control. If I could control all the elements of my life, this is how it would play out. Anyone gonna agree with me on that? If we think that way. I mean if I if I if I could play it out this way, Garrett and I I loved in Garrett County, I'm convinced I'm in the exact center will of God for my life. I believe I was created for this time in this place But if I was in control, if I was the one calling the shots, if it was my ways and my plans, Garrick County would be just like St. Lucia in the Caribbean. Warm and sunny, blue water, sand, coconuts. It would be awesome But God's ways are not my ways. And so it's icicles and snow drifts and But you see what I'm trying to get at? God's saying, listen, the way I operate and the way you operate too I'm I'm operating from above the sun. You're operating under the sun. I'm viewing this whole thing. I'm uh my perspective and my plans and my functioning is up here above the sun. You're running around down here and it's completely different. And so then God allows and does things in our lives that is completely unpredictable. Never saw that coming. I would have never done it that way. And we say stuff like this. Listen, we say stuff like this. God, what in the world are you doing? God, why would you allow this in my life? God says, under the sun, if I'm not a factor, I agree with you. Looks like chaos, looks like a terrible mistake. But if you saw it from my perspective, if you understood my plans and my purposes, it makes perfect sense. I think one day we're going to get heaven and we will know as we are known, and I'm wondering if we won't be able to look back at our lives and do this. Now it makes perfect sense. Now I see. And we'll see it from above the sun. You follow what I'm saying here? And so this whole event with a little city and just few men in it, they're just kind of doing their thing. And uh probably a little Caribbean island, maybe, you know. And this great king and this huge military apparatus machine comes, whoa! Wow Let me give you some suggestions here about how to deal with the unpredictable of life. By the way, I put this down. Let me give this to you. We cannot anticipate what God will do in and or God allow in and with our lives. We can't anticipate that. That's what I think is exciting about the youth work. I'm so thrilled to have Pastor Matt and Courtney on board with us. And uh what a blessing they've been just in the last month or so. I mean he can put stuff away I can't reach. It is fantastic. He can pull buses. But what an exciting thing it is to help young people and invest the Word of God, time and effort into uh getting young people to understand That life is unpredictable, but there's a God in heaven that has a plan for their life. And I'm telling you, it's exciting. We have no idea what God's plan may be for some of these young people sitting back here and young people up here What God may have in store for them. I mean, it's, how many people agree with me? It's exciting to think about what God may have in store for them. But on the other side, it's terrifying. We don't know. We don't know I put down, it can be exciting or it can be terrifying. Often we cannot explain what God does or what God allows in our lives. We don't know what God will do for all of us And so we look at life and we think, oh, God could do this, and this may happen. But then we look at life and I don't know, maybe this could happen, and this could happen. So it's exciting, but it's terrifying And so what do we do? How do we respond to that? Let me give you a few suggestions here, and I just jotted these down. Considering the unpredictability of life, I put down number one, maintain your faith. When things come up that we did not anticipate, when things come up that we would not have chosen for ourselves, when things come up that are contrary to the way we think it ought to be, maintain your faith in God. Trust God. I have to believe that God has a plan for my life. And by the way, that's not just a wishful thinking. The Bible is very, very clear: God does have a plan for my life. I am here for a purpose. I've often thought, and my dad and I have talked many, many times, and and in fact it's getting more often as we're getting older. That we look back and on our lives as he is my father and my son and our family. And he says, and he said just the other day we were talking, he says, I look back and He says, I just see things happen and things that took place that are hard, hard to understand, and hard to reconcile. But he said this. But I see God, looking back, I see God's hand was in all of that. And he made this statement. He said He said, if we had not gone through the dark valley that we never saw coming, If we had not gone through that dark valley, I wonder if any of us would have ever come to Christ as Savior. It had all been smooth sailing and every everything happy, go lucky family. I wonder if we'd ever come to Christ But he said God allowed that. And it brought us to the point that every one of the family members realized how desperately we needed the Lord Jesus Christ. And here we are rejoicing. And so we need to maintain our faith in God. God, I'm under the sun. I don't see that plan. I don't see your purpose. But I believe from your word that you do have a plan, and you do have a purpose. And I'm going to trust you. The worst thing to do when the unpredictable comes in is to lose faith in God. That's what Solomon did. And all we could see was from under the sun, but faith looks above the sun. Maintain your faith in God's plan for your life. Maintain your faith in God's strength that He gives I can't handle it, I never anticipated, it wasn't supposed to be this way. We're not supposed to get tacked by a giant king, a great king, and a great army. We're just a quiet little town. And what I need to do when things happen that I did not anticipate that don't go the way I planned and purposed, I need to understand, I need to have faith that God will give me the strength necessary. To deal with this. I love Philippians chapter 4. Paul says, I can do what? All things, but the period doesn't end there, the sentence doesn't end there. I can do all things through what? Christ, which strengtheneth me. Now, the context of that statement, Paul just previously, he said this: I know how to abound and I know how to be abased. I know how to be full and I know how to be hungry. You know what he's saying? I've been through a lot of unpredictable stuff in life. And I learn that God can and will strengthen me to deal with the unpredictabilities of life if I will just trust him. I will just have faith in him. Uh number two, I put this down. Refuse self pity Refuse self-pity. Oh, poor me. Why does the phone always go off when I'm preaching? I'm not I'm not trying to give anybody a hard time. I know how it is. Why did me why did this h we're just a little village. Why did they have to attack us? How many people have ever had a pity party? Nobody loves me, everybody hates me, I'm gonna go eat worms. Right? And so one thing I gotta do is I cannot allow myself to get in a pity party I wish I could tell you as your pastor, great spiritual leader, that I have never been in a pity party. The fact of the matter is they're about every, I can schedule them about every five days. But don't allow ourselves, don't allow self-pity, refuse it. No, I'm not going there. I'm not going to think that way. I'm not going to allow that. I'm going to have faith in God. God is in control. God loves me. He is wise. He has a plan for my life. He'll strengthen me, enable me to do what I need to do under the attack of this overwhelming king. And number three, I put this down, and this comes back to our overall point. Learn from experience. Learn from experience. God is allowing me to be tacked. I don't know. I can't say because the Bible doesn't tell us, but I'd venture to say, well, actually might not have played out exactly this way, but I would have ventured to say that little city, if nothing else, had an opportunity to learn something about wisdom. Now he makes some statements, I'm not convinced they did. But when unpredictable things come up, when unplanned things, when it when it when life starts going directions that I never intended and I never planned on and I never anticipated I need to learn from that. And there's some specific things I can learn, and I'll end with this. If you would turn with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 12. Paul, of course, is penning this. He's writing to the church at Corinth. This is his second inspired letter to them. We believe he's written others. I'm certain he did. And he is giving a testimony of sorts to the church there at Corinth And in chapter 12, 2 Corinthians, chapter 12, and notice verse number 7. And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. I want to submit to you, Paul was not planning on that. I want to submit to you that was not something Paul anticipated or he would have chosen to be. In fact, I know he wouldn't have chosen it. He said, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, and it was more than just physical pain, there was a spiritual dimension to this thorn in the flesh. A messenger of Satan to buffet me, to beat me down, lest I should be exalted above measure. Now look what Paul does. For this day I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. Now we said this often. That's not just three little prayer requests, but three periods, extended periods of time. I mean, he is serious. He is seeking the Lord. And look what happened. Now this is what I'm going to make application here and end with this. And he said to me, My grace is sufficient for thee. For my strength, this is God speaking to Paul. My grace is sufficient for thee. For my strength is made perfect in weakness. This is Paul's response. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmity that the power of Christ may rest upon me. I want to suggest to you this unplanned, unpredictable, undesired event came into his life, this thorn in the flesh. I believe it was incredibly painful, and I think there was a spiritual discouragement and beating down associated with it. And he seeks the Lord, and God says, No, I'm not taking it away. And he learns something about God. Look at verse nine. My grace is sufficient for thee And my strength is made perfect in weakness. He learned something about what God is like. He learns something about how God works in our lives. And he said, I learned this, that God allows us to be in painful, unpleasant, uh uh unplanned, undesired circumstances. so that he can show me how strong he is and how great his grace is, so that even in that circumstance I can have peace, I can have contentment, and I can even have joy. Boy, what a great God. Any God, quote unquote small g, any God can make you happy when all the bills are paid. Right? A little idol on a shelf can make you happy if you've got perfect health and everything is exactly the way you want it to be. Any false God can make you happy in that. But only the true and living God. Can give me peace and fulfillment and joy even in times of pain and discouragement and unpredictable circumstances. So Paul learned something about God. Man, God can give me joy even when things are going wrong. And the second thing he learned, he learned something about himself. Look at verse number 10. Therefore I take pleasures in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses, for in Christ's, for Christ's sake For when I am what? Weak, then am I. And he learns something about himself. You know what he learned? He's writing to Corinthian church and he's telling him this. This, you know what I found out? That when I am absolutely at the end of myself, when I'm in a situation where I can do nothing, this pain and the Satan's assaults on me are so overwhelming, when I'm in that situation, that's when God makes me strong. When I'm weak, I found out that's when God makes me strong. You know who some of the people, you know some of God's people that have the greatest testimonies of his grace and his goodness and his power? Are Christians that have gone through difficult, hard, dark times? They testify, God strengthens me when I'm weak. That's when I'm strong. And he learned about himself. I years ago, Dr. Robertson, when I was under him I don't know that he told me directly. It may have been a class. I don't remember when, but he highly recommended on numerous occasions a little devotional called Streams in the Desert. You're familiar with that? I highly recommend it. Now, I'll put a little disclaimer, they do use some other versions. I wish they didn't. Every now and then it'll be some other versions. But I'm telling you, that book is chalk full. Of encouragement and destruction that when I'm weak, Christ is strong. I read that every single day, and it is tremendous help to me. So, Solomon sees this little city that's assaulted by this great king and great armament, and one poor wise man makes a few statements, gives a little instruction, and boom, they're delivered. And Solomon says, you know what I learned from that? And in so many words he says, I learned that life is unpredictable. And things are going to come our way. And I put this down: a wise person understands that life is unpredictable. And it is a and I become a stronger Christian because of it. Because of it. Now we have no way of measuring this. We have no way of humanly measuring this. Only God can measure this. But I'm going to suggest to you. That the strongest Christians are those who have suffered the most. The strongest Christians are those Generally speaking, who have been through the darkest valleys and have faced the greatest kings. In the context of what we're looking at, the greatest assaults against them. So I don't know what you're going through, and I don't know why God in his wisdom and providence would have us deal with this passage tonight with this crown. But I know God has a plan. I know God has a purpose. And maybe somebody, the sound of my voice, needs to be reminded, have faith in God. Trust Him. Get out of that pity party hole. And learn what God is trying to teach us. Through this assault. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless now. I didn't get to finish the message. But I pray you'd use this one thought And you would help us to be strong in our faith, to be focused on Christ. Lord, help us to learn. about you and about ourselves through these circumstances. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say tonight, preacher, I I need to trust God. I'm in a situation. I'm in a circumstance. Maybe it's a personal, no one else in the world knows about it. You say I've got this great king that's all over me, so to speak. And I'm just going to decide tonight. I'm going to trust God and let Him teach me something through this. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. I'm going to trust God Let him teach me something through this. God bless you, hands all around. Maybe there's some tonight say, you know, I know someone that's gone through it. I know someone. There's circumstance like this little city. And you say, preacher, I need to pray for them, I need to be an encouragement to them, I need to be somebody that remind them and edify them to have faith in God and trust them and learn from it. How many people say, I know someone that's gone through it And they need our prayers and they need our testimony. They need our exhortation, our encouragement. They surely do. Is there someone here tonight and say, preacher, I don't even know that I'm saved? I can't honestly say I know for sure that when I die I'm going to heaven, not to hell. And you say, preacher, pray for me that I can get that settled in my heart, that God would help me. I can know for sure that God has forgiven me and cleansed my sin and given me eternal life. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure about that I need that settled. Any at all? Now Father, bless our invitation time. Help us to respond as you've spoken to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are back.