I want to begin reading in verse number thirteen. I'm going to read down through verse eighteen. We are not going to make it that far I just want to look at my first point this evening. But verse 13 says, This wisdom have I seen also, say it with me, under the sun, and it seemed great unto me. Now this is the wisdom he saw. This is the event that he saw take place. There was a little city and a few men within it. And there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it. Now there was found in it a poor wise man. And he, by his wisdom, delivered the city. Yet no man remembered that same poor man. Then said I, is his conclusion, what he learned from this. Wisdom is better than strength. Nevertheless, the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard. The words of a wise man are heard in quiet more than the cry of him that ruleth among fools. Wisdom is better than weapons of war. But one sinner destroyeth much good. I've entitled this A Poor Wise Man. And we're going to break it up into two messages, and so we'll just look at the first part tonight. But you pray with me, ask the Lord to Challenge us and speak to our hearts. Father, we come now to your word in the book of Ecclesiastes. God, we believe with all our hearts that you have given to us this passage by inspiration And it's profitable for us that we can be stronger in our faith, we can know you and understand you a little more clearly Lord, we can be maybe more effective in our witness because of what we're taught here. And Lord, we can be a little wiser in how we live our lives and the decisions we make and our behavior. And so please use this passage to help us, to grow us, mature us in our faith and our walk. And Lord, I ask again, as I do every message, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And speak through me and challenge us and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. One of my favorite quotes, and I've used it often over the years, it's an under the sun quote. And by the way, Jody showed me before the service this evening that one of the banks has a big billboard up and the advertisement on the billboard is for everything under the sun. Right down here in town. Isn't that something? I think somebody's listening in on our messages here, maybe. But one of my favorite quotes, it's an under the sun quote by that great Non-spiritual quotes, but it is absolute truth. He said this: life is tough. And it's even tougher if you're stupid. I agree with that quote. True. I wonder how often um I wonder how many of us and how often we have made a foolish decision and it cost us. Can I get a witness? Anyone here? Some of us are thinking of very specific actions, very foolish action, and afterward it cost us time, it cost us money, and it was a hassle. Made a foolish decision, took so made some foolish action, and some of us, many years later, are still dealing with the consequences. Of foolish decisions we made and foolish actions we've taken. In fact, we can even say that foolish actions and foolish decisions have cost many people more than just time and money and a hassle, but it actually cost them their lives. I wonder how many folks would still be alive today. Had they exercised wisdom in a decision rather than foolishness. So foolishness is a great liability. Now, I want you to talk to me tonight. This is us. So uh what do we mean by a liability? If something is a liability, what does that mean? It's uh it's a what It's a burden. A liability would be a burden. Anybody else? Something? What's that? A risk? Yeah. A liability would be something charged against us. If you have a financial liability It would be debt. It was something that is costly. It is, and this is what I'm kind of getting at. It is a, it is something that could potentially put me in great danger. Right? I invest in something that's maybe not a good investment, it becomes a liability. Boy, that thing's sitting there, that could really mess me up. You you follow what I'm trying to say? Something that sets me at a disadvantage, or something that costs me, and this is what I'm trying to say: foolishness, the absence of wisdom. To act or think or behave foolishly is a tremendous liability. It puts us at great danger It puts us in a position where we are disadvantaged. However, on the other side of that, wisdom is a great asset. Now what do we mean if something is an asset? What does that mean? It's something I can gain from It's something of value. It's of something that is great benefit. Boy, that and again in the financial world, I made an investment. Boy, that investment was a great asset. It's a great asset. Owning that is a benefit to me. It helps me. It's good. It's positive. It's a plus. A liability is very negative. It hurts me. It could cost me. It puts me in danger. And so foolishness is a great liability, foolish action, foolish thinking, and wisdom is a great asset. I think that's one of the reasons God tells us in Proverbs: wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom. And the incredible importance of wisdom. Somebody, I read this quote, I have no idea who it was, said this. But they made this statement: everyone is foolish for five minutes every day. I think that's being very conservative. Everyone is foolish for five minutes every day, and wisdom is simply not exceeding that limit. In other words, not letting myself be foolish any more than that five minutes every day, and it would be ideal to eliminate that five minutes. In our text, as I was studying verse 13 down through 18, Solomon is praising the value of wisdom. He is praising the asset of having wisdom in my heart, in my mind, and my life And he's also pointing out, we're going to see this probably not so much tonight, but in a future when we look at this. He's also pointing out how wisdom is underrated. Did you catch that a few statements there? The what poor wise man, but he was forgotten, nobody remembered him. The poor wise man, and it says in verse 16 Nevertheless, the poor man's wisdom is despised, his words are not heard. And again, this is for future. We're going to look at this, but I'll just make the statement now. This world many times does not appreciate the value of wisdom. It seems like foolishness sits on the throne. It seems like foolishness is honored and exalted and praised. Even though it's such a liability and wisdom is pushed aside. Even under the sun, this is all under the sun. So I want us to look at the first couple verses here of this section, and this is the first point is this. The scenario That Solomon lays out. He lays out this scenario in the first several verses. Then the second part he says, all right, this is my observations These are my statements concerning this little scenario I saw. So let's look at this. Verse number 13. I notice, first of all, this is apparently a literal event. I got studying what some of the commentators said about this, and a lot of them suggested this is a parable, and they went on a parable, a parable, a parable. I'm not convinced that Solomon is just coming up with a parable here, just a story to illustrate a truth. I'm of the opinion This was an actual literal event. I get that from verse 13 where it says this. This wisdom have I what Seen, have I seen? And I've studied that, and it's used other places in our Bible, and it has this idea to observe something taking place. So Solomon is saying here, I watched this happen. I observed this take place. Battles back in the day of this time frame were very common. People were fighting all the time. There was wars. You read through Kings and 1st and 2nd Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles, man, there's just fighting going on. This little this town's attacking this city and this city's attacking that and that That country's attacking this. I mean it was just constant. So it's not far-fetched to suggest that Solomon as king of Israel, one of the uh most powerful and pro uh uh uh prosperous kings in that region, um, it's not unreasonable to think that he didn't observe these different wars going on around that part of the world. And so he sees this, he observes this little city and what takes place here. And he says, This wisdom have I seen under the sun. And it seemed great to me. So let's put ourselves here, let's visualize what's happening here. Solomon is on his throne, he's ruling Israel, he's doing his responsibilities, his administering his leadership over the nation. And he observes this battle going on. Now he doesn't who's he doesn't say who's involved He doesn't say who these people are. He doesn't give a lot of details about it. But he observes this and he sees this little city, and this great king with a great military comes and attacks this little city. And he makes this statement, he says, and it was, it seemed great to me. And by that I believe he means this. This was very significant. I learned a lot from this. There's a lot of truth here in what I noticed took place. And again, this is something he observes under the sun. He's disregarding any supernatural purposes behind this. He's disregarding any divine involvement. In this event, he said, I'm just seeing this under the sun. It's just a human event. I'm not looking at it from God's perspective, just earthly. And man, there's there it was significant. It seemed great to me. So this whole event is not, I don't believe, is a parable. I think it's a literal actual event. Number two, I noticed that there is an unlikely target here. Look with me at verse number 14. Now, this is where it gets interesting. There was a what? Little city. Just a little city. Now I don't know what the population of a little city would be, but back then, if he said it was a little city, it was a little city. And he says, what else? There were what? Few men within it. And there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it. How about that's strange? That's an unlikely event. You have a little city here with just a few men in it And this great king with this great bulwark and uh he comes and besieges this little city Well, just a few men. I thought that seemed strange. So I got looking at this, and I came to the conclusion that this is a fairly insignificant city. In fact, the word little There is used other places with the idea of being very insignificant or unimportant. So if you have a city that is insignificant, it's unimportant, what would that tell you about the city? What conclusions would you come to? I want you to think tonight. I know some of you came to rest, but I want to I want you to think. If it's insignificant, if it's unimportant, what does that tell me about? It tells me that the city probably doesn't have many resources Right? Yeah, there's nothing here that would humanly attract a great king with a great army to come and besiege this. In fact, there's only a few men there, so there's not many resources. There's apparently no gold mines to get great wealth from. There's not big commerce taken place that we can gather up all this gold from them. There's only a few men there, so even just for slavery or for uh you know that type of market, there's not a whole lot here And so you have this little insignificant city, little or no value. There's only a few men there, thus, they would no reason to have any defense really of much of anything. There's nothing to defend. And then you have this great king. So you have an insignificant city, and then you have this overwhelming assault. And I thought it was interesting, I studied this, there came a great king against it. I thought, what does he mean by a great king? And it has this idea, a king that is very loud That was one of the words that great were has the idea of loud. In other words, this guy's running his mouth He is just out there and he's just gone on and on and on. He's talking about how great he is. He's talking about how powerful he is, and he's coming in there and he's attacking a little insignificant city He's very powerful, the ideas behind us. He's a very proud king. And then he brings, there's a the word great is used again. A great king came a great king against it and besieged it. How many people agree with me? That sounds like a massive military operation. He's besieging it. It's not just they're walking in, all right, everybody line up, let's go, we're taking over. I mean they are, they're set up for you know D-Day invasion. In the mind of this king, this is a huge, huge operation against a little insignificant city of apparently no value. And then he said he set up great bulwarks. What's a bulwark? Anyone know? I got looking at it. It's uh uh uh ships have bulwarks, right? Again, a military they'll have great uh they'll have great armor around the side, if I understood it correctly, great siding to protect the men on the ship. Well a bulwark uh on land, he's setting up these uh fortified walls he's putting up around this city so they can uh fire their artillery in and their arrows and their spears and they can retreat back behind this thing. I mean this guy's set up like He's attacking this great powerful tech city. And it's not It's just a few men in a and a little city. We're told almost nothing about it. We speculate it. But yet this powerful king assaults it. And I got thinking about that. That doesn't make sense. I don't understand here's the thing. I don't understand why this is happening Anybody ever make that statement? I don't understand why this is happening I don't know about you, but if I was one of the people in that little city, I would be wondering, what in the world is happening to us? Why me? How many of us have ever said that? Why me? Why does this happen to me? We're not told we're told almost nothing about the city, but yet This king assaults it. And over and over and over, throughout Scripture and in our lives, we find things happen to us that under the sun make no sense. Is anybody picking up, as we're going through this portion of Ecclesiastes from chapter 7, we're up to the end of chapter 9 now? Anybody pick up a theme, a running thought through this where Things under the sun don't seem to make sense. Anyone picking that up? Over and over, Solomon keeps coming back to this, but come back to Now he's given this observation he made of an event that took place, and humanly speaking, under the sun, uh this doesn't make sense. And that's why I'm saying it's so important for you and I to know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior and have a heavenly perspective on things. Because under the sun, without God, without the Word of God, a lot of stuff's happening to us that makes absolutely no sense whatsoever And I think that's what's taking place here. And also, another lesson I think we can learn from this, where this little town, this little city, just a few men, no defenses Nothing really of value to offer anybody. Out of nowhere for uh no reason, uh they're attacked by this city. But the other thing I thought was this. So sometimes things happen for uh happens suddenly. They come upon us just suddenly. I think there might be somebody in the lobby needs some attention back there. If somebody, one of the guys could help us out real quick. Um Sometimes things happen we have no idea. It comes out of nowhere. I need to cle recollect my thoughts here a little bit. Let's back up a little bit. We know nothing about this treaty, yet this powerful king assaults it. Makes no sense. There's no reason for that to happen. And here's the other thing. This is what I'm trying to get at. Are you with me now, everybody here? I'm back on track. Got derailed there a little bit, but I'm back on track. So often things happen that we never saw it coming. All of a sudden. I I picture this little city sitting here, they're going about their business, you know, they're uh you know going about their daily business, all of a sudden this huge army shows up and this great powerful king, and all these weapons are surrounded. I said, I never saw that coming. I don't know what this is about. Everything good? You guys straighten them up, rough them up. Yeah. Yeah. Well, if there's these guys, you didn't get roughed up too much, I'll tell you that right there. No. Um but um There's a phrase that came to my mind as I was studying this, and it's throughout scripture, and it says this: On a certain day, there came a certain day, there came a certain day. And we go through, but the one that comes to my mind is Job. He's minding his business, he's praying for his family, he's serving the Lord, he's doing fun. Then all of a sudden, one day, kaboom, everything falls apart. We were talking this week, somebody, Ed and I were talking. Somebody had passed away, had a stroke. Who was that? John Hayes. Yes. Dr. Don Williams, brother-in-law. They were over last Thursday. Him and his wife came over here to Oakland. And they did some business and they were going to go on a date Thursday night at the lake. And they were going to go out to eat and just have a nice date together. While they're driving there, uh he said uh he said uh to his wife uh Dorothy's her name, I always called her Sissy. She said, uh, oh I've got a headache. And as they drove it got worse and worse and finally to the point they turned around and come back. He couldn't drive. He let her drive And by the time they got to the hospital, he was nearly passed out, took him to the Morgantown hospital, and within a few hours he was gone. And we were talking, weren't we, about how you get up in the morning, just a normal day, and boy, by the end of the day, you have no idea what might come down. You have no idea what might come down. And under the sun, it makes no sense Under the sun, it's like, what in the world? I am so glad that we have a God that's in control. I am so glad that we have a God that we can look to. And when our little city with our few men gets besieged by something so overwhelming. And it doesn't even make sense, and we never saw it coming. Yet we know there's a God in heaven. No wonder Solomon from under the sun perspective keeps saying, vanity of vanity, always vanity. I don't see any purpose, doesn't make sense. Ah, but we look at from above the sun and we see, yes, God is control. So this is a very unlikely target. The third thing I notice here in this little city that's being attacked, it's lacking in leadership. Look with me at verse 15, the first part. It says, Now there was found in it a poor wise man. That phrase, there was found, and apparently there was nobody Who stepped up to the leadership saying, all right, we're under attack, this is overwhelming, we got to get our heads together, we need to come up with something. Nobody did that. There was very poor leadership here. Nobody stepped up. Nobody was in place. And that phrase there was found has this idea: there was an intense search put out They're looking for somebody that can tell us what to do. How do we deal with this? Who's going to provide leadership? There was a profound lack of leadership, or at best, there was very poor leadership And I'm telling you, leadership is incredibly important. Can I say this to you? Leadership is God's idea. God has designed the home, He has designed society, and He has designed the church where leadership is necessary in every one of those. God is, when he ordained the home, he established leadership in the home. And fellas, whether you like it or not, the fact of the matter is, God holds us responsible for our homes. And we can either neglect it or we can abuse it, but we are going to answer to God for our leadership in the home. It is God's design. God has designed leadership. God has designed society to lead to need leadership. Government is God's idea. God ordained that. And he tells us in Romans 13 particularly that we are to honor those who he places in these positions of leadership over us Now they don't re- they don't substitute God, they don't replace God, we ultimately answer to God, but nevertheless that structure is in place by God's ordination. And the church has leadership. God has a design, the pastor, to provide leadership in the church. Hebrews chapter 13. And uh, you know, I don't have to say a whole lot about it. This church has fantastic, been fantastic in working together with the leadership that God has established. But Hebrews 13, I take very seriously and actually, to be honest with you, humbles me and scares me where God says that I, as pastor of the church, am going to have to answer to God for the condition and the direction of the church. This is God's idea. Years ago when I was helping train Bible time. This is back when I was still in Colorado. I wasn't here too long, maybe ten years or so, and I would go every year, go out and help train. I haven't done it for a long time. But I was out there one year and Brother Homester was we were driving the evangelists. Back then there was about 50, 55 evangelists, and we're driving them somewhere. Who knows? He took them all over. And uh I'm sitting back in the back with the guys and talking to the different ones and the fellow beside me introduced himself, we're talking a little bit, and uh I said, what year are you in college? He said, I just finished my freshman year, I'm going in to be a sophomore. I said, well, that's exciting. That's a big year. And I said, uh what do you study? I'm studying the pastorate. I'm studying under God's called me to be a pastor I said, well, that's exciting. What are your plans? What do you think? He said, oh, I already know what's going to happen. I said, what's that? He said, I'm going to go to my home church and I'm going to pastor my home church. I said, really? Does the pastor of your home church know that? What does he think of that? He goes, oh no, we don't have no pastor. I said, what do you mean? He goes, we haven't had a pastor there for years, and they're waiting for me to graduate in four years, and I'm going to come and be their pastor. And I said, well, bless you, son. I'll pray for you. I ain't say it to him, but I thought this, that ain't right. A church needs to have a pastor. And it can't go years and years and years and years and years without a pastor. That is not healthy. That is not the way God designed it. And I don't know much about this little town. I don't know much about this little city, but they had to go looking for somebody To provide some leadership here. Now, either somebody was in place and they failed to step up and take the responsibility Or the play it was absent. A lack of leadership puts any institution in grave danger. A home where there's no leadership in that home and the and the leadership that God has established for the home when that is neglected or absent. It puts that family and those children in great danger. Can I suggest to you one of the reasons We have rioting in our streets. One of the reasons we have such chaos in our colleges and in our and in our the coming generation, I want to suggest to you because the leadership in their homes has been absent. And kids are being raised by kids, and kids are being raised by folks that God did not design it that way Anytime leadership is negligent or lacking, it puts that in great danger. Here we have a city without any leadership. They're in tremendous danger. Church without leadership is in tremendous danger. And by the way, these churches that are shifting to contemporary and liberalism and worldliness, I play the blame on the leadership of those churches. Pastors need to step up and say, no, we're sticking to the Word of God, we are not going that direction. And until they take the leadership and take responsibility there, that church is in grave danger. Grave danger. And so I notice a lack of leadership here. Number four, I put this down. This city is liberated by wisdom. This gets interesting. Verse 15, he says, and by it, and he, there was not, now there was there was found in it a poor wise man. They find this guy. He's in poverty. And the word poor there means just that. Very, very impoverished. And he by his wisdom delivered the city. There's no leadership there. They have nothing of value. But they had one poor wise man. And that guy had a profound impact on that city. I wanted to turn there, but again, for sake of time, we don't uh we won't But in 1 Kings, 2 Kings chapter 5, verse 1 through 3, we have the the event of a fellow by the name of Naaman. Anyone remember Naaman? He was captain of what? The Syrian army. Powerful man. In tremendous authority, a very powerful army, a very successful military man. And it goes down and talks about how powerful he is and how what great authority he had. Then there's a little phrase at the end of, I think it's verse 2, it says this: but he was a leper. All that power and all that authority could do nothing to deliver him from that leprosy. And then the next verse, again, I think it's verse 3, the next verse says, But there was a little maid, and she said to him, something to this effect, oh, that my master were back in Israel. The prophets there could heal them of this awful disease. She wasn't powerful, she wasn't wealthy, she was unknown. We don't even know that dear little girl's name But she had tremendous wisdom. And that old fella got saved because of the wisdom of a poor little maid. Said, oh, you need to get back into the presence of God. You need to get back. God can do this for you. And I tell you, wisdom, wisdom has saved more lives. Just a poor, wise teenager. Just a poor, wise widow, just a poor, wise coal miner, just somebody that this world doesn't know, doesn't recognize But yet they have tremendous wisdom and they have a profound influence on other people's lives. Listen, it's not our position It is not our great wealth, it's not our budgets, it's not our buildings. I tell you, it is our fear of God, which is the beginning of wisdom, that has an impact on this old world. There was one man there, poor man, that uh that had a tremendous influence and he liberated that city. By his wisdom, he delivered the city. We don't know how it worked out, we don't know what he said or what they did. But he was wise. Do not think that we need to have great size, great power, or be sensational to have an impact. We can just be a poor, wise church, just a poor, wise Christian, just a poor, wise child, and yet have a great impact. on our town. The kids are going back to school. My challenge to the young people is this semester, listen, you don't have to be Mr. Popularity. You don't have to be the coolest guy in the in the in the class. And you don't have to be the most w wooed uh young lady and oh everybody, oh, I'm just the queen of the court. You know what, you just get in school and you fear God. And you trust God and you live for God and you have a good testimony. And I'll tell you, you'll do more good for that class than the coolest kid in the whole school. Huh? I had a guy when I was I guess it was junior high. Yeah, it would have been no, it was high school. We went to tech class and uh he would his name was Craig. He would always say, uh Dennis, would you be he they call me Denny then. Don't you do that. He said, Denny, would you be my friend? He said, here, I'll give you a dollar if you'd be my friend. I said, okay. I'll be your friend. And every night he'd come up, she says, I'll give you a dollar to be my friend. I'll be your best buddy for five dollars. You know what? He thought that he had to have money. To do that. I'm telling you, we don't need any of that. We just need folks fear God. You don't have to be the big shot on the job We don't have to be a citizen of the year in Garrett County to have influence. We might just be poor nobody, but if we'll fear God and do right and be wise We can have profound impact on our community. Does that make sense? Then here's the last one, and this is sad. He's lost from memory. Look at the last part of verse 15. Yet no man remembered that same poor man. Under the sun he was forgotten. I'm telling you there are people e even and I and I hope you don't misunderstand what I'm saying, but I'm telling you the Mountain Lake Baptist Church has been around for what, about 56 years now, something like that, 57, somewhere in that range I'm telling you, there are people back in the early days of this church who sacrificed and prayed and worked hard that you and I, most of us here, we don't even know them. People that have gave and invested, and their names under the sun we don't remember. I try to honor, I try to honor Ed Wilt, Brother Miller. I believe God used them a great way. I've put his picture back there. We try and honor him. But I'm telling you, he's not the only one that worked hard and invested. And yet most of the time they're forgotten. Most people who live and die are forgotten. Not long after they're gone. And I'm telling you, there are some great, great people who God has used in powerful ways that this old world never knew. And people forget. Oh, we think of the great Petri Spurgeon, Billy Sunday, and I'm all for it. I honor them. Thank God for them. But I'm telling you, there are tens of hundreds of thousands of others. Who have been faithful to God and lived right and witnessed with the best of their ability to bring people to Christ, and they have had profound impact. But they're long forgotten. But I want to jump ahead and say this. In heaven, they are never forgotten There's a lot of things about the judgment seat of Christ that scares me to death. Can you imagine? Picture with me That day when we stand before Jesus Christ Himself, literally, physically, we stand before Him at the judgment seat of Christ, and He judges our Christian life. And he'll reward us not for our sins, but how we live for him. How many people agree with me? That's a little intimidating. I'm telling you, there's gonna be a lot of people standing there we never heard of that old stars are gonna be put in their crowns. And boy there they I see the angels standing at attention. some dear little teenager that lived for God and witnessed and kept themself pure and trusted the Lord and was willing to be baptized even if they thought they were going to die in doing that. And the Lord says, well done. Some dear old widow that was a witness every way she possibly could, some mechanic that tried to live for God and feared God The Lord says, well done. Well done. Under the sun or forgotten. But in heaven, the Lord takes note. Amen? Let's pray. Father, help us to be wise. Lord, deliver us from foolishness, foolish thinking, foolish living, foolish decisions and behavior. And help us to learn from this unnamed, forgotten, wise man that was poor. Help us to learn from him And I pray you'd use us this coming week to be a positive influence for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and for the cause of Christ. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many people like me say, preacher, I want to pray that God would give me wisdom, that God would help me be wise. Is there any like that? Oh, I want that so bad. Bible says ask. If any of you lack wisdom, let them what? Ask of God, who gives to all men liberty. Maybe tonight before we go into this new week, school's starting. Schedules are changing. May we kneel at an altar and say, Lord, give me wisdom this week to fear you and love you and serve you. I believe God would answer that. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed.