A number of times. It's been several weeks since we've been to this because of other meetings and different things going on. So we're going to pick it up. In verse number 13, the Bible says this of Ecclesiastes chapter 9 This wisdom have I seen also under the sun, and it seemed great uh it seemed great unto me There was a little city and a few men within it, and there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it. Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city. Yet no man remembered that same poor man. Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength. Nevertheless, the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard The words of wise men are heard in quiet more than the cry of him that ruleth among fools. Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroyeth much good. Little a little uh couple statements about a little city that had just a few men in it But in that city there was a poor wise man. And so let's pray and we'll pick up, we'll review briefly and then we'll pick up where we left off on this. Let's pray together. Father, I am grateful for a good day And for your blessings on the Lord's Day to come together and sing and fellowship, rejoice. And then again this evening, I just thank you for your love for us and your goodness to us and how you've blessed our church And I ask now that you would meet with us again this evening. I pray you'd prepare our hearts for the coming week, that we'd be a good witness. I pray, Lord, we'd be wise. Young and old, in the decisions we make, the actions we take, how we respond to people that interact with us throughout the week. Lord help us to put aside foolishness. Fill us with your Spirit. Help us to be a good testimony in this old sinful world. And Lord, we need you to stir our hearts and help us so I yield my will to yours. I present my body anew and ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. That you would speak through me and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Under the sun, Solomon is making observations. uh that he uh had made uh but viewing life from under the sun. And if you remember we pointed out um uh here just uh try and get right to where I want to be. But we pointed out first of all that he presents this scenario And I believe it was a literal actual literal t little town, little city, that was actually literally attacked by this great king and this uh tremendous armament. He noticed, remember if you s if we noticed in verse number thirteen, if you remember, he said, This wisdom have I seen also in her son. It seemed great unto me. There was this little city. So he sees this And if you remember, I think there was an important lesson from this. We pointed out that it is wise to learn lessons from what others do. And so this is a literal city. I pointed out this, it is an unlikely target. And we tried to grasp at ideas why in the world would this great king with this great army go to such a uh such extent to attack this little city. And there's various reasons. We're not told why, so uh we're speculating on all of that. And then we noted that this little city was lacking leadership. Verse number 15, it was found in it. a poor wise man. Nobody stepped up to take the leadership. Nobody stepped up and uh to uh come up with a solution and how to deal with this And so obviously they're looking throughout the city, they're making search, they find this poor wise man, and he is able to provide the leadership, and he is able to um uh deliver the city. And then number four, our fourth point under that was uh it was liberated by wisdom. And uh and then last of all we noted that it was lost from memory. This poor wise man uh was uh completely forgotten about. So we're going to come back to that in a moment. Then our second head under the the this message was this some statements from the event Now this is where he gets practical. He sees this city, he sees the great king come in and attack it, he sees this wise man comes out of nowhere. Whatever he does, the wise man's able to uh ward off the attack and protect the city. And Solomon says, I learned some lessons from this I made some observations. He says in verse 16, he says, Then said I. And again, like I was saying a little bit ago, wisdom learns from others. How many people agree with me? I would rather learn from somebody else burning their hand on the stove than me learning that the stove is hot. But anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah, so uh I'd I'd rather uh I'd rather find out um uh that the uh I'd rather find out that the cottage cheese is uh gone bad by somebody else eating it and then me finding out or eating it. Right? And that has nothing to do with anything that has ever taken place in our house whatsoever. But he observes this. And he makes some lessons. And the lesson we ended with was the last time we hear was this: Life is unpredictable. Can I get a witness on that? How many people can say, now some of us have been around for a little while, how many can say, looking back, things happen that I never dreamed would happen? Things happen I never expected. Now I don't think I'm reading too much into this passage here. I don't know. I could be wrong, you know, when I get to heaven, Solomon says, hey, Brother Leatherman. uh you were wrong in your interpretation of that passage and if he gets there um you know I'll deal with it then. But I don't think this little city saw it coming. I really don't. They were not prepared in any way, shape, or form. Uh the impression I get was this came out of nowhere. This attack on them. And uh that's a lot the way life is. In fact, under the sun, it looks like life can be pretty chaotic. Has anybody picked up that theme through the book of Ecclesiastes? Under the sun, this doesn't make sense. Under the sun, there's no answer for this. Under the sun, there's no reason for this behavior. I think that's one of the reasons our world is in such an uproar and our our folks are just grasping, coming up with the most ridiculous uh answers and things uh to um uh to try and explain what's happening. I was reading a little article this afternoon I was telling my wife So some I don't know where I came across this little paper I had, and it said, uh, why do we bite our tongues? That was a whole article on explaining why we bite our tongues. How many people ever wondered that? Why do I bite my tongue? I never thought about it until I read the article. Now I can't stop thinking about it. And here is one of the statements they made. Listen to this. They said this. The fact that we bite our tongue is proof that God did not create us I read I said, uh and the fact that we bite we don't want to explain uh talking about evolution and the fact that we bite our tongue is obviously proof that we've evolved over millions of years. Now they never went and explained how that is or what that is. You know what that is? That is under the sun thinking That's just grasping at some sort of answer, some sort of reason, some sort of purpose for stuff happening. And so you have this little city and it's totally unpredictable. And I want to take a moment and I don't want to re-preach the message, but these were very, very helpful, at least in my mind. on how do we deal with unexpected events that come into my into our lives. We didn't see it coming. I did not see that coming. I did not expect that. This isn't the way I planned for things to be. This is not the way I expected this to happen. So what do we do? If you remember, we say I gave uh four things. Number one, I said this: maintain your faith. Keep your faith in God. God has a plan, God has a purpose. In fact, when you get to the end of Ecclesiastes, Solomon kind of comes to the conclusion. He says, hey, listen, just fear and trust God, basically, is what he says. And even though there may not be an answer under the sun, there may not be explain that, I'm going to have faith in God. God has a plan. I'm going to trust God to enable me to deal with this. I'm going to maintain my faith in God. Number two, we said this: refuse self-pity. Refuse self-pity. Now I'm as guilty of this as anybody, but sometimes we get this idea. Oh, poor me. Anybody ever been there? We crawl in a corner, we suck on our thumb, nobody loves me, everybody hates me. I'm gonna go eat worms. Alright? And we just get all this self-pity and oh everything's terrible. Don't uh refuse self-pity. Then number three, allow God to mold you. It's one of the things we talked about this in Sunday school this morning, but God allows events into our lives for a purpose. Under the sun, it looks like it makes no sense. Under the sun, it looks like it there's no reason in the world for why in the world would I lose this job. Under the sun, it just seems like it's unfair and it doesn't make any sense But I'm telling you, if we will trust God, if we will just understand God is working, allow Him to mold us, allow Him to develop us and strengthen our faith How many folks here have been saved more than ten years? How many people would say that the times you grew the most in your faith was when things happened you did not expect, you did not plan. It was a hard time. There didn't seem to be any answers, but when you came out of it, you saw God's hand in it, and your straight thing your faith was strengthened. Anybody give a witness for that? Sure. And so we got to uh allow God to strengthen us, allow God to mold us through triumphs and trials, all of that. Let Christ mold us. And then we said this: learn from experience. And we learn from ourselves. And so a wise person understands that life is unpredictable and that sometimes things happen that we do not anticipate it. However we can become stronger through the unpredictable events of life. So Paul uh Solomon says, then said I Wisdom is better than strength, and uh and we notice that life is unpredictable. Let me give you a second observation here. Wisdom is protection. Wisdom is protection. I get that from the first part of verse 15. Now there was found in it a poor, wise man. And he by his what? Wisdom delivered it. What was it that protected this city from this assault? It was what? His Wisdom. Wisdom, a man, a poor man, but he was wise, and that wisdom was a protection. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 16, the first part. Then I said, wisdom is better than what? Strength. Here he's telling us again, you have wisdom in this corner. We have wisdom. In this corner we have strength. And the bell rings, ding, and they step out. Who's going to win? Wisdom. Wisdom is better than strength. And so he's saying here, wisdom is a protection. The invading army, they had the armaments, they had the weaponry, they had the arsenal. They had the strategy, they're building their um uh what did they build around there? Their bulwarks They got all of that all little city had was this poor guy that had some wisdom And that's what protected them. Wisdom is better than strength. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 18. Wisdom is better than weapons of war. Wisdom is better than weapons of war. The word better there has this idea of greater benefit and of greater value. So Solomon's looking, he watches this take place, and he says, you know, if I had my choice between wisdom and strength, I'm going to go with wisdom. I had a fellow when I was in Bible college down in Tennessee. I worked for a period of time at nights I worked my way through college. By the way, I would highly recommend somebody going to college, work your way through college. Get you a job. You say, but it's busy. Yeah. But work your way through. That was one of the best things I did. I worked full-time job just about my entire time. Went to school full-time, went to co uh worked a full-time job 40 plus hours a week Then weekends I worked the bus route, did preaching, worked, I'm trying to tell you, I'm an amazing guy. I forget where I'm going with this story. I got a job at a carpet mill. And uh it was from eleven o'clock at night till I think it was three in the morning, something. Is that eight hours? No Seven ho seven in the morning. Seemed like three. And um I worked there and uh the guy was an English fellow. He was the most unkind, rude, hateful person I've ever met worked for. I only worked there a few months. I quit and got another job at the hospital. But um anyway, but he made a good statement. He would always say this, and this may this is old hat for a lot of you, but for me it was profound. He said, don't take your work to your wheels, bring your wheels to your work. I said, that is incredible. I'm going to write that in my Bible. That's amazing. I thought that was funnier than that, but But the whole point he was making there was, listen, you can be strong and carry that stuff over there. But if you're smart, if you're wise, it's better than strength. And so Solomon sees this and he says that I got reading about Oliver, uh Oliver, I got reading about Alexander the Great. Anybody recognize that name? Alexander the Great. When he was a boy, he had a teacher, according to this one account, he had a teacher, I'm going to try and say the teacher's name, Anna X mains, it's a Greek name, Anna X Ana Examines was his teacher's name. This teacher, in developing Alexander the Great as a young man, He learned something about Alexander Great. He learned that Alexander the Great was a man who kept his word. If Alexander the Great, according to this teacher, if Alexander the Great said he was going to do something, you could count on it, he was going to do it. He was a man of his word. Years passed, Alexander began conquering the known world. And this teacher was living in a, was a, was living in a little city of Lampsecas. And Alexander was invading a cross, coming like a wave across the land. And uh the teacher saw Alexander come and he knew what was going to happen. They're going to be conquered So he went out to meet Alexander before he invaded their little city. Now Alexander saw his former teacher coming out. And he knew that he was going to negotiate somehow some sort of peace and not invade the thing. And he said, I'm not going to do it. I'm taking this city. I don't care what he says or does. I'm not going to agree to anything. I'm taking this city. And so when they met, Alexander said to him right off the bat, he says, Whatever you ask me to do, I will not do it. The teacher, knowing Alexander to be a man of his word, the teacher said, Well, Alexander, I would like for you to invade our city. And Alexander, according to this according to this account, Alexander kept his word. And he did not invade the city, and he went around it. Poor wise man is better than strength. Here's the most powerful military in the world of his time. And one little guy comes out and says a couple statements, and he protects the city. You see, I'm trying to illustrate the protection of wisdom, the importance of being wise. Now let me give you some scriptures. Go with me if you would to Proverbs. Now we could go literally to scores, no doubt, of passages in Proverbs which Which teach that wisdom is a protection. But let's just go to a couple. Proverbs chapter 2. If you would turn there with me, Proverbs 2 and verse number 11. James Smith gave me some sauerkraut this week. What was Mike Allison? He didn't like sauerkraut, and what was the other thing? Chicken livers and sauerkraut. I didn't have any chicken livers, but I had sauerkraut and and I had ham. My wife made ham and sauerkraut today for lunch. And um I know you all were very curious what we have for lunch, but um I'm telling you that because I am extremely thirsty right now. So Proverbs chapter 2, verse 11, if you're there. Notice it says this: discretion, which is a form of wisdom. Discretion shall what? Preserve thee, and understanding shall what? Keep thee, look at this, to deliver thee from the way of the evil man, from the man that speakweth forward things He's saying here, listen, wisdom, discretion is going to preserve you. It's going to keep you safe. It's going to protect you from the evil man. Come with me if you would to chapter 4. This is what I think one of the most, of course all scripture is important, but to me, Proverbs chapter 4 and uh verse number 4 The whole chapter there, but notice with me verse number four of Proverbs for he says this. He taught me also and said unto me, Let thine heart retain my words and keep my commandments and live. Now look at this. Get wisdom Get understanding, forget it not, neither decline from the words of my mouth, forsake her not, and she shall what Preserve thee. Love her, and she shall what? Keep thee. Look at verse 7. Such an important statement. Wisdom is the principal thing. The highest, the chief, the supreme issue. Therefore, with all thy getting, get understanding. Exalt her. And she shall promote thee, she shall bring thee honor when thou dost embrace her. She shall give to thine hand an ornament of grace, a crown of glory shall she deliver to you. Wisdom, the protection of wisdom. Turn one more with me if you would to Proverbs chapter six. A poor wise man in the city, but he exercises wisdom and he protects that whole city. Chapter 6, verse 24 Um let's back up to verse twenty three For the commandment is a lamp and the law is light Reproofs of instruction or the way of life. Look at this. To keep thee from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman. Come over to verse number chapter 7, verse number 5. No, verse number four, chapter seven, verse number four, say unto wisdom that thou art my sister, call understanding thy kinswoman, that they may keep thee From the strange woman, from the stranger with flattereth with her words. And then he goes on and tells that classic story of the young man says, I beheld verse 7, among the simple ones I discern among the youth a young man void of what? Understanding, and then the guy goes and gets caught up in this uh harlot woman and destroys his life. So the point I'm trying to make is this, and I think what Solomon is teaching in Ecclesiastes chapter 9 is wisdom will protect us. Exercising wisdom will protect us. I'm wondering how many people would be alive today. Are you with me? How many people would be alive today if they would have had the wisdom to say a simple little word? No. The wisdom to say, no, I'm not going with that crowd. I'm not going to that place. I'm not going to get involved in this. Wisdom. Wisdom. How many lives would be spared? How many testimonies would be intact if we just exercised a little bit of wisdom? He tells us wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore get wisdom. And so wisdom is, first of all, we said life is unpredictable. Number two. Wisdom is a protection. Now come back to Ecclesiastes 9. I notice this that wise men are usually unpopular. Wise men are usually unpopular. Come back here with me and look again at verse 15. The last part it says, yet no man remembered that same poor man. Verse number 60. Then said I, wisdom's better than strength. Nevertheless, the poor man's wisdom is despised. The word despised means thought lightly of and never given any attention. And his words are not heard. Look at verse 18. Wisdom's better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroyeth much good. Wisdom is generally unpopular. I don't know how many people ever heard of the Professional Football Hall of Fame in Cleveland, is it Cleveland? Canton, Ohio. Uh they got an NFL Hall of Fame. They got all these Hall of Fames for this, and Hall of Fame for musicians, and Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and Football Hall of Fame, and Baseball Hall of Fame and stuff. I I don't know of any wisdom hall of fames. Oh, here's a Hall of Fame for people who were really wise and changed the world and had an impact on people. You don't hear about that, do we? Generally, wise men are pretty unpopular. People pay millions of dollars to watch a guy throw a ball through a hoop. Right? Watch a guy, well, whoop-dee-doo. Um people pay millions of dollars to watch guys drive cars in circles. Right? The only time I watch racing, mass car racing, is reruns of the Rex. That's what I want to see. I want to see the wreck. Uh people pay millions of dollars to watch two guys stand in a a square thing they call a ring, the s the round circle. The round the square circle. And they get in there and they clobber each other. They'll pay millions and millions of dollars to two dummies clobber each other. Let me say this. I've said this before and I stand by my statement. Professional boxing should be illegal. It is unethical, it is violent, it is terrible, it's nasty, but until they outlaw it, I'm going to watch every boxing fight I can see. I love it. But we pay millions of dollars for a couple guys to get in and clobber each other. I tell you what, I don't know anybody that pays big money to go and hear a guy talk some wisdom. Give them wisdom. Wisdom. Generally, wise people are pretty unpopular. You know who the world sings the praises of? It's generally fools. Generally fools. I was a teenager once, long time ago. I had posters of fools on the walls of my bedroom as fools. The Bible talks about the songs of fools. Tell you, this world is lost, and it's in darkness, and the vilest of men are exalted on every hand. And the wise folks that fear God, that trust God, that walk with God Generally, they're the least popular people. Very few crowd, very few very few people will crowd to hear wise men. Fools shout out foolishness, and they attract great crowds. Wisdom speaks softly, but it saves souls and saves lives I found out that particularly in our country and no doubt around the world, the Bible is less popular than booze. You notice that? Sin and debauchery. Why is it why is it that this world is so attracted to sin? The highest rating movies are often so sinful. The worst, the highest selling albums are saying some of the most vile things. This world, fools scream, and they get the attention, and fools are the popular ones, but the wise are often forgotten Did you catch that there? Verse 15, this to me is a sad statement. Yet no man remembered that same poor man. Listen, you say, well, I want to be popular. Well, being wise probably isn't going to make you popular, but it sure is going to protect us from a lot of heartache, a lot of trials Wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom, and with all thy getting, get understanding. How many people, I'm going to have to probably give the background on this a little bit. Anybody remember the Nate Saint and Jim Elliott with the Alka Indians. How many folks, raise your hand, how many folks remember that? This is a generation or so ago. You don't hear much about them anymore The background of that was there were five missionaries and their wives went to um um what was the city what was the country? Um what was it Was it Ecuador? They went down to South Central America and there was a tribe of people, these Auka Indians. They had never been contacted by civilization whatsoever. They were isolated. They were known to be incredibly violent. Folks had tried to contact them. The ones that actually did make contact never came back again. And God stirred Nate Saint and Jim Elliott and three other fellas to go down there and try and reach them with the gospel And they had a little plane, they had a uh, I think it was a bunch of uh oil companies, had oil wells, they that was their station, and they would fly out and they would fly over that little village Just to get the attention. Every time they flew out, all the natives would come running out of their huts and out of the f out of the jungle and they'd look and wave. And then then they progressed. They would start dropping gifts Trying to win them over to trust them. They gave gifts and they fly real low and they drop different stuff. Of course they couldn't read. And finally the day came, they said we're going to land on a beachy area along a river, a bee big sandy beach along a river right by their village and we're going to make contact with them. And many of you remember the story. They landed and the natives came out. They made initial contact. The natives slaughtered all of them. And back home, Elizabeth Elliott and Nate Saint's wife and the others were trying to make radio contact. Silence, silence, silence So finally that nation's National Guard went in and they found the bodies, spears, arrows through them laying on the beach of that river. God used that to stir churches around the world to get on fire for missions. It was not in vain. Years later, the wives of those five missionaries came back. And through persistence and various ways, they were able to make peaceful contact. With the men and the people who slaughtered their husbands. They actually, on several occasions, went and lived in the village with them. Many of the Alka Indians repented of their sin, turned to Christ. And we're saved. Nate Saint's son, I think his name is Steve, Steve Saint. Went spent a lot of time down there. In fact, he grew up with many of them. He lives back on the States now. I follow him on a computer site. And um uh he actually one of Nate Think's grandsons traveled on neighborhood Bible time two years ago. And that's something. But um Steve Saint went down there, and the big question in everyone's mind, this is where I'm going with this, the big question on everyone's mind was why did these natives turn on them? They had been so friendly, the gifts were going back and forth, and they had actually developed a way where he would fly in a circle and drop a rope down with a big pot in it. and they would get their gifts out of it and they would put things in, then he'd fly off and they'd pull it up and fly off. And they were going back and forth and by all appearances they should have been very peaceful. By all appearances they had won them over. Why did they turn on them? Steve Saint, years later, in talking to eyewitnesses that were there, found the answer Now did you notice at the end of the chapter, that last statement in chapter 9, it says, one sinner, how does it say it? One sinner destroyeth much good. One fool! Can hurt a lot of people. And Steve Saint, in the account that I've come across, Steve Saint said that he in talking to the eyewitnesses, they found something out. Why those natives attacked them. There was a fella in the village that had committed some sort of sexual sin. It doesn't say what it was, or their form of adultery or something. But he was in the process of being judged by the village and whatever that judgment would entail, whether it was death or whatever, but he was he messed up bad. And what he did was to distract away from his sin, his crime, he started saying things about these white missionaries that were coming And he stirred the whole village up and convinced the village that they were coming to eat them, to cannibalize the villages. And they believed this one fool They believed his lies. And that village came out and turned on the five missionaries and killed him. Based on an absolute lie. Many of them got saved later on, and there's an interesting story aside from that. Is there was a young girl when they were attacking the missionaries and the arrows were piercing their bodies by the dozens. There was a little Alka girl that was hiding in the bushes watching it and she was so scared. And she said, years later, they were had a photograph and they were playing hymns. On the phonograph for the Alka Indians. They were playing this phonograph. And the girl was older now, and many of them were Christians. And she came out and she says, I've heard that music before. They said, that's impossible. How could you have heard this? She goes, when the five Indian when the five missionaries were being slaughtered and the arrows were piercing them She said, I heard music just like that, songs just like that, coming from the messengers in the sky. Now I don't know whether it's a fanciful imagination of a young girl. Singing While they were dying. Yes. Well this girl said that she could hear it from the messengers in the sky. Now whether she was referencing the missionaries The account I gave, she was referencing that perhaps angels were singing as the missionaries were received up into glory. I don't know which that may be, but here's the thing I take away from that. How one man, through such foolish decisions and such foolish actions, Brought such hurt to these people. Yet God in His sovereignty could take that foolishness and turn it around and bring great, great glory. To himself. Wisdom. Wisdom. The thing I'm getting from Ecclesiastes as I'm studying this more and more is the incredible value of wisdom. Wisdom from God. And we've given this invitation repeatedly, but I give it again tonight. As individuals and as a church, let's ask God. To give us wisdom for our young people and the decisions they'll make. As I was preaching this morning, they make decisions are going to affect them when they're my age. They've got to be wise. You and I as adults, the decisions we make with our resources and the time that we have left to use it for God's glory Amen. Does this make sense? Just a little city, just a little city with a handful of men, but there's a poor wise man in it, and he protects that. And we learn from that the value of wisdom and the destruction of foolishness. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, I pray you'd stir our hearts. Lord, I believe wisdom begins with humility. We humble ourselves before you and say, God, help me to be wise in my decisions. God, give me wisdom in the use of my time and my resources. Lord, we need your wisdom in our interaction one with another God help us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many tonight share the desire with me that I want to be wise? I want God to give me wisdom. Any like that? How about many like that? Let's ask the Lord. Let's humble ourselves. Say, God, we need that. I need it this week. And I believe God will help us. Father, bless our invitation now. We ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed. Eyes are closed.