Right. Uh I want to begin reading in verse four. He says, If God spared not the angels that sin, but cast them down to hell and delivered them into chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment. And spared not the old world, but saved Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness. Bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly. And then verse 6, he references another Old Testament event. And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them with an overthrow, making them an ensample unto those that after should live ungodly. He mentions in verse number five there a preacher of righteousness. Let's pray, and I'll try and share my thoughts here with you as quickly as I can. Father. I ask now you bless as we study this. And Lord, as we noted last week, this isn't the most pleasant of subjects, but nevertheless, it's vital. For our church and for all of us to understand. And so I pray that your Holy Spirit be our teacher tonight as we consider these very sober warnings from the pen of Peter from the pen of Peter and from the heart of God. Fill me with your spirit, I pray. I yield my will, present my body anew, and pray you be the Peter's making the argument, he's been here for a number of verses, that God takes very seriously false teaching and apostasy What we mean by apostasy is the deliberate rejection of the truth of Scripture A deliberate denial and rejection of biblical teaching. Apostasy is not ignorance of what is true. A person can be ignorant of what the Bible teaches and not be an apostate. They just need to learn. They just need to grow. Sometimes a new believer, somebody that maybe hasn't been under good, strong solid Bible teaching. They haven't studied maybe for much. And sometimes they'll get some ideas that are unscriptural. That doesn't make them an apostate. It just means they misunderstand some scripture So it doesn't mean ignorance, it doesn't mean being ignorant of teaching. What apostasy is, is understanding exactly what the Bible says, what God says, and rejecting it. Saying, no, I deny that. I reject that teaching. It is a deliberate, intelligent rejection or perversion of what the Bible teaches And he's given a very somber teaching on that, see, and very somber warnings. And by the way, there are, there always have been, and there are, and there will be, until the return of Christ, apostates in churches And a Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and churches like ours that believe very strongly in the Word of God and hold very firmly to our convictions about the Word of God, we are not immune To apostasy creeping in. We must be vigilant. We must be sober. And that's what he's saying here. He's referring back to these Old Testament events and individuals to illustrate God doesn't play around with this. Somebody deliberately introduces ungodly living. Somebody deliberately introduces rebellion against the teachings, clear teaching of the Word of God. God doesn't play games with that. In fact, we noted in verse 4, even angels that sinned deliberately rejected God's authority. Even angels were not immune from being judged of God for that sin. Nobody is too big of a person to be judged for their sin. Even angels are. And now in verse number five, what we're looking at quickly is the entire world In sin was not spared. In other words, the whole world can turn against God, and the whole world will be judged It's never too big of a cry to say, oh man, so many people believe this false teaching. I tell you, God can judge every single one of them The entire world was not spared. The whole world turned against God. I tell you, they'll face it and they'll have to deal with it. And so the word spared there in verse number five, spare not the old world It means to avoid God's judgment. It means the they could not avoid the judgment of God, even though there was millions and millions, perhaps Possibly billions of people in the old world, they could not escape God's judgment. They could not escape it. I tell you The um um United Nations can get all the majority of the nations in the world, they raise their fist against God, they'll answer for it. The entire world. The entire world. And they were not spared. They did not escape the judgment. They could not avoid the judgment of God. Now, sometimes people, you'll hear a preacher talk about the unpardonable sin. Anybody ever hear that? An unpardonable sin. I want to tell you, there is no such thing As an unpardonable sin. God does not pardon sin. God pardons sinners. Sin is judged Every single sin that's ever been committed is going to be judged by God. One of two ways, either on the cross by the Lord Jesus Christ, if that is rejected, then the person has to face the judgment themselves. But there is no sin that is unpardonable. These people could not, these sins were not pardoned The sinners were judged because they rejected the salvation. You follow what I'm trying to say? There is no such thing as unpardonable sin. Thank God there are pardoned sinners. Got one right here. Any others? Pardon sinners. When we trust the Lord Jesus Christ, he pardons us, but our sin is still judged. And so he says the entire world could not escape the judgment of God. They may be in the majority. By the way, the world's always in the majority. It's always the God's people are always the minority, but the entire world was not spared from the judgment of their sins. And so, uh, and here's the interesting thing, and I don't have time to elaborate on this, but the apostates are not spared the judgment of their sin because they reject The way to be spared from the judgment of their sins. The old world. The way to escape the judgment of God in the old world was get on the ark. And the entire world said, no, we're not getting on. Thus they were not spared. If they'd have got on the ark, they'd escaped the judgment for their sin. But they didn't do it. And that's what apostates do today. They blaspheme the Lord Jesus Christ. They mock the way of salvation. They distort the clear teaching of Scripture about salvation and forgiveness. They deny all of it. And they're rejecting and denying their only hope of salvation. The Lord Jesus Christ. And so let me give you my three thoughts. I see what time it is. I'm going to buzz through them. Number one, notice the condition of the old world. Verse number five, he says, and spare not the old world. What do we know about the old world? Well this is the pre-flood world SG4, Noah built the Ark, the entire society, the world. What was the geography of the old world like? We really don't know much. If you would, look over in chapter 3 of 2 Peter, look at verse number 6. He says this, whereby the world that then was, that's the old world he's referencing The world that then was being overflowed with water, what? Perished. It was destroyed We don't know what the topography or the geography of the old world was really like. We know this. There were rivers, because there's rivers referenced. in Genesis before the flood. We know there are mountains because the Bible says the mountains were covered by the water of the flood, and so if mountains are going to be covered by the flood, there has to be mountains there. Brilliant studying on my part to come up with that conclusion. But the fact of the matter is there was mountains. And by the way, let me throw this out. I wasn't going to say it, I've got to be careful, but uh it was a worldwide flood. And we don't have time. I wish we did. I was going to go back to Genesis and notice how he emphasizes the entire world was fluttered. All the mountains were covered with water. It wasn't just the valley where uh Noah lived, it was the entire world. So we don't know a whole lot about the geography. We know that there was There was some mountains, there was rivers. It is speculated, now I don't know how how thorough this is or how popular this is, it's speculated that all the continents Prior to the flood were united into one continent. Did you ever take a look at the map, at the globe, and how the continents kind of fit together like a puzzle? You can take South America, South Africa, they fit together, Europe. comes together. In fact they say the Appalachian Mountains actually carry over over into Scotland and northern uh Great Britain and that whole area there. If you bring the two together they line up just like that. Australia comes up into India and all the South Pacific, and it's suggested by some that before the flood it was just one continent covered the earth When that flood hit, when we were talking about this the other day, the deeps were broken up, Psalms tells us. And no rain fell, and the entire planet was covered with water. And we some suggest that that's when the continent shifted as this upheaval took place and they are in the positions they're in now. And we understand they're actually still moving to this day somewhat And so we don't know a lot about the pref the the old world, what it looked like or what the geography was. I had a pastor back in Pennsylvania when I first got saved, Pastor uh Auckland, David Auckland, tremendous man, I have tremendous respect, been with the Lord many, many years, did God use them in tremendous ways. Uh he suggested, he said that they had found in the archaeological digs, uh very, very, very ancient instruments that they do not understand. They said they found some that appear to be electrical batteries. And appear to have been able to use in some sort of advanced technology. Now, he didn't, it wasn't a fundamental dogmatic doctrine. But he said he tends to believe that the old world was possibly very advanced in their technology It could very well be. It's speculation at best, but we don't know a whole lot about it. We do know that society was very wicked. And we're familiar enough with Noah and the flood. We don't have to go, again, I want to avoid going to all these references. Genesis 6 says that the depravity of the earth was great. He says the every imagination of man was upon evil. They couldn't even Think a pure thought, every imagination, every thought was perverse, sounds like Hollywood to me It sounds like the music industry to me. It sounds like our modern educational system to me When a society is bringing perverts into preschool classes and library reading rooms, every imagination is on evil. And so they were continually in evil. Genesis 6, 12, he says, all flesh was wicked, says that twice And so the condition of the old world was very, very wicked. I believe our world is a wicked, wicked world. But I'll be honest with you, I don't think we even come close. The wickedness and the perversion of the old world. We don't even come close. There are more children, there are more Christians in our primary department of our Sunday school than there were in the whole world before the flood. Now think about that. Eight Eight. We have more we have more little uh pre primary children saved than eight than there was in the whole world. Can you imagine a whole world, the only salt in the whole world, the only light in the whole world was eight people. Well, I don't think we can imagine the wickedness, the wickedness of that old world. Then the contrast of Noah. Notice he says, and spared not the old world, but now here's the contrast. He saved Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness. So we have this contrast to the condition of what society was Now we have this man, the eighth man. By that he simply means this. There was eight believers. There were eight people of God. He was daddy and then Mrs. Noah and then the three boys and their wives. There was eight of them. That was it. And I believe this is the point Peter is trying to make to these believers. Listen, a world completely given over to apostasy. I mean completely. Completely given over to perversion. Yet one man stood true to God. One man in his family stood true to God. Listen. We can be outnumbered, but that doesn't mean we have to be like the world. We can be pure, we can be true, we can be clean, we can be righteous, we can be godly. We can be holy in a world that is very unrighteous and very ungodly. I want to submit to you, our young people can be godly Christian testimonies even in the in the situation, the schools and whatnot they find themselves. Now it's not easy. Hey, you say, well, where I work, it's just nasty, so wicked, you've got to go along to get along. Listen, you do not have to go along to get along Sometimes people say, well, when in Rome do as the Romans do. Can I say this? When in Rome do as Jesus did. One man. That's the contrast. He's telling these believers, listen, this whole world can be given over, but you can stand right, you can stand true, you can stay faithful. That's the whole point. Noah stood out as an exception. Again, I wish we had time. Genesis 6, 8 through 9, verse 22. It says he was just, he was righteous. He had faith in God. Genesis 6. 8. It says that, and Noah found grace in the eyes of God. You know how Noah got saved? Yeah, Noah got saved by building the ark. No. Noah got saved by putting his faith and trust in the Lord. For by grace are you saved through faith, not of yourselves. Hebrews 11 says that Noah had faith. It was his faith that saved him, his faith. is what applied the grace of God to him. And as a result of his faith in God, because he believed what God said, Because he was confident in that God was true, when God told him to build the ark, he built the ark because of his faith in God, which save which was what saved his soul. You follow what I'm saying Our works don't save us. Uh we work so hard around here. Goodness. And every week there's something. Who's in charge here anyway? It's like every week there's something. Good night. Hey, listen, don't think one minute what we're doing for the Lord at the church here adds or adds to our salvation. Part of our seven. I'll tell you, um uh I try to work hard. These thirty-one years, I've tried to give myself. And I'm not doing it to be saved, I'm doing it because May 7, 1979 My Lord showed grace to me in a way I couldn't even imagine. And I owe him. And I want to serve him because I love him. I'm grateful for what he's done. I tell you, any, you can be an independent Baptist, but if you're trusting in your works to save your soul, you're a lost person, I'm telling you right now. You're a lost man, you're a lost woman. And so he had faith in God. He obeyed God. He trusted God and obeyed God In Genesis 6. 22 and chapter 7 verse 5 it says he obeyed the Lord. He did what God told him to do. The most two most basic characteristics of being right with God, have faith in God and do what he says. Trust God and do what he says. You say, what's the whole Christian life boiled down to? Trust and obey. Trust God. And there's no other way to be happy in Jesus. And so Noah trusted and obeyed God. And it says he was a preacher of righteousness. Now I got looking, and I'm I'm just about done here, so bear with me. It's raining out anyway, so there's nothing to do out there I can't find any sermons in the Bible by Noah. I looked up the Sword of the Lord archives. No sermons by Noah in there. Not one. Well, what did he preach? A preacher of righteousness, I don't know any sermons he preached, but I know what his subject was: righteousness. He was a preacher of righteousness. Now think about that. He lived in an unrighteous world, yet he preached righteousness. I think preaching purity, which is implied in righteousness, preaching purity, preaching integrity, preaching humility Preaching virtue is the most powerful way to expose sin. Now, I'm not opposed to naming sin. I'll just say it right up. I think drinking whiskey and beer is sin. I think going wicked watching wicked Hollywood movies is sinful We could go down the list, but I'll tell you a powerful way to expose sin is rather, and more so than naming the sin, hold up righteousness. You hold up purity, impurity become very obvious. You hold up humility, pride becomes very obvious. You hold up uh uh uh integrity and dishonesty becomes very obvious. He was a preacher of righteousness. Doesn't say he was a hellfire and preacher against sin. Says he preached righteousness, righteousness, righteousness. We don't have any of his sermons, but we know what his subject is, righteousness. Years ago we uh we used to get water at the house from the church. Well, the church has a well over here And uh we'd come through there and it was a lot of iron in the water there. How many people remember our water fountains were all rusty, sinks were all rusty uh commode roll. Anybody remember that? Oh. And we got treatment back there and we had a Culligan and all of that and spent money and everything was still rusty. So we moved over to city water, and um uh and uh so it took care of that. But back when we had that, we got our water at the house from that well. So we do our wash and everything, and uh the old t-shirts, you'd throw them in there, get a new t-shirt, you throw it in, and over time that thing would start f uh um uh not fading, but uh Yellowy. Now it wasn't real obvious and that thing and uh we'd watch it and then I thought, well, I need some new t-shirts. I'd get the new t-shirts. I'd hold up that new white t-shirt and get that old one, and it's like Hold up righteousness and unrighteousness becomes very obvious. He's a preacher of righteousness. We need preachers of righteousness. We need Sunday school teachers that teach righteousness. We need schools that teach righteousness. We need mothers and fathers that teach righteousness. And so he was a preacher of righteousness. Well, how did he preach? Well, I think he preached with his lips 120 years. He was telling folks, do right, do right. I believe he gave invitations. Y'all listen, God's sending judgment. God's sending judgment. You better repent. You need to get on this ark. I think he preached with his lips, but I think more powerfully he preached with his life. He lived righteousness. Listen, I thank God for any church, a preacher, ministry that preaches righteousness, but if they're not living righteousness, it's going to be ineffective. And I believe that pre-ol that pre-flood, that old world, they heard what Noah said, and they looked at his life. And the two lined up perfectly. The two lined up perfectly. He said, judgment's coming, flood's coming, and they saw him building an ark. His life matched his lips. I tell you, we need revival of lives matching lips in our churches. So he's a preacher of righteousness in his word, in his lips, and in his life. He was outnumbered. He was ineffective. Only people he won to the Lord was his family. Can you imagine 31 years here pastoring the church and we only saw seven people trust Christ as Savior? You think that might be a little discouraging? Preaching and working and preaching and living and witnessing. And you only uh he had 120 years. All he saw was seven family members, trust Christ. Outnumbered, ineffective But I tell you, he was unrelenting, and God honored him. I want to remind you, it's not the numbers of our results Now and I'm glad for the report and we want reach more. We look at it and say, Oh, we haven't any saved this month. I think that ought to concern us. We ought to get after it. But our reward is not on what we produce. Our reward is based upon our obedience. If God chooses to use us in a great way, praise the Lord. But if we have to be obfusc and faithful and we don't see the results we think we should, we still remain obedient and faithful. Amen or not? Now end with this the catastrophe of the flood, the catastrophic flooding bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly. What a tragic statement. The world of the ungodly. God takes rejection of truth and righteousness seriously. As I said, I do not believe our world today is as wicked as the old world between the behind the flood, before the flood. Now we're getting there, and it's going to get awfully bad during the tribulation pat particularly. We're not there yet. But um and none of us are called to build an ark except maybe Ken Ham. But um None of us are called to build an ark in the sense that Noah was, but here's one I want to leave with you tonight. If you knew how much I wanted to say, you'd be very, very proud of me what I did. Here's what I want to leave with you. We we we don't live in as wicked a world as Noah did. And we're not called to build an ark to save humanity. But we can be just as faithful to God as Noah was. We can be just as obedient to God as Noah was We can be just as righteous in our lives as Noah was. Let's be like Noah. A preacher of righteousness. Father, bless now. I know we went a little long tonight, but I just pray you'd stir our hearts and challenge and help us. Be faithful. Be obedient. To be righteous. In our homes, our hearts, our lives. Lord, we need a moving of your spirit. In a great way. And so help us, Lord. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need to work on my faithfulness to the Lord? Maybe your daily walk with God or whatever. Any like that? I need to work on my faithfulness. God bless you I wonder how many would say, preacher, I need to work on being a little more obedient to the Lord. I know there's areas where I need to be obedient. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. Obedient And then righteous. Oh, how we how we let things slip in. How we let little things here and there, attitudes, actions slip in. How many say, preacher, I need to work on righteousness? Righteousness, sure. Let's ask the Lord to help us tonight. Would you come pray for revival? Our church, our homes. We need it. We need it. Father, bless our invitation. I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen.