Read the last oh it's about seven, eight I think it's eight verses of chapter forty, some and uh starting in verse eleven I'll read down through the end. We're not going to preach all these, don't worry. I just really want to share a thought here, even without really necessarily digging into a specific verse tonight, which I normally do, but notice verse 11, Psalm chapter 40, withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O Lord. Let thy loving kindness and thy truth continually preserve me. For innumerable evils have compassed me about, mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of mine head, therefore my heart faileth me. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me. Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it. Let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil. Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto me, Aha, aha. Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee Let such as love thy salvation say continually, The Lord be magnified. But I am poor and needy, yet the Lord thinketh upon me. Thou art my help and my deliverer. Make no tarrying, O my God. I've entitled the message A Prayer for Mercy. I'll explain the title there in just a moment, but let's first let's pray. And ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father, we come to you at the end of the Lord's Day. Another Lord's Day is coming gone. And I pray as we finish out this day in your word, that your Holy Spirit would take this tremendous passage of Scripture. That has meant so much to me personally and to so many millions of others over the years. I pray you'd help us glean some thoughts here that would help us in our walk with you Pray your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and minds that we could see beyond just the words and see what your message is for us in our lives. Lord, I yield my will to you tonight. I ask you would take my mind, my heart and my mind, and that your spirit would guide me as I speak. Lord, I present my body anew to you as a tool in your hand for you to speak through me to all of our hearts. That you would challenge us and help us to know you a little better and understand our our relationship, understand ourselves maybe a little better. So please bless now and the moments that remain and help us go out of here stronger and prepared to serve you and be a good witness for you this week. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I believe we started this series about I think it was back in October, towards the beginning of October, about five months ago. We started working our way through Psalms chapter 40. I've thoroughly enjoyed it. This Psalm has always been uh special to me from shortly after I got saved, particularly the opening passages. And when we started out, one of the first messages, or at least very early on in the series We pointed out that I see at least a threefold division in this chapter. I just want to back up and touch on that for a reason. We noted, if you'll remember, verses 1 through 5, we have David's personal testimony, where he says, I waited patiently, Lord. I cried unto you, he heard my cry, brought me out of that horrible pit. And David is just rejoicing and praising God for what God did for him and getting him out of whatever the ter horrific situation he was in, whatever the circumstances are, as we've been pointing out, we don't know what they were, but they were bad. And he says, God got me out of that. He got my feet up on a rock, established my go-ings. He took the mess that I apparently he had made, took that mess and made it right And he got my life going on the right direction. Give me some foundation in my life, some purpose in my life, some direction in my life. And he's just praising the God. He's giving his personal testimony And we pointed out then, and we've mentioned this multiple times over the years, one of the most powerful tools I have to glorify the Lord and to win others to Christ is my own personal testimony. Just telling people what Jesus Christ has done for me. Whether it's directly in our salvation testimony, which I do probably too much. But even other areas, answer prayer, like we did tonight, something God did for me. I thank God for my family and testify, God's been good to me And so that's what David's doing. So the first division I see in this psalm, down through verse number five, is David's personal testimony, his praise for what God did for him. And then verse 6 through 9, we looked at that, and here we have a prophecy of the Savior Now we know that passage there, verses six or nine, are talking about the Lord Jesus Christ. The reason we are so confident that's what it's talking about is because Hebrews tells us that's what he's talking about. And Hebrews, the book of Hebrews quotes that passage. I think it's Hebrews chapter 10, quotes verses 6 through 9, almost verbatim. And applies it to the Lord Jesus Christ. And now we have this last section, verse 10. We looked at, I believe, last Sunday night, down through the end of the chapter of verse 17. Now we have where David has this intense prayer for mercy. And I don't know if you picked that up while I was reading through there, but David is looking to God for mercy. Now something has happened. From the beginning of this chapter to the last segment of this chapter, we have David rejoicing, praising God for getting him up out of this pit, out of this terrible situation, getting them going right. Then he points to the Lord Jesus Christ and he makes this prophecy, of course, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, about the coming Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who is going to be our righteousness for us. Now he turns his focus back kind of on himself. And he sees himself and he cries out to God for mercy. I put it this way in my notes. David goes from a pit to praise the prophecy of Jesus Christ, and then a plea for mercy. I think there's a pattern here. I think there's a message in this overall direction that David's thoughts are going. Again, it's all under the inspiration of God. God's leading in all of this. But I see a pattern here. And I see this pattern in Scripture, and I want to try and show it to you here in tonight's message. But I also see it in my own life And this is what I see. The closer I get to the Lord, the less impressed I become with myself. You follow what I'm saying? The clearer I see who the Lord is, and that David in that prophecy, he sees who Jesus Christ is and what he's done for him, and he looks back at his own experience. And the clearer he understands the Lord, and the closer he gets in his walk with God, he looks at himself and he becomes less impressed with himself. Have mercy upon me. He prays for mercy. Look there at verse number 11. Withhold not thy tender mercies from me. Verse 12, man, he just he just is not very impressed with himself. For numeral evils have accomplished me out. My iniquities have taken hold upon me. Say, wait a minute, wait a minute, David. I thought God brought you out of that horrible pit. He did But the more he sees the Lord, the less impressed he becomes with himself. I think this is true of some of God's greatest men of faith. Well we got our b how many people got your Bible with you tonight? Anybody bring your Bible with you? Good. If you're not in the habit of bringing your Bible, go ahead and start bringing your Bible. We're going to use them tonight. We brought them, we might as well use them, right? So we're going to look around here a bunch, and I want you to turn with these. I want you to see them. We're going to start out in 1 Samuel. So if you would come with me to 1 Samuel, the first man we're going to look at There's a fellow by the name of David. We're very familiar with King David. We've studied his life. We preach on him periodically. He's very prominent in Scripture. I think every one of us would say, though David was far from a perfect man, he was nevertheless a great man. A great man of faith. Can I get an amen on that statement? Man after God's own heart. A man, and this is, I say this a lot, but this is what boggles my mind. The throne that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the creator of all, the throne that He's going to sit on on the millennial reign, is named after David of all people. But notice something about David. This is an experience. We're in 1 Samuel chapter 24, and David is being hounded by King Saul. Uh for no other reason than Saul's jealousy and envy of David's uh the the nation appreciates David. And they're not exalting David above measure. He's a war hero hero. He's a great man in the nation of Israel. He great exploits for the glory of God and the good of God's people. So the praise of the people of Israel was not wrong. David didn't boast in it at all. But Saul became jealous and he begins pursuing David out of his uh in own insecurities, Saul's own insecurities, he wants to take David down. This is perhaps, I don't know how confident I am in this statement, but perhaps This may be David being as close to the Lord as any point in his life. He's walked close with God, and God used him tremendously for some tremendous Psalms. Psalm 40 is penned by David. But notice what happens in verse number 14. He is he has uh he has the opportunity to kill Saul. Saul's pursuing him. Saul wants to kill him. David would be absolutely, at least humanly speaking, been justified in killing King Saul simply out of self-defense. Saul's out to murder him. That's no other way to describe it. But David doesn't. And he spares Saul's life there at Engadai. And He approaches, he confronts Saul about it. But notice, here's what I want to get at. In verse number 14, notice what David says about himself Now I'm suggesting David is as close to the Lord at this point as he's ever been. Most difficult, some of the most difficult days of his life, but nevertheless as close to the Lord. Look how David views himself. Verse 14 After whom is the king of Israel come out? After whom dost thou pursue? Now notice how David describes himself. This is his view of himself. After a what? A dead dog. After a what? A flea. David is not standing up and saying, Saul, look how great a man I am. Look how spiritual I am. I could have killed you and I didn't. I'm obviously right with God. I obviously have God's blessing and power. He doesn't do that at all. I want to suggest to you, David is perhaps as close to God maybe that he's ever been. And he looks at himself and he says, I'm nothing but a dead dog. I'm just a flea. Why are you chasing me? Why are you putting any time and effort into me? Who am I? The closer we get to the Lord, here's the message tonight. And I want to look at a number of people that That we see this. The closer we get to the Lord, the clearer we understand the holiness of God. And the goodness of God to me and the grace that He's shown me, the less impressed I am with myself. And the more I'm impressed with the Lord. And I see that in David. Come with me. I've got another one here. Job. Come with me over to Job. We'll try to go chronologically through here. Job chapter number 40. Now, what do we know about Job? Of course, he suffered unbelievably and all of that. But somebody help me out here talk a little bit. Y'all seem a little quiet tonight. Let's see if I can get something out of ya. Um What do we know about Job? What was God's assessment of Job in the beginning of the book where God gives us an assessment of Job? What is it? What was it? He was a perfect. This is God saying he was perfect enough right. Now the word perfect doesn't mean sinless, and we read the book and we see Job was not sinless. But it means mature, he was complete. He was as strong in his faith as he could have been. That's what the idea of perfect was there. Upright. In all his ways. He hated evil. He loved the Lord. He was a good man by in by God's standards. God praises him. You come to the end of the book and look at chapter 40. Now he's been through all this horrific suffering. He's lost his family. He's lost his possession. His health has been unbelievably painful. And verse number three, God confronts Job and he says, Job, listen, you've been asking me why you're going through this. Let me ask you some questions. And verse 3, then Job answered the Lord and said, Look at Job's assessment of himself. Behold, I am what? Vile. That word vile means insignificant, contemptible, thought little of. I'm vile. What shall I answer thee? I will lay my hand upon my mouth. Once have I spoken, but I will not answer thee. Yea, twice I will proceed no further God's revealing himself to Job in a way Job's never seen the Lord before. Job is understanding some things about God's power. And God's wisdom and God's purposes that are so far above and beyond Job's ability to comprehend. And Job's seeing this and he's learning this about God. And he says, I am vile. I'm not a great, great person, but I serve a great, great God. Come over to chapter 42. Now, this flies in the face of a lot of modern Christianity. Modern Christianity says we've got to think highly of ourselves. We've got to boost our ego. Boy, we're something. But I look in the Bible and I find people that learn more of the Lord and understand God better don't see themselves that way. Look at chapter 42. Look with me at verse number one. Now here, notice what he says, notice his statements here. Then Job answered the Lord. Now, this is again when God came back and interacted with Job. And now, verse 2. Job answered the Lord and said, I know that thou canst do everything. I'm telling you, God is all powerful. Job understands that. And he says that no thought can be withholden from thee. Our God is all-knowing. Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore have I uttered that I understood not Things too wonderful for me, which I knew not. What's he saying in verse 3? He's saying I said stuff I didn't know what I was talking about I thought I knew God. I thought I had a handle on this. I thought I was something. God, I've met you now. I understand you better than I've ever understood you before. I didn't even know what I was talking about. Look at verse 4. Hear I beseech thee, and I will speak. I will demand of thee and declare thou unto me. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear. So he had information about the Lord, but look at this But now mine eyes see it thee. Now I understand, God, your power, and your knowledge, your wisdom. Your plants, I see it like I never saw it before. Look what he says about himself. Wherefore I what? Abhor myself and repent in dust and ashes. The clearer he saw the Lord, the more he understood the majesty and the glory And the power of God. He looked at himself. He says, I'm not nearly as great as I thought I was I'm not nearly as wonderful as I thought I was. God, you are the glorious one, not me. Not me. I abhor myself. This is a man that God said was perfect and upright in all his ways. Come with me, if you would, to Isaiah. And um chapter number six. Now, any of us, anybody that knows anything about Isaiah, you know he was one of the greatest prophets in his Israel's history. The book of Isaiah is phenomenal. He talks about the new heaven and new earth. He talks about the millennial reign of Christ. He talks about the Messiah. Isaiah chapter 53 is the greatest, clearest Teaching on the atonement of Christ, the crucifixion of Christ, in all the book, in all prophecy. You can lead people to Christ at Isaiah 53. But in chapter 6, he has an experience. And Isaiah sees the Lord, and it has a profound impact upon him. He sees and he understands and he learns some things about God. And it affects him powerfully. Look at chapter 6 and verse number 1. In the year that King Uzziah died, Now Uzziah was his friend. You study history, and Uzziah the king was the friend of Isaiah. He said, In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Above it stood the seraphims. Each one had six wings, and with twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. And one cried unto another. Look what these Seraphim are crying out one to another. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. Would you agree with me? This is quite a vision of God. And he sees the holiness of God, and it's like the window of heaven is open a bit, and he sees these these beings, these seraphim. And they're glorifying God, and the glory of God is seen. And Isaiah sees this. And look at the impact it has on his life. Then said I, man, I'm really something. Is that what he said? He goes, boy, I must be super special that I get to see this of the Lord. I must be, I must be quite a man. No. When he sees the glory and the holiness and the power and the majesty of God, he looks at himself and what's he say? What's it say there? Woe was me. Woe is me. Then said I, Woe is me, for I am undone Because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Woe is me. I'm a man of unclean lips. Do you know why a man has unclean lips? Because he has an unclean heart. Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. And I don't know what Isaiah said. But he had used some language, apparently. He had said some things that when he saw God, he immediately was convicted of. I think when he says I'm a man of unclean lips, I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, I think he's saying, I have an unclean heart, and it's affecting how I talk. You know why people talk dirty? Because they have a dirty heart. You know why people tell lies? Because they have a dishonest heart. You know why people speak about themselves? Because they have a proud heart. And Isaiah saw the Lord, and he saw his glory and his majesty and his infinite holiness. And I tell you To get a grasp of what that means, that God is holy. And he looked at himself and he said, Woe is me. The more, and I see this in the in Psalms chapter 40, the progression goes through here. The clearer we get a vision of God and who he is and what he is, the less impressed we become with ourselves Let me show you some more. And this is patterned all through Scripture. Let's go to Luke. Let's go to the New Testament. Luke chapter 5. And notice verse number eight. Here we have Peter. And um he's meets the Lord. They're out fishing. The Lord comes on his boat and in in uh uh Verse number, chapter 5, Luke 5, verse number 3, it says, He, Jesus, entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's. And we know Simon is who? Peter. He entered in one of the ships, which is Simon's, and prayed him that he would thrust out a little from land. And he sat down and talked to people out of the ship. So the crowds are so great. That Jesus is just he can't speak to the people, he can't address them, so he sees Peter, Simon there with his boat, he says, Will you let me get in your boat? Will you just push out a little bit from the from the bank? That way I can see the folks and I can speak to them clearly And Simon cooperates. And then verse 4, when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out into the deep and let down your nets for draught. So he's a fisherman. He says, maybe the Lord's saying, you know, you let me use your boat, you know, let me do something for you. Launch out into the deep and let your nets down and you'll catch a draw. You'll catch fish. And Simon answering said unto him, Now this is typical Peter, Simon Peter. Master, we toiled all the night and have taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word I'll let you down. Peter had to give his opinion about this whole thing. Right? Lord said, Watch out and then let down your nets and catch a drought. Peter said, Well, you know, we've been fishing all night, Lord. You want me to, I'll do it. But I'm just saying. That's the Leatherman version there. And I will let down the what? Single. Lord said next in verse 4. Peter said, well, I'll put one down. This is so typical, Peter. And when they had done had this done, verse 6, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes and their net broke. I wonder if they had nets, maybe it wouldn't have broken. I found this to be true. If I just do it the way God says, it usually works out better. So their nets are broke now. His net is broke. And they beckoned under their partners, which were ship in the other ship, and that they should come over and help them. And they came and they filled both the ships so that they began to sink. That's a heap of fish. I like fishing. I've never caught so many fish that my boat sank because I had so many fish in it. Now look how Peter is. He sees. Now listen. Peter's heir, he just heard the Lord Jesus preaching. He heard the words, the message. It was powerful. Now he just saw the Lord do something that no man could possibly do. I believe Peter is beginning to comprehend that he is in the presence of Almighty God. No man could do this. And notice how he responds. He says, look, look there, verse number 8. And when Peter saw it. Peter stood up and puffed out his chest and said, look at that. The Lord chose me to do what a great thing. Is that how he responded? No. We see the exact same response that we see in David, that we saw in Job, that we see in Isaiah. Notice what he says. He fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a what? Sinful man, O Lord. The clearer he saw who Jesus Christ was, the clearer he comprehended the power of God. The less impressed he became with himself, the less he exalted himself. Look with me if you would in Romans chapter 7. I want to give you one more example. Now I have several passages on this one person. Romans chapter number seven, and I want to look at verse number eighteen. This is of course the Apostle Paul I think we would probably all agree that the Apostle Paul was one of, if not the, greatest Christian in all of church history. It's a powerful man of God, extraordinary in his faith and his walk with God and how God used him But I wonder what Paul's view of himself was. How did Paul see himself? We know how he sees the Lord. A ton of writing of his. pen uh letters that he wrote under the inspiration of God. We know his view of God was was majestic. But how did Paul see himself? Look with me at verse number 18 of Romans 7. For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, dwelleth what? No good thing. The more I understand the glory and the goodness and the perfection and the majesty of God. The less impressed I am with myself. In me there dwelleth no good thing. Come over, look with me at verse number twenty-four, the same chapter. He He expands on that. This is Paul's view of himself. Oh, wretched man that I am. Wretched man that I am. Who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Because I'm just a dying sinner. I'm nothing. I'm wretched. I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. He puts his focus on the Lord and he says, I am not impressed with myself at all, but I'll tell you who I am impressed with: the Lord Jesus Christ. He's everything. He's everything. Come over, if you would. Paul mentions his view of himself in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Just a few pages over Romans, go over to Corinthians chapter fifteen. And verse number nine. Now if I didn't if this passage wasn't in the Bible, if I didn't we didn't have this I would somebody asked me, I said, who is the greatest of all the apostles? Who's the greatest one? I would say, well, it would have to be, in my estimation, it would have to be the Apostle Paul I mean he's unbelievable. He's used to write two-thirds of the New Testament, planted churches, hundreds of millions of people saved throughout history because of his influence on this world. He would have to be the Apostle Paul. He's the greatest of all the apostles. Let's ask the Paul. Paul, who's the greatest of the apostles? He doesn't say, oh, well, obviously it's me. I am the premier apostle of all the apostles. He doesn't say that at all. In fact, this is what I hear him saying. I hear him saying, well, I don't know who the greatest apostle would be, but I Can tell you who I think is the least of all the apostles. Look what he says in verse number nine. For I am the least of the apostles, that I am not meet to be called an apostle. And he explains why. Persecuted church. He said, I'm a sinner. The more I see the Lord's glory and perfection, the more I see my own sinfulness. I'm not the greatest apostle. I'm the least. It's by God's grace that I am what I am. Not one of these great men, not one of them, viewed themselves as great men They viewed themselves as sorry sinners that God showed mercy to, that God showed grace to in his glory, in his perfect love, and his majesty. He loved me. The psalmist said in one place, he says, what is man? Thou art mindful of him. Our problem, the problem in the world today isn't that we have a low view of ourselves. Our problem is we have too high of a view of ourselves. It isn't that we have uh uh um um uh uh ego, it's not that we have uh uh uh low self-esteem, it's we've got too high a thought of ourselves. We think too highly of ourselves. But I tell you, when we see God, when we get close to him, we begin to comprehend who and what he is, then I look at myself and it's like, oh my. I want to show you a couple more real quick and then I'll wind down. Ephesians chapter 3. Come over a few pages here. 1 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians chapter 3. Look what he says in verse number 8. Say Paul, who's the greatest saint in all of all of the church history? Who's the greatest saint? Well, obviously, I'm probably one of the greatest, I would say, probably the premier saint of all the saints. Look what he says. Look at verse 7. Wherefore I was made a minister according to the gift of grace of God given unto me by the effectual working of his power unto me Who am less than the least of all saints is this grace given? That I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of God. I'm the least. And then one more, if you would, go to 1 Timothy 1 and verse 15. I'm going to try and make a little application here, how it how we should respond to this pattern we see. 1 Timothy 1, look with me at verse number 15. This is a faithful saying. Of course, Paul writing to this young preacher, boy Timothy. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. Now there's something in Paul that doesn't let him stop with that statement. He feels compelled to make this, add to that, this little statement at the end of the verse. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. I can see him hang his head. If who I am chief. I'm the worst. Now, was Paul actually the worst sinner? Well, I mean, we're all sinners. We've all come short. But when he thought of the Lord Jesus Christ and what he did, and his glory and his perfection and providing himself as a sacrifice for us, and he looked at himself and he said, I feel my assessment of myself is I'm the worst of all the sinners. I see this pattern over and over and over. The closer people got to the Lord, The more they glorified the Lord and the less impressed they were of themselves. Now don't misunderstand, I'm not suggesting that they or that we should walk around demeaning ourselves constantly. Go around, well, you know, you walk in the crowd, everybody's there, oh uh, you know, uh good to see you. Oh yeah, I'm just a sorry sinner, you know. I tell you, that can be an expression of pride just as much as walking in and say, I'm a great saint, because we want people to say, oh no, you're not that bad. You're funny. That's not what I'm suggesting, and that's not what I see in Scripture. I see an honest assessment of themselves. When I stand before God, when I get up close to the Lord, and I look at myself It's just God's grace. There's nothing. And David in Psalm 40, he's God Brought me out of this horrible place. He did all this amazing stuff for me. And it was all Jesus Christ who's coming and what he's going to do. And then I look at myself and oh God, have mercy on me Have mercy on me. When I I put this down in my notes, this is how God dealing with me. When I find myself exalting myself and parading myself around, then I know I'm not as close to the Lord as I imagine I am. When I find myself excusing or justifying my own sin and minimizing it and somehow excusing my sin, then I know I'm not as close to the Lord as I imagine I really am. If I I wrote this down. When I find myself condemning and criticizing and putting down others and pointing out the faults of those around me, maybe family or friends or co-workers And I'm just obsessed on their failures and their shortcomings and their and their uh imperfections And I know I'm not as close to the Lord as what I might think I am. Because when I get when I see the Lord high and lifted up. When I get close to him and I see who he is and what he is, suddenly I'm not impressed with myself anymore. Jesus said, be careful when you go around seeing the moats in other people's eyes. You need to stop and think. You probably have a beam in your own. You're not as good a Christian as what you think you are. The closer David walked with God, the smaller he appeared in his own eyes. The closer David walked with God, the more he understood who the Lord was and how good he really was, David became more aware of his own sinfulness. The closer David got to God, and the more he understood God's glory and greatness, the more aware he was of God's mercy. And I'm here to remind us tonight that every single one of us, we need God's mercy every single day. It's new every morning. We need it every single day. The mark of a spiritual man is a man who exalts and honors the Savior sincerely. The mark of a spiritual man is a man who humbles himself and is ashamed of his own sinful condition His own sinful heart. And I believe with all my heart when we get to the point where we can sincerely and honestly Exalt the Lord and honor the Lord for His goodness and His glory and His grace and His love. And humble myself and acknowledge my own sinfulness. I believe then we can see revival I believe then we can see revival. My people, which are called by my name, shall what? Humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Recognize what we are in and of ourselves. Then He heals our land. Then He revives us. John the Baptist put it this way: speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ, he said, He must increase. But I must what? Decrease. And that's the attitude we have. Our church needs revival. Our community needs revival. Our homes need revival. Our nation needs restoration. And it's not going to happen. Until we start seeing God for who he is and what he is, and then we see ourselves for what we really are, and burst this bubble, uh, this uh illusion That we're some great people and we're some wonderful people. We're not. We're all sinners saved by grace. And it's Jesus Christ and Him alone. And He's our message, He's our focus, He's our hope, He's our confidence, He's our everything. Jesus Christ. Amen? Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn this little pattern we notice in Scripture. And Lord, we're not walking around degrading ourselves and this phony self-deprecation. But we just want to be honest with who we are and what we are. Lord, we want to see you and know you. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many and and would join with me in saying, with our heads bowed, eyes closed, you'd say, Preacher, I I catch myself thinking too highly of myself. Catch myself seeing the faults and failures of others and fail to see where I'm at. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, my hand's raised. It's a human nature thing And we need every day to get close to the Lord and walk with him, spend time with him, remind who he is and what we are and where we fit into all of this. He's been awfully good to us. Let's not get proud and exalt ourselves. Father, please bless the invitation. Now help us in this matter in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand again.