If you would take your Bibles and turn back to Psalms one hundred and forty two, Keep your Bibles handy. We're gonna be looking at uh several passages this morning. A teacher asked one of the students what his favorite animal was. He answered, fried chicken. She said I wasn't funny, but she couldn't have been right, the little boy said. She said I wasn't funny, but she couldn't have been right because everyone else laughed. My parents told me to always tell the truth. And I did. Fried chicken is my favorite animal. I told my dad what happened, and he said that my teacher was probably a member of PETA people. Uh p pita. Yeah. He said they love animals very much. Well I do too, especially chicken, pork and beef. Anyway, my teacher sent me to the principal's office. I told him what happened. He laughed too, and he told me not to do it again. The next day in class, my teacher asked me what my favorite live animal was. I told her it was chicken She said why? So I told her it was because you could take them and make them into fried chicken She sent me back to the principal's office. He laughed and told me not to do it again. I don't understand. My parents told me to be honest, but my teacher doesn't like it when I am. Today, my teacher asked me to tell her what famous person I admired most. I told her Colonel Sanders He said, guess where I am now. I like that boy. Psalm 142, and um if you have your if your Bible's handy there, Psalm 57 also, just a few chapters earlier. Psalm 142, and then I want you to notice something in Psalm uh 57. I'm not going to look at the verses themselves. I want you to notice with me the little title above verse number one. It gives some ins information about the Psalm. In Psalm 142, the the Bible says, Mascule of David. Now, as best we know, that word maskle there, if I'm not sure I'm pronouncing it right, that word maskle there. is um musical instructions about how this is actually a song um that the Jews would sing. It was musical instructions for them as far as playing this song and singing this song. But then it makes another statement and it gives us some information about the song. And notice it says a prayer when he, David, of course when he was in the cave. Now, if you have Psalm 57 there, notice the same uh place in Psalm 57 to the chief musician, then it gives some Hebrew words there of David. When he fled from Saul in the cave. Psalm 57 and Psalms 142, both are prayers that David prayed and God In his providence, inspired these, preserved these for us here all these years. And so these are prayers that David prayed in a cave. Now I want to look at Psalm 142 in particular this morning, a few thoughts from this chapter, but I've entitled it simply A Prayer in a Cave Let's ask the Lord to bless our message. Lord, we're grateful for your goodness to us and your faithfulness to us. promises. Lord, I thank you for the Lord's Day when we can assemble together with such a great crowd. And Lord, we just love your people. We love your presence here in our midst. And now we ask, with our Bibles open in front of us here, Lord, we ask that your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and minds to the truths that you have for us. That we would be receptive, that we would trust you and obey you as you teach us and show us from your word your will for our lives. Help us to claim your promises. Help us to heed your warnings and follow your directions. I present my body anew to you this hour, Lord. I ask that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me And help us to grow in our faith and be the people and live the Christian lives you saved us to live and to be the people you've saved us to be. Bless now this message I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm 142 and Psalm fifty-seven, as I've pointed out. Are uh both prayers that were recorded by David written down under the inspiration of God while he was in a cave. Now, if you study the scriptures, you go back into uh 1 Samuel, you find We only have two times, two events, where David was in a cave. In 1 Samuel 22 and verse number 1, the Bible tells us that David was hiding in a cave And in 1 Samuel 24, verse 3, again, David finds himself in a cave out in the wilderness. Both of these times, he is being pursued by King Saul. And David is hiding in the cave from King Saul. Actually, the first one is another king, but King Saul is pursuing them, and David fleeing from Saul, he hides in a cave for protection. David is in the cave not because things are going well for him. He's not in the cave because everything is in place and he's just happy-go-lucky. Both of these events, David is in a very, very low time in his life, shortly after these two cave events that I mentioned from 1 Samuel, shortly after that Samuel dies. Now, Samuel, the prophet Samuel, was David's mentor, spiritual mentor. He was the man of God. He was providing spiritual direction for the nation of Israel. He was the one that had anointed David to be the future king Samuel dies. No doubt, the Bible doesn't say this particularly, but no doubt, in David's heart and mind, there's a vacuum there. This man that held tremendous influence in David's life and the nation of Israel is now removed. He's now gone to be with the Lord. So David's spiritual mentor is gone. No doubt there is an emptiness there, a vacuum is there in David's life. Shortly after that, we find that David finally gets to the end of himself, and for all intents and purposes, David gives up. Now I would like for you to turn to 1 Samuel chapter 27. I want you to notice something. Now remember, this is David is being pursued by King Saul Not because David is any threat to King Saul, not because David wishes ill will for King Saul. David is 100% loyal to his king. But God has rejected King Saul from being the king, and God in his place has anointed Samuel or David to be the next king. That in Saul's mind becomes a tremendous threat. He gets very, very jealous. He begins pursuing David with all the resources He has at hand as king of Israel. He has the army out after him. He has his top uh military leaders out after him. I mean they are after David. Now notice in 1 Samuel 27, verse number 1, David has been pursued, he's hid in caves, he's been out in the wilderness, he's been doing everything he possibly can to avoid confrontation with King Saul. He does not want to touch God's anointed. He does not want to do harm to King Saul, but neither does he want to be destroyed. He doesn't want to die. So he's fleeing. And verse 1 of chapter 27 of 1 Samuel, it says this, and David said in his heart What's he doing? David's getting to the point where he's given up. He says, all right, I'm going to have to take matters into my own hands. He is doing what Proverbs chapter 3 tells us not to do. He is leaning on his own understanding. Notice what he says. David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me than that I should speedily escape unto the land of the Philistines. And there's uh uh land of the Philistines, and Saul shall despair of me to seek me anymore in any coast of Israel, so I shall escape out of his hand. What's happening here? David gets to the point, he says, all right, I'm gonna have to take things in my own hands, I'm gonna lean on my own understanding. This is what I have to do. I've got to go and dwell with the enemies of Israel These are not God's people. The Philistines do not love Jehovah. They are not committed to Jehovah. They are not worshiping Jehovah. They are the enemies of God and God's people. And David's thinking is, if I go and I dwell with them, then Saul will back off, he'll leave me alone. Because if I don't, he says there in verse 1, Saul will kill me. Now, I put in the margin of my Bible where he says, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. I put in the margin of my Bible, not true. Now, how do we know that's not true? Because God had promised David would one day be king of Israel. And if Saul killed him, he could not be king of Israel. So we know that Saul is not going to kill King David because God has anointed him to be King of Israel. And so I'm saying all this, said all that to say this. David is at one of the lowest points of his life. He is fearful for his life. His faith in God is wavering and shaking. And he's in a very, very difficult time. Now God was putting David through this period. This was not something of David's doings. You know, sometimes, and I say this often, but sometimes we we go through rough times because we make stupid decisions Right? Can I get a witness? Sometimes we just, you know, we we we make a dumb decision, we do something stupid, we disobey God. Uh we do some dumb things, and man, we just get through a rough period of time because of that. Sometimes that's it's our own doing. But sometimes we go through tough times simply because God wants to teach us something. Sometimes we go through a rough time because God wants to test us. He wants to prove us. He wants to strengthen our faith. He wants to grow us in the Lord. What do we always say? We give a kid something difficult to do and they don't know why we have to do it and we really don't feel like explaining everything. So we just say, just do it. It builds character. And that's true And sometimes God puts us through difficult times. Sometimes God allows us to go through very low times so that it will build our character. Strengthen our faith. I believe that's what's happening here for David. I believe it in this cave and this whole experience with Saul pursuing him and the discouragement David is dealing with and the Faith in God that he's struggling with. I believe all of this is part of God developing some key characteristics that David needs in his life If he is going to be the king God wants him to be, if he's going to be able to rule in righteousness and honor and be the person God wants to be, he has to go through this difficult time. He has to learn to trust God. Now, there is a list of things, list of characteristics that we need to develop in our Christian life if we're going to be what God wants us to be. And that we could go on, that that could be a very lengthy list. I just want to point out through, and this is not the message, but a few things I believe God is showing here by way of introduction, some lessons God is teaching David. Number one, I believe God is teaching David the importance of having faith in God, of living by faith. The number one characteristic of a child of God we've got to learn to do is to live by faith. Stop leaning on our own understanding. Stop reasoning things out ourselves and simply take God at His Word. Trust him, follow his instructions, follow his leadership, do what he says for us to do, and just live by faith. And David has to learn that And some of the tests he passes, some of the tests he fails. He has to come back and learn it again. But God is putting him through a very difficult time. showing him that he can trust God, that if he'll do what God says, rely on his promises, follow his instructions, heed his warnings, God will take care of him That's an important lesson for you and I. How many folks here this morning? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. Men. Isn't it good to be saved? Thank God, the worst thing that can possibly happen to us if we die, thank God we know we have a home in heaven. Thank God we have the presence of God in our lives. Thank God our sins are forgiven. We have eternal life. I tell you, there's so many things about being saved we could rejoice in. Now, once we're saved, once we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, it's important that we learn to live by faith. That we trust God. Let Him lead us. They say, well, God is telling me this, but I just don't know. No, learn to trust God. I know God says this and I know God instructs me this, but you know, I just think that this would be, no, no, no, learn to trust God. And I know God says don't get involved in that and stay away from this and don't let this be part of your life and God gives us things in his word that we need to say Stay away from and keep out and avoid certain ways we need to think and not think. I know God says all that, but I just think that Listen, we need to learn to live by what? Faith. God says it, that's true. I'm going to trust it. I'm going to believe it. I'm going to follow his instructions. Second thing, I believe, that God is teaching David through this difficult time is to, number two, is to be faithful to God and his word. Have faith in God, but to be faithful to God. Listen, I found it's easy to be faithful to the Lord when everything's going my way. It's easy to be faithful to God when it doesn't cost me anything. It's easy to be faithful to the things of God when it doesn't require any effort, when it doesn't require any energy, if it doesn't require rescheduling My activities, I can be faithful to God. But God is teaching David that he needs to be faithful to the Lord, whether things are going your way or not. Whether David is in the palace or he's out in the wilderness, he needs to learn to be faithful to God and to God's word. The challenge to be faithful in difficult times is greater than when things are going well, but the reward is also greater also. Nobody, nobody admires unfaithfulness I've never done a funeral for a Christian where people came by the casket or family and said, Boy, you know, the thing I admire about him so much is he was just unfaithful. Nobody says that. Nobody admires unfaithfulness. Well, you never knew if they'd be there or not. I really admire that about her. Nobody says that. Nobody honors unfaithfulness. Nobody is encouraged or uplifted. Nobody's life is made better because a Christian is unfaithful to God. It doesn't uplift anybody. It doesn't help and encourage anything. And David has to learn the importance of being faithful to God. Whether things are going well, whether it's easy to do or not, or whether it costs me something, be faithful to God. Now at the risk of getting in trouble, and I certainly don't mean to put anybody on the spot, but I couldn't help but think of it when I saw Miss Sue up here singing that song for the glory of God. You talk about faithful to God. I tell you, over all these years, next Sunday, it'd be 22 years we've been here, and I tell you, I've heard some of the lamest excuses for not being faithful to God. And Miss Sue's testimony puts every one of those lame excuses to bed. Anybody had a reason this morning to stay home. If anybody had a reason this morning to say, I can't sing for God's glory, I can't do something for God's If anybody had a reason, she did, but she's in her place doing all she can for the glory of God. And we love Miss Sue and thank God, what a testimony. Can you imagine if we had a church full of folks that had that level of commitment and faithfulness, what we could do with the gospel? So David is learning. God is trying to teach David. Number one, have faith in God. Trust him. Let him lead. Number two, be faithful to God. David, you need to be in your place. You need to be doing what God tells you to do, faithfully, in good times and bad, in day at night, in storms and in sunshine. In youth and in old age, being faithful, being faithful, being faithful. A third characteristic, I believe God is teaching David here, and which leads us into our passage. Is the importance of prayer. Importance of prayer. It is in the difficult times we learn to pray. It is in the difficult times we learn that God answers prayer. I found that if all my bills are paid, I don't pray as much over them. I found that when my health is well, I don't pray as much. But brother, that doctor says if you don't, if something doesn't change, you're going to be in real bad shape, brother, suddenly we start praying. We get that pink slip at work, and they say we only got two more weeks of work and we're going to have to let you go, brother. Suddenly we start praying. And it is in the low times, it is in the difficult times we learn to pray. And so God is teaching David the importance of prayer. The importance of prayer. If we could only learn to consistently trust God, Be in our place, faithful to God, praying and looking to Him, we would be on the road to be strong, healthy, victorious Christians. Trusting God, faithful to God, pray. Those three things are so vital. And then we could give a list of others. Now Here David is in a cave. Psalm 142. A prayer when he was in the cave. A prayer in a cave. I want us to notice a few things from this Psalm 142, a few thoughts here from this passage. Now keep in mind what we already said. God, David's in a low period of time. God is teaching them. He's allowed them to go through this difficult time, this dark time. God has a plan. God has a purpose. He wants to develop some characteristics. He wants David to learn to have faith in him. He wants David to learn to be faithful to him. He wants David to learn that God answers prayer Now look at this. Number one, this is my first thought here, and I'll try to give these real quickly. Number one, I want us to notice David's cry in the cave. David's cry. And I get that from verse number one of Psalm 142. He says, I cried unto the Lord with my voice. With my voice unto the Lord did I make my supplication. Look down at verse number five. I cried unto thee, O Lord. David's in a cave, and he's crying. That word cry there has the idea of just what you would think. I cried unto the Lord. It has the idea of crying out It is a verbal expression. It's not just you think of somebody sitting in a corner just crying and tears going down. It includes that. But when he says, I cried out to the Lord, he is verbally expressing his grief. In fact, part of the definition of that word and as it's used throughout the Bible is a verbal expression of distress. Oh God, I'm hurting! He is crying out verbally, out loud, with his voice, he says, crying out to God, telling him all that he's going through. And the interesting thing is, as it's used, this word is used 40, it's used 73 times throughout the Old Testament, that word cried out. It's used where Israel cries out to God when they were in Egypt and they were under tremendous oppression And the Egyptians were uh uh taking advantage of them and abusing them and killing their children, forced abortions And the Bible says that Israel cried out unto the Lord. And the Bible says God heard their cry. He sent Moses and brought deliverance. Then as they get out of Egypt, they face the Red Sea. Egyptians coming behind them. And the Bible says they cried out to the Lord, a whole nation verbally crying out to God of their distress. It's interesting, and then it's used of various individuals throughout the Old Testament, of course, David being one of them. But the interesting thing here is this word is used, it doesn't necessarily involve making a request. Many times it's simply the expression of a broken heart to God. It's simply the verbal expression of a distressed life. Not even necessarily asking for anything, but just crying out, telling God what my situation is, what my heartache is, what I'm going through David's cry in the cave. David is obviously in tremendous distress. Saul is trying to kill him. He's separated from his family. David is in great distress, but he knows where to look. He knows where to turn to. David knows what to do. In his distress, he cries unto the Lord. Now listen, I don't know where you're at this morning. I know for a certain, I'm talking to some folks, that this morning there's distress in your heart. I know for a fact there's some folks I'm talking to this morning, there's turmoil going on. In many ways, you feel like you're in a cave And I'm telling you, in your distress and in the turmoil that maybe nobody else understands or nobody else even knows about, I'm here to tell you you can look to God and cry to God. He is a source to cry to. David was in distress, but he knew where to turn to. A cave. He's crying out to God in a cave. Now, I'm not real big on getting into caves. I've been a few on our honeymoon. We went down to um uh down to Larae Caverns in Virginia. Many of you have been there and uh we went down in the caves and it was nice and I don't it didn't matter where we went, I was with her, I was happy. This is my wife, my new wife. And so we could have went to the moon. I'd have been thrilled. And um but I tell you this, I got that's the only cave I really ever remember going in. I think we did one in Kentucky when I was a kid But the thing I remember most about caves is glad when I get out of it. It's my favorite part about caves is getting out of them. We lived in Tennessee. Bunch of the students down there went spelunking Anybody know what spelunking is? Anybody here ever do that? Good, we get most of it. A couple standy Is that right? I thought there was something funny about you. I have no desire to crawl down through little caves. As far as I'm concerned, caves are made to get out of So David's in a cave. He's trying. A cave can be, a cave in my mind, can be an awfully lonely place. You don't think of big crowds in a cave. You think of loneliness. I see David, and I don't can't say I'm sure there was others with him, but I see David way back in the corner of this cave in a dark recessed area and the and his his men, his associates, assistants with him, they're out of way. And you can just hear his cries echoing out, crying out to God. Oh God. A cave can be an awfully lonely place. Sometimes our homes become a cave. A lonely place. Maybe, maybe your spouse left you. Maybe it was unexpected. You come home and it's empty. It's empty. Just forgive me for being a little personal here, but I remember it's so vivid in my mind. I come home from school 14 years old and half the furniture is moved out. Come home and mom and moved out. That home became a cave. It was so lonely, so empty. A home, a cave is a lonely place. An empty home can be a cave. A spouse leaves the loved one. Maybe it's a home becomes a cave when a loved one passes away. And that dinner table where they once sat is now it's an empty seat. I tell you, that loneliness and that grief sometimes can be awfully great. Cave can is generally a very lonely place. In fact, look at verse number four. It says, I looked on my right hand and beheld, but there was no man that would know me. Refuge failed me. Look at the last phrase of verse number four No man cared for my soul. David is lonely. And he's looking up to God in this cave of loneliness. And he's crying out to God, crying out to God. Emptiness. Kids move out, and suddenly that home is empty, and you look across the table at your spouse and you say, Who is this stranger? Now I don't know about how it worked for y'all, but we're now in the empty nest thing. We're loving it, to be honest with you. So we've been waiting for this for a long time. We can come and go as we want. We can do what we want. But I do miss the boys. That's because I said that 'cause they get these C Ds. And uh now we do. We do very much. But Cave can be a very lonely place. And in his loneliness, in this dreary, this lonely place, David cries out to God, I don't know where you're at, you may be In a cave of loneliness today. I'm here to tell you, you have a heavenly father that loves you very much. And in your loneliness, you can come to the Lord and just cry out to him. Just cry out to him. A cave can be a lonely place. A cave can be a very dark, dreary place. You think of dampness and water dripping and darkness. Trials. Sometimes, I don't know, have you ever been this way? Does it just seem like sometimes it's just one after another? You get through one and you're hit with something else. And you finally deal with that and you're hit with something else. And it's just like, man How long does this go on? How long are we going to have to deal with this? And David was in that similar situation, and he'd deal with King Saul and he thinks he made peace. And Saul says, Alright, I won't pursue you anymore. And lo and behold, a day later Saul's right back at it again. And it was like he could never get beyond this. Cave can be a dark, dreary place, trials, losing a job, maybe failure. Maybe I'm talking to someone this morning And uh you failed God in some way. And sin because of lack of faith and a foolish decision, you find yourself dealing with the effects of a sinful act, a sinful decision And you think, can I ever get out of this cave of failure? Can I ever get out of this cave of guilt? Can God ever use me again? Can I ever be happy in the Lord again? Can I ever be a witness for my God again? I'm here to tell you, yes, you can. There's a God in heaven that we can cry out to. And I thank God that the blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanses us from all sin. David's in a cave. He's crying out to God. Maybe it's a cave of loneliness, cave of dreariness, of failure. A cave can be, I put this down, a cave can be a very scary place Um we uh we took the um uh juniors to Harrington Manor State Park. Anybody how many folks have ever been out to Harrington Manor, there's a lake out there? That's a nice place. I wouldn't view that as scary out there, would you? If you're a fourth, fifth, or sixth grader, that could be a scary place, especially the alligators in the lake out there. Did you know that? So are there alligators in the lake? He just said, What Bears and snakes. Oh my. But I tell you what, what is A young fourth, fifth, or sixth grader, what's scary to them and what's scary to an adult are two different things. That doctor says we found cancer That's scary. What do you mean? How thorough is it? Um maybe a new phase in life Young person graduates from college and now they're stepping out in the real world and they're taking responsibilities. That can be a scary thing. Maybe a young couple gets married and they have their first serious disagreement And harsh words are said and unkind things are said and you get scared. You think, where is this going to go? How is this going to play out? Cave can be a scary place, it can be a dark, dreary place, it can be a lonely place, and in his cave David knew where to look. He cried out to God. He just poured out his heart to God. He just cried out to God. I'm glad our God is not just a God of sunshine and meadows, but our God is also a God of dark caves and storms. God is a God of the mountains and He's also a God of the valleys. And when God blessed you when things were going well, I'm here to tell you God can and will care for you when things are going bad. God is the God not only of sunshine, but also of storms, not only of mountainsides, but also of dark caves. David knew how to sing and praise God and pray and rejoice in the Lord when he's up on the hillside with the sheep and he's writing, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. David knew how to do that, but now As an adult, he's learning that even in the cave, alone, dark, scared, God is still God. And God still cares and he can come and look to the Lord. He's learning to pray and trust God in the case. I thought about Jonah. Things are going well. Jonah's in control. Boy, I'm not going to Nineveh. I'm going here. But down in the belly of a whale, Jonah did some serious praying. One of the greatest prayers ever prayed, I think, is recorded when Jonah was in the belly of a whale. And God was teaching Jonah that even in that cave, quote unquote, God can hear, God can answer, and God can answer prayer, and God can change situations. So David's learning that. David's learning that Now I got thinking about this. David's praying pretty seriously here in this cave. I mean, it's pretty intense If only, and it's easy for me to say this now looking back several thousand years, but if only he would have kept praying as intensely on the rooftop of his castle As he prayed in the cave in the wilderness, he may have avoided some heartaches. Follow what I'm saying? He's on the rooftop as king and everything's going as well and they're wiping out the Philistines and the the kingdom is growing and his army is getting stronger and the the the the the uh coffers are filled with riches. And everything is exactly the way David dreamed it would ever be as king of Israel. And he quits crying out to God. And he neglects his prayer. And on the rooftop he looks out and sees Bathsheba and makes a decision, a devastating decision to sin against God. And it cost them dearly. I thought as I was reading this prayer in a cave, I thought, boy, if only he could have prayed like that on the roof of his castle. Maybe it would avoid it a lot of heartache. If only we would learn to pray as diligently when things are going right as we do when things are going wrong. We may avoid a lot of heartache. We may avoid a lot of trouble. In your distress, cry out to God. Number two, I noticed David's cry in the cave. Number one, David's cry in the cave. Number two, I want us to notice David's complaint in the cave. Now I don't know about you, when I think of complaining, I think of a negative thing, right? How many people love it when your kids came and complained to you? Well we say, stop your complaining or I'll spank ya. That's well, you always spank me when I complain. They start complaining about that I think of complaining as a negative thing. But look at verse number two here. He says, I poured out my what? Complaint before him. I showed before him my trouble. When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then thou knewest my path. And the way wherein I walked have they privily laid a snare for me. He's griping Wherever I go, this soul is putting traps out there. He's trying to trick me and ambush me. He's trying to kill me. I looked on my right hand and beheld there was no man that would know me Refuse family, no man care for me. He's just griping to God. Saul's trying to trick me and he's trying to kill me and nobody cares about me and I'm all alone and he's just Pouring out his complaint to God. I got studying that word complaint. I thought this was interesting. The word complaint here is it's used through scripture is very similar similar to the word meditate. I thought, well that's strange Complain, meditate. But it has this idea: it is the negative version of meditating. In other words, what do you do when you're meditating on something? You're what? You're thinking it over and over, you're thinking it through, and it's going over and over. Often use the illustration of a cow chewing its cud They'll go out and prop down the grass and swallow it and then go back, settle under a tree or somewhere in the shade, and regurgitate that back up and chew it over and over and over again. And I'm really tempted to say gross things about that before we eat lunch. But what does that cow do? He gets the the meal back up and he just chews it over and over and over. And the idea of meditating is taking a truth, a promise, a uh uh some information about God and I just dwell on it over and over and I try and get everything I can out of it. Well complain is the negative version of that Complaint is to take something I'm unhappy with, something that displeases me, something that makes me uh unhappy or dissatisfied, something that distresses me and I just go over and over and over in my mind. And I dwell on it and I think it through and I uh uh I I approach it from every aspect and Saul is trying to kill me and nobody cares about me and they're setting traps for me and every moment I get up I have to fight for my life and I'm fleeing for my life and I don't see any of your promises coming true, God and nothing Everything is panning out the way I thought it would, and he's just going over and over and over. Complaining, complaining. Rehearsing over and over some injustice. Rehearsing over and over an unkindness or a grief that someone has brought into my life. And we do that. Somebody has done you wrong. Brother, that's all you can think about. Just rehearsing that over and over in every aspect of what they did and what they said. Eating away. Somebody's been unjust. Somebody's caused some grief. The word complaint there, the one definition I came across was this. To babble over and over and over. What is David doing? He is taking everything that Saul has done wrong for him and all his perceived unjustices and unkindnesses by people around him, and he is just babbling and going over and over to God. To God. To God. The word there, I thought this was interesting also in verse number two. He says, the second part, he says, I showed before him my trouble. I looked up that phrase, my trouble, and how it's used through scripture, and it has this idea. It's not just trouble in general, but he's talking about Uh he says, uh uh I showed before him God, I showed before God the one who is troubling me. He's referring to King Saul as my trouble. That man is my trouble. He's distressing me, he's causing me grief, and he pours it out to God. And he tells God all about How terrible King Saul is at all these things he's doing to him. Here's the point David went to the one who could thoroughly deal with his complaint. I want to suggest to you, based on this and my study of this, I want to suggest to you that it is perfectly Now let me back up. How many people here ever taught your kids I I think I already said this how many people ever taught your kids to not complain? And but you told your kids don't complain. Sure we did. How many people complained about your kids complaining? Yeah. He said, don't complain. Stop complaining. You got it good. And by the way, we've got it pretty good. You know what gets under my crawl? Kathy and I were talking about this week. We were complaining about About folks that God has been so good to them and they're so ungrateful. And I want to choke them. Don't you see how good what God has done for you? And so we teach our kids and we try and say, don't complain, be thankful, don't complain. But I'm going to suggest to you, based on my study here, that complaining is okay as long as I am complaining to God. God wants me to come and tell him what I'm unhappy about. God wants me to come and pour out my troubles and my distress and God She is driving me crazy, and God she's doing this to me, and God she's doing that to me, and God does this, and God, He is just driving me nuts. And my boss at work is not fair and he keeps setting me up and God and just pour it out to God. Now I'd suggest we pour all our complaints out to God and shut up when it comes to complaining to others. They can't do anything about it. All we're doing is hurting them. But I tell you what, God wants to know what's on my heart. Not because he's ignorant of it. He wants me to pour it out to him. You know what I found? When I pour my heart out to God, I don't need to dump on somebody else so much. If somebody's coming around, they're always griping to me about something or somebody or something, that tells me one thing. They're probably not taking it to the Lord very much. They're taken at the other people. And David learned, I can pour my complaint out to God. It's interesting. You watch, study carefully how David talked to King Saul. He talks respectfully He talks, he says, You're anointed. I would never do anything wrong to you. King Saul, I would never touch you. You're God's man. I support you 100%. Then in the cave, he's talking to God. God, that guy's driving me nuts God is trying to kill me. It's not fair. He poured his complaint out to God. You know what an altar is? An altar is a good place to complain to God. God, this is my situation. God, my heart is broken. God, this is that and the other. David cried his complaint in the cave. poured it out to God. We can pour our hearts out to God. We can freely tell God how we feel. I've said this before. There's nothing wrong with gossip. I hope you'll gossip about me. But I hope you'll gossip to me about me to God. Because God can help me and God can make it right. If you gossip about me to Kenton, it's not much he can do. But um If you gossip to other people about somebody, you're not helping the situation. But you take that gossip and pour it. But God, do you know what preachers do? You know how long he preaches every Sunday morning? Preaches and just pour it out to God. Pour it out to God. I'm glad we have a God that I can just be open and honest with. I'm glad that God cares enough about me. We can be so confident in God's love for us and God's concern for us that we can just tell Him whatever we feel Oh, this is how I feel about it. Now, don't misunderstand. I don't mean we get hateful to God. We trust him. He loves us dearly. We trust him completely. But he wants to know what's tearing us up. He wants to know what concerns us. He wants us to tell him what's concerned about. And so David in the cave, he cries out to God. I mean, this is, he's in a horrible situation. He pours out and he complains to God When we trust God completely and are confident of His unconditional love for us, we can pour our hearts out to Him. I want to challenge you this coming week. I'm talking to somebody that you've got some legitimate complaints You've got, at least in your mind, legitimate complaints. I want to challenge you this week, every day this week. Take that complaint to God Find a place you can get alone with the Lord, get on your knees and just pour it out to God. God, this is what I'm dealing with. God, this is the way I see it. God, this I don't know. And it's interesting if you read through the Psalms, David does that over and over and over and over. Number three, I notice, first of all, his cry in the cave. Number two, his complaint in the cave, and I want to end with this, David's confidence in the cave. Look with me if you would at verse number five. I cried unto thee, O Lord, and said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living. God, I have complete confidence in you, God, that you're going to take care of me. God, I have complete confidence in you. You're going to protect me. Look at verse number 7, the last part. He says, the righteous shall come past me about, for thou shalt deal bountifully with me. David is saying, Lord, I'm looking to you. I believe you have some better days coming for me. Lord, I believe because of your power and your love and your plan for me, that it's not always going to be this way. And I like to when I talk to folks and they come and they're so discouraged and they're so depressed. One of the first things I try to show them from the Word of God, say, hey, listen, it's not always going to be this way. Trust God. Let them lead you. It's not going to be this way all the time. And if worse comes the worst, uh we've got a better day coming. When Jesus comes back. When we fail to believe that it's that when we fail to understand that it's not always going to be this way, we lose hope. David says, Lord, you're my refuge. You will deal bountifully with me. His confidence in the Lord gave him hope. And I'm here to tell you, we have a God that can deal with the worst of circumstances. Not one need you or I have that God cannot meet. There's not one problem that you or I have that our God cannot solve. There's not one situation that We find ourselves in that our God cannot correct. We've got to believe that And in the cave of loneliness and fear and discouragement, we've got to cry out to God, pour out our complaint to him, but have absolute confidence that he is who he says he is, and he will do what he's promised to do. If I will just trust him. How many people recognize the name Charles Weigel? Anybody recognize that name? One of the great, great hymns, it's in our hymn book. No one ever cared for me like Jesus. Charles Weigel, and I had the privilege of um being down at Temple. He had passed away before I was there, but there was uh buildings named after him. And many of my professors and people that uh we knew there had known Charles Weigel. He la spent the last fifteen years of his life living on the campus of the college there. Charles Weigel from his early adulthood was an evangelist. And he traveled the country, actually, he traveled the world preaching, a very powerful preacher God used them in tremendous ways. I believe if I remember correctly, they were living in Florida at the time, and he had been out preaching meetings somewhere, and he came home, and on the table in the in his home was a note from his wife. And she says, I've left. I do not want to live the life of a preacher's wife anymore. I want to enjoy life. I want to get out and dance and and I want to get out and enjoy the world. And she left him and she did that. And there's not a lot of information on her, but I'd some folks that I'd talked to and some research I'd done years ago found that she had at the end of her life she was destroyed and and just ruined. Her testimony was horrible and she had come back if I remember correctly. Understand the story correctly, she had apologized to him and recognized that she had made a horrible mistake Charles Weigel came home and saw that and realized what the circumstances were and what the situation was he was facing, went into several years of severe discouragement. As far as he was concerned, his life in ministry was over. There was nothing left for him to do. And after several years of, as I said, just darkness and despair and discouragement and trying desperately to put things in place. Said one day he was sitting at his piano. He was a proficient singer, a very gifted singer, and had written some songs. He just sat there And he began to play. And the words came to his mind. The song called No One Ever Cared for Me Like Jesus. It goes like this. I would love to tell you what I think of Jesus. Since I found in him a friend so strong and true, I would tell you how he changed my life completely. He did something that no other friend could do. All my life was filled with sin when Jesus found me. All my heart was full of misery and woe. Jesus placed his strong and loving arms around me. And he led me in the way I ought to go. Every day he comes to me with new assurance. More and more I understand his words of love. But I'll never know just why he came to save me till someday I see his blessed face above. And here's the chorus. Broken man, dream shattered in a cave of discouragement and despair, he said this. No one ever cared for me like Jesus. There's no other friend so kind as he. No one else could take the sin and darkness from me. Oh, how much he cares for me. What a testimony. What a testimony. Maybe you're in a cave this morning. Maybe things haven't played out the way you thought. Maybe there's some decisions made, some failure. The darkness of the cave and the loneliness of the cave and the discouragement or the fear. I'm here to tell you we have a God in heaven that's God in the cave just as much as he's God out on top of the mountain. And he can and will answer prayer if we will trust him. Pour out our heart to him and let him lead us and direct us. Amen? Father in heaven, please help us. I pray you'd bless. Teach us to pray. Teach us to trust you. Teach us to be faithful. Lord, I pray that in our caves we can look above and see you and know that You'll be our refuge and you'll help us. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would stay this morning. Preacher, I'm facing some situations that are a bit overwhelming. Preacher, I'm dealing with some issues that are Very discouraging. And you'd say, preacher, I'm going to decide this morning. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to pray to Him and I'm going to pour out my heart to Him. I'm just going to let Him take this and let him correct it and lean and trust on him completely and look to him to turn this thing around. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me There are some situations that are awfully discouraging. God bless you, hands all around. How about at others? Preachers, some situations, they're like a cave And I need the Lord to help me, and I need to learn to trust him and look to him. How about it? Any others? Any others? God bless you? A few others around. Now listen, what did David do? He prayed, poured out his complaint And he believed that God was able and God would direct him as he just trust him and let the Lord have his way and do what he says. Would there happen to be someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven This morning you're not sure that God has forgiven all your sins, that heaven's your home and not hell. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me also. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. And you'd like for me to pray that God would help you settle that. Is there any like that but this morning by the uplifted hand? How about it? Any at all, preacher? I'm not sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven I don't want to go to hell. I want to be sure I'm going to heaven. How about it? Any at all? God bless you. How about it? Others? Others? Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our invitation. I pray for every hand raised. Lord, that you would help Us to take our burdens, our fears, our concerns, and pour them out to you, trusting you. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.