Chapter four and uh verse number nineteen. I'd like for us to read this verse together in unison. Let me ask this question. How many folks you're familiar with Philippians four nineteen? Anybody familiar with that verse Sure. Let me ask this. How many people have Philippians 419? You could quote it. You have it memorized. You use that. Yeah, good number there. Great verse. Let's read it together in unison. Ready? Begin But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. I've entitled the message this morning, A Promise for a New Year. A promise for a new year. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you this morning with an open Bible on our laps in front of us. And we're grateful for the Bible, Lord. We want to know what you have to say to us. And God, we ask that your Holy Spirit now, in the next few moments, would take the truths and the verses, the principles. The promises that we're going to look at here this morning, I pray your Holy Spirit apply them to our lives as you know we have need. And Lord, there's needs, various needs, represented all across this congregation. Everybody tuned in. Lord, we have needs. And you've promised, given us a tremendous promise here for this coming year and for our lives. So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I pray with all my heart that you fill me With your Holy Spirit and you speak through me, Lord, to each of our hearts and minds. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen Philippians, the book of Philippians was penned by the Apostle Paul. We get that in the opening verses there. There's no dispute about that. Apostle Paul wrote this letter to the church that was in a European city, actually, of Philippi was the name of the city. Where this church was. So Paul, Paul, the Apostle Paul was the penman. I say it every time we touch on this. But the author of the book of Philippians is who? It's God Himself. Holy Spirit of God is the author of the Bible and the book of Philippians. So God used Paul to pen this church to the church at Philippi there. The Church of Philippi was a good church by any standard. They were a good church biblically They were following the instructions, the pattern given us in the Word of God. It was a good church. Paul actually would God used Paul to start the church And uh he did a good job in getting them grounded in the Word of God. And so it was a good church. It was a strong church. They had a very effective witness into their community They had a very, very powerful uh witness and testimony of the gospel and people were being saved. And they had a uh, like I said, a very, very effective witness there So we study the book of Philippians, you can't help but get the impression that this was a very happy church. The joy of the Lord was evident in their services and as they would assemble together as they served the Lord They had great joy in serving Jesus. And so we get a picture of this church here. And it was a church that was alive. How many people know what I mean when I say a church is alive? There's things happening. The joy of the Lord is there. Life. It's part of the the fabric of the church. They were alive. Several months ago we had a uh some folks visited our church and they drove a pretty good little ways to get here And uh they just came wanted to be in a service. It was back before the new year. And uh they s and um I knew them and they and I went and got talking to them. I said, Well what brings you there? Well we just want to come Just want to get in on a service here, just want to be part of service today. I said, man, uh you drove a ways to get here. Just to get in on a service. And they made a statement, I love it. They said, a church that's alive is worth the drive. I said, Amen. That's our new motto right there. And uh I don't know about you. I want to be a part of a good church. Amen. I want Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to be a good church. We want to work towards that, being a good church. And I mean good by God's standard of good. I want us to be a strong church I pray. I'd like to think, and we've got to work at it all the time, but I'd like to have a effective witness into our community. Is anybody on board with me on this? I want us to be a good lighthouse. for the gospel of Jesus Christ here in Garrett County and surrounding areas. I want us to be a happy church, and I think we are to a good degree, in spite of the corny jokes I think we're a pretty good, happy church. If you'll listen carefully before services and after service, you get out people standing around talking. People are laughing and people enjoying one another. And just a church that's alive. That's what Phil the Philippian church was. Paul's writing to that. And he's addressing some issues we'll look at here in a bit. But it's a good, solid church. Now, having said all that, I want to say this. The Philippian church was not a perfect church. By the way, if you ever find a perfect church, do me a favor, do not join it because you'll ruin it. The fact of the matter is, now you understand this, right? The fact of the matter is there are no perfect churches. None zip zero. You look at a church from a distance and say, Man, that's a great church. That's a perfect church And then you get there and get close up and get involved and you find out it's not perfect. By the way, a church can be a good church even though they're not perfect. It can be a lie. It can be effective in their witness. And so if you get around, you say, oh, here's a flaw or here's a mistake or here's something that isn't perfect, don't dump the whole thing out. Church can be a good church even though it's not perfect. Turn over to chapter number two uh let's see chapter number four stay don't turn to chapter four stay in chapter four look at verse number two Now, Paul is writing this again under the inspiration of God to the church at Philippi, and he makes this statement in verse number two. Look at it. I beseech Eodius. And beseech Sintiki that they be of the same mind. He's telling these two folks, these two ladies here, that they need to be of the same mind. That implies to us that they what? They were not of the same mind. And that suggests to us that they were doing what? They're fussing. They're arguing. And I mean they're just, there's division here between these two ladies And so in the whole book, you know, it's positive, positive, makes this one little statement here, and you know what that tells me? The church wasn't perfect. There's people. Anytime you get people together, you're going to have to work at dealing with having a same mind. You know what I found out? Everybody's got a different opinion. Anybody notice that? Somebody said everybody uh opinions are like armpits. Everyone has one, and most of them don't smell too good. And so anytime you have people together, you're going to have to work at having the same mind. So Paul's writing to the church here. And uh good church, good, alive, happy, rejoicing in the Lord, witnessing, winning souls, powerful testimony. They had their things they had to work on, like every church does. It was the first church established on European soil. How about that? And uh Paul got up there and the first church on European soil, started by Paul on his second missionary journey. And if you want to learn about how Paul showed up in the city of Philippi and the events that took place, read Acts chapter 16. We have a fascinating account there. Paul shows up and lady gets saved. He ends up in prison. The authorities threw him in prison because of the stir there preaching the gospel. And uh if you remember the earthquake. And then that great record of the Philippian jailer coming in. What must I do to be saved? And Paul gave that great statement, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house So study Acts chapter 16. It's a fascinating account of how this church here in Philippi got started. Now this is years later. Paul is writing back to this church By the way, he's in prison in Rome when he's writing this letter to the church at Philippi. Again, he's in prison for preaching the gospel and is stand for Christ. The book itself, I like to do a little overview of the book. The book itself is a book about joy. Paul, you can't read this book and don't come away where the joy of the Lord is all over the book of Philippians. Now it's kind of ironic that Paul is writing from a Roman prison. to a church in Philippi about the joy of the Lord and referencing himself, how he is Learn to be content in all things and rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. And so I don't know about you, but if I was languishing in a Roman prison I might not be writing about joy. Anybody with me on that? I'm probably complaining about my conditions. I'm probably trying to get somebody to call Christian Law Association and get me out of here But Paul's rejoicing in the Lord. He's just happy as can be. And so the theme, part of the theme of the book is joy. The book of Philippians is about Jesus Christ. You want to learn more about Jesus Christ, read the book of Philippians, chapter 2 in particular, and get the mind of Christ And though he was God, yet he humbled himself and became obedient to man. What a great passage chapter two is. And I look at uh the book of Philippians, really as a book about a it's a letter, but a book about the heart of a missionary. Paul is writing as a missionary back to a church that he had established on his Second missionary journey, and he's giving a report back to them. Now he's teaching them, he's pointing them to Christ, he's encouraging them, he's complimenting them But he's kind of giving a report on how things are going with them. And pretty much the last chapter, the last half of the last chapter, he's thanking them for the support that they had been sending to him and making sure his needs were met, making sure he could function in what God had called him to do It's very much a what we might refer to as a missionary prayer letter every morning and every Sunday morning in Sunday school. Brother Charlie reads a missionary letter to us. This morning we had the lanes down heading to Honduras. They gave us a report back and they thanked us for our support and our prayers and the finances we sent. And that's a lot what Paul is doing here. He's thanking them and giving a bit of a report. We come to chapter 4 and verse number 19, our text for this morning. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. This verse, this promise here has been claimed by God's people for centuries and centuries for 2,000 years. The churches of Jesus Christ, individual Christians, have been claiming this promise. My God shall Supply all my needs according to his riches by Christ Jesus. Anybody here ever claim this verse? Anybody here ever get in a situation and say, all right God, you promise God, I'm trusting you. I've done it. I've claimed this verse many times. I believe that Philippians chapter 4, verse 19, I believe it's true because God said it But I got a secondary reason for believing it's true. Not just because God said it, but because God has proven Himself to be true in this promise. I've seen God meet my needs. Can I get a witness? Anybody? God has met my needs. Sometimes in strange and miraculous ways. I have no doubt we could stand this morning. Folks could testify up until the snow's a foot deep. About how that would only be a few minutes probably here, but Folks all across this auditorium could testify how God met needs in different circumstances, different situations, sometimes in unusual ways. Amen or not? We could, I know we could. I've experienced this promise here. I've seen God keep this promise to me. Back in 1983, I was a student at Tennessee Temple University. I had sold my car when I moved down there in 81, the fall of 81, I moved down to Chattanooga. I had a car, a nice Toyota Selica. Anybody Ooh, fancy. And sold that thing so I'd have money to go to college. And um I had a bicycle. And so for my first year or so down there, a year and a half, I rode my bicycle to work in different places. And uh in 1983, that fall of 1983, um The bus director came to me of Highland Park Baptist Church. He said, I'd like for you to take a bus route, have your own bus route into the inner city of Chattanooga, the projects. of Chattanooga. And they were rough and I had been working on the buses, helping uh some other bus routes. So they said, Brother Lemon, we need a bus captain. We need someone take this route. Now this is a pretty big area You know, we're bringing in 75, 80 kids around there. Between 50 and 100, it would fluctuate sometimes. But average about 75 kids a week on this big bus. And oh, I never did anything like this before. You know, I'm still fairly new Christian, a few years, and uh the bus captain. And so I said, let me pray about it. Uh short. And uh I just knew it was God's will. I was so excited about that. And I got back to my uh had an apartment. I got back to my apartment And it dawned on me, I don't have any vehicle to get out there and visit this route. I've got to visit, I've got to have a vehicle. And um uh it never even dawned on me it was too far to ride the bike And um so uh I just said, Lord, you know I need a I need some sort of ego. I'm telling you, without telling anybody, not saying a word That same week, a fellow that was graduating in January, it was last semester, he came to me and he said, Brother Leatherman, I've got a grand torino, I think is what it was. And that thing was old beat-up car. And uh he says, I'm graduating, I'm I don't need this thing. I'd like to, if it's all right with you, I'd like to just give you this car um uh for you to have you don't have a car and and you need a car so I'd like to give it to you. How many people think I refused that offer I said, are you sure? He says, yeah, I'm sure. I wouldn't be saying it if I wasn't sure. I said, well, praise the Lord. And I told him, I said, I just accepted to be a bus captain. And uh I said, you're an answer to prayer. You know what that was? That was God supplying my needs. I've seen it over and over and over. We could testify here. God, my God, shall supply all your needs. According to his riches in Christ Jesus. You've heard the quotes, the little cliches. Where God leads, where God leads you, God will feed you. Did you ever hear that? Anybody ever hear that one How about this one? Where God guides, God provides. Where God guides, God provides. I like this quote. I've got these written in margins of my Bible, throughout my Bible, different quotes. The will of God will never take me where the grace of God cannot sustain me You know what they're saying? They're saying, God will take care of you. God will supply your needs. My God shall supply all your needs, according to his riches, in Christ Jesus. In glory. Here's another one. I thought of Paul Sine, Charlotte's Homesick today, but I thought of Paul Sines, been with the Lord a number of years ago now, but he used to say this statement, if God brings you to it, he will. anybody know? Take you through it. God brings you to it. He'll take you through it. You know what they're saying? My God shall supply all your needs According to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. What a promise. Those are not just cliches. They are biblical truths that you and I can live by. In 2022, say, oh, preacher, I don't know what this year holds. It's been crazy. I don't know what this year holds, to be honest with you, but I know this: God shall supply all your needs in Christ Jesus. in glory by Christ Jesus according to his riches. I know that. I know that's true. Economies go up and down. God stays the same. Circumstances sometimes are great, sometimes not so great. Sometimes we're on a mountaintop, sometimes we're in the valley of the shadow of death. But nevertheless, God's word remains the same, and God's promises are true. My God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. Three thoughts this morning. I'm going to try and get them in here to you before the snowflakes start flying. Number one I want us to consider the context of this promise. Now, anytime you're studying the Bible, anytime you're looking at a verse or a word or a specific passage, One of the things you want to do to understand what God is saying is you must take that verse in context. Everybody understands that, right? What it's saying in context. You understand a statement can mean something different in a different context. And that's what cults do. And that's what lazy Bible students do Is they take verses and they take statements and sometimes take promises and they take it out of the context and they apply it in a way that God never intended for it to be applied. Are you with me on this? It's important to understand that. Some people are out there trying to claim promises God never made. And so we have to take it in context. So I want us to look this morning at the context of Philippians 4:19. My God shall supply all your need. Well, if you look at it, what Pastor Matt read here a little bit ago. Paul is thanking the church at Philippi for their very, very generous support that they've been sending to him as he's been out on his missionary journeys preaching it. In a very real way, he's thanking them for what we would call their faith promise giving. They had committed to Paul that they would support him. And they did that and they carried through. And sometimes, you know, they didn't have the communication, the transportation. We'll see here in a minute. Sometimes they wanted to, but they were unable to get it to them So then later on, when they could get it to them, they made sure they made up for it. Look with me at verse 10. I know Pastor Matt read this, but let's look at it so we can get verse 19 in its context. But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, verse 10. That now at the last, look at this next statement, your care of me. You could word it this way: your support. For what God has called me to do. Your care of me. You've been taking care of me. You've been giving towards what God has called me to do. That now, at the last, your care of me hath flourished again. Wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity. In other words, they were anxious to get it to them, but because of circumstances, they couldn't get it there at that time. But now he says it's flourished, it's back, you've made up, I've got it. It's come, I've received it. Look at verse 11. He's careful here. He says, not that I speak in respect of want. What a great statement this next statement is. For I have learned, in whatever state I am, therewith to be what? Content. We're going to talk about that in a little bit. I know both how to be abase and I know how to be abound. In other words, I know what it's like to just have abundance of everything. I know what it's like. To be scraping the barrel, the cupboard being bare. I know what it's like for both of them. Everywhere and in all things, I am instructed. God's told me, both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. He makes that great statement, verse 13, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Now the context of that verse, let me just throw this in. The context of that verse is Paul is saying, listen, hey, I can get I can still survive even if I have very little or nothing. If I'm in poverty, I can still do what I need to do. If I've got riches, I can still do what I need to do. If everything's going my way, I can do all things. If nothing's going my way, I can still be what God wants me to be. Listen Stop depending on circumstances and materialism to determine whether you can obey God or not. You and I can obey God if we're rich. You and I can obey God if we're poor. Amen or not? Oh, if I just had more income, then I could really do something for God. No, you can do something for God if you're under poverty. Say, oh, if I had a nicer vehicle, oh, if I had a better house, oh no, no, no, I can do all things through Christ. That's the context of that promise. And so let's read on. Notwithstanding, now he's thanking them for the support they've been sending him. Notwithstanding, ye have well done in that ye did communicate with my affliction Oh, you guys are great. You guys are a blessing. Oh, when I was in affliction, when I was in need, you guys came through. You did great. Now, ye Philippians, know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I just parted from Macedonia, when I first started out, when I went out preaching, The beginning of the gospel, no church communicated with me as giving and receiving. Nobody was sending me nothing. None of my support was coming in, but look what he says, but ye only. They were faithful. They made sure they got that support to Paul. Not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. But I have all and abound, I'm full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odor of sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. What's Paul doing? He's writing and he's thankful for their support. Paul is very grateful for their support. Now I'm tempted to stop there and talk about gratitude a little bit. Christians ought to be grateful. I'm telling you, that is one thing, I think, in our society, and it is creeping into our churches, this ungratefulness, this ingratitude I'm telling you, God has been so good to us we have no reason to be ungrateful. That was for free. I'll just tack that on the message for free. But Paul is being very grateful for their support. But I notice here, as he's writing this, he's expressing his gratitude, he is also being very, very careful That they understand that his faith, Paul's personally, his faith is not in them to meet his needs. His faith is in God. Do you pick that up? It is God that is providing for me through your willingness to let God use you. You see the point there? He's trying to make that very clear. He's expressing, my confidence is in God. It is God that's doing this through you. And by the way, God takes care of our missionaries. God provides for our missionaries out on the field through churches like us That trust him and do what he instructs us to do, and we give to support him. It is God taking care of them through us. Everybody understands that That's what he's trying to communicate to the church at Philippi. I'm so grateful for what you've done. I'm so grateful for what you've sent me. But it's important to understand: it is God doing it through you. I've often said, and I've I've never thought that a church pays its preacher. God takes care of the preacher through the church. You follow that? So for for me and my advice to young preachers starting out, and I heard Dr. Robertson say this and I've tried to do this. I as far as I know, I've I've practiced this through all my years of ministry. Money has never been an issue as to whether I would preach somewhere or pastor. That has never been the issue When I came to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, whatever this church decided to give me, I was just trusting God. It wasn't an issue whether what they were given. This church has been very generous to me. I'm so grateful for it But I never viewed it as a paycheck. It's always been God providing for me through the church. You get what I'm saying? Same thing with the missionaries. I've heard of fellows, especially young guys starting out sometimes, they get their thinking out of whack. And uh they'll uh they'll uh they'll be asked to come preach somewhere or hold a meeting. I've heard evangelists doing this. And um and by the way, none of the evangelists come through here, do this, because I wouldn't have them if they did But I've heard of them send ahead. I need X number of dollars before I can come and preach to you. I'm telling you, that is not a preacher, that's a hireling right there. I'm not looking to make money off the gospel. Well, I need X number of dollars. Listen, this isn't a business. This is a ministry. We're serving God. And so Paul's writing to the Philippians, and he wants them to understand. As grateful as he is, and he's very grateful, it is God doing this through them. And that's an important concept to understand. It is important to understand. Alright, so let's get back to our verse 19. If we're going to understand verse number 19, we need to first understand the context. He is giving this promise. God is through Paul writing this promise to the church at Philippi and to you and I in the context of gratefulness and giving. They are giving, they are giving, they are giving. And Paul is writing back in response, my God shall supply all your need In Christ Jesus. You've met my need. You've given generous to me. You've been a blessing to me. My God shall supply your needs. Just like he's supplying my needs through you. You follow the context here. Now that's important to understand. If we don't understand that, we're going to misapply this promise here. So the context is a church that is giving very generously to the supportive missions, to advancement of the gospel And he's writing back to them, says, you've met the needs of this missionary, you've met the needs of this man of God, this minister, you've met the needs, God will meet your needs. God will meet your needs. So that brings me to my second thought this morning, and that is this, the condition behind this promise This is, verse 19, is a conditional promise. Now, what do we mean by conditional? If I say this is a conditional promise, that means what? Somebody talk to me. Yeah, if you do this, it means it has conditions. How many people are impressed with my level of intelligence here? A conditional promise means it has conditions. uh on it. In other words, there's certain things have to be in place before it applies. Alright? You with me? You say, well I look at verse 19, I don't see any conditions. It just says My God shall supply all your need according to the riches in Christ Jesus. Well, the context suggests to us that there are some conditions. For instance, number one, here's one condition that I pick up from this. There must be faith. There must be faith. Notice what he says here very carefully. My God shall supply all your need. He doesn't stop there. There's no period at that point. He goes on. He has more to say about God supplying all our need. He shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory. How many people agree with me? That's pretty abundant supply right there If I was going to supply your need according to my riches in WebCo savings and loan, you know, that would be nice. Thank you, preacher. But if Donald Trump is going to supply your needs, according to his riches, in Trump Tower, that's a whole nother level. And God says, I'm going to supply your need according to my riches and glory. Woo! Alright, so that's settled. There's no need that he can't take care of. But here's where I'm getting at with the condition My God says supply all you need according to his riches in glory, but then he taxed those last three words on. By Christ Jesus. That is qualifying this promise. This supply, these needs being met, are only to those who have a relationship with Christ Jesus. In other words, if you don't have Christ, you can't claim this promise. By the way, if you don't have Christ, you don't have eternal life. He that hath the Son hath life. So there's a condition here. I believe this promise, my God, shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory, but it's by Christ Jesus. You need to know Jesus Christ as your Savior. Listen, the world doesn't understand this. But if you don't have Jesus Christ your personal Savior, you're on your own. Ephesians says you're without God and without hope in this world. I'll be honest with you, I've been saved now going on 43 years. It'll be this May, 43 years. And I'll be honest with you, I don't know how people in the world make it in this world without Jesus Christ as Savior. I tell you, the emptiness, the emptiness of a life without Christ. The purposelessness, the temporariness of a life without Christ is unthinkable And yet we have a world that lives that way for their whole lives so much they don't even realize. They're not even aware. Of what that emptiness that's in their life. Then you have a Christian come along, be a witness to them, and be a good testimony, and they become aware, I need something. They've got what I have. We share the gospel with them So I see a condition here on this by Christ Jesus. If a person doesn't have Christ as their Savior, they can't claim this promise. So it's faith in Jesus Christ as my Savior is a condition to Philippians 4. 19. How many people here, you have Jesus Christ your personal Savior? Say amen. Hey, you qualify that condition there. You you you meet the condition on that one. I think there's an additional, along with faith in Christ as my Savior, I also need to learn to live by faith as a Christian. My faith in Christ as my personal Savior saves me, gives me eternal life, brings forgiveness to my life, brings acceptance to God. a home in heaven when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior. But once I do that, as I live my Christian life, I am to live by faith Trusting God to lead me. Trusting God to offer protection. Trusting God to meet my needs. It's a life of faith. Jesus said to Matthew chapter 9, a fellow came to the Lord Jesus. He had been on the Mount of Transfiguration with Peter and John. He comes back down. And there's a stir among the people. When he gets down off the mount, there's a stir among the people and his disciples. And this father comes running up to Jesus and he says to him, and I'm just Summarizing what the what the Bible says here, he comes to him and says, Um, my son is possessed of a devil. And he's trying to destroy him, and it casts him in the fire. And he says, I brought them to your disciples, and your disciples could do nothing. And Jesus says, bring them to me. Jesus spoke to him, cast the devil out of him. But before he did that, he said this to the Father. He brings him, and he says, if thou canst do anything, help me. And Jesus said to him, if thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. You know what he was saying? He was saying, Trust me. Put your faith in me. Have faith in me. I can do this. But you've got to have faith. And God is saying to you and I, as believers, God is saying to you and I as children. Of God as His children, and He being our Father, He's saying to us, Listen, I can and will meet your needs. I'll take care of you, but you've got to trust me You've got to have faith in me. John Wesley made this statement. I don't know which dishonors God the most. worrying and doubting God or cursing and swearing. Whoa. How many people agree with me? Cursing and swearing is bad. That's bad. Anybody here teach your kids not to curse and swear? Yeah, by the way, if the kids shouldn't curse and swear, neither should mom and dad. We have a filthy language world. And John Wesley said, he's a man of God. He said, I don't know which is worse. Cursing and swearing, or doubting and worrying about whether God will take care of you. Now, he's not making light of cursing and swearing. That's very serious. But what he's doing is saying the seriousness of worrying and doubting God. Listen, one thing you and I have got to learn in our Christian lives, that is this. We've got to trust God. We've got to have faith in God. Have faith in God. As Christians, we must not allow ourselves to doubt and worry about whether God will take care of us. We must trust God and do what he says. Keep your place here if you would. Would you come back to Psalms very quickly with me? Psalms chapter number 37. Go right to the middle of your Bible. You're in Psalms there, no doubt. Find chapter 37. And this is a psalm of David. Do you agree with me? David knew what he was talking about when it came to trusting God You introduce me to somebody as a teenager kills a giant with a slingshot in the name of God. I'm going to listen to what he has to say about trusting God. Amen. Listen to what he says, Psalm 37. Listen to what he says under the inspiration of God, verse number 3. These are great verses to underscore in your Bible or highlight somewhere. Verse 3, trust in the Lord and do good. Now listen to what he says. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Condition, trust in the Lord and do good. And then so you'll dwell in the land, you'll be fed. In other words, your needs will be met God will take care of you. You trust him. Follow his instruction. Do what he says. God will take care of you. Let's read on. Verse 4. Delight thyself also in the Lord. He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Verse 5: Commit thy way unto the Lord. Commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in him. And he shall bring it to pass. You know what David is telling us here by inspiration in Psalm 37? He's saying to you and I as believers, in 2022 Just trust God. Have faith in God. Follow His instructions. Do what He says. Don't be a knucklehead and get out there and doing something contrary to the will of God. You do what God says. Trust him. And he'll take care of you. He'll take care of you. Anybody find that encouraging? Man, praise the Lord. I don't know what Washington's going to do, but I know what God's going to do. I don't know what tomorrow holds, but I know this. God's already there. And he's promised. If I just trust him, follow his instructions, do he says, he says, all your needs, I'll take care of you. I'll take care of you. So one condition is faith. Real quickly, I see a second condition. Come on back here to Philippians. I see a second condition here. Now it's not directly stated, and uh it's implied though. In verse 11 and 12, I think another condition is contentment. Contentment. How many folks could use a little bit more contentment in your life? Yeah. Look what Paul says in verse 11. Not that I speak in respect of one. He's saying, you guys have been so good to me, so generous, but I'm not saying this in respect of one. For I've learned, whatever state I am, therewith to be what? Just be content. Now I find well let me read verse 2 there. I know both how to be abased. Or verse 12. I know both how to be abased And I know how to abound. Everywhere in all things, I'm instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and suffer need. You know what Paul's saying here? He's saying, listen, I'm so grateful for all you've given me, but I've learned something in my life. It didn't come natural. It isn't my normal reaction. But through the trials and blessings. Through being abounding in prosperity and being abased in poverty, I've learned something. I've learned to be content. I've learned to be content. Listen, I don't know about you, but that doesn't come natural to me. My old the old man, old Denny He wants bigger and better. He wants more of this and more of that. Now you're all looking at me so pious like, oh, we're not that Fact of the matter is, every last one of us has to learn to be content. And when we can learn that lesson. When we can arrive in that promised land of contentment, God says, I'll supply all your need. I supply order. You be happy? You be content? You say, oh, I'm driving an old jalopi. Be content. God will keep that jalopi running. And if it breaks down, it's a Chevy or a Ford, I mean a Dodge. If it uh I'm trying to stay my neck here, but um if that thing breaks down, I'll make sure that your needs are met I need your message. Contentment is a condition, I believe, to this. Contentment is highly praised by God. We got some time yet. Come over to Timothy, real quick. It's not snowing yet, so I can still keep preaching. Come over to Timothy. 1 Timothy chapter 6. Just a few pages towards the back of your Bible there. Chapter 6. And he makes a great statement here that we need to learn. He said, preacher, I struggle with contentment. Welcome to the human race. Paul did also, but he learned to be content. Look at 1 Timothy 6, verse 6. Look at this. But godliness, question: Does God want us to live godly lives? Yes. Godliness with what? Contentment is great gain. God says you want to gain something, learn to be content. He goes on, for we brought nothing into this world, and it's certain we can carry nothing out. I've done a lot of funerals over my over these last 35 plus years, almost forty years. I've done a lot of funerals. And I've seen people put strange things into the casket and down in the grave. You know what? If we go back there and dig those graves up. Those little items and mementos, and I'm not criticizing that, but I'm saying they still be there. They didn't take them to their eternal destiny with them. You understand that, right? Job put it this way, Naked came I in out into this world, naked I'll go, blessed be the Lord, Lord giveth, the Lord taketh away Contentment is highly praised of God. In fact, we are instructed to be content With what God provides us for. You say, preacher, I'm just not content with the house I'm living in. Well, stop it and be content. Amen. You say, is it wrong to try and get a nicer place? No, it's nothing wrong with that. As long as you're content with what you have. And God blesses, enables you to step it up a little bit. There's nothing in the world wrong with that Abraham was true filthy was not filthy rich. Abraham was fabulously rich, but he was a man of God. You never find him complaining. And then others poor. And so Paul says, I've learned to be content. The secret to contentment is confidence that God will take care of me. So how can I get learn to be content? You need to be convinced that God will take care of you. Then I can be content. God will take care of me. Even when I'm hungry. He said up there, I know how to be hungry, I know how to be full. I think Paul was saying, you know, when I was hungry, I didn't know where my next meal was I was just content because I was convinced God was going to take care of that at some point. By the way, it's a bunch of us wouldn't hurt us to be hungry for a little bit, huh? Stop looking at me that way. Contentment, the key, the secret to contentment is confidence that God will take care of me. I see another qualification or condition here for this promise. One is faith. I need to know Christ as Savior. I need to trust God and do what He says. I need to learn to be content. And number three, I put this down: generosity. Generosity. And by the way, to me, that's the primary condition for this promise. The Philippian Church was a giving church. The Philippian believers were giving Christians. Now think about this with me. Everybody still with me? Everybody alright? What nationality was Paul? He was a what? Jew. I mean, thoroughbred Jew. He was as Jew as you could get. The Philippian Church is the first church in the European soil. What kind of what nationality, I guess, would you say? What would they be considered? Gentiles. Now, what do we know about Jews and Gentiles? We know this: bitter hatred. The Jews hated the Gentiles. Nothing to do with them. And by the way, the Gentiles, even to this day, Gentiles look down on Jews. Outside of you go to Europe, but my son spent several months in in uh Ireland with a missionary back when he graduated from high school, our youngest son. And I got over there and and I didn't spend a lot of time in Europe, but I was appalled At the billboards, trashing the nation of Israel, saying awful things, hating the Jews. And the Jews grew up. My mom worked house cleaning a lot when I was younger. She worked four or five jobs, and she did house cleaning, and one of them was for a very wealthy Jewish family. Now they were kind enough And they were very gracious, very generous to my wife. I'm not complaining about them personally. But they had certain dishes and pots and pans that a Gentile was not to touch. She did not go into these closets. She did not touch these certain utensils and these certain pots and pans and things like that. Why? Because of the division. Between Jew and Gentile. And the bitterness that grew out of that. You talk about racial racism in America, brother, that ain't nothing new. It's been worldwide For many, many years. And the Jews and the Gentiles hated. Now, I said all that to say this. Here are some Gentile believers giving to a Jew generously. Pouring out, making sure his needs are met. Now it's God doing it through them, but brother, it was their heart that was making that possible. What in the world happened? I'll tell you what happened. These Gentiles loved this Jew. These Gentiles wanted other people to have what this Jew had provided them with, and that's the gospel of Jesus Christ. You say, what made the difference? Why? Do now they love each other and give and support each other. I'll tell you what made the difference. It was the gospel of Jesus Christ. It changes hearts. It changes attitudes. It takes those whom I hate and gives me love in my heart to those who I hate. The power of the gospel. To make a Jew and a Gentile love each other. There's no other explanation but the presence of Jesus Christ. And God had got a hold of these people, and they learned to give, and learn to give. And Luke chapter 7, verse 36. Would you come over there real quick? And I know I'm running out of time, but please come over to Luke. Luke chapter number seven. I know I'm jumping around here in the Bible a little bit, but I want you to see this. Verse number 36, Luke chapter 7, verse number 36. And one of the Pharisees, verse 36, Luke 7, desired him that he would eat with him. And he went down to the Pharisees' house and sat down to meet. And behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner. Here you have the different setting, but same attitude. Pharisees hated these quote-unquote sinners. And when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisees' house, she brought an alabaster box of ointment. And stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with oil. Now, when the Pharisee, which had been him, saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him, for she's a sinner. Jesus answering said unto him, Jesus knew his thoughts. Jesus knows our thoughts. Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he said, Master, stay on. There was a certain creditor which had two debtors. The one owed 500 pence and the other 50. And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me, therefore, which of them will love him most? Simon answered and said, I suppose he to whom he forgave the most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged. And then Jesus turned to the woman and said, Simon, seeest thou this woman? I entered into thy house. Thou gavest me no water for my feet. And she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head. Thou gavest me no kiss. But this woman, since the time I came, hath not ceased to kiss my feet. My head with oil thou didst not anoint. But this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment. Therefore, wherefore I say unto thee, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loveth much. But to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little. And he saith unto her, thy sins are forgiven. The point Jesus was making there wasn't that the Pharisees were less of a sinner than this woman was. You understand they were both equally condemned before God. But the Pharisees didn't see that. They saw themselves as much better than this sinner. And Jesus says, those whom God forgives the most Those are the ones that are going to love the most. You have this church at Philippi, pagan, heathen, on their way to hell, blinded by false teachings and idolatrous worship. And Paul, this Jew, showed up and told them of Christ. And they turned from their idols, and they turned from their false worship, and they turned from their wicked lifestyles. And they trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. And God forgave them. And they said, because God has been so good to us, we want to give. We want to give. We want others To have what we have, what God has brought to us through Paul. And in response, Paul writes back, My God shall supply all your need, according to his riches. God will take care of you and I. But if we get selfish and we start just, it's all about me, it's all about me, then I'm suggesting that verse does not apply. To a selfish Christian, we've got to learn to give. What did Jesus say in Luke? Give and it shall be given unto you, pressed down, shaken together, in good measure some men give unto you. So the condition is faith, the condition is contentment, the condition is generosity. 2 Corinthians 9 7, for God loveth a cheerful giver. God loveth a cheerful giver. And I don't have time for my last point. the confidence or the certainty of this promise. He says, shall, my God, shall supply all your needs. The word supply there means to fill to the full. God will provide for you everything we need. Now be careful. Don't confuse wants with needs. How many times have our kids said, Oh, I need that? And you said, you knucklehead, you don't need that. Anybody can I get a witness? Maybe you didn't use that terminology But how many times have you and I walked in to Cabela's? And I need that. I need that new reel, Brother Nate. I need that New fish and rod. Don't confuse needs and wants. Amen? I want to suggest to you, God knows what we need better than you and I know what we need. You know what? Sometimes, listen, sometimes we need to be hungry. That's how Paul learned contentment. It's sometimes you and I need to have some setbacks in life till we learn, to be grateful. We learn to be grateful. Your idea and my idea of needs and God's understanding of really what our needs are sometimes are two very different things. So you know what I'm going to do? If I have a need that I think I have, that I think I need this, and God withholds it from me. Then I'm going to have faith in God that I don't really need it. Follow what I'm saying? If I have a lack in my life or something missing that I think, oh And God doesn't change it, then that's something I need to experience so that I can learn to be content, so that I can learn to grow, so I can learn to have faith in God. Don't confuse needs with wants. Trust God, do what He says, help others, and God will take care of you. God will take care. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and all these and all this righteousness and all these things shall be what? Add it unto you. God will take care of you. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us in 2022. Moun Lake Independent Baptist Church, all the stuff we got going on. Each of us as individual believers, I pray you'd help us to have faith in you and to trust you. And then have be confident that our needs will be met, that you'll take care of us. Not worry, not doubt. Confidence. Intentment. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, from my perspective, I see some needs in my life? And you say, by God's grace, I'm going to trust him. I'm going to trust him. If he provides for that, praise the Lord. If he doesn't, then praise the Lord He's doing something. Anybody like that? Preacher, I need to quit worrying. I need to quit fussing. I need to quit being anxious and doubting And just start trusting God, do what he says. Any others, preacher, that's me. That's me. God bless you. How about this third Sunday of the new year, old altar? Say, Lord, I'm just taking this and putting it in your hands Taking this whole situation, my whole circumstance, put in your hands, I'm trusting you. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name.