Psalm chapter 86. There's a couple verses I'd like for us to read together here. Verse number five. I'd like for us to read verse five together, verse 10, verse 13, and verse 15. So let's start off with verse number five. You got it there? Let's read it together. Ready? For thou, Lord, art good and ready to forgive. and plenteous in mercy unto all them that call upon thee. Now, verse number 10, altogether. For thou art great and doest wondrous things Thou art God alone. Verse 13. For great is thy mercy toward me, and thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell. One more, verse 15. But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion and gracious, long-suffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth. We serve a great, great God. I'm so glad he loves us, I'm so glad he's patient with us, and I'm so glad he's merciful. And so I want to take for the title of this morning's message, I get for I get it from the title of this chapter. If you notice there above verse number one, it simply says this, a prayer of David. A prayer of David. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father in heaven, we come to you this morning with grateful hearts for your love for us, your blessing. Lord, all that you've given us is just overwhelming. Your goodness to us. I thank you for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church Lord, it sure is good to be back with the body of believers here. And I pray you would meet with us now in the next few moments. I pray your presence would be very evident here. And Lord, I pray with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, Lord, and I ask that you fill me and speak through me. Send revival to our church, our homes, our hearts. And save the lost. Lord, any that be under the sound of my voice, that do not have assurance of sins forgiven home in heaven, I pray that would be settled today. Help us now, I ask, in Jesus' name. Amen. As I said, I was uh as we were down there, it was my devotions one morning, I was reading Psalms 86, and uh God stirred my heart. About this chapter. I thought I'd try and preach on it a little bit this morning. It is called A Prayer of David. And this is David's Prayer. And I got thinking, uh, why would we refer to this chapter as David's prayer? I think there's several reasons. First of all, David penned this prayer down. This is a prayer that several thousand years ago the king of Israel, whether in his private study maybe, or maybe at the tabernacle at some point But he sat down with pen in hand and he recorded this prayer for us. David penned this prayer. Now, I don't know about you, but anytime there's somebody the caliber of King David A man after God's own heart, if they write something down, particularly a prayer, I'm going to pay attention to what they have to say So this is David's prayer in the sense that he penned it down. Now I want to be quick to point out and quick add, and I think we understand this. God is the author of this prayer, but David is the penant. How many people understand what I'm talking about there? God moved on the heart and mind of David. God stirred David to record this down. In fact The entire Bible is the Word of God. When we open the Bible, when we open the Bible, we have God speaking directly to us through his word on the pages of the Bible. And so we must never misunderstand, we must never forget the Bible is the Word of God. It is the absolute truth The way I look at it, so when I sit down with my open Bible, this morning I have my devotions, I open that Bible, I look at it as if God is sitting there right across the table from me And God is speaking to me the words that I am reading in that book. And so David is this is David's prayer in the sense that David penned this prayer. He recorded it under the inspiration of God. He wrote it from his heart. We have the heart of David. It's another reason it's called David's Prayer or the Prayer of David is because he prayed this prayer. David didn't just write prayers down. David didn't just talk about prayer. He didn't just sing about prayer. In fact, this was used as a song in the worship of Jehovah there in the temple, eventually, in synagogues throughout the world. They would sing this. So David uh when David wrote this down, it was more than just writing a prayer or talking about prayer or uh singing about prayer. He actually prayed He actually prayed. Prayer doesn't do us much good until we actually pray Unprayed prayers are unanswered prayers. Sometimes people say, I wish God would speak to me, but they never open the Bible. I wish God would do this for me, but they never pray. We've got it, there's a responsibility on our end. There's an action we have to take on our end if we're going to expect God to work on our behalf. One is we've got to believe the Bible. We've got to read it. We've got to know it. Number two, we've got to actually pray. So David didn't just pen this prayer down. He actually prayed this prayer. I put this down. The starting point for effective prayer is actually praying. The most important part of actu uh of effective prayer is actually praying. I'm convinced if we could just get God's people to pray like God instructs us to pray, we might have revival in our land. How many people would feel like I do? Well I wish there was prayer in the White House. Anybody feel that way? Man, I wish there was prayer in the White House. How about this? How many people would say uh would say, Man, I wish they got prayer back in our schools? Anybody feel that way? Amen. I'm all for that. But I tell you, how about we get prayer back in our churches? How many churches drop in prayer meeting and have little or no prayer? Hey, let me take it a step farther. How about let's get prayer back in our homes? Mom and dad and the kids getting together and praying. You know, years ago, the old-time Christians, they had what was called the family altar. And every day the family would gather together and read some scripture, and mom and dad and the kids would pour their hearts out to God. make their requests be made known to God and they plead with God. And in those old days they saw the power of God and they saw souls saved and lives changed. And their homes had the anointing of the joy of the Lord and the presence of the Holy Spirit in those homes. And I'm telling you, we're missing that in our day. Our homes are places of fighting and warfare. Our homes are empty and frustration. And I'm suggesting to you, maybe what we need to do is rather just talk about prayer and talk about Christianity and just go through these superficial uh uh uh rituals of Christianity, we get back and get serious with God and get on our knees together and husbands and wives and children and cry out to God to send revival into our homes David prayed. He prayed. And so this is David's prayer, not just because he penned it down, but because he actually prayed this prayer. A sincere prayer, uh I've had people, I'm thinking of um how many people remember Mike Stubler Anybody remember? Brother Mike Stubler got saved at a wild game dinner as a result of our wild game dinner a number of years ago. And I'm telling you, God got a hold of Mike Stubler And he began growing, and uh everybody that knew him saw a testimony of the grace and power of God, how I transformed his life. And I remember in those early days he was coming out. He came talked to me about baptism and we explained he followed the Lord in baptism. And he was coming Sunday morning. Then he started coming Sunday night. Then he was coming out Wednesday night And I remember one time he came, uh we have men's prayer meeting every Sunday at five at uh uh 630. And we meet downstairs in a room and get a group of men together, we share some requests, and we pray. We get on our knees and pray And uh Mike said, I want to go to that men's prayer meeting. I said, come on down, man. And uh kind of played Bob Barker. Come on down. And uh So he came down there and uh we sat down, shared a few requests, and so then we paired up and guys spread out and Mike was sitting there. I said, Mike, why don't you pray with me? And he sat there and he says, Well He says, uh, why don't you just pray? He says, I really don't know how to pray. And I said, Mike is just talking to God. And he says, Ah, just so that first week he just sat there and I prayed. The next week he came down and said, What do you think, Mike? You you think you pray? He goes, Um, I think I'll pray and I'll never forget it. I mean technically it was kind of like, Hey God, you know, uh it's me, Mike. And uh he just poured some things out. But I tell you what, a sincere prayer of a humble man like that Is more effective than the most polished, technically perfect prayer you're ever going to find. What I'm trying to say is this: quit worrying about the technicalities of it and just pray to God. Tell God what you need. Tell God what your situation is. Ask God to help you. And I'm telling you, we have a God in heaven. that is more eager to answer our prayers, I think, than you and I are to actually bring our prayers to Him. And so David prayed. He didn't just talk about it. He didn't just sing about it. It was part of his life. It was part of his home. It was part of his family. His prayer life. Sincere prayer that is not technically perfect is far more effective than the most perfect prayers that are insincere or not even prayed. Uh this past week, of course, I was down there with uh Brother Steve Siddler in Santo Domingo, and what a church they have there started We were back in 99 when they were just starting out, just a bunch of kids coming out to an empty lot that he had put a roof over. And now all these years later, big church running, starting churches all around And uh I was able to spend some time with Joy uh Wesson. Of course, we know the Wessons. Josh uh used to uh was drowned, he was saving some kids that had got in the water and uh and he drowned and so now Julie went back down there as a widow lady. She's got the kids there, Ashley and Caitlin and Steve, Kimberly's back here in the States uh going to school. But uh one day we had lunch at her house and she brought these deaf folk by. Must have had ten, twelve, fifteen of 'em And she says, I brought these deaf folk by. She says, these are deaf people from the city here that we've won to Christ, that have gotten saved, and God changed their lives. And those people stepped up there. Of course they're doing sign language. She taught them sign language. A lot of them didn't even know hardly sign language. Most of them grew up in homes where nobody in the family took the time to bother to learn sign language to communicate with them. They're just pushed out in the streets and had to get by the best they could. And joy comes along. And this widowed missionary lady finds these deaf young people. And she works with them and shares with them the love of Christ and shares with them the gospel of Jesus Christ through her sign language And these people understand, and God opens their hearts and minds, and they believe, and they're saved, and their lives are changed. And they came by one by one, sharing their testimony, how they got saved, and what God's done for them. And dress nice and the happiest people you'd ever want to meet in your life. Their countenance, just beamy. They have Jesus Christ as their Savior. And one night I preached there at the big church and and the place was packed. We gave the invitation and the altar was just filled, probably about the size here, and just filled, up into the aisles, people at the altar. And I was standing up there, I was standing over here, and I noticed off on this side, there was a whole group of young people, probably late teens, mid-late teens, into their early twenties And there was one girl tears screaming down cheek and she's just signing away. And there was a group of others were watching her. And I stood up here as the invitation went on, and then another one would begin to do sign language And they're looking up to heaven, they're doing sign like this. And then the next they all got together. And afterward I were asked Joy's daughter, Ashley, I said, What was happening? I said, what took place there? What was that? She goes, oh, that's the death. God stirred their heart. And they come to the altar and they pray. And they ask God to save their mother and save their family. And they're asking God to help them live for the Lord and that their lives would please their God and their creator. And as they're praying, tears are streaming down their cheeks. And I thought, oh, if you and I could just learn to pray the way these dear little deaf people down in the Dominican Republic have learned to pray Let me ask you this. When's the last time you wept in prayer over a lost loved one? When's the last time you knelt at an old altar and said, God, I need you in my life. I need you to help me You know what some of our problem is? We've convinced ourselves that we don't need God. We've convinced ourselves that we can get through this whole life without the Lord and without prayer and without trusting God And you know, maybe to some extent we think we can, we convince ourselves of that, but I'll tell you this: you might get through this life without God, but you ain't going to get through death and end up in heaven without the Lord. And so David not only penned this prayer, he actually prayed. He actually prayed. And I saw these deaf folk down there that had nothing. I mean, worldly possessions, nothing. But they knew how to get a hold of God in prayer. And how that challenged my life. They prayed. They prayed. Did you ever hear a little child pray? Just sincere coming to God. I remember my uh when before I was saved, actually, when I was young and my dad had just gotten saved and we went to a friend of my dad's house, a Baptist fellow that was had been witnessing to my dad. We went over there and had dinner. It's just my dad and I and I think the girls were with us, my sisters. And uh it was getting a little late and the wife took he had little kids, Bob had little kids, they were put she go, I'm gonna put the kids to bed. She took him up there, upstairs. I still can see it, the stairway going up. And we were down here talking a little bit, and I was just, you know, young kind of. But the one little boy came out And he said, Hey Dad, we're gonna pray. Do you need anything? He goes, I'm good. I tell you that's what prayer is. It's like he was going to Walmart. He wasn't going to Walmart. He was going to the God of creation. Wouldn't that be good to learn to pray like that? What if our church learned to pray? Get a hold of God, and God, we need you. I don't know how you feel. I think Garrett County, surrounding areas needs the gospel of Jesus Christ desperately. I think folks need to be saved. Uh but we can't do it without the blessings and power of God. And that doesn't happen until we learn to pray. We learn to pray. And so, uh David, this is the prayer of David. Uh first of all, because he penned it. God authored it, this is God speaking to us, but David penned it It was uh David's prayer because uh David prayed this prayer. And I put thirdly down this is uh David this is a uh prayer of David because David promoted this prayer This is penned down here recorded in the Word of God. This was to be given to Israel for them to sing this on the Sabbath days when they got together to Worship God, Jehovah. They were to sing this song. They were to sing this. They were to pray this prayer. David put it out there under the leadership of God, under the inspiration of God. Put it out there. Here This is a prayer for God's people to pray and to sing and to understand what prayer is. And God gives it to you and I through the pages of Scripture. Now I got studying this chapter. I got back home and I got looking on to find out a little bit more about what the circumstances were behind David writing this prayer down and What was the situation? What was the context of him recording this down? Maybe there's something there can help us. You know what I found out? We know nothing We know nothing about what David's situation was. We don't know what the circumstances were, what period of his life that this was penned. We're not given any of that. I did notice it's very similar to Psalm 90, or on Psalm chapter 17. They're very similar. They're both called a prayer of David. We give little information about it, very similar type prayers. But we don't know anything. But I got looking at it and I come to this conclusion. David prayed this prayer, and David penned this down in a time of adversity and a time of trouble If you would, look at verse number 7 with me. I don't know if you noticed this when Pastor Matt was reading. But verse number 70, look what he says. In the day of my trouble, I will what I'm going to call me. When trouble comes, when difficulty comes, Lord, I'm going to call on you. I think David was going through a time of trouble A time of difficulty. And then he says, For thou wilt answer me. Look over there at verse number 14. O God, the proud are risen against me. And the assemblies of violent men have sought after my soul and have not set thee before them. I see that there apparently This is written in the context here is a little bit a time of adversity. There's people opposed to him. Anyone here ever get the feeling the whole world's against you? Do you ever wake up, just have a bad day, and you go through the day, this whole world is against me. And uh I think that's where David was, except they actually were. They were out to kill him. Now I don't know if it was maybe when King Saul was chasing David all over the wilderness trying to kill him, and God over and over miraculously spared his life It may have been later on when Absalom, his son, raised his fist in rebellion against his daddy and was determined to kill his daddy, dethrone his father and kill him I don't know what the circumstances were, but it was a time of adversity and time of difficulty. I tell you, you can't get through life without troubles. You can't get through life. Nobody gets through life without facing trouble and adversity. And until we understand that, until we learn to get a hold of that and be able to deal with it We're going to have a difficult time in our Christian life. You know what gets under my skin? Well, there's a lot of things get under my skin. But one thing that gets under my skin is these yard bird preachers on TV That try and scam people into thinking if you just have enough faith or if you just send enough money in, all your bills are going to be paid. You're going to live in God wants you to be rich, He wants you to be wealthy, He wants you to be healthy He wants all of that. You know what? They are either incredibly ignorant or they're lying. Because even God's people go through difficulties. Even the king of Israel faces adversity and trouble And until we learn to bring our troubles and difficulties to the Lord, we're going to struggle in our life. So David is some sort of adversity, some sort of difficulty. Look at verse 17. Show me a token for good that they which hate me may see it and be ashamed Because thou, Lord, hast helpened me, helped me, and comforted me. So I don't know what the context is, but I do know this. Whatever the situation was, David needed God's attention. And uh David was desperate. God, I need you to help me. God, I need you to work with me in this trouble and these difficulties. I look at the Psalm 86 and I notice it's uh saturated with praise. In the midst of David's difficulty, in the midst of his trials, he learned to praise God. He learned to praise God. Look with me, if you would. Look at verse number five. For thou, Lord, art good, and ready to forgive, and plenteous in mercy. Look at verse eight. Among the gods there is none like unto thee, O Lord Neither are any works like unto like unto thy works. Look at verse 13. Verse fifteen, but thou, Lord, art a God full of compassion and gracious and long suffering and plenteous in mercy and truth. In the midst of his difficulties he never forgot God's awfully good to him Again, uh you're gonna get tired of hearing about Dominican Republic, I'll just tell you right now. But I tell you, I was down there, we had uh we got into I think about uh twelve or thirteen different churches. The church there in Mount Calvary, the main one, they started 11 churches out of their church. And then we visit a few others all through the country, the nation. I met national pastors that are living on a shoestring. I mean you just can't imagine. And they told us their stories and they told us their situations. And we spent extended periods of time together with a lot of these. And something I noticed when it was all said and done, I thought back over it, I didn't hear one of them complaining about how difficult they have it. Not one of them, not one of those deaf, when they got up and gave their testimony, not one of them complained about their home circumstances, the situation. Their lack of emotion. You know what I heard from every single one of them, and I don't want to paint as if they're ideal and perfect, but all I'm saying is this what I heard from every one of them is how good God is to them And how God has blessed them, and how happy they are to be saved and rejoice in the Lord. You know what the problem is, I think, with a lot of us American Christians, and I know I come home and I get hard on myself But I think one of our problems is we've had it just too good for too long. And we've gotten this idea that we ought to have the best of everything and we ought to have whatever we want, when we want it, how we want it, the way we want it And I'm telling you, if God never gave us another breath of air, he's been awfully good to us up to this point And to be honest with you, as a child of God, forgiven of my sins, a guaranteed home in heaven, escaping hell, I have nothing to complain about in my life. And David is praising God in his prayer. God, you've been good to me. God, you've been merciful to me. God, you've been gracious to me. I tell you, just the forgiveness of sins. It's something that is something to praise God for the rest of our life. And I know, you know, well, forgiveness of sins. I tell you Being forgiven of sin doesn't mean too much to a person that has never been under conviction of sin. And if you know what I'm talking about, being under the conviction of the Holy Spirit of God for your sin And then have that sin forgiven. Woo! I tell you, that's something. That's something. So David is saturating this prayer with praise. Even amidst of difficulties, even in the midst of trouble, he understood God loved him, God cared about him, God was good to him, God wanted to bless him. And I tell you, we need that. So that's my introduction. Last Sunday, the time schedule's different. I was able to hear Pastor Matt's message online. I was watching through the camera there and I was keeping my eye on some of y'all. And I noticed you got out awfully early last Sunday morning. And uh I thought that's why they're so happy when I go away. Let me share a few thoughts with you real quickly. Number one, I want you to consider the importance of prayer. The importance of prayer. You cannot, it's impossible to read and study the Bible and not see the importance of prayer. From Genesis to Revelation Prayer is important. It's important to God. God wants us to come to Him in prayer. It's important to God's people. We need to go to God in prayer. Would you keep your place here and turn with me if you would very quickly to 1 Samuel chapter number 12. Back there in the Old Testament, back towards uh towards the front of your Bible a little more. 1 Samuel chapter 12. Samuel Was a phenomenal prophet of God. He had the power of God on him, as few people throughout history have. And God used him in amazing ways to help Israel seek the Lord. And he makes a significant statement in 1 Samuel chapter 12, in verse number 22, he's speaking to the people of Israel. Now they had messed up pretty bad And Samuel's confronting them about their sin, but he's also encouraging them. And look what he says in verse 22: For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake. He's saying you messed up, but God's not going to forsake you. Because it hath pleased the Lord to make you his people. Now look at this next statement. Moreover, as for me, God forbid, look at this, that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. Did you catch that? He doesn't say, God forbid that I would sin against you in ceasing to pray for you. That's my thinking. You know, if I'm not praying for my people, if I'm not praying for my family, I'm not praying for my children, then I'm doing wrong by them. They need my prayers. But that's not what he says He says, God forbid that I should sin against who? God, the Lord. And ceasing to pray for you. Know what he was saying? He was saying this. Our prayer life is important to God. God expects us to prayer. In fact, God commands us to pray. According to this verse, if I understand that correctly, to not pray is sin. Can I say this? Any daddy that doesn't pray for his kids is sinning against God. I'm telling you. Any husband that doesn't pray for his wife is sinning against God. Any wife that doesn't pray for her husband is sinning against God. Any children that don't pray for their parents, sinning against God. God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. What I'm trying to say is this: prayer is awfully important. And when I and you neglect prayer in our lives, we are neglecting something that is incredibly important in our Christian life and to our God. The importance of prayer. I just think we need a revival of prayer. We have great needs. Come back here. Psalms 86, if you would, and notice verse number one. He starts off. He starts off just expressing the importance of prayer. Back in Psalms 86, back to our text here, look at verse 1. Bow down thine ear, O Lord. He's desperate for God to hear him. Oh, by the way, that phrase, bow down thine ear, it has this idea, pulling your ear out to hear more carefully. How many people ever did this? Somebody's talking, you can't quite hear them. Did you ever do this? Ever go like this? Anybody do that? Huh? That's what he's saying. God, do that to me. Bow down your ear. He's desperate for God's attention. And look what he says: bow down thine ear, O Lord. Hear me. Why? For I am poor and needy. I thought, wait a minute. David, you're the king of Israel for crying out loud You have all the resources of the nation of Israel at your hands. You live in a palace. You have tremendous wealth. David is putting together the materials and the resources needed for his son to build a temple. David is not a poor man. David is not living in poverty. He's not in some chicken shed, living in some chicken uh house out behind the bar. He's living in a palace, one of the nicest houses in the entire nation. And he says, God, I'm poor. Oh, God, I'm needy. You know what that tells me? You can have everything this world offers you and still be poor and needy in your heart and soul. There is nothing this world can give us that can meet the needs in the heart and soul of mankind. You pay attention to some of the most popular actors. These big music stars, rocking country stars, and these rich politicians. You know what you find? Their lives are empty. They're miserable and they jump from spouse to spouse to spouse. And they're running here and running there, doing this, taking their lives, drugs, drinking. I was a well-known politician years ago we would go down to Capital Connection and Darling of the Conservatives I was with Mike Creed. We went by his office, talked to some of his staff. They came out and Mike says, the guy's a perpetual drunk. Listen, you can have all the wealth, you can have all the popularity, you can be a conservative Republican, but if you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, your heart and soul is empty. You're missing out. And David understood that all his popularity and all his possessions and all his wealth did nothing for him spiritually. He needed the Lord. And prayer is important. You and I as Christians, we may be saved, we may know the Lord is Savior, but if we're living for this world, And if we're looking to our bank account and we're looking to our pleasures and games and sports to meet our needs, I tell you, we'll come up empty every single time. Amen or not? David said, I'm poor and needy. I'm poor and needy. Lord, I need to pray. I need to pray. I've studied the lives of great preachers over the years. Spurgeon and George uh Mueller and um uh George Whitfield, the great preacher back in the New England in the early days before our re uh our con uh before our country became a country. And uh Billy Sunday and and uh John R. Rice and D. L. Meody. I've studied the lives of these great preachers Had the power of God on their lives. You know what I found out? Every single one of them were men of intense prayer. They understood they could not do anything for God I've studied the lives of great missionaries, Adaniram Judson, uh John Payton, uh Amy Carmichael These great missionaries. I saw it in a life of Steve Siddler this past week. And you know what I noticed? A common denominator in every single one of their lives was the importance of prayer. Pray, praying, praying. I've had the opportunity over the years to be with some great Christians, at least in my mind. That loved God and were serving for God and had victory in their life and the joy of the Lord was all over their lives. You know what I found out? Without exception, every one of them, the common denominator was prayer was vitally important in their lives. How many folks here you're saved, you know it? Say amen. How many folks here you say, preacher, I'm saved, and I want my life to glorify God. Anybody like that? I want God's blessing on my life. I want God to use me. I tell you, until we learn to pray, that's never going to happen. We've got to understand the importance of prayer. Don't ever minimize prayer. Don't ever underestimate the importance of prayer. We have needs the government can't meet. You know what the problem is? We've replaced God with the government. We've got spiritual needs that this old government can't meet. We've got spiritual needs that money cannot meet. David's the king of Israel. And yet he was poor and needy. You know what the greatest need of man is? The greatest need of man is salvation. If you're under the sound of my voice, or maybe you're in this auditorium this morning, And you don't have assurance that your sins are forgiven, that when you die you go to heaven and not to hell, if that isn't a settled matter in your heart and mind, in your relationship with God, that is the most important issue in your life. Please, if you don't hear anything else I say this morning, and I know I have a tendency to go on sometimes, but if you don't hear anything else I say this morning, I'd plead with you, please Hear what I'm saying right now. If you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, that is the most important need in your life Say, well, someday, preacher, I'll get it settled. Listen, someday may never come. Don't boast yourself of tomorrow. You don't know what a day brings forth. It's appointed unto man once to die, and after this judgment, the only opportunity we have to be saved is here and now. Not someday, not someday, not someday. The greatest need is a need of salvation. We come to God and we cry out to God as a humble sinner, Lord, I need you to forgive me and save me. I need the Lord Jesus Christ to come in my life. I tell you, God will answer that prayer every time it's sincerely prayed. The importance of prayer. The importance of prayer We need to come to God in prayer. Our family needs prayers. Our children, our church, our nation. Number two. Number one, the importance of prayer. Number two, the incentives to pray. There are incentives to pray. There are some truths about God that ought to light us up in this matter of prayer There's some truths about God that ought to motivate us to greater prayer, trigger us to faithful prayer. I noticed this past week we drove all over that nation. One day, Monday morning, last Monday morning, we left at six in the morning. We drove five hours up to the northeast corner of the country, right on the Haitian border, and uh had a church service there. Look at I'll show you pictures tonight. And um Had service there and then drove back. It was like driving from here to New York City, having two, three hour service, and then driving back. in the day. I mean driving through these little villages and towns. We drove through a city. We looked it up we Googled up. Two hundred thousand people, not one gospel Bible preaching church 200,000 people in the whole city, not one, not one church. Nobody sharing the gospel there at all. People being born, living, dying, going to hell without Christ Now I notice in every place we went they had these little green buildings, just a little building, not not even the size of this platform, just Little three times the size of this pulpit, maybe, just a little building. And over it in Spanish it said lottery And everywhere we went in this incredible poverty, they were selling lottery tickets. And just about every one of them had people lined up there buying Buying those stupid lottery tickets. Listen, listen, can I give you my opinion? If you play the lottery, you're a knucklehead. In fact, why don't you just give your money to me? You have as much chance of getting money as that. I didn't get good response on that one there. And I tell you, it broke my heart. These dear people scratching for every penny they can get And spending it on a remote chance of getting some money. And I thought, how foolish. And then I thought about Christians. We can come to a God in prayer and not maybe there's a chance he'll answer us. But we can come to a God that is faithful and just, and I can pour my needs out to Him, and I don't have to invest in some hopeless chance of winning millions. You follow what I'm trying to say. I'm all over, just desperate. I have to get something better. And we can come to God. Incentives to pray. We have a God that is perfect in every way. We must never forget the greatness of the God we are praying for. Verse 10, for thou art great and doest wondrous things God is perfect in his power. There's not a need you and I have that God cannot meet. God is perfect in his wisdom There's not a situation you and I face that God does not know the solution to, that God does not know the best way to deal with it. He is perfect in his love. God cares for us in ways like no one else does We were raising our two boys. There were sometimes situations where I wanted to do, well always really, I wanted to do what was best for my boys. How many people felt that way with your kids I want to do what's best for them. Sometimes I didn't even know what was best for them. I wanted to do what was best for them, but I didn't know what it was. And I needed wisdom. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You just don't. What's the best thing to do in this situation for my child? Then there were times when I wanted to do best for them and I thought I knew what was best for them, but I didn't have the resources. I was unable to meet that need and do what was best for him. Anybody know what I'm saying? But I'm telling you, when we come to our God, He wants what's best for your life and my life. He knows what's best for your life and my life. And here's the thing, he is able to do what is best for your life and my life. And he says, You come to me in prayer. You come to me in prayer. The perfection of God, the passion of God There's no sin that God cannot forgive. There's no sin so great that God can't forgive. There's no past so messed up that God cannot correct. There's no life so destroyed that God cannot restore it. God loves us. He wants to save the unsaved, and he wants to forgive the sinner, and he wants to meet our needs, and he wants to bless our lives. I thought about the prodigal son that took his daddy's inheritance, ran off to a far country, and he wasted it in riotous living. drunkenness and reveling until the money was gone. Then he lost all his friends, of course. He ends up in a hog pen eating the husk that the hogs are eating. You talk about the bottom of the barrel The Bible says he came to himself. And he thought, man, my father's house, even the servants are living better than I am, his son. I'm going to get up and I'm going to go back to my daddy. I'm going to tell him I've sinned against him, I've sinned against heaven. If he'll just let me be a servant. The boy gets up and probably tries to clean up as best he can. He heads back. And I tell you, here's the amazing thing. What a picture of our Heavenly Father. What a picture of our God. Before that boy ever even gets to the house, Daddy sees them coming. Daddy goes running out to that prodigal son, and the boy starts his little speech to, oh father! I sinned against heaven and against you, and I'm no longer worthy to be thy son. And the father just ignores all of that, takes him and hugs him, and he says, Kill the fatted calf Get the best robe, put rings on his finger. We're having a party tonight. The boys come home. Thank God he's returned. And I thought that's how God is. We come to him in prayer, God, I messed up. God, I've sinned. God, I've made a mess We come and confess our sins. God is faithful and just to forgive our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. What a great God we have. And that ought to stir us to come to Him in prayer. And the promises of God. Look at verse 7 here. Look at verse 7. He says, In the day of my trouble, I will call unto thee, for thou wilt answer me. A promise of God. I want you to go one more verse with me, if you would, real quickly. Jeremiah Back there towards the back of your Bible, Jeremiah. You're in Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Jeremiah chapter 33. Want you to see this. Jeremiah chapter 33. Anybody know where I'm going with this? Jeremiah 33. Everybody alright out there? Everybody okay? Holding up? I know I'm not Pastor Matt preaching, so Jeremiah 33. Look with me at verse 3. If you're in a habit, this is a good verse to underscore in your Bible. In fact, I think it's good to highlight this. Jeremiah 33, 3. Look what it says. Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. What a promise. Let me ask you a question: Does God lie No. Can God lie? If he says here, you call me and I'll answer thee and I'll show thee great and mighty things. That's not a lie. That's the truth of God. That created this world, and that ought to prompt us to pray. God will respond to the sincere, humble, honest prayer Now he don't always give it the way we want it. He doesn't just this isn't a this isn't a blank check. Well just whatever you want, I'll give it to you. There's not a decent parent in the world that just gives his kid whatever he wants. Amen or not? Sometimes children ask for foolish things. Right? I remember we were little, we were out on a trip somewhere, we had a little souvenir shop, and they had um they had uh Machetes. And my son, he wanted a sh machete, six years old. Well, uh, call them to me, I'll answer you, give you whatever you want. Sure, have a machete, Sam. No, I didn't do that. You know, sometimes we ask things from God that are kind of foolish. Amen? And uh we uh and God says, no, no, no, that wouldn't be best for you. That wouldn't be best for you. So we have the promises of God. Jesus said in Matthew chapter 7, he says, He says, ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall bind. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. The promise of God to answer prayer. The promise of God. That ought to prompt us to prayer. And let me end last of all the ingredients of prayer. And this will have to be another message, but we need to come in faith. We need to come in faith. He that cometh to God must believe that he is, and there's a rewarder of them that seek him. No faith, no answered prayer. We need to come in humility and submission. And remember, God is God, and we are not. Sometimes we think, oh, I'm the one in charge here. God, you do this, and we prayer is not dictating to God what to do. Prayer is coming to God very humbly. And next we must come in purity. Psalm 66, verse 18. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Daddy, if you've got sin in your heart and life, God doesn't hear your prayer for your kids. Husband, wife, there's sin in our heart and life. God doesn't hear the prayer for our spouse God doesn't hear that prayer of a preacher that has sin in his heart. God doesn't hear the prayer of a deacon, a Sunday school teacher, choir members sin in their heart. God doesn't hear that prayer. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me On September 21st, 2005, out in Los Angeles, Jet Blue flight number 292 was coming in for a landing. They had a problem. Their landing gear was crippled and would only come down part way. They circled around trying to figure out what to do and how to correct the problem, and finally they came to the conclusion we have to land it the way it is. 140 passengers on there. While they were circling around, delaying their landing, trying to come up and get it to work. Word got out to the media. What was going on? And I'll tell you the news cameras were out there and it was on the news. Uh people on the plane were calling, family, telling them they love them, and um it looked like total disaster. Lady called her mother in Florida, one of the passengers called her mother in Florida and told her she loved her and she fully expected to die. That plane came down. Afterward, the plane came down and skid and scratched and sparked and everything, but came, was actually a fairly smooth landing. A couple of the passengers said it was very weird. It would have been much it would have been so much calmer without the television cameras there. Brother, that's the truth 99% of the time Get the stupid media out of it. It's very weird. It would have been much calmer if the without the televisions, the lady said. The plane skidded to a safe landing on that Wednesday evening in sparks burning tires, but no one was hurt One passenger said it was really a smooth landing, actually, probably the smoothest I've ever had Broken landing gear. You know what the passenger said? Our pilot was amazing. And they sang the praises of a pilot. That took a situation that could have been horrendous. And they made it work and brought them through it unscathed. As I read that, I thought about our pilot in heaven And we look at our lives and we think, oh, what a mess. Oh, I don't know how I'm going to get through this. Oh, this is going to be a disaster. And we worry and we fret and we get all upset it's going to be terrible. But I'm here to tell you we got a heavenly pilot that can see us through the most difficult trials That can see us through the most harrowing situations, the greatest needs. If we will just come to Him and pray and trust Him, God will see us through. But we have to pray We have to pray. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask your Lord you take these thoughts this morning such as they are. I pray you'd teach us to pray. Moms and dads, teenagers, kids, teach us to pray. Grandma, grandpa. I pray, Lord, that You'd send a revival. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I've trusted Christ. I've got it settled. But you say, preacher, my prayer life needs revival. I need to learn to pray for my family, my needs, my church, my community. Is there any like that, preacher, I need revival in my prayer life? Any, God bless you, hands all around. Hands all around. I wonder how many would say, preacher, it's really between God and I, but I have a great need, a great situation. I need the Lord to help me. A specific situation, a specific need. You'd say, preacher, I need God to help me. And you'd say, pray that God will teach me to trust Him. And bring it to Him. Is there any like that? Preacher, I've got a specific need. I had folks this morning coming to me, Preacher, I got unspoken, preacher, I got a personal need. I tell you, we can bring them to our great Pilate in heaven And trust him to bring us through. God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. What if there's some this morning and say, preacher, I've got a friend that's unsaved? Maybe a family member, a mother, father, brother, sister, child, somebody. Say they're lost. I can't imagine them dying in their sin. He'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be a witness I'd be able to see them say, is there any like that? Preacher, somebody I'm burdened for. God bless you. Let's pray. Let's pray. One more question. There's some here this morning who say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die You say, preacher, I don't want to go to hell. God doesn't want anybody to go to hell. He said, if we'll come to him and trust Christ, he'll forgive us. He paid all our sin debt for us on that cross, rose again. Who come and you say, Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled in my life. I can't go on without Christ. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me But I can get that saddled. How about it? Any at all? Any at all? Father, bless now our invitation time. Teach us to pray, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James