Until chapter number two, if you would, turn in your Bibles. Second Samuel chapter two. And um I'm going to pick up where we left off before. Yesterday, uh in October 6th, 81536. October 6th, which was yesterday. In 1536, how many years ago was that? 1536. That'd be 400 and some years. Who's the map can figure that out? 1536. 484 years ago, yesterday, uh William Tyndale was burned at the stake. For one reason, he translated the Bible into English so the English-speaking people could read the Bible. Isn't that an incredible thing? Burned at the state for that uh uh four hundred and eighty six years ago yesterday. And uh I'm telling you, uh we owe a great debt to men that gave their lives to get this Bible available to us And uh what a tremendous thing. That stirred my heart. I thought it was interesting. We were up yesterday, I was up Beacon of Truth, had their annual conference up in Duncansville yester Monday night and Tuesday. I just got up yesterday um for a bit of it. And um but I thought it was interesting. On the anniversary of the day Tyndale was killed, uh we were having a conference uh about printing the Bible and getting it translated and printed around the world. So I just I just thank God for the Bible and uh we owe a great debt to men like Tyndale and others that uh translate it into into English for us. 2 Samuel chapter number 2. I just want to read the first four verses we've been looking at this. I think this is our third message from this brief passage, but um This thing is just loaded with uh important characteristics of from David's life, actions he took that help us, I believe. And verse number one says this. And it came to pass after this. This was after David honored the death of King Saul and Jonathan. Remember we looked at that. And now the new chapter has begun. Saul is dead, David is going forward. It came to pass after this that David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah? And the Lord said unto him, Go up. And David said, Whither shall I go up? And he said unto Hebrew. So David went up hither. He prayed. He asked God, should I go in there? Yes, go. Where should I go? Hebron. So David did what God said. So David went up hither. And his two wives also, Ahinoam, the Jezreelites, and Abigail, Nabal's wife, the Carmelite, and his men that were with him did David bring up, every man with his household And they dwelt in the cities of Hebron. And the men of Judah came, and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. I'm going to stop there because I got studying this, and um You know the chapters in the Bible and the verse divisions are man-made. That's not given by inspiration. That was like uh Doc Mike could tell you what around, I think it was around 700 A. D. , somewhere around there, a French fella. Took the Bible and broke it down into chapters and verses. And so if I was doing it, and I'm not, he was much smarter than I am But I would have ended verse number four, where it says they anointed David king over the house of Judah And verse 5 would have begun, and they told David, saying that the men of Jabus Gilead were they that buried Saul, because the end of verse 4 and verse 5 on are another subject And so it starts right in the middle there. So for whatever it's worth, that's my two cents. So let's pray, and then uh we'll pick up where we left off last week. Father in heaven, I thank you for the word of God and the and the life of David And uh we were talking this afternoon about David and the impact that uh he's had on the world, how you've used him, and even throughout the millennium His name associated with the throne that Jesus sits on and uh and uh the lineage of Jesus. And so help us to learn from him, Lord. Help us to apply to our everyday lives these principles and these characteristics that David had that we can be stronger in our faith and Lord we could hear you someday say well done I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord. I yield my will and present my body anew, that you can speak through me and help us as I prayed. In Jesus' name, Amen. If you remember the first thing we noticed in verse number one is uh uh is um uh the first thing we notice is David prayed before he went back. He's anointed of God. He knows that God has chosen him to be king But he doesn't go storming back in there and demand what God had given him. He waits on the Lord and he's very, very patient, actually was the first point we had. He waited, he waited on God, and he was very patient. How many people here like me could use a little bit more patience? Anyone here? About half the crowd, the rest are very patient. How many people here want it right now? Yeah, so David David exercised some patience. He exercised some restraint. How many folks here have situations where you wished you to exercise a little restraint? Anybody? Yeah, we're all guilty of that. So we looked at the the um the important virtue of patience And how David exercised that then, we noted that he prayed before he acted. He didn't just react. He stopped, he restrained himself, and then he prayed and he sought the Lord for direction. And again, I think I got reviewing this a little bit And I think if we can get those two things down, we can learn to wait, restrain ourselves, just wait, take our time, and number two, pray about things, I think we'd be a whole lot better off I think that would be good for us. So let's ask the Lord to help us be patient. Let's ask the Lord to help us exercise restraint before we react or speak or make a decision. Let's wait on the Lord. Be patient and then let's pray and let's just ask God to lead us and God to direct us. I thought it was interesting. He asked, what should I do? Should I go back or not? Yes, where should I go And um my last thought on the matter of prayer last week was that he was submitting himself to the will of God by praying. He was submitting himself. And I see that here and I failed to bring this out, but in verse number one, the last part of verse number one, he says, Whither shall I go up? I don't know about you, but that looks sounds like a question of submission Where do you want me to go? God, how how when should I go? Where do you want me to go? And he was submitted to God in his prayers. The greatest prayer, I think the greatest prayer ever prayed, I preached this uh Sunday night for Brother Creed down there at Independent. Greatest prayer ever prayed, I believe, was Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane When Jesus said, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, what did he pray? Not my will, but thy will be done. What a prayer And that's what David is saying. He says, What do you want me to do? Whither shall I go? So now I want to look at verse 2 and 3, and Lord willing, we'll get to verse 4 this evening. I notice, first of all, David's patience Second thing was David's prayer. Tonight I want us to notice in verse 2 and 3 the participation of David's associates. Look at verse 2. So David went up hither. He did what God instructed him. He asked the Lord for direction. God gave it to him. He followed the Lord's direction. Very important. And it says this, and his two wives also, Ahinoim the Jezreelitis, and Abigail, Nabal's wife, the Carmelite. Now we're not going to talk about this issue of polygamy tonight. I was tempted To dwell on that a little bit. I believe David made a grave mistake in marrying more than one woman. I think it was a grave mistake, and uh there was issues with that. Um I don't want to get off on a rabbit trail here, but polygamy was not God's design. God took one rib out of Adam, created one wife for him, didn't take all twelve ribs out. And um that have been rough. But uh and so but that's an aside, so we'll let'll be for another time. But what I want us to notice here is he's he brings his family with him when he goes up to ascend to the throne of Israel. Now, if you would keep your place here. Come back with me to 1 Samuel again, verse chapter 27. Now we looked at this some probably a couple months ago. But here David makes a move. And we've already looked at this to some extent. David made another move, not to Judah, but this move he made away from Judah, out of Judah. And the interesting thing in 1 Samuel 27, first couple verses, is David makes a decision, if you'll remember He makes a decision to flee from King Saul by going to the Philistines. He goes to Philistia, he's going to hide Among the enemies of God's people from King Saul. Now, do you remember we noticed something David did not do before he made this move? He didn't pray. He uh he said, Look what it says there, verse one. It says, And David said in his heart, he leaned on his own understanding, so he made this decision. Didn't counsel the Lord, didn't seek direction from God, reasoned in his own mind, and he took his family with him. Out of the will of God, into the land of Philistine, into the land of God's people. Now we have him Apparently he's learned his lesson and he's coming back and he's bringing his family with him and and what I get from that is Whether I'm in the will of God like David is now, or out of the will of God, like David was back in 1 Samuel in chapter 27 It has a profound impact on my family. When he went out of the will of God, when he went to the Philistia to hide from King Saul, no prayer. No leadership from the Lord. In fact, God had told him earlier to stay in Judah. It cost his family. Anybody remember what happened to his family? Remember? Yeah, the Amalekites came down and Zaglag and kidnapped them. He thought they were gone. Now, humanly speaking, we would say that was a close call. Now God was being gracious and protected them But brother, do you think they were scared? You think it was traumatic for them to be taken captive by the Amalekites, knowing what kind of people they were? They paid a price And the point I'm trying to make is this. When you and I go out of the will of God, it affects a whole lot more people than just me. It affects my family. It affects my associates. He had all these men in their households with them. And he's pulling them around there. And we see this as we study the life of King David, we're going to see over and over again how his decisions and his submission to the Lord profoundly affected his family. and those around him. So I thought it was interesting here in uh in uh chapter number two where he where he brings his family with him. Let me get back here real quick. And it says, and uh and his two wives also, and he mentions them. Then verse 3, and his men that were with him did David bring up. I want you to notice a couple of things from verse 2 and 3. First of all, I notice the participation. Now, the participation of David's associates. He's got these people in with him. He's going to go be king. He says, you're coming along. First of all, he brings his family with him. Out of God's will, it was a burden to his family. In God's will, it was a blessing to his family. Now I put this down. Being in the will of God is the greatest, is a greater blessing to my family than being wealthy or being popular. I've seen it over the years. Maybe you could uh I think you'll know what I'm talking about. We see somebody that has an opportunity for a job advancement As an opportunity to make some more money, live in a nicer house, drive a nicer car, maybe live in a nicer part of town And rather than seek the Lord about it, rather than be submissive to whether that's God's will or not, the reasoning takes over and says, boy, this will be a better blessing. This will be a greater for my family And they go out of the will of God. Maybe I've seen it. They move to a place where there's no good church. Or they take a job that takes them out of church. And it and the family pays a heavy price. I've seen it over and over and over. Get a job and now I know sometimes you have to work Sundays, I uh don't please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I worked at the hospital, we had to rotate around But I'm telling you, if I have an option, and uh if I have an option, then uh being in the will of God is a better bl what I'm trying to say is this, being in the will of God is a greater blessing to my family than being wealthy or popular. And David is bringing his family with him. I think the most important thing a parent can do for their family is to trust and obey God. If I have to lean on my understanding, if I have to disobey God, I'll tell you, it's going to affect my family. It's going to affect my family. But when I trust and obey God, I believe the most important thing a parent can do to their family is live in the will of God David brought his family with him, his wives, his household. He brought them with him back into the will of God. He had a profound effect on them. Now I want to, when I read this initially, this was the First thought that came to my mind, and this is what I want to address tonight, is including our family in the work of the ministry. What is David going back to Judah to do? He's going back there for what? What's he going to do there? He's going to be king. He's going to sit on the throne. He's going to provide leadership for the nation of Israel. He's going to follow God's leadership. He's going to provide protection and leadership for the nation of Israel. David is, in a sense, entering the ministry, so to speak. And he's including his wives and his family in that. And I think there's an important truth here that including our families in the ministry. Now you may not relate to this as much as it may affect my thinking because being a pastor, Doc Williams probably can relate this. But I think all of us to some extent is we have to be very, very careful when we're serving the Lord We don't put our service to the Lord above our family. And we don't put our service to the Lord in exclusion of our family. I think it's good to, and we should, include our family in the service of the Lord, whatever that service may be, a bus route. Teaching a Sunday school class, visitation, whatever it may be, including our family in Christian ministry, serving God with my family is a high priority and it's very, very prop uh profitable for the family. To serve the Lord with my family. Would you keep your place here now and go with me very, very quickly, if you would, to Joshua chapter number 24. Genesis, Explodians, numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, the sixth book of the Old Testament, Joshua, and all the way at the end of the book of Joshua. Joshua makes a statement. He's coming to the end of his life and he's addressing the nation of Israel. And he makes an interesting statement in verse number 15 of Joshua chapter 24. Now, if you're in the habit of underscoring verses in your Bible, this is a good verse to highlight. Joshua chapter 24, and look with me. Well, let's start in verse 14, and verse 15 is what I'm wanting to get to. Joshua 24, verse 14. Now, therefore, Joshua speaking. Fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and truth. Get a ministry. Get serving God. Have something you're doing for God Put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood. That was the river there he's talking about. And uh in Egypt, and serve the Lord. They got caught up in serving the false gods of Israel, some of them. He says, put all that away. And if it, verse 15, and if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve. Serve, serve, serve, serve. He's talking about serving God. Whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell, where you just took over Israel, are you going to serve the gods that were here? And look at this last statement. Listen to what he says But as for me, and the next three words are what? And my house. Isn't that interesting? He doesn't just say, as for me, I'm going to serve the Lord. He doesn't say that. He says, as for me, and what? And my house. We, plural, we will serve the Lord. Daddy's going to serve God. Mama's going to serve God. The kids are going to serve God. We're going to serve the Lord as a household. We're all involved in this thing. We're all part of it. I thought that was a profound statement there. That word serve has this idea to labor. To work at something, and then I like this definition. Listen to this. As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Listen to this definition: to make oneself a servant to. He says, not just me, but Mama, Junior, Sissy, all of us, we're going to make ourselves servant to the Lord. We're going to serve him. We're going to work for him. We're going to have a ministry. Mom, dad, the kids, the whole shebang. We're going to serve God. Isn't that something? I put a few thoughts down about this. I put this down, thinking about a whole family having a ministry, serving God. Again, whatever God would direct you, bus, whatever it may be, I don't know But several things. Number one, I put this down. Each family member is gifted by God. Uh how many how many folks here, you m most of you have probably already raised kids, a lot of them anybody here see a difference in your kids I got two boys. Both came from the same parents, grew up drinking the same milk, eating the same peanut butter and jelly. Went to the same church. Those boys are as different as night and day. I call them Isaac and Ish uh uh Jacob and uh and uh uh Esau. One cooks, the other one kills stuff, and the other one cooks it I mean to tell you they're as different as night and day. You know what we learned on God gave our God gives our children different gifts and different abilities And God gifts all different. And I believe, this is Leathermanism here, but I believe God gifts a family. Mom, dad, uh, how many people here husband, how many husbands here say, yeah, I'm a little different than my wife Yeah, how many say, praise the Lord for that? I found out, I found out that some of my strengths are Kathy's weaknesses, and some of my weaknesses are Kathy's strengths And I found out the boys could do some things I couldn't do. I could do a whole lot of things they couldn't do. But um, no, I'm joking But God gifts each member of that family with different gifts, and I believe he puts that family together to work together as a cohesive machine. And each one has its part and has its role. What a powerful thing. Joshua said, as for me and my house We'll serve the Lord. We'll serve the Lord. So I put this down. God gifts each family member differently. God Each family member is gifted by God. I put this down. Each family member is given a purpose in life. God has a plan. God has a purpose for each family member. And then I wrote this down. Each family member has a role or a place in God's service. I believe God has a place for every single person born. There's a plan and a purpose for their life in the service of God And so David, he comes to Jerusalem, comes back to Judah. He's going to be king. And he says, wait a minute, I'm getting a family in on this. I'm getting a family on this. Which brings up another thought. When Stodd calls somebody into the ministry, he generally begins with the husband The head of the home. He'll call the husband to go. And I tell you, I've seen it in Bible college and I've seen it in the ministry. Sometimes a fellow will feel like God's called him maybe the mission field or a preacher, whatever And he doesn't give his wife time to get on board with that. And he just says, hey, we're going, we're going, whether you like it or not, and goes. And she's not on the same page with him And you know, I have never seen that work out good. Uh you can talk to some of those mission directors, come through here, they'll tell you missionaries get on the mission field and the wife wasn't behind that, the wife didn't support it, she went along And they didn't last very long. You follow what I'm saying? And so we've got to make sure the husband and wife have the same mind on that that are on the same same page. And if one feels called and the other doesn't, give that time. Let God work there. Don't twist their arm, beat 'em over the head, try and talk 'em into something And uh let them go. And I don't know about you now for most of us uh you know we're we're set, but boy you gotta uh I tell these young men to come through in Bible time stuff, I tell them so often you better be careful who you marry, better make sure If you're going into ministry, they understand that and they're on board with that. And um uh and so uh I think these are very, very important things, and of course it might apply to a younger crowd Uh and of course we're not that old here, but um a husband and wife must have the same mind in the ministry. You cannot uh uh uh you cannot allow my ministry to overshadow my family. They have to be on board with that. They have to be And so David brings his families with him. Turn with me if you would to Genesis chapter 18. Another interesting statement that God makes to Abraham. Genesis chapter eighteen, and look with me if you would at verse number nineteen A couple angels of the Lord show up. They tell Abraham, they're deciding, should we tell them what we're going to do to Sodom and Gomorrah? Lots down there. And uh they promised him earlier, they said about uh the promise that he's gonna have a son, and Sarah laughs, verse twelve, and the Lord approaches them. Is anything too hard for the Lord, verse fourteen And then look at verse 16. These two angels of the Lord. Then Sarah, verse 16. And the men rose up from thence and looked toward Sodom. That's down where Lot is. What are they fixing to do to Sodom? They're going to destroy it. They're going to burn it up. Fire and brimstone's coming down. So they looked towards Sodom, and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way. At this point, Abraham doesn't know what's up. And the Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do? Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation And all the nations of the Lord shall be blessed in him. It's like these angels signed, should we tell Abraham what's going to happen or not? And they decide, yeah, we're going to tell him. And look at verse 14. 19, I'm sorry. For I know him, Abraham. Look at this. That he will command his children and his household after him. Look at this. And they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment, that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he has spoken of him. Do you notice what he's saying about Abraham? He is going to lead his family to keep the way of the Lord. The father is the primarily the responsibility, the one responsible for leading the family to serve God. Primarily, it's about they say, I know Abraham, he's going to lead his family in the way of the Lord. They're going to serve God, they're going to be faithful. I know Abraham. I can trust him. He's going to lead his family. Now, there are exceptions. Some great servants of God came from homes where maybe a father was missing, where a father was unsaved. And God used the mother in a powerful way to influence and raise that child to serve God. God will use what he's got, but his plan, his intention is to provide the leadership in the home for the children through the father in the spiritual things. And so David says, David, Lord, I'm just going to wait. God, should I go back up there or not? Lord says, yep, you go up. Where should I go? Go to Hebron. Okay. Alright. Alright, kids. Why? Let's go. Get together. Pack up. We're all going together up here as a family. I put this down. Children are natural mimics. Anybody ever lo ever anybody notice this? When those kids are small, they'll imitate you. Little girl be in there, she'll see mama putting lipstick on and stuff, and uh when mama's going she'll get in it and uh put it all over her face and everything, you know And though she'll want to look like mama, she'll want to act like mama. The boys, um, I'm not a big I'm not very good at fixing stuff and a handyman, I'm a terrible handyman. What's the opposite of handy? Unhandy. I'm an unhandy man. It's terrible. But I try and do stuff a little bit here and there, and uh the old boys is they've watched me and next thing you know if I'm not looking they got all the tools. I uh one time I went out in the little tool room there in my toolbox and all my tools were gone. I said, Where are they? They said, Oh they're back in the woods. We were trying to build a house back there. But kids are a little mimic. And I'll tell you, they learn more by our actions and our attitudes than they do by our words and our lectures. By watching us and seeing us. I put a few suggestions down here. Number one, put God at the center of family life. Put God at the center of the family life. I say this so often, and I believe it with all my heart, you ought to have a family altar time. Get the family together, read the Bible, pray. Regardless of the makeup of the home, there ought to be that family time. Read the Bible and praying together. Make God. I started to write down, put God first in your family time. And I changed that. I put said, I wrote, put God at the center of your family time. And the reason I do that is if you have a first on the list, then there's got to be a what A second and a third. And that becomes competition, right? First and then second. If my wife said to me, Oh, Dan, you're the first man in my life. You know what I want to know Who's the second one? God doesn't want to, I don't know that the Lord wants to be the first in our family I like to look at it, God is the center of our family, like the hub on a bicycle wheel. And every part of my life revolves around my relationship with the Lord. The little spokes coming in, all my finances, my hobbies, my children, my marriage, all of that revolves around and is governed by my relationship at the center of my heart and life with the Lord Jesus Christ. Follow what I'm trying to say? So I think that's important we put Christ in the center of our home, of our family, and all our relationships revolve around him. Then I put this down, make church central in your family. I think sometimes we underestimate the importance of the church in the home and the family. It's the body of Christ. You and I, as members of the church, are part of the body of Christ. And you cannot neglect that. Now we're in strange days and trying circumstances, but I appreciate folks that are doing everything they can to make sure they're a part involved in the church. And then I put this down. Be a clear example in serving the Lord. Be an example. Don't just preach it, our kids What they should do. Be an example to it. Be wholehearted. Have a positive mental attitude. Praise and positive words about the Lord and the things of the Lord. Um uh anybody here on a Sunday afternoon go home and have a roast? You put it in the uh crock pot or whatever, have a roast Sunday afternoon. Anybody ever do that? Sometimes have a roast. Uh anybody here ever go home and have roast beef? Yeah, anybody here ever go home and have roast pork? Yeah, anybody here ever go home and have roast preacher? I tell you, and I'm not trying to anything about me, but I'm saying this, and you drive out on the way home complaining about stuff at church and this and complaining about the preacher and all that, I tell you there's little ears in that car that hear that and you're affecting their mind. Preacher says something, Dad rolls his eyes, oh brother, here we go again. And I'm telling you The kids see that. If you have an issue, have a problem, don't deal with it in front of the kids. Deal with it privately, pro appropriately. And so uh praise and positive words, uh pa patient in ministry. Uh be persistent, don't quit, just stay at it. Personal walk with God, and then I put down number four, have a family ministry. So the thing I noticed here is I'm studying uh 2 Samuel chapter 2 And it says, and David went up hither and his two wives also. He brought his family along. He had them included He didn't just take off and all right, you guys stay home here, you take care of the house. I'm gonna go be king of Israel. No, no, no. You guys are in on this too. You guys are part of this also And so we have the participation of his family, but then I also notice the participation of his followers. Look with me, if you would, at verse number three. And his men that were with him, ones that had been through all this ordeal with King Saul All this ordeal over with the Philistines and the Malachites at Zigli, all these guys were with him for all of it. Now they got pretty ticked at him after Zigli. They're gonna stone them, but he won them back over, and God ain't took care of that. And he doesn't leave them behind He says, listen, you guys are part of, I'm going to be king. God's already king. You guys are part of this too. You were part of part of the trials. You stood with me in the difficult times out in the wilderness. You guys are part of this here also. And I thought that was a tremendous action on David's part. David's reign as king is not going to be a one-man show. There's going to be other people. A lot of these fellows that are with them are going to have key positions in his administration. And he's making sure, he says, I'm sure he had this adjective. I cannot do this myself. I need you guys. You guys need to be a part of this. He's had places in his administration. I learned early on that pastoring a church, a successful church, is not a one-man show. There's a lot of people that work hard and do things that have roles and have parts for a church to succeed And I tell you, a pastor, I'm preaching myself maybe a pastor is now, but a pastor makes a big mistake if he thinks he can and should do it all. God put a body together. I found out that my hand can't do stuff my feet can do. And there's some things that my liver can do that my eyeballs can't do. And they've got to work together. They've got to operate together. And everybody had a part, and everybody has a role. I tell you, this church would uh would not operate if it wasn't for a slew of ladies around here that work hard. The ladies clean the place and Mandy back in the kitchen and I start naming people I'm gonna forget, but people that have a role And Sunday school department, the buses, the choir, the church, I couldn't, there's no way one person could do all that. And David understood that, and he says, You guys stood with me, now you're coming in, you got a part in this also. You have a part in this also Been through a lot of trials with them. They're going to share the triumphs with them also. By the way, I got thinking about that. That's what the Lord does with us. We're trying to serve God here. We're staying we get persecuted sometimes. We get anybody here get called a name because you're a Christian to try and witness to or get cussed out or something? I mean that's light what some Hindale and them went through. But what does Jesus do when he becomes king? He includes us too. We're going to reign with him, right? As kings and priests. And I got studying this, I got thinking that's kind of like Jesus during the tribulation. He goes, all right, all you New Testament saints, come on. You stood with me, you were faithful, you were witnessing and all that, now you come on, you're going to share the kingdom with me also. You got responsibility You're going to have roles to play in the millennial reign. I think that's what David's doing with these guys here. You guys stood with me. You were faithful. You battled with me. Come on, you're going to be a part of this administration So he was very patient. He restrained himself, waited on God's timing. He prayed, Lord, should I go up? Where? When And then he got his family and all these guys said, You guys come along with me. You're part of this as much as I. And then last of all, real quickly, in the first part of verse 4, we have this public anointing of David Now look at look at verse 4 there. Verse 4. And the men of Judah came. He's got his whole family, all these guys, they go to Hebron. And the men of Judah came And there at uh there they anointed David in Hebron. They anointed David. Now, just a little aside, real quickly, Hebron is a significant place. in the history of Israel. Can anybody, I'm going to test your Bible knowledge now, can anybody tell me some things that happened at Hebron up to this point in time? That's a toughie. Anybody take a shot? Uh let me give you a few things. Abraham lived here in Hebron. In fact, it was when Abraham was in Hebron. Remember when Lot down in Sodom and Gomorrah the they got captured shortly after Lot got down there taken, they were kidnapped uh by those five kings and they took them and Abraham got his household together. They were all trained in war and Abraham took his household down and rescued Lot. How many people remember that? Anybody He went down there and rescued Lot and brought him back. That took place. Abraham was at Hebron. This very spot is where he was when he went down and rescued Lot. In Hebron is where God changed Abraham's name. What was his initial name? Abram. And at Hebron, God says you're no longer Abram, you're Abraham. At Hebron is where uh uh the angels showed up. We read there, they showed up and promised Abraham he's gonna have a son. It was at Hebron. This is a significant place in the history of Israel. In Hebron is where Sarah died. And uh buried there in Hebron. Uh in Hebron is where Jacob sent Joseph out to find his brothers when they they didn't come back on time, so he sent them out. Remember they kidnapped Joseph and sold him? It was from Hebron that Joseph was sent out by uh Jacob. Um it was at Hebron, get this, where the twelve spies cut down the gigantic um cluster of grapes. It was in Hebron. It was in Hebron that Caleb conquered Hebron. When they finally invaded the land, Caleb conquered Hebron. Remember when he said, I want that mountain? Anybody remember that? I don't mean you were there, but you remember It was in Hebron became a city of refuge. Samson carried the gates of a city on his shoulders from Hebron, outside Hebron. This is a significant place, and God says, go to Hebron. And when he gets there, they have this public anointing of David and this very significant place. I believe David's anointing here was incredibly important and very, very significant for the eyes of the people. Did you know that David was anointed king three times? Three times. One was in 2nd Samuel chapter uh I'm sorry, 1 Samuel chapter 16, verse 13. We looked at this a long time ago, years ago. Is when God anointed David. God did the anointing, and God was choosing David to be the next king of Israel. That was a private Anointing, it wasn't public, it was Samuel, Prophet Samuel, and David, God anointing him. Family members there Now, the second anointing is right here, what we just read. And this is the men of Judah are anointing him. God's not anointing him king again. He already did that. That's already settled So what was the point? Anybody want to try and offer a suggestion? What was the point of the men of Judah anointing him? Why would that be necessary, seeing God already did? Okay? Yes, it was a re it was a public recognition. Here's what I believe it means The nation of Judah, it's not all of Israel yet, it's just Judah, the tribe of Judah, but they are saying, we recognize God has anointed this man to be our king. We are respecting David as the chosen one of God to be our king. Now, I don't know what your thoughts are, but I think it's good for a nation to recognize the people of God and respect them. I think any nation it's good for them to do that. And I'm grateful for our country for years they recognize the church as being a very important part of our society, in fact, to the point that they say the church is tax exempt We want that church to be able to function as well and as profitable as they can. And I think that's what the nation of uh I think the tribe of Judah is saying, listen, we're recognizing this is a man of God. We're recognizing this is God's choice. And we want all our tribe to see it was a public recognition of God's anointing on David. They were saying this, I believe. What God chose, we chose. God chose him to be king, then we choose him to be king. Now there was a third anointing of David, and that is later on in 2 Samuel chapter 5, a few chapters back here. And that is when the entire nation comes together. We're going to see here in the coming weeks. There was a little division. One of Saul's boys says, Oh, I want to be king. And so there was a little issue there for a little bit, but finally it was obvious what God's will was, and the third anointing, the whole nation, all the tribes say, all right, we recognize God has chosen David and will anoint him. To recognize the fact that this is God's man. I believe it is good for us to recognize and agree with the decisions God makes. Concerning, in this case, a nation. I was trying to think, well, how does that apply to my life? I tell you, God tells us a lot of things in the Bible that He chooses And I think it's good for you and I to say, all right, what God chooses, I choose. What God's will is, is my will. I come back to that prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane. Nevertheless, not my will, but what? I think that's what the nation was saying. Last time we insisted we got our way, it didn't work out. Lord, this time, not our will, but who you want, that's what we want. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us To trust you, Lord, to be patient, wait on your leadership, help us, Lord, to pray, allow you to direct us and instruct us And then Lord help us to get our uh our families involved in serving you and and uh and then Lord help us to recognize your leadership and your choices in our lives. I wonder, with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say as I finish up this section, I wonder if some would say, Preacher, I really need that patience. I really need that patience. Anyone like that? We already talked about this. How about prayer life? Anybody here, preacher, I need revival in my prayer life. I need to get that back. That's that's mine personally. I just constantly need that I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I need to get uh I gotta get a teamwork frame uh frame of mind. Working together, not a lone ranger, but working together, others involved. Is there any like that? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I just need to be a part of the team. And then maybe we need to recognize God's will for our lives. Father, bless our invitation. I don't know how you would apply this to our lives, but we just ask you to have your way. In Jesus' name, amen.