The wing side there and he radios over he says, Hey C one thirty, watch this. And the F-16 guy was a young pilot. He took off And he went straight up and he did barrel rolls and he was diving, did stall outs and did all these crazy maneuvers and all of that and he comes back and he goes, What do you think of that? And the F-16, uh the uh C one thirty pilot says, Yeah, that's impressive. He says, Watch this. So the F sixteen pilot's there for a while, he's watching. And the C-130's just barreling along and goes on about ten minutes and finally comes back on and says, What'd you think of that? He goes, what did I think? Oh what? You didn't do anything. He says, oh yes I did. I went out and got a cup of coffee. I ate a donut, went to the bathroom, and came back the whole time. So The older you get, you appreciate those types of things a little more. But um I thought that was pretty good. Genesis chapter eight, I was telling stories here and didn't turn in my Bible Notice verse number one, the Bible says, And God remembered Noah and every living thing, and all the cattle that was with them in the ark. And God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters assuaged And the fountains also the deep and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained. So uh the flood, God holds back the increase of the flood. Then verse 3 And the waters returned from off the earth continually, and after the end of a hundred and fifty days the waters were abated, and the ark rested on the seventh in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month upon the mountain of Ararat. I would have liked to have been on the ark the day that thing settled down. And how are the noises that would be associated and finally on solid ground. Then read on And uh verse five, and the waters decrease continually until the tenth month. And the tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of the mountains seen. So the water's going down, the ark's sitting there Noah and his family and the critters are all in the ark still. They don't get out. Look at verse six. And it came to pass at the end of forty days, they've been sitting there that whole time. uh on solid ground, uh that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made, and sent forth a raven, which went forth to and fro until the waters were dried up from off the earth. Question, did the raven come back? No, it just took off, never saw it again. Um verse eight. Also, he sent forth a dove from him to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground. But the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot And she returned to him in the ark, for the waters were on the face of the whole earth. Then he put forth his hand and took her and pulled her in unto him into the ark. Verse ten. And he stayed yet another seven days. And again he sent forth the dove out of the ark, and the dove came to him in the evening, and lo, in her mouth was an olive leaf plucked off. So Noah knew that the waters were abated from off the earth, and he stayed yet another seven days, and sent forth a dove, which returned not again to him any more. I want to look at this raven and the dove. We started this last week, uh, but I want to finish this up and try and glean some things from this here. Let's pray. Father, bless now our time in your word. This is a fascinating passage of scripture a unique incident in this year long flood of the earth and uh I pray that your Holy Spirit would apply to our lives some truths here. Fill me, I pray, tonight, again with your Holy Spirit, Lord. Speak through me and help us to be strengthened in our faith. and closer to you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Last week we noted that Noah was a very patient man. We talk about the patience of Job. Can you imagine knowing that the water's gone down, you've been in this ark for three hundred and some days You're on dry ground. Uh if it was me, I I I don't know how you are, but um uh I don't like to wait for stuff. Can I get a witness? Uh do you ever go to Walmart in line and in front of you it's the ten item only line and they've got twelve items? Uh anybody that bugs you, and anybody is like, wait a minute, I'm counting what they got there. And uh uh I hate the wait. But Noah He's sitting in there and uh 40 days we're on dry it would be in me if if I was one of Noah's kids I'd have been like this Come on dad we're on dry ground what are we doing sitting in here? Let's get out And uh so Noah is very patient. We looked at that. The th thing I want to look at tonight, we considered the patience of Noah. What I want to consider tonight is the prudence of Noah. Now what do we mean when we talk about somebody having prudence or exercising prudence? What do we mean by that? Somebody Alright, very wise. He's acting very he's very prudent. He's being very wise on how he goes about this. I see that in this passage of Noah. He doesn't just go climbing out the window. God closed the door. He he can't get out the door until God opens it. So Noah's not ripping the thing apart, climbing out the windows to try and get outside. He's being very, very patient And he's being very prudent. Now the first thing I see in the prudence of Noah is this, in his sending forth these birds. I think this is the first case in history of unmanned aerial vehicles gathering information. These are drones. Have people ever heard of drones? That's basically what this is. He's sending these birds out to gather information in places he can't see. Isn't that what drones do? They send a drone out? I thought that was wittier than what you all responded to. I thought that was profound. So anyway, Noah sends these spies out, these birds, and he's concerned about how the progress is going outside there in the world. He's in this ark. He can only thing he can see is the fact that there's tops of mountains are sticking up out of the water. Forty days later, that water is going down. Now it's the apparently the way the ark is set He can't see out the windows the window to see what's going on down below the ark. All he can see apparently is the tops of the mountains. He knows the waters below that, but he doesn't know How far down it is, what what stage they're in, and so he sends these spies out, these birds, these drones, if you will, to go out, gather information, and bring that information back to him Now, I can't see anywhere as I study this, I can't see anywhere where God told him to do that. Nowhere was Noah instructed, God said, Noah, let a crow let a uh uh not a crow, uh raven. Noah let a raven out. Let Noah let a dove out. He wasn't instructed to do that. Now obviously he wasn't forbidden from doing that, but he wasn't instructed to do it. I think it was prudent on his part They've been in there a long time. They needed some news from the outside. Maybe if nothing else for the family. They needed to know something was happening outside. Again, there was no indication that God had instructed Noah to do this, but it was a good thing to do. You know, there are some things that we do. That God didn't necessarily directly instruct us to do, but they are good things to do. For instance, you know there's nowhere in the Bible where we're instructed to have a Sunday school hour? It's not there. We are instructed to assemble ourselves together regular basis for the teaching and preaching of the Word of God. But there's nowhere in the Bible where you find a structured Sunday school hour instruct uh where where we're told to do that. Now, is it a bad thing to have Sunday hour? No. That's a good thing. That's part of the church's teaching ministry. That's part of the church's uh training and and uh a very real way uh evangelistic ministry. The Sunday school, listen, the Sunday school is important part of church Although we don't have a direct instruction here. By the way, if you're not in the habit of getting involved in Sunday school, I want to challenge you. Y'all hop in in. It's a lot of fun. And uh we're learning, it's a good thing. But there's no direct instruction. Do you know there's nowhere in the Bible where we're instructed to run buses? Doesn't say thou shalt buy buses and run them around. We're not told to do that. I think it's a good idea. D. L. Moody, we're told, was one of the early uh guys that came up with this concept of sending vehicles out into the community and picking up people and bringing them in. They didn't have buses in DL Moody's days, but they did have horses with carts And guess what he did? Moody Tabernacle there in Chicago. They would have, I'm told, dozens and dozens of horses with wagons. And they would send them out into Chicago in the area and pick up kids and families and bring them in on his horse and buggies. Isn't that amazing? Now we're not told to do that in the Bible particularly, but uh it's a prudent thing. It's a good thing to do By the way, somebody was criticizing a preacher years ago. This is many years ago, they had a ton of buses running. They said, those buses, uh, they uh getting oil all over the parking lot. And uh the the person, excuse me, criticizing said They said, getting oil all over the parking lot. D. O. Moody didn't run buses. The preacher very wisely said no, he ran uh horses and buggies. What do you think left on their parking lot uh they had So uh uh we're not told some of these things we're not directly instructed to do, but they're not bad ideas. Uh I got studying the Bible, you know what? I found out in the Bible there's nowhere where we're directly commanded to have revival meetings. Uh you know, they just had preaching and revival all the time. But I uh I'm convinced revival meetings are an important part of the church. It's a good thing to do. Years ago, and I don't think they meant anything but this, but somebody kind of, I kind of took it as a criticism, criticized us. We have so many revival meetings here at Mountain Lake. All these revival meetings Um, you know what? I don't think our church would be what it is if we didn't have the revival meetings we have through here. God using these men coming through and challenging us And helping and reinforcing what we're doing. So Noah sends these drones out. I keep wanting to say a crow. Uh raven. And a dove. And he sends them out. Noah did God tell you to do that. No, but I think it's a good idea. He didn't tell me not to, so, and he goes and does that. So I see the prudence of uh sending out these spies, as I like to call 'em. Uh he didn't rush to get out of the ark. He took his time. Went through the precautions. Sent the raven and then the duck. Now as I was preparing this several weeks ago, I was looking at this and trying to determine what exactly the Lord had for us here. I got reading commentaries and things from years gone by. And I found that there's a and I knew this before, but I found that there's a lot of speculation in commentaries and whatnot about these this raven and the doves People like to uh do you know what I mean by an allegory? You know what I mean by an allegory? It's a story that didn't necessarily it's kind of like a parable to Sunday, but it's kind of a story that uh isn't necessarily an actual event, but it's used to teach a truth. You follow what I'm saying Uh some folks, uh or the allegory, you can take an event that actually did happen, but you give it meanings and different things like that. It's not necessarily bad But I found a lot of preachers like to use the raven and the dove as allegories. For instance, they will say something like: the raven represents the law. And the dove represents grace. And the raven is dark in its foreboding And uh it goes out there and there's no second chance. It just does nothing for Noah whatsoever as far as helping them and all of that. And the dove is very kind and peaceful and it represents grace Um, that's nice. Uh that's fine. Another allegory they use for the raven and the dove is this, that the raven represents the flesh And the dove represents the Spirit of God. The raven represents the old nature. And the dove represents the new nature. And the Raven goes out and flies around the world and the raven lights the world and oh it's happy in the world and fits right in where the dove Oh, it's yucky out there, it's all muddy and dead stuff, and uh the dove doesn't like the world, it wants to be with God's people. And all these things And you know, some guys have had great messages, but the problem with that, I got looking here, I can't find where the Bible tells us that that's what those two things are. I think the raven was a raven. That's profound. Are you glad you came to church? I think the dove was a dove he sent out. Now there are some applications we'll pick up here. But we can't say necessarily that these things definitely represent things the Bible doesn't say they represent. Thought provoking, yes, interesting, yes, but um I think it's two birds he sent out of the uh ark Now, let's consider real quickly this raven. A raven. It's the first time a raven is mentioned in the Bible The raven, later on we find, in Leviticus, I believe it is, is declared an unclean bird. It was not to be eaten, it was not to be used for sacrifices. It was an unclean bird. The ravens, I did a little research on ravens. I don't think we have ravens around here too much. Do we have some? Yes, I'm being corrected. We have a few, I guess. We have some ravens around here. I I know we lived in Colorado, there was a ton of them. Uh the raven, I am told, is a bird of prey uh to some degree. Uh they're found throughout the world. The one re one resource I was looking at says that This is interesting. The land of Palestine has the most ravens of anywhere in the world. That they're most common in Palestine than anywhere else in the world. Now, I think that's interesting. If you'll study future prophecy, the Bible talks about ravens eating the flesh during a tribulation period. of those slain. And so it's kind of interesting that where they are the most common, the Bible refers to them doing some incredible things. So the raven's an unclean bird. They're found throughout the world. They're basically a large crow, is what they look like, a very large crow. We are told that they are very intelligent. In fact, the one source I was looking at says that ravens have been taught to speak of phrases. If they were taught correctly, work with them, work with them. They could actually repeat phrases. That they are that intelligent and that gifted in that way. The one place I was reading said they have a saucy disposition. I thought that was an interesting way of describing them. In other words, they got bad attitudes. The one thing says they get in fights a lot. They're very noisy and they fight each other constantly. Ravens are associated with various superstitions. It is a negative, a raven has negative connotations about it. They are associated with various pagan religions, ravens. They are noisy. They are obnoxious. They're smart. They're loud. And I think Noah was glad to get rid of that thing out of the boat. He'd spent a year with this thing. But it didn't return. Why didn't that raven come back? The classic explanation. Is that there was all these carcasses floating around, and a raven is somewhat carnivorous, and so the raven would just fly out from one elephant carcass to an elect to a dinosaur carcass, to an alligator carcass, and just different things, and fly around and eat and just lived off these carcasses floating on the water. Now that could very well be. I have a problem with that My question is, this has been over a year that they've been floating out here. It's been windy. These things have been washing around and going on. There's been sun beating down on these things. I find it hard to believe that after 370 days There would still be any carcasses left floating around on the water. You follow what I'm saying? Uh you get a dead possum along the road, how long's that thing lay there? Till the crows eat it, yeah. Uh but I mean is it a a year later what's gonna be left of that possum? Just bones at the most. Um some of y'all shoot a deer, you take the carcass, throw it out behind your house Uh some of you do that. And um uh and uh how long's that carcass there? A year later, it's basically just bones left. Uh maybe a little sinew here and there. Uh I see, now this is me and and and uh if if you think I'm wrong, I'm sure you're right, but not real sure, but um Uh I think by the time that he's letting his crow out, these carcasses are done, deteriorated, they've sank down, they're turning into oil. Is what I think is happening. They're they're being petrified at the bottom and all that. So uh I don't know what the raven did. I said all that to say that Uh I don't know what the raven did. All I know is this is that a raven is very independent, very resourceful, and that bird can take care of itself out there And it's going to be rooting around and doing different things, and uh apparently there's enough dry land where that thing can take care of itself. So that's the raven. Uh what about the dove? Raven doesn't come back? Hmm Sweetheart, get one of them their doves. Alright, so she brings the dove. We'll let this dove out, see what happens. So he lets the dove out. Again. This is the first time a dove is mentioned in the Bible. A dove, we find later on, is considered to be a clean animal. You could eat them, they were used for sacrifices, uh, they were considered a spiritually clean bird. Uh we're told that doves are easily domesticated. No doubt, perhaps in the in the uh Ark, Noah had these and his family had had these doves uh domesticated and tame, and boy, they were just nice as can be and Uh at night when they're sitting around, maybe they had a little Did they have a fire in the ark? That would be dangerous. Maybe they did. I don't know. Maybe they had gas heat, I don't know. But um uh anyway, they're sitting around there, their source of heat, and uh the little doves, do you ever hear them on the on the telephone line of the evening? And they're cooing away. And uh uh they're a very pleasant bird. Uh the dove, uh uh the dove, we're told, would had a t has a tendency to become dependent. If somebody's feeding it or taking care of it, that dove becomes dependent on the one. So no doubt these doves were very dependent on Noah and his family providing for him and feeding them, unlike the raven It's very independent. Didn't need Noah. Didn't need the Ark. But the dove was very dependent, very domesticated. Some religions consider doves to be very sacred. They have a positive connotation. Sometimes when they have peace rallies, they'll let doves loose. I've seen where they had weddings, where they let doves loose. Over in West Virginia they let turkeys go at weddings. But um I'm sorry. But uh they have very con positive connotations. And the dove, because it's dependent Keeps returning back to the art, coming back to the art, back to the art. You say, all right, nice preacher, but uh what does this have to do with anything? Well, I was praying asked so well Lord how does this apply to us? I asked myself this question In my relationship with the Lord, which of these two birds am I the most like? What's my disposition like? Am I more like a raven? Independent? I don't need God, dirty, love the world, or am I more like the dove? I've become very dependent on the Lord. I need to be around God's people. I need to come back to the Lord. Maybe I'll wander. I need to come back to the Lord. God challenged me. I I want to, if I was, if I was gonna ha if I had to be one of these birds, I'd want to be the dove. Wouldn't you? I want to be one that's close to the Lord and is a blessing. And so we have the Noah is very prudent. He says, you know, we don't know what's going on out there. We've been in this ark a long time. I think it would be good if we just send some birds out and find out what happens. See what they do. See if we can't get some information, what's happening out there, until God opens this ark up and we can get out. So he does that He lets the raven out. The raven goes, doesn't come back. Let's the dove out. Now that leads me to my second and last thought under his prudence. I believe Noah was very prudent in remaining steadfast, and by that I mean this. He apparently kept a schedule. Let me show you what I mean. Look at verse number 10. Chapter 8. He's letting these birds out, and a phrase comes up twice that tells me Noah kept the schedule. And he stayed yet another seven days. So if he's he let the raven out, didn't come back, he stays another uh he he Let's read it here again. He lets the raven out, doesn't come back. Verse 8, he sends a dove out. The dove found no rest, verse 9. Verse 10, and he stayed yet another seven days. Come down to verse number twelve. And he stayed yet another seven days. My impression studying this is he's letting these birds out every seven days. Now, it doesn't say this expressly, but my impression is he let the raven out, wait seven days, it doesn't come back. Seven days later he lets the dove out. It comes back right away. He waits seven days. He lets it out again. It goes out, finds a fig leaf, comes back. He waits seven days. He lets it out, it goes, it doesn't come back. You follow what's happening? I believe it was a certain day of the week. That he was letting these birds out. I believe, and I'm gleaning this, this is no doubt an element of speculation, but I get the impression Noah lived by a schedule. He had certain days. Now think about this with me. When someone goes into solitary confinement, they have no contact with the outside world, they're in this enclosed environment. What do you find on the walls of prisons of people that have solitary confinement? Find calendars. People who are stranded on islands, one of the first things they'll do is establish a way of measuring the days and setting up some type of schedule. I think Noah had a schedule. There were certain things they did on certain days. There were certain days of the month that certain things took place. And he lived by a schedule, maintaining a weekly schedule. Now, think with me, that would be very difficult in an arc. That thing's enclosed. I I would imagine it's very dark. Even during the day with the windows open, it would be uh it would be difficult. Uh you would have to somehow Keep measure of that sunrise, sunset. It's dark, it's light, and measure that. So it would be a very difficult thing to do. Be very easy to lose track. How many days went by, how many weeks went by. But Noah apparently kept the schedule. I believe, this is what I want to get to, and this is what I'm going to end with. I believe God has created man. To live by a schedule. I think that is how God intends for us to be. Think about it in the world. Our world operates by a schedule. Sun goes down, sun comes up. We have daily schedules. We have weekly schedules. Some, I was reading commentary, suggested that this was Noah's Sabbath. And he had a Sabbath every seven days. Now the Sabbath wasn't given yet, but uh I believe he definitely had a schedule. He definitely had days that he did certain things. God designed us, I am convinced, to operate by daily schedules, weekly schedules, monthly schedules, and yearly schedules Now, there's a place for variety. I think it's a good thing to take a vacation, go and get out of the routine for a while. But I think it's important to maintain a schedule. And I'm afraid when we get out of a schedule or we don't live our lives by a schedule, we are opening ourselves up to trouble. Let me illustrate. King David. There was a certain time of year when the kings were scheduled to go to war. The time of year when kings were scheduled to go to war. But the Bible tells us that that one year David did not keep his schedule. And he didn't go to war, he stayed back. And he ended up getting messed up with Bathsheba. If David would have kept his schedule, that would have never happened. If he'd have stuck to the schedule, it would have never happened. You know what my experience has been? We're working on 19 years here at Mountain Lake. I was in evangelism, youth pastor of four years, been working in local churches a long time. You know what I found? Generally, now there's few exceptions, but there's some exceptions, but they're very, very few. When people start missing church, They start messing up. They get out of that schedule. Well, it's just Wednesday night church. Then it's Sunday night, then it's Sunday school, then it's out. God ordained, I believe, man to live by a schedule. That's why you have the Lord's Day That's why you had seven days in a week. God designed us. You know what I found out? And you'll you'll I think many of you will testify to this. I found out that if I get out of whack on my Bible reading schedule, I feel it in my heart and soul. I mean, just my attitude and everything. If I get out of that schedule. And here's something else I found. If I get out of schedule on my Bible or anything, it's hard to get back on schedule. And the longer I'm off schedule, the harder it is to get back. I'm telling you, one of the best things we can do to safeguard ourselves from messing up is establishing a good godly schedule of Bible reading, of prayer, of church attendance. By the way, that's why I believe it's very important for a church to have soul-winning times. Scheduled. You know what we say? You know what we every one of us wants to be a witness. If we know the Lord, we want to be a witness. Am I right? Sure, we want to be a witness. Yeah, and we would like to share the gospel with people. Sure. You know what I found out happens? If there's not a scheduled time for folks to come and go and be a witness and share the gospel, here's what happens. You know, one of these days, I'm going to go visit that person and share the gospel with them. One of these days, I'm gonna go door to door down my neighborhood. One of these days I'm gonna do it. You know what I found out? One of those days never shows up. Then the preacher says, Hey, we're going out Thursday night, we're going out Sunday afternoon, we're going out Saturday afternoon, from this time to this time, and go visit. You say, you know what? It's scheduled. I'm going to get involved in that. And I find myself doing what God tells me to do. Now there's exceptions, but it takes a lot of discipline. And so uh I have a good friend of mine, Pastor Jim Moore, in um in uh um Hagerstown, pastors of Harvest Baptist Church in Hagerstown. I was just with him last week. You know what we've been saying for 15 years? Every time I see Brother Jim Moore, we've been saying this. I mean we laugh about it Before we leave, you know what we say? We need to get together and have lunch together sometime. He said, You and Bonnie and Kathy and I, we need to get together and have we've been saying that for 15 years. Guess how many times we've had lunch together? None. So you know what we did last Friday when I was with them last Thursday, when I was with them a week ago Thursday? I s he said the same thing. He said, Brother, we gotta have lunch together. I said, tell you what, my wife is going to John Hopkins on a certain date. Um Uh we got to drive right through Hagerstown. I said that day, we're scheduling it right now. We're gonna have lunch together. Guess what? We're having lunch together. You know why? Because of a schedule. Seven days, let that thing out. Comes back. Junior says, Noah, Daddy, Noah, Papa Noah, let's let it out today. No, we're going to stick to the schedule. We'll let him out in seven days. And Noah had a schedule. Now let me ask you this. Do you have a Bible reading schedule? If you're just doing it haphazard, I know one thing, you're not being very consistent. And you're not getting as much out of it as you can and you should. I want to challenge you to schedule a daily Bible reading time. Ideally, it's in the morning, but that doesn't always work for everybody. Sometime throughout the day, there ought to be a time where you have it scheduled in. This is my time for God. And read your Bible and pray. Let me ask you about your church attendance. Is it scheduled or is it just if nothing else is happening? Well, nothing else going on. What's going on Sunday night? I don't know. Well, if we don't come up with something, I guess we'll go to church. You know what's gonna happen? It's gonna kill you. It's gonna hurt you spiritually. You gotta say, what? Sunday night, that's church time. Good night, that's our scheduled church time. Wednesday night, church time. See what I'm saying? See what I'm saying? Schedule. Schedule. So important. Father, help us, Lord, to function as you've intended us to. Help us to discipline ourselves. In these areas, our soul-winning, our giving, our church attendance, our Bible reading, our witnessing, all of these things require discipline And scheduling things helps us so much. Thank you for Noah. I want to be a dove. I want to be a scheduled, disciplined dove, Lord. I pray that'd be true for all of us. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, goodness, this Bible reading business, I really need to put a schedule on this? It's not happening like it should. And I just need it tonight. I'm going to ask the Lord to help me establish a time every day where I can schedule in my Bible reading. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that I can do that. I really need to do that. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around That tells me it's important. Tonight I'm going to schedule it. This coming week I'm going to set that thing in. What about church attendance? Is it scheduled part of your day weekly schedule? How about soul winning? How about I didn't talk about this? What about times with your wife, your husband, scheduling and spending some time together? Uh, kids, these types of things. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Is there someone here tonight say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I didn't preach on this. But maybe you're here and you don't have that settled, and you say, preacher, pray with me. I I need to settle this matter about where I spend eternity. Any like that at all? Any at all? Father, bless our invitation time now. Lord, we're going into Lord's Supper in just a moment. I pray you'd search our hearts. God, I pray you'd help us be disciplined and committed to our Christian life and the aspects that make up successful Christian living. Help us to schedule these things and make them a key part of our daily lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together.