Chapter three. We actually began this passage about three, four weeks ago. It was way back before Bible time. And uh we're coming back here. We're going to look at this passage again. We'll pick up where we left off uh several weeks ago, but I want to read verse 14 of 1 Peter chapter 3, and I want to read down through verse 16. Now for some of us this is a fairly familiar passage of scripture, especially verse 15, but I want us to look at it. Verse 14 says, But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye And be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled. Now look what he tells them, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. And here it is, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is within you. with meekness and fear. And in verse 16 he goes on, having a good conscience, that, whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, They may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. Now I'm taken from verse number 15 there. Be ready always to give an answer I entitled the message A Ready Answer. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you for the opportunity to be in the house of God again today on the Lord's Day. And what a joy it is to fellowship with your people, to sing these hymns together. Bless my heart. And the special music, the testimonies, and now your word. So we ask you to speak to us as we finish out this Lord's Day. We go into a new week. I pray you'd challenge us and convict us, instruct us, and direct us. in our Christian life that we can effectively serve you, be an effective witness of the gospel. I yield my well deal will to you. Present my body anew, and with all my heart I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your spirit. You would speak through me and uh help us. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen It's been a while, but I keep repeating this, and I think it's important to understand, especially on the instructions given here in verse number 15, Peter is writing to believers who are severely persecuted Now we understand that, we've emphasized that, but I think it helps us in understanding a little bit of the background behind what he's saying. And the mindset of the people that he's writing to, when he tells them, notice there in verse 14, he says, But and if you suffer for righteousness' sake, and they were They were suffering intensely. Some had given their lives. They had lost, they'd been run out of their families. They'd lost their homes, their possessions. Many of them had been beaten and imprisoned. All because of their faith in Christ. Now we don't understand that. Would you agree with me? We can't comprehend that. We've never experienced anything like that Now we might get cussed out sometimes you try and witness any. Anybody here have someone say bad words to you when you try to witness to them? Anybody? Sure. Uh may anybody be rude to you to try and witness to them? We might lose a job. Some folks maybe lose their job over uh Christian principles and s and convictions But nothing like what these dear people are going through. I mean nothing. And so it's hard for us to grasp what they're experiencing. But Paul was writing to them And he's given them some these instructions here, and he tells them that they need to be ready to give an answer when they're being persecuted, when they're in that prison. When they're being burnt beaten, these people are watching you. And the world's watching you, and the unsaved are watching you And you need to be ready when they come and say, What in the world is it about you people? that you have an answer to give to them Now, if you remember, several weeks ago we started this, and I suggested that Peter gives four ingredients that have to be in the mix. Four frame of mind, I guess you could say, that must be in place if I'm going to be able to give this ready answer that he is telling us to do. And by the way, what he's telling them, he's telling us God is through his word. First of all, we said if we're going to be able to give a ready answer, effectively, give an answer for the hope that is in us, we need to have an optimistic attitude. I got that from verse 14. But and if you suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye Be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled. I want to suggest, as I did before, a Christian of all the people in the world, the Christian has the greatest reason to be optimistic This whole world's falling apart. You say, preacher, the world's falling apart. Our country's going to hell. And that society is corrupt. How in the world can you be optimistic? I'll tell you how. Jesus is coming again. We have the promises of God. We have the presence of the Holy Spirit. We have every reason in the world to be optimistic. It's disheartening on how easily modern-day Christians get upset. It's disheartening how easily modern-day Christians will get angry and get threat and get all worked up and get discouraged and get pessimistic over the slightest little things that happen to us. Brother, I wish we had a time machine. Well not really, but if we had a time machine, go back in time and experience just one day what these dear believers were experiencing, we might have a different outlook on how we got it now. Amen or not? And so uh an optimistic attitude, nobody is going to come to me and ask me the reason of the hope that is in me. If I walk around with a long face, mad at everybody, discouraged, and pouring uh pouring pickle juice on everything. Right? So, number one, an optimistic attitude. We talked about that. Then we pointed out, second of all, the second ingredient, the second frame of mind, we have to have the priority of the Lord. Look with me, if you would, there at verse 15, the first statement. He says, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. The word sanctify means to set apart. In this case, it means to set above all other things in your life. In other words, I make the Lord a priority in my life, my relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ Um if the things if if uh the things of this world are the highest priority in my life If pleasures and comfort and fun and human relationships, if that's the most important thing of my life, well, this world has no reason to come and ask me the reason of the hope that's in me. I'm no different than they are, right? I don't have any more hope than they do if the things of this world are my highest priority. If the Lord is my highest priority, I can be blessed. I can be untroubled regardless of my circumstances. Even in suffering, the disciple of God can be blessed. So the world's never going to ask us for a reason of our hope if our priorities are the same as theirs. But when the Lord Jesus Christ is number one, and they're doing all this stuff and treating us this way, but our our priority is Jesus Christ. not our comfort, then they'll see something different. Now, I wanted to rush through that. I want to give us a third ingredient tonight. I think this one is very important. There must be a we must be in a prepared state Now look what I'll show you what I mean by that. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Now look at this next statement. And be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope. One of the great objectives in the Christian life, I want to see if I can get you on board with me on thinking on this. One of the greatest objectives in my Christian life. And perhaps in yours is this, is that my speech and my actions are in harmony You follow what I'm saying? My lips and my life are communicating the same message My words and my deeds are not in uh um uh uh what I'm gonna try and use a big word here. Discontinent, is that the word dis what's it in music when it doesn't get along? Um discontinuity, is that it what it is? I I hate it when people in the crowd are we'll just say that's what it is. I hate it when people in the crowd are smarter than me. But um But uh when my word uh this is what I'm trying to say, when my words and my actions don't match up, we got a problem. Anybody here ever know a Christian? Boy, they could talk the talk, but they didn't walk the walk. Anybody know I'm talking? I wonder how many of us have ever been guilty of that Somebody's put it this way, your talk talks and your walk talks, but your walk talks more than your talk talks It's true. And so one of the challenges in the Christian life is that when I talk Christianity, when I talk Jesus, when I talk Bible, That the way I live my life is in line with that, matches up with that. That's the great challenge in Christian life. Um that's one of the great uh uh objectives in our Christian life. And by the way, and we get to the point Where how we're living our life matches how we're talking of Jesus, brother, there's some power behind that. You go to work and you talk about the Lord. What do you do on Sunday? Oh, I went to church. Oh we're praising the Lord, all that, and then at work you're cussing and telling dirty jokes and stealing stuff and lounging around on the job and not doing your job. That doesn't work. I tell you what, when you talk to about the Lord and you give out tracts and you tell people they need to get saved, they need Jesus, and then you're and you're working hard and you got a pure mouth and You're uh a good testimony in your actions. You put those two things together, and brother, you got some power there. The Holy Spirit can fill that and work through that when we get that lined up And so that's the great objective in the Christian life: that my life and my lips are in agreement. My words and my actions are in agreement, are in unity, are in harmony. And they can see how I live, and they hear what I say, and they both line up together for the glory of God. Now, notice he says here to them. He says, be ready always, give an answer. Now look at this. To every man that asketh you, a reason of the hope that is in you. That word hope there means a confident expectation of good, of anticipating something good. The Christian, as I said here at the beginning, you and I, of all people in the world, we've got a reason to anticipate and expect something good. Amen or not? Well, how many people believe we ought to anticipate, expect God to answer our prayers? Listen, you don't expect God to answer our prayers. Guess what's going to happen? Your prayers ain't going to get answered. We expect the Lord to come back. We expect I'm telling you we were praying down in men's prayer meeting. I'm telling you, we're this week at uh at uh the fair We're planning on giving the gospel out, and I'm asking God, and my hope, and my anticipation, my expectation is next week, this time, there'll be some people on their way to heaven that right now are on their way to hell. And we see some people saved. And so he says, uh every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is within you, that's assuming we have that hope. We walk around all mug m m mugg and mad and uh mugly, I don't know what that means, but uh all dopey and grouchy and biting heads off. Nobody's gonna come and say, boy, that guy's anticipating something good. You know, all griping and gossiping and going oh boy, she's really anti- No, nobody's gonna say that. But they see in our life and they hear in our words and our attitude and our countenance. Man, there's a hope. He has a hope. She has a hope that I don't have. And he says they're going to come and ask you about that. Now, this hope that they had, this anticipation, expectation of God's blessings, it was obviously visible If they're coming and asking me about the hope I have, it's apparently visible in my life. There's something obvious in my life that I have something they don't have. I have this hope, this anticipation, this joy, this happiness, this joy of the Lord, this peace, this confidence that they don't have, and it's obvious, it's visible. And he says, they're going to come and they're going to ask you about that. There was something about these believers. Now get this. There was something about these believers that was different than the unsaved people around them. Something stood out. Something was distinctive about them. They had something that their co-workers and the other people around their community did not have. They had a hope. And it was evident and it was visible and it was obvious. And it stirred the people up and said, they're going to come and ask you about that. Their hope, their outlook on life, their perspective on the future was different from the world. I've been emphasizing this the last several years. I believe this. A Christian is not better than the world, but we are not the same as the world. We've been born in the family of God. We're new creatures We have the Spirit of God dwelling with us. We've been given a divine nature. And that ought to be evident. That ought to be visible in our lives. The problem is we get so worldly and we get the same mindset as the world and we have the same perspective as the world and we end up with the same hope the world has, which is not no hope at all. And so whatever this, there was something about these believers. He says, when they ask you a reason of the hope that is in you, they see that. How they talked and how they lived was a stark contrast to the society around them. Society around them. I don't know. I'm just, I get worried sometimes that we as Christians have so blended in with the world there's nothing distinct about us And I'm not just talking about how we dress, although that would be included, but I'm talking about our attitudes, our perspective, our frame of mind. There's really we think the same way the world thinks, and we're just as frustrated and aggravated and irritated and fret the same way the world does. Listen, that's not going to attract anybody's questions to us what we have. So as I'm studying this, I'm thinking, man, these people were distinct They were unique in their frame of mind in their in their in their uh in their attitudes. And it stood out Now notice what he says about this prepared state of mind that they're having. You need to be ready. Look what he says. Be ready. I noticed three things here. Now bear with me. I'll buzz down through these. The first one, he instructs them to be, they were instructed to be ready to explain themselves. That's the instruction. Notice he says, and be ready. He's instructing them. The word ready means this, prepared to do something. The emphasis on prepared. He's telling them, listen, you need to be prepared. You need to have The word prepare means to have everything in place, everything ready. It's like he's telling them to anticipate dealing with people and explaining yourself to people. I was years ago. There was a dentist. He was out I forget. He was out Sang Run out that way. He just kind of worked out of his house. This was a long time ago. And um uh he's passed away. Then I kind of became friends with him a little bit, uh, as as much friends you can be with it, Dennis. But um Anyway, we were in there and uh they always ask you questions when they have everything in your mouth. Anybody notice that? And he says, so you're a Baptist preacher, huh? And I said, Where are you from? So finally got everything out and he says, I have a question. He said, what's the difference between an independent Baptist and just a regular Baptist? Good question, huh? We need to be ready to give an answer. And so I explained to him. We're not part of a denomination. The Bible's our sole authority. Christ is our head. We operate autonomously as a church. Do you don't get along with anybody? No, we get a few people we get along with. But that's the idea to be ready to give an answer. He says you need to be prepared. You need to have everything in place. So when someone comes up to you, say, what is it about you that's different? You're talking about Jesus? What is it? Why do you have such faith? Why do you have such confidence in this world? How can you keep such an optimistic frame of mind When everything's going to pot. Well, let me tell you. Be ready. Have it prepared. I looked up that word ready and I saw how it's used in the Bible. It means to have things in place. In the Gospels, that word is used often. For instance, in Matthew 22, verse 8, it talks about a wedding being ready. In other words, all the flower arrangements and are in place and the uh the um what's the thing called The where they put the candles in, the candle obra and all that stuff. Everything's in place and the carpet and they got the music already Now their weddings were different than ours, but the idea was everything is all lined up and ready in place. It just needs to happen. In um uh in um in Luke chapter 14, he talks about a dinner being ready. And he sent out his servants to bring people in. All the plates are in place, they're clean, the food's set up, it's all cooked, it's all ready, silverware there, chairs all. Oh, it's ready, everything's in place. Go get them, bring them in Everything's there. It just needs to happen. In Mark chapter 14, verse 15, he sent the disciples up to the upper room, and everything was made ready. All the food, the table, everything was all in place, just ready, waiting for them to show up. In Luke chapter 12, verse 40, he says, We're to be ready for the Lord's return. Now that's good advice right there. You know what? When that rapture takes place, you and I are not going to have time to get ready. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, what we are is how we're showing up. And so we need to have everything, here's what I'm getting at. You need to have everything in place, everything the way it ought to be before it happens. That way when the rapture comes, boom, I'm out of here. I was ready. Wouldn't it be great to be ready for the Lord's return? I don't mean just saved, but I mean living for Him. All my everything's in place And that's where he says, you need to be ready to give an answer when they ask you a reason to the hope that's in you. In other words I know what I believe, I know why I believe it. I know what God has done for me, and I am just waiting for somebody to tell it to. That's the whole idea. They don't hardly ever do this anymore, but I I especially uh like when uh the Mormons came by our house. How many people like it when they come by your house? Most people hide behind the sofa, turn the lights off, and uh wait till they leave. I like it And uh man I see him coming, I get my tracts out, I got my Bible, I got my I see him, I got all my verses marked right there. Come on guys I'm ready for him. I got Psalm 90 verse 1. I got Isaiah ready. Come on, guys. I was out here washing the car a couple years ago, and it was Jehovah's Witness that time And they were coming down the road and I saw 'em at the neighbor's and uh went and got my Bible. I got everything all ready. I'm sitting inside the in the living room there, looking out the window, watching, and they're out there talking to the neighbor. Finally they got in their car and they pulled out. I'm like, Oh come on, come on and uh they got out of the road and they drove and they passed my house and went to the other neighbor's house. I said, Hey, come on I was ready for them. That's the way we're to be at every moment, every time, every place. We ought to be able to share what is what we believe and why we believe it to anybody that will listen Amen? Prepare. Instructed. You be ready. You be ready. Listen, no Christian ought to be unprepared in sharing the gospel. I'm not trying to I'm not trying to do anything other than challenge every one of us. We ought to know the gospel, we ought to know what we believe, we ought to know why we have any kind of hope, we ought to know why we know we're going to heaven. We ought to be ready and prepared to share that with someone else. Now you say, Preacher, I'm not ready. I don't know how to do that. Then you see Pastor Matt or you see me, we'll get a soul-winning class going on again, and we'll teach you and help you And by the way, you ought to get in Bible Institute. Amen. That'll help you. And um that was a free advertisement right there. So he instructs them to be ready. So look at this here. He says, and be ready. That's the instruction to be ready. Then he says they were to be ready immediately. And be ready always, the word always means perpetually at any and every time, eagerly and earnestly. Say, well, I can't witness to them. It's not Thursday night. No, anytime, at any place, perpetually ready to share the gospel. I've led people to Christ in some of the strange Uh there's one I'm not going to tell you where what the situation was. I led them to Christ. It was just very strange. But I led them in their cars and their garages and their backyards and their front yards at their doorsteps in their living rooms I've had people say it all over. I've got to think about Mike Stubbler and Ron Brooks. Mike Stubler and his family came to our wild game dinner years ago. He was unsaved. They were all unsaved. They came to the wild game or heard the gospel. Bill Barrens was the preacher, and he let her rip. And Mike told me later, he says, I was under such conviction. He says, I knew I needed to get saved that night. And he says, you had you said, everybody, you pray this prayer with me. And I was sitting there thinking, I ought to pray that prayer, I ought to pray that prayer, and he didn't do it. And he says, you said that anybody that didn't pray the prayer, but you'd like for me to pray that they would help get this settled, should raise their hand. He said, I didn't raise my hand And went back home, left there unsaved. But God was working in his heart. And he worked out in Baltimore at the at the chemical thing at the harbor there where they unload chemicals off the boats. He worked down there. And for two, three weeks he was under conviction. Went down. He had a co-worker there. Now here's what I'm getting at Ron Brooks worked in there and he had been a Christian, had a good testimony. And Mike watched him And one night at 1 o'clock in the morning, work in night shift, during break, he went to Ron Brooks. He said, Ron, I need to get saved. Will you tell me how to get saved? Now he's at work at 1 o'clock in the morning. You say, you can't lead someone to Christ at work at 1 o'clock in the morning. Ron could. He's tell you what, we got break coming up, we got half hour, let's hop in the car, we'll run down here to the gas station. They sat in the parking lot of a gas station at one o'clock in the morning And Ron shared uh the answer that Mike had to how to be saved. And Mike got saved in that parking lot at 1 o'clock in the morning. That's a ready answer. At any time, any place, perpetually, eagerly, Ron led him to Christ. And Ron uh was a tremendous witness. So he used to be ready immediately. Second thing I noticed, they're to be ready intelligently. Now bear with me. I'm I'm buzzing through here. And be ready always to give an answer The word answer simply means a verbal defense, a verbal explanation, a reasoned argument. In other words, he's saying you need to be able to document The reason for your faith and your hope and why you live the way you live. I was visiting one time, I heard a fellow say he was visiting one time and he said, uh he came across the guy and he asked him, he said, What do you believe? And the guy said, I believe what my church believes. Really? What's your church believe? My church believes what I believe. That guy didn't know what he believed. That's not an intelligent answer. So uh somebody says, uh you're a Christian, you go to church, what's that all about? Well, it's just I believe in God Well, that's not my very intelligent answer. I need to be able to explain. Listen, here's my challenge. Part of my challenge tonight is this. I want to challenge every one of us as believers Not just read this book, you start studying and find out what this thing teaches and be able to take it and be able to share that with other people. Paul said, the things that thou hast learned of me, you teach to others, faithful men. And we need to be more than just Bible carriers. We need to be more than just Bible owners and Bible toters. We need to be Bible students and Bible teachers. Wouldn't it be wonderful if every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church was able to teach the Word of God to others? An intelligent answer. To be able to document from Scripture why I have hope in my heart and mind. Document from Scripture why I know my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. Document from Scripture why I live the way I do. Be a ready answer. And so we need to be ready immediately. We need to be ready intelligently. We need to be ready. There they are. Uh intelligently. Uh I preached uh years ago, my uh I traveled neighborhood Bible time, we did a rally out west in a church, we showed up, and I knew right away, we got there, we realized right away this wasn't uh the kind of church that we would recommend. We got in there, called uh brother Homeshire Tom, we said, hey, listen, he goes, well, just get through the week, do the best you can, and uh we'll move on. We got there they had contemporary music and the preacher's wife had these hot pants short shorts on. We're like, oh God help us And um so anyway we got in there, man, we started doing a rally preaching at night, kids are getting saved, teenagers getting saved. By the end of the week there was an elderly late older lady in the church. She came to me and she said, Brother Dennis She said this, she goes, this is the way it used to be around here. That something So Friday nights, all the parents, grandparents, the place was packed. And we were getting ready and we had kids all over and we knew there was going to be a big crowd on Friday night. And uh preacher said, What do I do Friday night? He didn't he they never heard I said, well he I said man all these parents are going to be here. Preach the gospel. He didn't know what to preach. He said, what do I do with all these people? I said, preach the gospel Then he said this to me. I'm just Bible college. I'm about 25 years old, 24, 25. He's pastoring. He says, well, how exactly do you do that? I had to sit down with him and go through the plan of salvation and said, just tell him this and tell them this and tell them this. I don't know about you, but that's a sad commentary on our churches. He got up and he followed the outline, preached it, and a number of parents got saved. Listen, that ought not so to be. We ought to be able to give an answer. We ought to be able to tell people how to be saved. Hey listen, I'll do it. I've had this happen, I'm glad to do it. Preacher, I got somebody here that needs to get saved. Can you tell them how to get saved? I'm more than glad to do that. I'll drop everything and I'll come and do it. But I'll tell you what may be a little better is you be able to tell them how to get saved You share the gospel with them and get them saved. So it must be an intelligent, ready intelligently, ready immediately. And the last one is ready universally. I like this. And be ready always to give an answer. Look at the next statement. To who? Are you looking? You're not looking at it. Look at it here. Be ready always to give an answer to who? Every man. That's universally. It means all individuals, all individual, men and people, all types of people in all places. Our answer for the hope that is in us, here's my point. Our answer to the hope that is in us is the same no matter who we're talking to. Our message, our answer, the reason we have hope of eternal life, the reason we have hope of uh of salvation, the reason we have hope that our sins are forgiven, we're confident of that, our answer is the same whether the person we're talking to is rich or whether they're poor. Whether they're tall or whether they're short, whether they're educated or whether they're uneducated, whether they're skinny or whether they're not skinny. It's the same to every man. The message, the reason for our hope is the same to everybody. Men, women, boys, and girls. Whether if they have dark skin or if they have light skin or any color of skin in between, whether their eyes are black or blue or hazel or green. Whether they're brunette or blonde or black-haired or bull, the message is the same to every man. The message to the Mormons is the same message as to the unsaved Baptists. The message to the Catholics is the same as the message to the Jehovah's Witness and the Muslims and the Lutherans. And the Buddhists, our missionaries in Mongolia, are giving the same reason for their hope to the Mongolians. that we give in Deer Park and Lachlan and Oakland and Carolden. The exact same to every man The message doesn't change because of culture or because of nationality or because of education. It's the same. You know what I found? I found intelligent people get saved a whole lot quicker if you keep it a simple answer. I found simple people get saved by a simple answer. The gospel's not complicated. You know what I love? I love when a little child comes and trusts Christ as Savior. I love when an adult comes and trusts Christ as Savior. It's the same message to every man. Give a ready answer. Across the street or across the ocean, men and women, blue eyes, brown eyes. They're all the same. It's the same message, the same message. What's the reason for the hope that's in us? It's the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's everything. That's everything. The gospel. It's why I know I'm sins are forgiven. Why I know I'm going to heaven. Why I know God's in control? Because of the gospel. The gospel. I had a came here and we were here about a year, I think, Helen. I don't know if you remember when we got a butt got a bus of m about a year, I guess, you think, something like that. Maybe a year and a half. We use she bought a van, we used her van. But we got a bus and I went to a preacher's fellowship. And if you haven't picked it up, I'm not real high on some of these preacher fellowships I mean they're all right, I guess. I went to a preacher's social and we were talking and said, Well, any blessings? I said, Yeah, our church just got a bus. I'm excited. We're going to be running a bus. We're starting a bus ministry And I had another preacher come over and he says, You ain't never gonna build no church with a bus ministry. I said, What do you mean? He says, You gotta go to people with money. You gotta go to the educated people with money. He says, you you'll never do much just running those buses around there. I thanked him for his advice to ask him to pray for me. And I walked out of there and I said, I'm not listening to that And uh we we don't go after rich people and we don't go after poor people. We go after people. And if we go to the rich area like the teens did this afternoon, we give the same message as the one we go to the ghettos and the rundown parts. It's the same answer, whether it's the hollowers of West Virginia or it's the streets of Morgantown. Same answer, same answer. It's universal. And so be ready to give an answer. Be ready to give an answer. And this will be next week's message, but he goes on and says, having a good conscience, he says, uh uh, with meekness and fear and a good conscience. And that's the right poise. We don't arrogant about it. We're not talking about it. What's the reason you hope that's in you? Why do you live the way you do? Well, I'm saved and you are not. None of that business. Amen. Amen. All right, we're finishing out the Lord's day today. We got a new week ahead of us. How about every one of us that know the Lord as Savior just say, God, help me this week to give out that answer to everybody I possibly can. I'll just give out. You say, preacher, I don't know. What about the woman at the well? She was saved, what, twenty minutes? She went into town, l led a whole slew of people to Christ. She went in and told them the reason for the hope that she found in Christ. Why don't we do the same thing? Young people can do that. All of us can do that. Father, please bless and help us to be ready to give an answer to the hope that is within us. On Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, to anybody that comes along, how many would say, preacher, I need to give more attention to my sharing? The gospel of Christ with unsaved people. I need to make more of an effort. I need to give more attention to that. Anybody like that by the uplifted hand? My hand's raised. I'm telling you, I'm convicted about this. Give an answer. The reason, the hope that's in us. I wonder how many would say, preacher, pray with me. I'm going to set a goal. To share the gospel with so many people this week. And let me just give it to you. How many people would say, preacher, I'm going to set a goal to share the gospel With at least five people this week. One way or another with five people. Anybody accept that challenge? I'm trying to share the gospel. One way or another with at least five people. God bless you, hands all around. And may we hit this altar and say, Lord, fill me with your spirit. Give me boldness. Help me watch for those opportunities. Help me be a compassionate about this and get after it. I believe God will use us. I believe God will use us. Father, bless the invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name.