13. I want us to look just to get started anyway, down at verse number 6, the last verse of Psalm 13. I read this in my devotions, oh, it's been a couple weeks ago And uh I notice verse 6 there. It says, I will sing unto the Lord because he hath dealt bountifully with me. I will sing to the Lord. Why? Because he's dealt bountifully with me. And I put in the margin of my Bible a reason to sing. And I want to preach this morning on a reason to sing. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the Word of God and for your blessings. Lord, you sure have dealt bountifully with us. And for that we're very, very grateful. And I ask now, in this hour, that you would please meet with us in a very special way. I pray your presence would be evident. And Lord, as your word is preached, I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me and control my thoughts, my thinking. I pray you'd use my body, the physical body you've given me. I pray you would use that as an instrument of the Holy Spirit to communicate the Word of God and then apply it to each of our lives as you know we have need. God, I pray you give every one of us a reason to say. Lord, some of us perhaps are under the burden of circumstances that we can't control. Or maybe some of us have broken hearts this morning. Some disappointed, shattered dreams. Lord, some of us maybe are on topside. But whatever our case may be, I pray you, Holy Spirit, you would put a song in our heart. A new song Now we can lift up our voices and praise to you, and we can be a testimony to this whole world that you are good And we're asking this in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm one nine or Psalm 13, if you would notice above verse number one, you have the header there, and we're told very clearly that the penman of Psalm 119 is none other than King David, the great psalmist of Israel, man after God's own heart. Of course God being the author, David is the penman The purpose of the book, again, if you would notice in that header, it says there, he says, to the chief musician. So this was penned, was written for a very specific role or purpose. It was to be used by the chief musician. Now, who and what is the chief musician? The chief musician would have been to Israel, particularly at this time and throughout most of their history, the chief musician would be what we would refer to here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church as our choir director. Brother Austin leads our choir, does an excellent job. And so this was penned by David under the inspiration of God. God stirred David's heart, put these thoughts in his heart and mind He penned them down at the leadership of the Holy Spirit of God, and he it was to give to the chief musician, the song uh the choir director of Israel Now, obviously, that means this was to be sung at the tabernacle. At the time of this writing, the temple was not built yet The temple was not built until David was off the scene. Solomon was King Solomon built the temple. So this would have been sung Not in the temple, but around the tabernacle that God had given Israel back in the wilderness as they're coming out of Egypt And uh so they would sing it at the various assemblies they would have around the tabernacle, and there was various reasons they would assemble. Sometimes it was for regular scheduled sacrifices. They had daily sacrifices and some monthly and various sacrifices. They assembled together there and they would sing this psalm along with many, many others. Or they would sing it maybe at feasts they would have at certain times of the years. They would have big celebrations, different feasts, and they would assemble together and do various things and they would sing And they would sing these Psalms, Psalms 13, being one of them. Now, along with that, there's no doubt that this psalm was sung in the homes of God's people. When they would assemble together, but also in the houses, when they would have their daily time, no doubt. They would get out their Psalm book and probably memorize, but they would get out this song and they would sing this together as a family. Singing has always been a vital part in the lives of God's people. Whether it was around the tabernacle, later in the temple, as they would assemble, then you get to the New Testament church and you find God's people singing, singing, singing. God loves the singing of his people. Singing is good for us. Our church services, I believe, should be saturated with good scriptural, godly music. And you know, it's possible, and I just say this, I don't want to go uh dwell on this, but it's possible to have a biblical song, but sing it in an ungodly way And so we have to be very, very careful that our songs line up with the Word of God. God loves singing. There was singing, there was and is singing in heaven. And if you'll study the Bible very carefully, particularly Isaiah, I believe, you find that Satan was heaven's choir director. Satan knows music, and he is an expert at music, and he knows how to use music to either glorify God or blaspheme God. And much of the music today, I'm this is Dennis Leatherman, so you can take it or leave it, but I'm afraid a lot of the music just in our world in general is uh does not glorify God It's not not does not find its roots in the things of God. So music is important to the people of God. It always has been. Good, godly music. I think our church services should be filled with music And that one thing I love about Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is we do a good heap of singing around here. And I like to sing. I like to hear the choir. I like the specials, these men uh sang here. Uh not the best looking creatures in the world, but I'm telling you, they they can sing. And uh what a blessing. What a blessing it is. Uh church ought to be uh church ought to be a singing place Get together and sing for God's glory. I think our homes should be filled with singing. Good, godly music, singing to the Lord. uh singing uh um uh that which is godly and pleasing to the Lord. Just a song in our heart. Uh again, that's uh I love our radio station And we just play that thing 24-7. It's in the kitchen. I got a little radio there. And play that thing 24-7 Uh and I wake up in the middle of the night sometimes, not too often, occasionally I'll wake up in the middle of the night, I can just hear those uh uh uh Jesus, Jesus, how I trust him. And that little music playing in the background. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I tell you, it just changes the atmosphere of the home, these old hymns and these good songs just fill our homes. And so the psalm was written to be sung. At the tabernacle, when people, God's people got together, again later when the temple was built, and again in our home. So the penmen were told very clearly, it's David This is a great man of God. The purpose is to be sung by God's people. Now, if you notice there, that's all the heading gives us. We're not given any more information. We don't know what the particular circumstances were behind the writing of this. And so nothing told very clearly. Obviously, Psalm 13 is a very short Psalm, six verses. And if you'll notice, and this is what we're going to look at here now, the first two verses begin with a problem. David has a problem he's dealing with, an issue. The second two verses, verses three and four, then he looks to the Lord in prayer. He has this problem, these issues. And he expresses it there in verse 1 and 2. We'll look at it. And then he turns to the Lord in prayer. And he expresses, he pours his heart out to God. And then the last two verses, five and six, you notice his heart turns to praise. So he goes from these problems To singing and praising God, and the common denominator to the connection between the two is his prayer to God He had these problems. He took the problems of the Lord, and God put praise in his heart. So let's look at this. First of all, I want us to notice the problems that he's dealing with. Verse number one How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord? Forever? Would you agree with me? Sounds pretty bad. But how long are you going to forget me? Look what he goes on. How long wilt thou hide thy face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? How long shall mine enemy be exalted over me? Doesn't sound good. David's got something going on here. Now, again, we're not told what the particulars are, but whatever it is, it is difficult. It has him stressed. And uh he repeats, did you notice? He repeats four times. How long? How long? How long do I have to put up with this? How long is this going to go on? God, how long are you not going to answer me? David had his trials. Now again, we're not told specifically what it was here. We can go back and speculate. There was various trials that David had. Some of David's problems, now get this. Some of David's problems and trials and difficulties, whatever it may have been here, but some of them were caused by other people. Alright? Anybody here ever have an issue, a problem, something you had to deal with, and it was someone else's actions that caused you to have to deal with that issue? Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sure. David had problems like that. King Saul. I mean David's a faithful uh uh citizen of Israel He's loyal to his king and he defeats Goliath and uh man he becomes a tremendous warrior, a leader in the military And people begin to praise David, no fault of his. He's doing what he's supposed to do. He's doing it exceptionally well. God's hand is on him and and giving him victory And King Saul in his carnality and his immaturity, his selfishness, rather than rejoicing in the victories that The nation of Israel was experiencing under the leadership of David, under his military leadership. Rather than rejoicing in that, he got jealous And the women would sing, Saul has slain his thousands. I tell you, that's pretty impressive. Saul slain his thousands. Saul was quite a warrior in and of himself And then they sang, and David his what? Tens of thousands. Brother, that got in King Saul's crawl. And in his immaturity, in his selfishness, and his carnality, he allowed a root of bitterness and envy swell up. And for upwards to eight years David had to deal with a king who was trying to kill him. I mean flat-out murder. No issue of David's. He did right. He was doing right. But because of the selfish and immaturity of Saul, he had to deal with problems that were caused by another. Sometimes we have to deal with problems that are caused by others. We can't control that. We do right, trying to please the Lord, we're trying to do what we think is best and understand to be best, and yet other people say or do things, take action, and it affects us. That's the world we live in So some problems are caused by others. David had that. David had some problems that weren't caused by others. David had to deal with some problems that were caused by himself. He brought some things on himself. For instance, he's up on the roof. He should have been out, this is after he's king for uh quite a while. And they're having military victories, the nation is prospering tremendously. And rather than go to war where he should have been, leading his troops, he stayed back in Jerusalem of an evening. He's on the roof, he looks out, and there's a gal bathing herself. And David lets that get to him. And next thing you know, he commits adultery. Then he murders her husband, has him killed. And David had problems from that. He lost a baby. His testimony was stained for the rest of eternity. Shame. Cause problems in the family. Some problems we bring on ourselves. Right or wrong, can I get a witness? Anybody here ever you know we don't want to know what it is, but anybody here ever do something stupid? And man, you had to deal with that? Some of us are dealing with stupid things we did decades ago and we're still dealing with it today. Amen or not? Sometimes we bring problems on ourselves. Um I quote this a lot 'cause I think it's great, but the great theologian uh John Wayne, um Said said, life is tough, but it's even tougher if you're stupid. It's a lot of truth in that statement. And we bring we bring issues on ourselves And then sometimes trials, oh by the way, David later on, he flat out disobeyed God and he numbered the people of Israel. In rebellion against God, pride, David, and brought tragedy to so many people's lives and grief to his own heart. It says he grieved over that. Deeply. So we bring problems on ourselves. David did, we do also. Other people do stuff, bring problems into our lives. It happened to David, happens to us. And then sometimes problems and trials come not because of anything particular that someone else did and not necessarily anything I did that brought it on But just God in his sovereignty and in his wisdom and part of his plan and purpose will allow trials and difficulties to come into our life that we cannot explain why. Job. Job did nothing to bring about all that heartache he experienced, nothing himself, nobody else. Treated him any particular way or did anything, but God had a plan and God had a purpose. And at the end of the book of Job, after it's all said and done, Job says that he rejoiced in the Lord, that God used him. He said, I've heard of you with the hearing of the ear, but now after all I've been through, Lord, I've seen, I know what you can do. You can do anything And it was good for Job. It strengthened him. And sometimes God brings problems into your life and my life, not because of anything someone else did, not because of anything stupid we did. Well, we got plenty of that. But sometimes they just come in because God wants to develop our faith. And God wants to strengthen our faith and draw us closer to Him. He wants to reveal something about Himself that we can only learn And heartaches and difficulties and afflictions. And Him and His love and compassion sometimes lets us go through. Anybody here ever been through something you really don't understand? I don't know why that happened But you've been through something and afterward you say, I never would want to go through that again, but I'm grateful for what God did for me when I went through it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I would never want to go through that again, but but what God did for me through that, I'm so grateful for him. So David's dealing with some problems. He's dealing with some problems. How long, he says, that phrase, how long He makes that statement four times. Now, whatever the particular issue was that David was dealing with, it was lasting a long time. And God seemed to be delaying his response or any any help that he was given. And David, it sounds to me, like he is getting impatient with God. God, how long aren't you going? How long are you going to go without listening to me? How long are you going to let me deal with this? How long are you going? And He's getting impatient. You know, it's one thing to be impatient with yourself. Anybody here ever get impatient with yourself? Yeah. I guess. Why can I not remember the keys? Go back. Go back. We get impatient with ourselves. Sometimes we get impatient with others Anybody here ever getting patient with others? Husband sitting out in the car Sunday morning, meh, meh, wife's in there. I'm coming! Huh? Well get impatient with others. If you've never been impatient with others, you've never been to Walmart. Do you ever do this at Walmart, you go and they're they're lined up and you're waiting in line, it's like And then you see an open line over here. There's only like three there's only like fourteen people in that line. These are all seventy-two Say, oh, that line's shorter. Have you ever done this? And you go over there, and lo and behold, the line you're in. Zing, zing, zing. We get impatient with ourselves, that's one thing, that's frustrating. We get impatient with others, and we get frustrated, and sometimes we snip and say things. And uh But I tell you, we get impatient with God. That's not good. That's not good. David got impatient with God. We're told over and over and over, wait on the Lord. Just wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. I tell you, if I can get to the point in my life where I'm able to wait on the Lord Without getting impatient, I'm growing in my faith. I'm growing in my understanding of who God is and his wisdom. and his love and compassion for me. I can wait on him without being impatient. David was getting impatient. I read about an old preacher years ago uh in the early days of our country and um they uh he was very well known. In fact I think he w uh was like chaplain of a Congress or something. He w had a r a significant position as a preacher And uh one day they walked in and he was just pacing the floor, and oh he was obviously under stress and and uh pacing the floor and they just kind of gave him a little bit of time, and finally somebody says, uh brother preacher, uh What's wrong? What's wrong? He said, I'll tell you what's wrong. I'm in a hurry, and God isn't. You ever been there? We get impatient with God. David's impatient with God. Now, when we get impatient with God, if we're not careful, we start thinking foolishly. We start saying some foolish things when we get impatient with God. Israel did that in the wilderness. They got through, oh uh man, if only we were back in Egypt when we had leeks and garlic to eat Oh, if only we'd have died in Egypt and and they got impatient and the journey got long and they got weary and they got impatient and they started saying foolish things And they started thinking foolish stuff that it was better in Egypt than to go to the promised land. And if we're not careful God doesn't do things the way we want, when we want, and we get impatient with God, we'll start complaining and lose sight of all the good that God has already done us. And we'll start talking in our minds at least and thinking against the God that loved us enough to die and suffer hell for us, be buried and rose again. Impatience with God can cause us to think and speak foolishly. David did here, and he recorded it down. God, Holy Spirit inspired him to record it down. Look there at the first part of verse 1. He says, How long wilt thou forget me? How long are you going to forget me? Maybe we've been there. Maybe you've been, maybe you're there now. Say, what in the world? I think God's just forgot me. I want to give you a fact, a Bible fact, an eternal truth that never changes. God never forgets his people. David is wrong. God had not forgotten him, his impatience, his heartache His problems he's dealing with. He got impatient and he started saying things that were foolish. It is foolish to even think that God would forget you. Forget, the word forget here means to ignore. Or get this: the word has this idea to cease to care about. You know what David was saying? He's saying, God, how long are you going to ignore me? God, how long are you not going to care about my situation? I'm here to tell you, God's not ignoring you. He wasn't ignoring David, he's not ignoring you, and he did not cease to care about us. We get impatient with God and we get in problems. We get our eyes out of whack and we start thinking wrong and we start saying stuff that's wrong. If you would keep your place here, would you turn with me real quickly to the book of Isaiah? And I want us to turn there. I was just going to read it, but I want us to turn there because I want you to see it in black and white in your Bible. In fact, I want to urge you, if you have a pen, I would urge you to highlight somehow, underscore or mark or highlight this verse In your Bible. And uh notice Isaiah chapter number 49. David got impatient with God, started saying foolish stuff. God, how long are you going to not care about me? How long are you going to forget me and ignore me? God didn't forget him. God's not ignoring him. Isaiah chapter 49, if you would, come down to verse 15. Says, can a woman forget her suckling child that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? Yay, they may forget. It's possible. We hear about people go into the store and forget their child out in the car. I just I can't fathom that. Isaiah, God through Isaiah says, can a mother forget her child? Yeah, possibly. That happens sometimes. But look at the last statement. Yet will I not forget thee. Look at verse 16 Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands. Thy walls are continually before me. Listen, I don't know what you may be going through, and I don't know how long you've been dealing with that heartache. I don't know how difficult it may be. I don't know how deep the wounds may be I'm here to tell you one thing. God still cares about you. And God has not forgotten you. We get impatient with God. David did, and he says, Lord, how long are you going to ignore me? How long are you going to forget me? He suggests that God had forgotten him. When we get impatient, we start thinking foolishly, we start talking foolishly. David starts suggesting that God had forgotten him. How foolish. God didn't forget him. Notice the second part of that verse and then verse number two. He suggests that God had forsaken him. Come back to Psalm 13 there, if you would. He says, How long wilt thou forget me? How long are you going to keep ignoring me, God? O Lord, forever? Then he says, This: How long wilt thou hide thy face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily, every day? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? God, you've forsaken me. You've abandoned me. You're ignoring me. We get impatient with God, we start saying, thinking things and saying things that just are foolish. God hadn't forsaken David, the word hide there, how long wilt thou hide thy face in verse number one? It means to deliberately conceal. David was suggesting and accusing God of deliberately hiding his face from him, forsaking him. It's possible to feel forsaken. Have you ever been there? You ever been in a position where I think, I don't think anybody cares about me? I don't think anybody. I feel totally forsaken. It's possible to feel that way, but as a child of God, we are never forsaken by God. If you don't get anything out of this, get this down. God never forsakes his people. I love Hebrews chapter 13 Verse number five, for he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. That is a promise of God. And whatever we face this coming year, and whatever we have to deal with as we get older, and it gets difficult and problems come and people do things that affect us and we do stupid stuff and we have to deal with it And God lets things come in we don't understand. We have to be very, very careful about getting impatient with God and start thinking foolishly. I need to remind myself every day, God has not forsaken me, God has not forgotten me. He has a plan. He has a purpose. But at this point, that's all David can think. That's all that's going on. So the first thing I notice in verse 1 and 2 is this problem that has him all out of sorts. And he's impatient with God. Apparently, it's been going and on and on. It may have been Saul pursuing him day after day for years trying to kill him. We don't know. But we know that he had a problem. The next verse 3 and 4 we notice he turns to God in prayer. Now thank God that We can go to God in prayer. Notice verse 3. He says, consider and hear me, O Lord my God. Do you notice the tone changes a little bit here? Consider and hear me, O Lord my God. Lighten my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death, lest mine enemies say I prevailed against him, and those that trouble me rejoice when I moot This attitude has changed a little bit. The atmosphere has changed a little bit. Now, instead of turning on God, like he did in verse 1 and 2, now he's turning to God. The one that he was accusing of forgetting him and forsaking him, now he's coming to that same one in prayer. He's turning to God in prayer. Listen, you don't have to be the smartest person in the world to know that you and I can come to God in prayer when things are going bad. We can come to God in prayer Our first response, when things like this happen, we should go to the Lord in prayer. I have a lot of books on prayer, a lot. I've got a fair-sized library, I love it. I use it about every day. I use books out of my library. I have a good number, large volumes uh of books on prayer I'm reading one right now on prayer. It's good. Andrew Murray is one of my favorite authors. A. W. Tozer has some good stuff on prayer. Um bounds is a class. I read them, try every day read read from these guys. A lot of books on prayer. Um But we have one book that is an absolute perfect authority on prayer, and that is God's Word. Whatever man says about prayer may or may not be true. But I tell you, we got a book here that is filled with promises of God that he hears and answers prayer. I'm here to tell you, and the older I get, and the more convinced I am, I believe this since I got saved, but the older I get, the more convinced I'm becoming God answers prayer. I don't think there's a week goes by where I don't go to my wife and say, Kathy, God answered prayer. God answered prayer. Little things, big things. God answers prayer. We have a book full of promises on answer prayer. This book tells me straight from God that created me what the prerequisites are for prayer. What I need to make sure I have in place and things I need to do. He says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Alright, I need to deal with this. God answers prayer, but I gotta get this iniquity out of my heart. I gotta get this sin out of my heart in life. I gotta confess it and forsake it because I need God to answer prayer He says, pray in my name, in the name of Jesus Christ, in the authority of Jesus Christ. I come to God the Father in his name And all through the Bible it gives me these prerequisites, these guidelines, these instructions, not just to pray, but how to pray. What needs to be in place to have those prayers answered? We have promises on prayer. We have the prerequisites of prayer all through the Bible. And all through the Bible, we have pictures. Illustrations of people who prayed and God answered their prayers. I'm here to tell you, God answers prayer I don't know what your problems may be. I don't know what situations you're dealing with. And you may be getting frustrated with God and impatient with God. But I tell you, if we'll just turn to him in faith and trust and bring those to the Lord and trust him with them, God will help us. Prayer. God cares about you. God cares about me and the things we're dealing with and the issues. And he tells us to cast all our care on him. Why? Because he cares for us. Prayer. James 5, 17 and 18 says that Elisha was a man subject to like passions as we are. In other words, Elijah was no different than you and I, from these young people, teenagers here this morning, to the oldest senior citizen Elijah was no, he had the same passions, the same temptations. He dealt with the same flesh issues that you and I dealt with, but the Bible says he prayed earnestly And God heard his prayer and answered his prayer. Then it says he prayed again. God sent rain. Then he summarizes it up. He says, the effectual, fervent prayer. Of a righteous man, what? Availeth much. Availeth much. David has all kinds of problems. He's impatient with God But then something in his heart stirs. And he thinks to himself, I need to pray. Instead of turning on God, I need to turn to God and lift my prayers up to him. Ian Bounds, as I mentioned a moment ago, one of my favorite human authors on prayer, said that prayer is a direct appeal to Almighty God. You do not have to have great gifts, you do not have to have great abilities, you do not have to have a great education. But you and I do need to have a genuine faith in God. And if we take that faith in God and pour our prayer out to Him, God will hear us. I believe it was Ian Bound said, prayer moves the hand that moves the world. I'm talking to some folks, you're praying for and about another person. It may be a spouse that's unsaved or away from the Lord. It may be a child that's unsaved or a prodigal child that's away from God. It may be one of our bus kids, it may be a parent that's unsaved, a mother, a father, they're unsaved. Maybe the family's going through a difficult time and splitting up and you're praying You're pleading with God. And prayer moves the hand, that doesn't just move the world, but I'm convinced of this: prayer moves the hand of God. That moves the heart of people. You'll never convince me, I guess I'll find out when I get to heaven, but you'll never convince me that that prodigal son's daddy wasn't praying for him every single day. He was watching for that boy to come back. Why? Because God can turn. Proverbs tells us that God can turn the heart of a king just like he turns a river. God can turn the heart of a king. He can turn the heart of a son. He can turn the heart of a daughter. Are you with me this morning? He can turn the heart of a spouse, a mother, a father. He can turn that heart. God never saves anybody against their will, but he's awfully good at making them willing to come to Christ as Savior. God can meet needs. God can solve problems. God can answer questions. But we have to be patient God's timing is not our timing. We get impatient with God because we're in a hurry and he isn't. And I've learned something in 40 plus 40 coming up on 46 years as a Christian I've learned something. God is never late. He's always on time. He's always on time. Now I wish he'd be early sometimes. But he's never late. Prayer. I want to urge you. This year our theme is worship the Lord. Part of worship is prayer. Let's make 2025 a year of diligent, earnest, persistent, humble, believing prayer. David prayed. David prayed. Have faith in God. Be patient with God. And keep on praying. Don't get bitter. Don't allow despair to creep in your heart and mind. Pray and trust God, though it seems long, and you want to say, how long? Just keep trusting him. Keep trusting him. In his time, he always comes through. Which leads David to verse 5 and 6, where he's praising the Lord. But I have trusted. Boy, that's different. How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord? Now he's saying, Lord, I've trusted in your mercy. Prayer changed his heart. You know what I found? I found that almost as often as not, prayer, rather than changing my circumstance, will change my attitude about my circumstance. I read this thing 25, 30 times this chapter, studying it. I can't find anywhere in these six verses where David's circumstances changed. Whatever he was so frustrated about in verse 1 and 2, there's no indication that any of that changed at all. His circumstances, but something did change. David's attitude. David's thinking, David's approach. Now he's praising the Lord. He begins the psalm in despair and sorrow, but through prayer, sorrow turns to a psalm. As far as I can tell, nothing's changed about his circumstances, but his focus has changed. He's got his eye off the problem, and now he's got it on the Lord, on the Savior. Look at verse 5. He says, But I have trust in thy mercy. In my heart shall rejoice in thy salvation He may run the rest of his life. He may have to deal with this the rest of his life. But one fact is unchanging. He was saved, and when it's all said and done, everything's going to be okay. Whatever we may go through, and this may sound fatalistic, I don't mean it that way, but whatever we may go through, we may have, there are some problems we may have to deal with our whole life There are some problems God may never take away. But one thing's sure, if we know Jesus Christ as our Savior, we've got something to rejoice in. If our sins are forgiven and we have eternal life, and I have the presence of Almighty God dwelling within me, in the person of the Holy Spirit, and I have reserved seats in heaven, as Peter words it. I got something I can sing about. I can something I can rejoice in. I will rejoice in thy salvation. Thank God we're saved. That's something to sing about. We've got something to sing about. If you've ever felt the sting of conviction of the Holy Spirit over sin, if you've ever felt the hopelessness of being an unsaved sinner, And then come and see Christ love me and pay for my sins. I can be forgiven. I can have a new life. Brother, that's something to sing about. Regardless of what our circumstances are. And David's got a reason to sing. He's a saved man. He rejoiced in his salvation. Notice verse 6. I will sing unto the Lord, why, David, you were just ripened. Well, because he's really dealt bountifully with me. You know, we get thinking about it. Here's the problem. We let the devil Use our problems to blind us to the goodness of God. And all I can see is this issue. All I can see is this problem. And it may be significant, but I'm here to tell you God has been good to us better than we deserve. And we got something to sing about. I thought about David when we mentioned Goliath there. And uh David comes out to bring his brother some cheese and crackers and stuff and uh to see how the battle's going. His daddy just he sent him. He gets out there to the battlefield And he sees the armies lined up, the Philistines are over there, the Israel's all here, King Saul is all set up in his headquarters, and The battle's in array, you know, they got their weapons and they're doing their hoop collars and smashing their swords against their shields. But nobody's going out fighting. And out in the middle is that Goliath, this giant. And he's defying the nation, the armies of Israel, and he's defying the God of Israel, blaspheming Jehovah. And the Bible says in 1 Samuel 17 that Saul and the armies of Israel trembled. And were in despair. They were scared to death of that giant out there. The king, all of the whole crowd Why? Because they were looking at the giant. They kept looking at look how big he is. Look how bad he is. He's a warrior from his youth. Man, this can nobody can this is crazy. David comes walking out. Hey guys, want some cheese? Got crackers, wretch crackers, any? What's going on? And he sees the giant out there. He says, what's going on? He says, yeah, uh he's he's defying the nation of Israel. King Saul said, anybody go out and kill him, they can uh he'll he'll reward them. And David said, Why don't somebody go out and kill him Are you crazy? This is Leatherman version, right? Okay. This is the LJV. And uh why don't somebody go out there? Are you crazy? Look at them You know what David was? You know the difference between David and the armies of Israel? They were all looking at Goliath. David was looking at God. And Goliath don't stand a chance against God. And here's our problem. This is what David did. And he got it straightened out through prayer. He got his eyes off of his problems, and he got them on his God. And he starts singing. I got I I got saying unto the Lord. Why? Man, he's dealt bountifully with me. These problems, yeah, they're real, they hurt, sure. But brother, I got a home in heaven, I got a God in heaven. He's been awfully good to me. His problems were taken to God in prayer, and they turned into praise. The problem is, I'm talking to some folks this morning. All you see is your problem. All you see, all you look at, all you dwell on is everything that's wrong. This is wrong, this is wrong, this is wrong And you don't have a song in your heart. You're like David. You lost the joy of the Lord. He said in Psalm 51, restore it to me the joy of the Lord. You've lost it. And I'm telling you, you can take your cares, your burdens, your heartaches, whatever it may be. We can take that to an Almighty God And prayer, put it in his hands, cast all our care on him, and I tell you, God can put a song in our heart. Amen or not. I know he can Verse 6 is past tense. I will sing unto the Lord because he hath dealt. Past tense. I don't know that the circumstances have changed, but David is so confident that God's going to work everything out that he's rejoicing in something that hadn't even happened yet. 2 Corinthians chapter 12, we won't turn there. Saul has a thorn in his flesh, the great apostle, one of the greatest Christians, no doubt, that ever lived, as far as we have record of. Man of God in every way, a man of tremendous faith. And he had a thorn in his flesh. We don't know what it was, but I'm convinced it was a physical pain. It hurt a lot all the time And he says in 2 Corinthians 12, he said, I brought that to the Lord three times, three periods of time. I came to God in prayer. He said it was a messenger of Satan. You know what he meant there when he said it's a messenger of Satan? He meant that Satan was using it to discourage him and try and get him to doubt God. Exactly what David was going through, verse 1 and 2 of Psalm 13. And Satan was beating up Apostle Paul. He was buffeting his body. I like to read that he's buffeting his body and go to a buffet. And uh never mind. But whatever this physical pain was, this thorn in his flesh, Satan was using it to get Paul to doubt God, complain. And what did Paul do? Comes to God and pray. I sought the Lord. I took that and I brought the Lord. And you know what God said in response to his prayer to take that thorn of flesh away? God said, no. I'm gonna you're gonna keep it. Toggets, why you God, you forsaken me You don't care about me. No, he didn't do any of that. That's what Satan wanted him to do. You know, he said, all right, Lord, if you want me to have this problem. Then I'm going to rejoice in it because when I'm weak, then you'll be strong. Now I'm not going to, you're going to allow the use this to keep me from getting proud. You're going to use this to keep me from doing and saying things I shouldn't do And Lord, I'm going to rejoice in it. I'm going to rejoice in it. I wish we had time to go and read what Saul says there. Paul says there. It's tremendous. I'm going to rejoice and I'm going to praise God. That's what happens to David. He sought the Lord. He had this problem. He sought the Lord Whether God took it away from David or not, we're not told, but David said, I'm going to rejoice in the Lord. I'm going to rejoice in the Lord. Ephesians 5, 18, 19, and 20 says, and again, I'm putting this in my words for sake of time, says that uh when we're filled with the Holy Spirit, God will put a song in our heart. Doesn't say when my circumstances are everything what I want them to be. It says When I'll yield myself to the Lord and let God have his way and let the Holy Spirit fill me and control me and lead and direct me, he'll put a song in my heart. And God can give you a song, regardless of your circumstances. Let me end with this. Come over to Psalm 28, if you would. Again, this is King David. And he shares so much of his heart in ways that you and I can relate to. Verse 6 Psalm 28, verse 6, and I'll end with this. Blessed be the Lord, because he hath heard the voice of my supplications. God heard my prayer. He didn't say that God did what I asked him to do. He said, but God heard me, and that's enough. God heard me, he knows I'm trusting him. I put in the margin of my Bible, God hears our prayers, beside verse 6 Verse 7 says this: The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusted in him, and I am helped Therefore, my heart greatly rejoiceth, and with my song I will praise him. I put in the margin of my Bible, God helps us out. He hears our prayer. He helps us out. Look at verse 8. The Lord is their strength. And he is the saving strength of his anointed. And I put this down. God holds us up. God may or may not change our circumstance, but I know this. He hears us when we pray, he helps us deal with it, and then he holds us up to go through it, and he puts a song in our heart. We've got reason to sing this morning. We've got reason to rejoice in the Lord. We have a God that even when we walk through the valley of the shadow of death, he goes with us. He's right there with us. Don't let Satan blind you to the goodness of God. Don't let Satan use the problems that are part of life. To steal our song from our heart. Let's sing. Let's pray. Let's rejoice. Amen? Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now, as we give the invitation, I ask you to help us to learn to pray And then we can sing. With heads bowed, eyes closed. And again, this is between you and God. But I wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher, I got some issues. Maybe they're your own making. Maybe some of our problems, it's our own fault. We've made stupid decisions or whatever, mistakes. Maybe it's somebody else. Maybe there's no explanation. But you say, preacher, I'm dealing with some stuff, and it's and I'm I I catch myself getting impatient And this morning, God stirred my heart. I want to bring it to the Lord in prayer. Just commit it to Him in prayer. Is there any like that that would relate to that? Anybody at all? I just need to put that in the Lord's hands. Just trust him. God bless you. Hands all around. And I'm telling you, God can give us a song. We can rejoice even in the midst of trials with the Lord as our Savior and the presence of the Holy Spirit in our life. The promises of God. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. As the people