All right, thank you very much. Uh see how this goes. This went pretty good with my wife earlier today, but uh fella. was uh he worked at the vegetable stand in a big grocery store and um a lady came And she said, I would like a half of head of lettuce. And he said, Ma'am, God made lettuce. in one piece. We just sell it one. We don't sell half a letter a head a lettuce a head of lettuce. And um she goes, I've been shopping here a long, long time. And uh looks like to me you'd be able to sell me a half a head of lettuce. He goes, Well, ma'am, uh that's not our policy, we don't do that. And she just badgered him and badgered him and badgered him Until finally he said, well let me go, he got exasperated. He said, let me go talk to the manager. So he walks across the store, he finds the manager, he goes, he goes, I've got some idiot woman She is stubborn, hard-headed, and she's ugly. And she wants me to cut the lettuce in half and sell her a half a head of lettuce. The whole time he's talking, the manager's going like this And the guy looks around and lo and behold the woman had followed him the whole way. And she's standing right behind him, right there. She heard every word he said. And without missing the beat, the the fellow that worked behind the counter, he said to the manager, and this woman here wants to buy the other half. A little while later the manager comes up to him and says, That's pretty slick. He goes, how'd you learn to think on your feet so quick like that? He goes, I'm from Michigan. He said, up in Michigan all the women are ugly as bats or they play s hockey. The manager got really mad. He said, My wife's from Michigan. He goes, What team did she play on? And there's actually an application from that story is our tongue can get us in a heap of trouble. And look here, if you would, at James chapter 1, verse number 26. The Bible says, if any man among you seem to be religious, And bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart. This man's religion is what? Vain. Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows and their affliction. and to keep one's keep himself unspotted from the world. I want to just look. Now verse 26 and 27 are a unit. They go together. But I want to look just at verse number 26 tonight, and I've called it a religious reputation Let's ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, I pray that you would bless now as we have our Bibles open. This is your word, Lord. We acknowledge that. We understand that. And we're asking that you would speak to us from your word. and challenge us. Lord, this subject of the tongue is uh is tough and um Lord that is it's such a struggle for us. to have victory in the in our words, in our tongues. So I ask, again, that you would speak to us, you would help us, help us to trust you, to obey you And that we would be tender-hearted to your Spirit's application of your word. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, present my body anew. Lord, just speak through me. Is my prayer And uh I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. It's important to keep in mind that this passage of Scripture is written to believers, to Christians. In fact, the whole book is, we keep pointing that out, that this is a book to Christians. This is not to the unsaved. These are people who are known as followers of Jesus Christ. He's not writing, he's not writing to folks outside the church. He's not talking about folks that never darken the church door, that never cracked their Bible open. He's not talking to those folks He is talking to folks that have a reputation that are known to be believers, known as followers of Jesus Christ. Now I think what's happening here in verse 26 and 27, I think James is doing what verse twenty-two, I think it was, through verse twenty-five, said to do is use the Bible as a mirror And he I think he is holding up the Word of God, the principles of God's Word as a mirror, and he's trying to get these uh the folks that he's writing to to determine by looking into the word whether their faith is genuine or not. Whether their religion, quote unquote, is genuine. And that this is the question that these two verses impress on my heart. And that's this. Is my religion, is it skin-deep, or is it rooted in a genuine born-again heart, a heart that has a new nature? Um in the Old Testament, I think it's in Leviticus, and I didn't go and look for the references, but if you remember, as you read through the the law, when God is establishing the ceremonial laws for Israel, and then he's establishing the laws for society, how to function as a society, the ceremonial laws pointed to the coming Messiah and the cross. The societal laws they had to do how to interact with with uh one another. And they had some laws that had to do with their safety And that's where a lot of things you don't eat this kind of food and you don't do this type of thing and a lot of people today misunderstand them. One of the laws for uh one of the uh procedures they were to follow concerning the safety of the Jewish society was um if there was a scab If someone found a scab on their skin or a white spot or a type of thing like that, they were to be inspected by the priests very carefully. And if it was only skin deep That meant it was nothing. There was no significance to it. Don't worry about it. It's meaningless. It's just a surface uh sore type thing. It's not but if it went below the skin, then it was something very serious. Then it was something that needed to be dealt with. And it's kind of reversed here. I think what he's challenging us here is our religion just skin deep? Is it just meaningless? Is it just something that's of no significance, of no regard? It's just surface religion, or is my religion deeper than skin deep? Is there something to it? Is it significant? Is there substance to it? Now, in verse 26, I believe he is addressing those who seem to be relig religious. I circled as I was preparing this message, I circled the word seem. I think that's a key word in uh this verse. These are folks who seem to be religious. And we'll look at that in a moment. Then verse 27, you have those who are sincere in their religion. Verse 26, if any man among you seem to be religious, then verse 27, pure religion and undefiled. So there's a contrast here. Those who seem to be religious, those who whose religion is pure. It's sincere. It's genuine And so the question is that. Now I'd like for you, keep your place here and just set the stage for this, our thoughts tonight. Come to 2 Corinthians chapter number 13. Same idea is presented, but worded a little bit different. It might get our get us on the same frame of mind as we look into verse number 26. 2 Corinthians chapter 13 and verse 26. The question is this, is my religion genuine? Is it below the surface? Is it out of a uh a born-again heart, character, or is it just Something that is surface. Look at 2 Corinthians 5 13 and verse number 5. Look what he says. What's that first word? Examine yourselves. Whether ye be in the faith. Prove your own selves. Now he goes on. He says, Now ye now ye not know ye not your own selves? Now that Jesus Christ is in you, except you be reprobates. What's he saying to the church at Corinth? Now the church at Corinth. had reason to question some things. They were a mess. In a lot of ways, you could not make any distinction between the saved people who were part of Corinth And the unsaved people were just part of the city there in Corinth. They were acting the same. There was little or no distinction, so he's challenging that. Saying, examine yourselves. You need to stop and ask yourself, is my religion, as it's used in James, is my religion genuine? Or is it just something that people think is what I am? Or is it sincere? Is it actual So let's come back here. And he's asked, telling the Corinthian church to do that. Examine yourselves. Stop and examine. And by the way, a genuine Christian ought not to be afraid of that I ought not to be afraid and stop and say, wait a minute, is my relationship with Christ, is my Christianity genuine? Does it mesh up with Scripture? Or is it just superficial? And we ought not to be afraid to answer that answer. If it's real, I'll know that. Amen? And if it's not real, I want to deal with it. I don't want to just be satisfied with a superficial relationship with my Creator. I want to be genuine and real. So let's look at verse 26 And I think this passage helps us do that to answer the question, is my religion skin deep or is it a genuine? Number one, I notice in verse 26, he is addressing the reputation Of those who seem to be religious. Now let's just go through word by word almost and look at this. If any man among you That phrase has the idea, any person in your midst, anybody that is an associate of yours. Now he's addressing believers. And so, again, I already mentioned this, but he's talking not to folks outside the church. He's talking to those within the body of Christ. Is any among you seem to be religious? Now, as I said, that word seem is a key word in this verse. If we don't grasp what he's saying there with that, then this verse isn't going to make a lot of sense. And he says, if any man among you seem to be religious, the word seem has this idea. is thought to be religious, or I like this definition, it helped me get the the the point for this first point is rep r reputed to be religious In other words, if anybody among you has the reputation of being a religious person, They're thought to be religious. And the word religious there is really a benign word. It simply means a worshiper. It's not being used in a good or bad sense necessarily. It's just somebody that worships whatever And of course, in this case, it would be the true and living God. So he's addressing those who have a reputation of being a devout worshiper of God. He's saying if anybody among you has this reputation, people think of him or her as being a follower of Jesus Christ. That's who I'm addressing. By outward appearance, by all outward appearance, they appear genuine There's I have a preacher associate. He likes to say about fellows, this guy's the real deal. And what he's saying is he's genuine. He's a legit Christian. He's the real thing. If any man among you seem To be religious. They have a reputation. He's saying this. If the church would take a poll as to whether people think this person is genuine or not, whether this person is religious or not, if the church took a poll, They would say, it would be a high percentage of folks who would say, yeah, that guy's religious. That guy worships God. So that's his appearance. That's his reputation. That's what people think of him. I want to point out that there is a world of difference between our reputation and our character. We talked about this in the Sunday school hour during a study of the disciples. It's one thing to have your reputation for being something or someone. It's another thing to actually be that person. A reputation is this. What other people think I am, what I appear to be, how I am perceived by other people. My character, on the other hand. It's what I really am. It's what I really am. We use this quote in the Sunday school series. My reputation is what I am in the light. My character is what I am in the dark. Follow what I'm saying? When nobody sees me, when there's no one else around, then what is my relationship with God like? What is my Christianity when nobody sees me? As opposed to how I come across to others. A classic, classic example in extreme proportions Of having a reputation as one thing and a actually being something else is Judas Iscariot. Everyone, and we pointed this out pretty thoroughly, I think, in our Sunday school series, everyone was absolutely convinced That Judas Iscariot was a genuine believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. Nobody questioned that at all Nobody doubted at all. And as I like to point out, when the Lord was about to institute the Lord's Supper, and he said, one of you is going to betray me. And immediately the disciples began questioning among themselves. But the interesting thing is, nobody said, I'll bet it's Judas. If they take a poll, not one of those disciples would have voted uh Judas. Who do you think is the one going to betray? No one would have checked Judas's name off He had a sterling reputation of being the real deal. He seemed to be religious And so, but we know, as it plays out, he wasn't anything what everybody thought he was The Lord knew. The Lord pointed out early on, he's a thief. He has a devil. He's a son of perdition. He was the exact opposite of what he had a reputation of being. So ju uh James here in verse 26 steps initiates this these two verses by addressing those who have a reputation of being religious. If any among you seem to be religious, boy they sure put the show on. They sure have that appearance Then the next thing he touches on is the reputation of being religious. Then the next thing he touches on, and this is a big $60 word here, the immoderation of those who seem to be religious. Now, if somebody does something in moderation, what does that mean? They're doing what? If somebody's eating uh they're gonna have dessert, but they're just gonna have it in moderation, that means what? Small amounts. Yeah, small amounts, or even more than that, they're They're restraining themselves, right? They're holding back. Rather than eating twelve Krispy Kreme donuts, they only eat six. Moderation. Right? So if so if if if doing something in moderation means restraining myself or holding myself back, keeping myself in check. And it could be anything. If I'm doing something in immoderation, the opposite of that means it's what? It's unrestraint. It's in excess. I'm not holding it back at all. Now look at verse 26. This is where I get this word. I was trying to follow my alliteration here. We have the reputation of one who seems to be uh religious. And then we have the immoderation of this one who seems to be religious. Look at verse 26. If any man among you seem to be religious And look at this, and bridleth not his tongue. He's not restraining his tongue. He's immoderate. With his tongue in moderation with his tongue. He's not restraining and he's not holding it back. He's not keeping it in check. It's just running It's just let loose, there's no control, there's no restraint. He doesn't bridle his tongue Bridle with, of course, you know, is uh used with horses and to restrain that horse, to hold keep that horse under control And he adjusts this a little bit later on in the book, and we'll look into it even more thoroughly than here. He just introduces the idea. But he's saying this. Here's a guy that has a reputation of being religious. He is a Testimony, appearance of being somebody that worships God, followed God, but he cannot or he does not bridle his tongue. He doesn't keep it in check. He doesn't restrain it. Then this guy will notice here in a minute his religion's in vain. He's deceiving himself. You cannot separate the conduct, I cannot separate the conduct of my tongue from the character of my heart. If I have a dishonest tongue, that tells me I have a dishonest heart. If I have a dirty tongue, that means I have a dirty heart If you would, again, keep your place here. I want to give you some scripture to support this. Come with Matthew chapter 12. Matthew twelve, and we have Jesus addresses the subject of the tongue Matthew 12 and verse number 34. Now he's just laying into the Pharisees. And we were looking at this portion on Wednesday night in our study of the Beatitudes. And I mean he is just, he is just laying into the Pharisees. And in verse number 34 of Matthew 12, O generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good things? For, look at this, this is the phrase I want. For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. I circled the word heart and the word mouth. It is impossible to separate the conduct of my heart from the character of the conduct of my tongue, my mouth, from the character of my heart. I want to suggest to you to restrain my tongue is more effective testimony than releasing my tongue. So, well, I'm just going to let it fly. That's immoderation. The Bible says we are to bridle the tongue. I believe. I want to ask this question. Could it be that an unbridled tongue has done more damage to the cause of Christ? than any other source of problems. Could it be? Personally, I know of more churches that have split because of unbridled tongues than because of false doctrine. I know of more friendships that have been destroyed because of unbridled tongues than because of any injustice that was done. He said, if any man seems to be religious, he has a reputation of being a follower of Jesus Christ, a worshiper of God. He seems to be that way. But he is immoderate in his tongue. He's he's unbridled in his tongue, and he just runs his mouth and says stuff. He says, that's who I'm addressing, which leads me to my third thought from this passage, coming back to James. We have the reputation of one who seems to be religious. Then he addresses the immoderation of those who seem to be religious. They don't bribe their tongue. Then he addresses the self-deception. Of those who seem to be religious. Look at verse 26 again. If any man among you seem to be religious and bridleth not his tongue, look at this next phrase, but deceiveth his own heart. Deceiveth his own heart. Self-deception of those who seem to be religious Verse 26, he's talking about those who seem to be religious. Verse 27, he's addressing the characteristics of those who are sincerely religious. They sincerely worship God. Now that phrase deceiveth his own heart. You know what I believe that is? I believe that's the most dangerous thing a person can do. To deceive myself. To convince myself that something is true about me that is not true. How dangerous, how dangerous that is. I've often said, and I bel I know this is true, I know it's true about me, and I'm pretty confident it's true about all of us, we tend to think of ourselves more highly than we ought to. We tend to convince ourselves that we're better Christians than what we really are. We tend to convince ourselves we're stronger spiritually than what we really are. Paul did not fall into that trap. He said repeatedly, Woe is me, oh wretched man that I am. Paul had a clear perception that without Christ, he's nothing. And he says, if a man seems to be religious and he has this reputation of being religious, but he doesn't bridle his tongue, his mouth is unrestrained, he's fooling himself. He's believing that own phony reputation. Whatever other everyone else thinks about him, he is thinking that same thing about him himself, and he's wrong. He's deceived his own heart. I must not fool myself. If I have an impure tongue, I have an impure heart. If I have a hateful tongue, I don't can't fool myself. I've got a hateful heart. As I said, if my tongue is dishonest, if my words are dishonest, Don't fool myself into thinking that my heart is honest. Because a dishonest tongue is rooted in a dishonest heart. An impure tongue is rooted in an impure heart. If I fool others, that's bad. I ought not to deceive others. That's not good. But if I deceive myself, that's dangerous. And I convince myself, and I I I do and say one thing, and then I convince myself I'm something else, and I'm just deceiving my own heart. Turn with me again, and this is the last passage we'll go to outside of our text is to Romans chapter one. Now this, I'll be honest with you, this is rough. When I got reading this and looking up some of these things, it was It's it's it's tough. In Romans chapter one, look, and verse number twenty-nine. Of course, Romans Chapter 1, I often adj I often look at Romans chapter 1 like uh I grew up outside of Philly and we would go down on a fairly regular basis, go down into the city, and there was parts of the city of Philadelphia you didn't really didn't want to go through. They were nasty, they were dirty, they were dangerous, they were ugly, you just didn't like it. Um I was in Baltimore And um there's pretty much the whole town, uh, but not really. There's some nice parts in the But uh there's certain areas in the city you don't want to go through, right? That's the way I look at Romans chapter 1. I don't like it. It's ugly. Look at verse 29, and we're just going to pick up here. He's talking about people who have rejected God, have absolutely put him from their heart and mind. Look what he says. I'm going to read the whole thing, then we're going to come back and note a few words he uses here. Being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness Maliciousness, full of envy, murder, debate, deceit Malignity, whisperers, backbiters, haters of God, despiteful Proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient unto parents, without understanding, covenant breakers without natural affection, implicable, unmerciful, who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death Not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them. Now we can back up a little bit before I read, and it's really nasty. And what is taking place here in this passage of Scripture, he is addressing, among other things, God's judgment on sodomy. And how the progression of human sin leads to greater and greater and greater abomination and greater and greater sin. And listen, I don't think we ought uh uh we ought not to be unkind to anybody. Amen? If I go out and I meet a drunkard staggering around wasting his life and destroying his family, uh I condemn that. That's ungodly sin, but I'm I ought not to be unkind to that man. Follow what I'm saying? But what caught my attention on this passage was how many of these sins listed here in with sodomy that are just as condemned as sodomy here had to do with the tongue. I listed them, verse, uh, the word debate there in verse 29. You know what debating you're talking about there? It's somebody that's constantly arguing with someone. No matter what they say, no matter what they do, it turns into an argument. They always get in an argument with people. No matter what, it'll end up in an argument. That has to do with the tongue. The words I'm using, these debates, this argument I'm constantly using. And it's interesting, he comes down and the word deceit. That has to do with lying. It's my tongue. Um the word whisperer there in the end of verse 29. Whisperers. That is translated other places as slandering, saying hateful things about other people, saying terrible things, using words to make another person look bad Backbiting there in verse 30 means to talk evil about other people Again, very similar to whispering, slandering. It's just to run them down. Say awful stuff about it. Up there, the word boasters in verse 30. Has the idea of bragging, telling everybody how great I am and how better I am than anything everyone else and how better I am than this person, I'm better than that one, and I know more and I can do it better, and I I aye And all these things are sins of the tongue. And what bothers me is they're put in the same passage of scripture where God condemns sodomy. That in the same camp, all these sins and the others are listed there horrendous. And he includes in them the sins of the tongue. And he's saying, listen, if any among you seem to be religious, you have this reputation as a real worshiper of God, but you don't control your tongue. And this blasphemy and this slander and this debate and this boasting are character are is what your tongue does. You don't that's not restrained, that's not embridled. You're fooling yourself, my friend. And then he says, my last point is the dysfunction of those who seem to be religious. Their religion is what's he say in verse 26 there? It's vain The word they means to be devoid of substance, to have no value. So if a person has the reputation of being a real worshiper of God, a real follower of Jesus Christ, but they don't bridle their tongue. They're deceiving their own selves. That reputation is there's no substance to it. There's nothing behind it. There's no value to it. It's just an empty thought. It appears to me in this passage the key test of the sincerity of my Christianity is not how much Bible I know. A person can know a lot about the Bible and be a terrible Christian. The test of sincerity, the key test, or one of the key tests of the sincerity of my Christian It's not how much of the Bible I know. It's not about um uh how loud I sing. Question, is there anything wrong with singing loud? I like to sing loud. Uh I told you the other week brother of mine are in Fox and asked me they had a big preacher's meeting in Saint in uh Louisville. And he asked if I would sing in an ensemble. I said, You're crazy. I laughed out loud. I L-O-L'd When he asked me that. He said I'm serious. I said, here's my chance. I'll be a star And I got there and here is it and he says, oh it's just a bunch of guys. I got there. These were like people that traveled the country singing professionally almost. I mean they were phenomenal. And I'm sitting there, oh amazing race And I just sang out and the guy beside me said, tell you what, you stand right here and sing real quiet. I said literally, he told me that. He said, you just stand right there and just kind of move your mouth a little and don't sing real loud Finally I said, this is silly. And so I said, tell you what, you guys say, and I'll do it, sit down here and I'll say amen. And they said, okay, that'd be good. There's nothing wrong with singing loud. We ought to know the Bible, amen. But you can sing as loud as can be, and you can quote all hundred verses that every Christian should know. But if I don't bridle my tongue, my Christianity is pretty sorry. Follow what I'm saying? Um I can sir you can give out you can win track month every year. Give out the most tracks, and that's good, and Christians ought to, and we ought can't give out too many tracks But that is not the test of how sincere my Christianity is. Any man seems to be religious, but he bridles not his tongue. He's deceiving his own self. His religion is what? Vain. The control of my tongue is a key indicator of the sincerity of my worship of Jesus Christ. Now, if you're thinking like I'm thinking when I was preparing this, I'm thinking, it is very hard to control the tongue. Can I get a witness? Yeah, it is. In fact, later on in James, he's going to say this: no man can tame the tongue. Man tames wild beasts. He can turn the rudder of a great ship with a little rudder, but the tongue can no man tame. You say, well, pfft, what do you do? My tongue isn't bridal, then my religion, my reputation to be a follower of Jesus Christ is vain. I'm deceiving myself, but then you say, I can't control the tongue. Oh, but I there's somebody, if we're saved, there's somebody lives in us that can control the tongue. It's the precious Holy Spirit of God, the all n omnipotent Holy Spirit of God dwells within me. And when I get to the point, get this, when I get to the point in my Christian life where it means more to me to being genuine In my worship and my love and my devotion to Jesus Christ, when that is important to me, that's everything to me, when that's for real. Then the Holy Spirit can fill me, and He'll empower me, and I can have victory. And He can take that filthy tongue. That comes from a filthy heart, and he can make it pure and clean. Amen? And he can take a dishonest tongue, he can make it as honest as the word of God. And God can do that for us. The tongue is the most powerful muscle in our body. And it has done more damage to the cause of Christ than any false Bible version has ever done. Than any false doctrine that's ever been taught. The tongue is a world of fire, set on fire of hell. And we've got to get that thing yielded to the Holy Spirit of God. Amen? Any man among you seem to be religious, you got that reputation, but you don't bridle that tongue. You're deceiving yourself, and that religion is vain. But pure religion, undefiled, is this. to visit the fatherless in their affliction and to keep oneself unspotted from the world. And we'll look at what sincere religion is characterized by next time. Let's pray together.