First Peter chapter three, I want to read verses fourteen, fifteen, and sixteen. We're working our way through the book of First Peter And verse 14 says, But and if you suffer for rights for righteousness' sake, happy are ye. And be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer. To every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. And verse 16 says, having a good conscience That whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. I want to take the statement there in verse fifteen. He says, Be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that within you. I've entitled the message A Ready Answer. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, thank you again for a good day and Lord the good report from our youth ministries Young people singing, the congregational singing. It's just been a blessing, the testimonies. Now, as we finish out the day, finish out this service, I ask that you would speak to us from your word I pray you'd prepare our hearts for this coming week, that we could be a good testimony, that folks would see Christ in us, as we were talking earlier, that our lives would uh point people to Christ, the way we talked, the way we lived. So we need you to do that for us, Lord. We need you to stir us. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew With all my heart, I pray that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and you speak to us tonight through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I say this almost every time we come back to 1 Peter, but I think it's so important to understand some of what he's saying here is the context of what this Letter, this epistle was written. Peter is writing, as we've said many times, to Christians who are being persecuted for their faith. They are paying a heavy price. As a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he's writing to them, encouraging them. And he instructs these believers. He says here in verse number 15 he says he instructs them to have a ready answer. And the implication here, as you look at this, is that inevitably Somebody is going to observe their behavior and see how they're responding to the persecution, how they're responding to mistreatment and unjust accusations, false accusations, he says there in verse 16. They see how they respond, they see their attitude, and they are going to, inevitably, they're going to come and ask you, what is the reason of the hope that is in you? Peter is anticipating that they are going to be so distinct in their response to suffering, so distinct from the world, the world's going to be confused and the world's going to become curious As to what is it about you that makes you respond that way. Now, I've looked at these three verses here, 14, 15, and 16 a little bit, but I see four ingredients that have to be in place If we're going to be able to have a ready response, a ready answer, when people ask us of the hope that is within us, we're only going to look at two of them tonight But uh the four that I notice here, I'll just share them with you. The first one is there has to be an attitude of optimism. And we're going to see that in verse number 14, and then there has to be a priority We're going to notice next time we come back to this that there's a needs to be a preparation. We need to know what we're going to say when people do ask us. And then we have to have the right poise So let's look at this first one. Number one, an optimistic attitude. Look at verse 14. But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, what are those next three words? Happy are ye. But if you suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye. Wow, that's kind of a strange Mixture, suffering for righteousness' sake, not because they're doing wrong, not because they're criminals, not because they're being knuckleheads, but they're living righteous, they're doing right and they're suffering for it. And he says, Happy are ye. Then he goes on, and he says, And be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled I think he's talking about having an optimistic attitude here. I think of all people, Christians have the greatest cause to be optimistic. We have every reason to have a positive attitude. We have every reason to have a positive anticipation as a child of God. Can anything happen to a child of God that is outside the providence of God? The answer to that question is no. God is my Father, God. Nothing comes into my life but first goes through the filter of a loving, holy God. And you and I have every reason in the world to be optimistic, even though the world around us has fallen apart. Anybody notice this world's a mess? You know what? I got some news for you. You and I, as a child of God, we don't have to be messed up with the world in our thinking and our attitudes In our perspective on things. We can look at this world from God's perspective. We can look at this world from the perspective of a good, holy, all-powerful, wise God. And so I think he's telling them here they need to have an optimistic attitude. Are you saying, preacher, a Christian should be optimistic because they don't have any troubles? No, I'm not saying that at all Are you saying we should be optimistic because we don't have any difficulties? I'm not saying that at all. The Bible never suggests that a Christian is not going to have difficulties, is not going to have troubles In fact, the word suffer, Peter uses the word suffer 13 times in the book of 1 Peter in just a few chapters. He's talking about Christians who have trusted folks who have trusted Christ as Savior. And because they're disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, they've lost their jobs. Family members have turned on them. The community and the authorities have come after them like criminals, imprisoning them, in many cases beating them, in some cases killing them as martyrs. For no other reason than they're a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. They're a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Peter's writing to him, he says, listen, happy are ye. Don't be troubled. He's saying we have an optimistic attitude. The word suffer there, notice in verse 14. But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, the word suffer there means to literally experience pain. To be afflicted, to experience great sorrow. Now, there's various reasons that we experience suffering. One reason we suffer is simply because we're human beings. And by that I mean this. We live in physical bodies that eventually wear out. Anybody experiencing that at this point in life? Yeah, I'm getting more and more all the time. We're human beings. We get sick. We're vulnerable to viruses. We get arthritis. Somebody help me. Uh diabetes. Um appendix appendicitis, cancer. We experience sorrow. We experience heartache. We experience Sadness, sometimes for no other reason than we're simply human beings and human bodies that wear out, get sick, people die, loved ones die, and our hearts are broken, we miss them, we weep And so some suffering is a result simply of being humans and living in human bodies. Another reason that there is suffering in this world One is because we're human, it's just our bodies wear out and bring suffering on us. Another reason is we're sinners. Sometimes we suffer because we do stupid things Because we do foolish things. We do harmful things. Sin is never good for a person. You mark it down, it'll bring suffering. It'll bring heartache. I've said this before, but uh that great theologian uh John Wayne He said, uh, life is hard, and it's even harder if you're stupid. There's a lot of truth in that statement. And I tell you, suffering is going to come simply because we're human But sometimes, sometimes we bring a lot of suffering on us because we're sinners. We sin, we disobey God, we go outside and operate and make decisions and do things that are outside what we're designed, how we're designed to function. Sin is not just an arbitrary thing where God says, all right, I want you to do that. No, no, no. We are designed by God initially to live holy, pure, godly lives. And then sin came in. We're not designed to live in sin. We're not designed to live outside of the will of God. And when we do, it brings grief. And when we do, it brings heartache. It brings pain. And so some suffering is the result of being human. It just is part of life. Can't escape that. Some is because we're sinners, but sometimes we suffer because we're Christians And we decide I'm going to trust Christ and I'm going to be a disciple. I'm going to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. And some of these TV preachers, they might not, they might say something different, but I'm telling you, the Bible says if you and I are going to be followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, there may be a price to pay And we live in a world that many times hates our Savior. And we live in a world where Christianity, biblical Christianity, is unpopular. We live in a world where disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ are often persecuted and hated. And if I'm going to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, then it's we're seeing this more and more in our country. It's been true for centuries in other countries. We're seeing it more and more in our country, where we are going to There's going to be greater opposition for our walk with Christ. People misunderstand where our love is and where our commitment is. And so Peter is writing to them and says, listen, he says there verse 14, but and if you suffer for righteousness' sake, because you're a disciple of Christ, Because you're living for God, because you're living by faith, you're following the principles of Scripture. If you suffer for the righteousness' sake, he says, happy are ye. Be optimistic The optimism of a Christian, I like this statement, the optimism of a Christian is so substantial That it can flourish even in the midst of intense mistreatment and persecution. Did you get that? Our optimism, our hope in God, our confidence in the love and power and goodness of God Is so substantial that even when this world turns on us, and even when people we trust and are near us mistreat us, we can still rejoice and be optimistic because of who our God is. Are you with me? He says, happy are ye, happy are ye. He says, uh and the word happy there is translated other place in the Bible, blessed. It means to grow this is an interesting term here. He says, But if you suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye. The idea is you are increasing in your happiness. You are increasing in your blessedness. In other words, he's suggesting that the more opposition they face, the more persecution they face. The more they suffered for their faith and their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ, the happier they would become. And that's something. And then he says at the end of the verse, he says, Neither be troubled. The word troubled there means agitated, disturbed, upset, worked up, vexed. He says, don't be that way. You suffer for righteousness' sake. You're being persecuted for Christian people cussing you out, throwing you in jail. He says, man, you can grow in happiness. You say, preacher, that's crazy. Well, turn with me, if you would, to Matthew chapter 5. And he's been repeating this theme throughout his letter so far. We've touched on this numerous times as Peter has addressed this. Turn with me to Matthew chapter 5. And I'd like you to notice with me verse number 10. Now, verse 3 down through, this is really still part of it. are the Beatitudes. Blessed are ye. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are they that mourn. Blessed are the meek. He goes on down through there. And then look at verse 10. Included in the Beatitudes, which everybody loves the Beatitudes, look what he says. Blessed are they which are what? Why are they being persecuted for well that's just what exactly what Peter said Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. He's saying, this isn't your kingdom. This isn't where we put our roots down. This isn't where our citizenship is. Our kingdom's in heaven. This world turns on us. This world persecutes us for righteousness' sake. This isn't our world. What's the old song? This world is not my home. Then read on. He says, Blessed are ye. Look at this. When men shall revile you and persecute you. And shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Look at the next two verses. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, growing in your gladness. For great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Happy are ye. Be not troubled, he says. The optimism of a Christian is so substantial, or at least it ought to be, so substantial, that it can flourish even in the midst of intense mistreatment and persecution. The joy of the Lord that I experience must never be dependent upon how other people treat me. Christian A Christian is a completely different creature than the unsaved. What's 2 Corinthians 5. 17? If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Completely different. I'm telling you, you and I are not the same as the unsaved. We're not the same. We're not better. We're sinners. But when a person trusts the Lord Jesus Christ, he changes us. We now have a new nature. We now have a higher standard. We now have new priorities. We now have a new purpose for living. We now have a new home, a new focus. And he says, This old world turns on you, and this old world mistreats you, and this world persecutes you, and this world takes your physical life He said, even in the midst of that, you can maintain a positive attitude. You can rejoice in theory. You can be blessed. Happy are ye. Happy are ye. You would turn with me to Acts chapter number 5. Every time I read Acts chapter 5, verse 41 and 42, my heart is challenged. I have it underlined in my Bible. I have it bracketed. I got a star beside these two verses. Acts chapter 5 And look at verse 41. Now these are the disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. How many folks here tonight? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. How many folks here you would, like me, consider yourself a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ? Sure, not just a believer. I didn't just get saved, but I want to live for the Lord. I want my life to count. I want to follow his teachings Now that's a disciple. I probably wouldn't be in church on a Sunday night if you didn't have that, some level of desire in that area. So these are the disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. They've been in prison. They've been beaten. They've been falsely accused. They've been threatened. Now look what happens in verse 41. And they departed from the presence of the council, griping and complaining. Oh, I'm sorry, that's some other version, I think. And they departed from the presence of the council. What are they doing? They're rejoicing. Why are they rejoicing that they were counted worthy to, what's the next word, suffer. Suffer shame for his name suffer. That's what Peter's talking about. These disciples have just been threatened Many of them have been thrown in prison, they've been beaten, some are about to lose their lives, simply because they're followers of Jesus Christ, and they come out of there, yes. Praise the Lord. He counts us worthy to suffer shame for his name. How many people agree with me? That's a different creature right there. That's a different. That's something different than what you see in this world. How easily modern Christians get so pessimistic. So quickly. Am I right or wrong? Modern Christians, how easily we get so unhappy How easily us as modern Christians we get troubled, we get worked up, we get all upset. Something isn't exactly our way and somebody doesn't treat us or something The way we think we ought to be treated, or somebody disrespects us, and man, we are in a huff. I'm telling you, that is so far from biblical Christianity, it's embarrassing. We talked anybody here here talked the last few years about s liberal snowflakes? Anyone know what I'm talking about? They are offended by everything and every little thing, they're upset and Oh that, I'm telling you, I'm afraid our God has a bunch of snowflake disciples on his hands We get cussed out, or somebody doesn't do us right, or it isn't exactly, or that waitress doesn't perform perfectly. I'm telling you, God have mercy on us Here's Christians who are being beaten. Have nothing. Everything they had is taken from them And he says, happy are ye, you're growing in your joy and blessing for that. I tell you, uh the optimism of a genuine Christian, genuine biblical optimism can be so substantial that it can flourish even in intense persecution. You know what happens? When people don't treat us right, or we witness someone, they cuss us out, or they tear a track up and throw it. You know what happens when we respond the same way the world responds? We get upset and say, well, who do they think they are? Nobody's going to treat me that way. When we act like that, you know what that does? That hinders the gospel witness. Nobody's going to come. Listen, he says, be ready to give an answer to them when they ask of you the hope that is within you. Nobody's going to come and ask you about some hope that you have in your heart and life. If we get all bent out of shape, if everything isn't exactly the way we want it. Because that's the exact same thing the world does. Oh, I saw you got really upset that person cut you off. Man, what is the hope that you have in your life? What is it that makes you the same as everybody else? Nobody's going to do that. But they see us respond with a positive joy and blessing, praising the Lord. They say, man, that guy's got something nobody else in this world has. That guy's got something. She's got something about her that doesn't respond the way the rest of the world does. He says, he said, when you are, he says, but and if you suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye. And be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled. Don't get all worked up. This world's not going to ask us for the reason that we respond to things the same way they do. They don't see any hope in us. Pessimistic, complaining, critical Christian? Don't see any hope in that. What does that have to offer this old world? So Peter's saying to them, listen, You're out there in Asia Minor. You've been driven from your homes. You've been driven from your communities. You've lost everything physically, materialized. He says, but don't you forget that even in the midst of all of that, you can have the joy of the Lord. You don't have to be troubled. And people will see that and they're going to ask you, what is the reason of the hope that is within you? So number one, I think he says one ingredient to having a ready answer is we have to establish a optimistic attitude or a positive attitude, you could say. Number two, real quickly, and I want to end with this, is the first part of verse 15, and that is we must make the Lord our priority. The priority of the Lord. Look again at verse number 15. Just the first phrase. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Now we run across that term sanctify, that word sanctify, we run across that often in the Bible, both Old and New Testament. Somebody help me, tell me. The word sanctify, I ask this every time we come across it. What does the word sanctify mean? To set apart. Comes from the same word, we get our word holy. Sanctification. And when he says here, sanctify the Lord in your heart. Listen, you're persecuted for righteousness' sake. Happy are you. Don't get all troubled. You stay focused. You stay positive. You rejoice. And you need to do this also. Sanctify the Lord in your hearts. Set apart the Lord in your hearts. Now, I got looking at this, and I think this is what he's saying here. In this case, the word sanctify means set apart, but I think he's also saying this: set it apart and set it above everything else. Sanctify the Lord in your hearts. In your hearts, you put the Lord as top priority. Set above all else. Set it over all other realms of your life. You know what a disciple of Jesus Christ is? A disciple of Jesus Christ is someone who Jesus Christ is highest priority. Now I don't want you to answer this out loud, but let me ask you this. Really, for real. Looking at how we live our lives. What is the highest priority in my life? Is it the Lord Jesus Christ? Is he sanctified? Is he set on top priority in my heart, my whole life, and the things I love, the things I cherish, the things that are important to me, all decisions I make, all actions I take, is he the priority? Is he on the throne? A disciple of Jesus Christ is someone who Jesus Christ is highest priority A disciple of Jesus Christ is someone who Jesus Christ is the most important relationship in their life. Now you say, what does that have to do with someone asking me of the hope of the reason that is within me? If things of this world are the highest priority in my life, are sanctified in my heart, if the things of this world are And I can't get the things of this world. They're taken from me, and they're denied me, and they're stolen from me. And it's going to be hard to rejoice in. And it's going to be hard to maintain that attitude, that optimistic, positive attitude, and that blessing, Lord, if my most important thing in my life is things Material things, and that's taken from me, then guess what? I'm going to be a miserable creature If the most important things in my life are my relationships with other people. Now let me ask you a question. Is relationship with my spouse and others, my brother and sister, is that important? Yes or no? Absolutely. Why church is so essential? Because we need each other. It's important. But I'm saying to you, it's not the most important relationship. Most important relationship is my relationship with who? The Lord Jesus Christ. Because you know what? That spouse may turn on me. That brother or sister in Christ. May mistreat me. My neighbor, others who I are important to me and I love them, and I have a relationship with, they may fail me. And if my hope and my joy is based upon my relationship with people, it's a very tenuous joy. I'm dependent on what others do. But It's the most important relationship in my life. Number one top priority in my life is the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't matter what other people do, I still rejoice in my relationship with the Lord. Because he will never leave me nor forsake me He'll never turn on me. He'll never persecute me. He might chasten me and correct me, but it's because he loves me. There's nothing in hell or on planet earth that can separate me from the love of my Savior Jesus Christ. And if that's the number one priority of my life, if that's what I live for, if that's where my joy is based in, if that's what my hope is in. Everything else can be taken from me. I still have that hope. I still have that blessedness. Are you with me? So he's saying, listen Folks are inevitably going to come to you. If you do this, you maintain that positive, optimistic attitude, even in the midst of suffering for righteousness' sake. You don't get troubled You sanctify the Lord in your heart, He's the most important person in your life, He's the highest priority in your heart and life. This world takes everything else away from you. By the way, this world cannot take my relationship with the Lord away from me. The devil cannot take my relationship with the Lord with the Lord away from me. He says, the Lord is your highest priority, then you can be blessed, regardless of circumstances, regardless of mistreatment I can live in untroubled, undisturbed heart and mind if the Lord is sanctified in my heart. Even in suffering, a Christian, a disciple, can still be blessed. The world is never going to ask us for the reason of the hope within us if our priorities are the same as the world's. A person unsaved worldly loses everything they have and it destroys them And the Christian, the disciple of the Christ, loses what they have and it destroys them? What is that worldly going to come and say, Well, I want what you have? He doesn't have anything they don't want, anything more than they have But this whole world, hey, look at a Christian, he's mistreated, he's cussed out, he's thrown in prison, he's beaten, loses his job, all because, for righteousness' sake And man, he's still rejoicing and he's still living for God, and it doesn't phase his walk with God. That worldling looks and says, What in the world do you have? That enables you to live that way. What is the reason for this hope that is within you? We talk about worldly Christians. We talk about worldly churches. They bring the world's music in. And I'm telling you right now, that is a terrible mistake. They bring this old world's music in. They bring the make it look like a nightclub and do all this stuff to make it as little Christian as possible, it seems, in my mind. We gripe about that and we say that's wrong and we get all worked up about it and I'm you know I don't uh we're not gonna we're not gonna do it here. Not under my administration But I tell you, we can be just as worldly, just as worldly by loving and depending on things of this world for our happiness. For our joy, that's just as worldly as putting drums and electric guitars and rock and roll music up here. Come on. Nobody's going to come and ask us the reason of the hope that's in us. We got bad attitudes and we criticize everything. We're mad all the time. Nothing's good enough. Who's going to come and say, boy, I want what you have? Peter's writing to Christians who are intensely persecuted, lost everything. He says, Happy are ye. They're going to come and they're going to start asking you, what in the world do you have? You better be ready to answer them. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, this is challenging. We're so we've been coddled pretty much here in America as Christians. We've gotten our way and gotten what we wanted. Lord, maybe the day's coming where you need to purge us a little bit. You said unless we're purged, we wouldn't bear much fruit. Maybe that's the problem. I ask, Lord, you'd help us to realign our priorities and get you back and sanctify you in our hearts. Help us to get our focus, our attitude realigned and not looking to things of this world for our joy and blessedness, happiness, but looking to our relationship with you. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need to get my attitude adjusted a little bit. I lose a little bit, or something doesn't happen my way, or somebody gives me a hard time. Man, I just get an attitude. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. God will help me fix that. I can keep that thing folks to the Lord. Anybody like that? Anybody like that? My hands raised. I'm I same thing. I deal with it myself. Let's ask God to help us this week, at least for seven days. Ask God to help us not be that way for this coming week. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I hate to admit it, but other things creep in my heart and take priority too often. I need to deliberately sanctify the Lord, set him apart in my the top of the list in my heart And I need to get them back there. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for with me. I'm telling you, it's easy to get those priorities out of line. We need to be challenged constantly. We need to decide constantly. Nope. Sanctify the Lord in my heart. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads up.