Samuel chapter number twenty, if you would. Turn your Bibles. First Samuel chapter twenty. I'm turning my mic on there, Brother Dame. And it is on. 1 Samuel chapter 20. I noticed I was looking back through the notes for this series, and we started about a year ago, I think it was, pretty close, that we started this series on David. And we're about one-fifth into the entire series, so four more years we'll finish this up. But uh I'm in no hurry. You know, it's all the Bible, right? If we weren't studying this part of the Bible, we'd be studying another part of the Bible, so might as well uh Get into it. I'm enjoying it. First Samuel chapter twenty. I'm going to begin reading in verse number ten. I'm going to read all the way down through verse twenty-three and I really, really and go to try. I want to cover all this. A lot of it is pretty obvious stuff here. And we're just going to try and observe what's taking place. And then Uh ask the Holy Spirit, and that's what I pray, that's what I'm praying that the Holy Spirit will take what we observe taking place here in David and Jonathan, and the Holy Spirit apply it to our lives so that we can be stronger in our faith and we can live for the Lord and and have a more effective witness for the Lord. So 1 Samuel chapter 20, I begin reading in verse number 10. The Bible says, Then said David to Jonathan Who shall tell me, or what if thy father answer thee roughly? Now we'll review here briefly what he's talking about. Verse 11. And Jonathan said unto David, Come and let us go out into the field. They went both of them out and they went out both of them into the field. Jonathan said unto David, O Lord God of Israel, when I have sounded my father about tomorrow any time or the third day, and behold, if there be good toward David, and I then and I then send not unto thee, and show it thee The Lord do so and much more to Jonathan. But if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will show it thee and send thee away that thou mayest go in peace. And the Lord be with thee, as he hath been with my father. And thou shalt not only, while I yet live, show me the kindness of the Lord that I die not, but also thou shalt not cut off thy kindness from my house forever. No, not when the Lord hath cut off the enemies of David, every one of them, from the face of the earth. So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let the Lord even require it at the hand of David's enemies And Jonathan caused David to swear again, because he loved him, for he loved him as he loved his own soul. And Jonathan said to David, Tomorrow is the new moon, and thou shalt be missed, because thy seat will be empty. And when thou hast stayed three days, then thou shalt go down quickly and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself when the business was in hand, and shalt remain by the stone Ezel And I will shoot three arrows on the side thereof, as though I shot at a mark. And behold, I will send a lad saying, Go find the arrows. Go find out the arrows If I expressly say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them, then come thou, for there is peace to thee, and no hurt as the Lord liveth. But if I say thus unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee, go thy way, for the Lord has sent thee away. And as touching the matter which thou and I have spoken of, behold, the Lord between be between me, the Lord be between thee and me forever. I just entitled this section, A Renewed Covenant. I get that from down in verse number 16. Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David. He actually made this covenant earlier. He's renewing it. with David. So let's pray and try and learn a few things here tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God. Lord, I'm so grateful for the life of David and how I am challenged and encouraged and instructed uh from his life, his ups and downs. I pray now as we look at this brief portion of his life that you would teach us, Holy Spirit. And strengthen us, instruct us on living for you, and trusting you and waiting on you. Please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body to you anew. I yield my will I pray with all my heart that you fill me with your Spirit. And I ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. The way David is perceiving his situation with King Saul, the way David is seeing this, the way he's looking at this, and the way his situation really is are two very different situations. David, I don't believe, and it's easy for me to say this, it's easier for us to look back on this and critique. And I'm not trying to say this as a critique of David's spirituality. I'm not trying to say this as a critique of David's actions in any way. I'm just making observations. And the way David sees his situation and the way his situation really is are two very different things. Look with me, if you would, over there at verse number three, and we touched on this previously. It says, But truly, as the Lord liveth, David is speaking to Jonathan, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death. Now what is he saying when he says that? There's but a step between me and death. What does he mean? Somebody talk to me here tonight. What's he saying? It's eminent. There's just the slightest little thing. I'm hanging on. Did you ever say this? I am hanging on by a thread. And he's saying at any moment uh King Saul could take me out. Now we've been emphasizing the fact that that is not true. There is not a step between him and death. There is a tremendous promise of God between him and death God says, God anointed him. God secured him with a promise. And so the way David is seeing his situation, this is what I'm trying to get at. The way David is viewing his situation and what his situation really is are two very different things. There is not but a step between David and death. David is very secure. David is very safe. He has the anointing of God upon him, and he has the promise of God upon him that he will one day be king. Now that's important to understand because of this. You and I get in trouble sometimes. I can testify to this. We get in trouble sometimes because we make a wrong assessment of our situation. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I see something and I come to this conclusion. I look at it from my perspective, I look at it from a limited perspective, and I come to a conclusion that is completely wrong. Whereas if we could see, let's see how many folks agree with me this, if we could see our circumstances and our situations from God's perspective, how different our actions might be. Amen? How many times have we reacted something thinking it was one thing and then we got into it and here was something completely different? We had a wrong perspective. And from this point on, actually a little before this, and through the next couple chapters, David, all of his actions, everything he does All the decisions he's making are based upon a wrong assessment of his situation, a wrong perspective of what his condition is. When I was thinking this and and observing this here, I I couldn't help but think of, and I'm not trying to make any kind of statement about this or political assessment of it at all But in the Iraq War, we went into that. One of the bases for us going into this, at least publicly, was that they had weapons of mass destruction. How many people old enough to remember that And this was dangerous. And just, I mean, who knows? All we're getting is what we get fed through the media. But as far as I can tell, I think the administration sincerely believed that that was the case That it was eminent. And then we got in there and go ahead and as far as we know publicly, uh they were never there. They were never there. Now, I'm not trying to make judgment on whether that was the right thing to do or not. I got my opinions, you give me a dollar. I'll tell you later what my opinion is But the point I'm trying to make is this sometimes we make decisions based on an assessment of a situation that is not accurate. And everything that David is going through here in the next several chapters that I just said, next several years of his life, is based upon a wrong perception of his situation. We study the book of Ecclesiastes, and the statement, the phrase that explains the book of Ecclesiastes to us and helps us understand it is that little phrase under the sun. And I want to submit to you, David is operating in his thinking, in his assessment of things, in his perception of things. He is operating on an under-the-sun assessment of his situation. Humanly speaking, it looked like there's but a step between him and death. It's hopeless almost. Reality was, from God's perspective, David is as secure And he is a safe, he has the anointing of God upon him, he has the promise of God upon him, and Saul can't do a thing to David But he doesn't see that. Now, that's not, as I said, that's easy to look back, and I'm not trying to be critical or uh judgmental of David at all. Who knows how you and I would respond in the same situation, but we observe that. So, with that in mind, let's look at this section here. And I put verse, if you'd like to follow my outlines, I have verse 10 through 13. I put this, my first point is their response to David's concern. Now We have to review a little bit here what this David's concern was. In the beginning of the chapter, he had come to Jonathan, if you remember. He approached Jonathan and he says, hey, listen Your father's out to kill me. Look there at verse 1. What have I done? What is my iniquity? What is my sin before thy father that he seeketh my life? Your daddy's out to kill me. And Jonathan responds, as we notice Jonathan says, uh, that can't be true. It ain't so. And Jonathan was not going to just respond and react to David's words about his daddy. He wants to be sure. And so David has a plan to convince Jonathan that yes your daddy King Saul really is out to kill me. And so he comes they concoct this, David pretty much concocts this scheme. Where they're going to have a feast. King Saul has this apparently scheduled feast, and the staff and the administrative staff is required to be there. And David says, Listen, I'm not going to go to that thing And I want you to tell your daddy that the reason I'm not here is there was a feast in Bethlehem. I had to go down there to be with my family. That's why I'm not here. And however your daddy reacts to that, responds to that, then that will tell us Whether he really is out after my hide or not. The problem with that was what? David concocted a what? A lie. And we're seeing here, this is not my understanding of David's Psalms, uh, talks about David's integrity. And one of the one of the absolute opposites of be having integrity is being dishonest And so David's struggling here and uh you know we can understand that, but he he comes up with this scheme, Jonathan agrees to it, the whole purpose of it is to convince Jonathan, yeah, your dad is out after us. So if your daddy gets angry that I'm not there, then um uh then we'll know that he is out after me. If he says fine, no problem uh then we'll everything's good and Dave I'm mistaken. You're right, Jonathan, and we'll go on. So they agree to this. And then David says in verse ten, then said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me how your daddy responds? Who shall tell me? Or what if thy father answer thee roughly? How are you going to get word to me because I can't be in there that he thinks I'm down in Bethlehem? And so how are we going to communicate this? So the first thing I notice here, their response to David's concern, is David's questions concerning their plan. He has this question, all right, this is a great plan. I think it'll work, we're going to determine, but Wait a minute, he's thinking this through. David's no dummy. There's a reason he's been very, very successful in his military endeavors is because he is able to think things through and to look ahead and anticipate problems. I tell you, that's that's a good thing. That's a good characteristic to have in life to be able to look ahead. One of the most uh important verses in Proverbs to me is uh it says the prudent man foreseeth the evil. He's able to look ahead. He's able to anticipate potential problems. So David says, all right, this is good, but wait a minute. How are we going to communicate, Kudumi? How this communication is an issue. I can't be seen, remember So then I noticed in verse 11 Jonathan conf Jonathan Jonathan's confidentiality concerning their plan. I thought this was interesting. Look at 11. So David asked him this question, how are you going to let me know? What if your dad gets mad? How are you going to tell me? Jonathan verse 11 said unto David, Come and let us go out into the field. Now, why would he say that? I thought why does he want him to go out in the field? I think this is what John Jonathan again is thinking this through a little bit, and he's kind of like this. We got to get outlet somewhere where where nobody can hear us talking. We got to get somewhere where it's confidential because if anybody hears this, this whole plan is going to go down the drain. And so he's very concerned about confidentiality. Jonathan is thinking very wisely. And we've got to keep this confidential, or everybody's going to be hurt. You, me, and everybody. This thing will blow up. Now, just a little application there as I was studying this, I think confidentiality is a very, very important thing in the Christian life, especially in the ministry. Being able to keep a confidentiality is very, very important. Now that's stretching it out of the context here a little bit, but a lack of confidentiality has hurt a lot of people. And somebody comes to a friend and trusts them with a with personal information or with um with uh uh you know they're seeking some help or something they're struggling with And we start blabbing that, we start running out and telling everybody else, what in the world happens to that person? They get hurt deeply. Deeply. The Bible in pro in Proverbs refers to it as tail bearing. And so we have to be very careful about secrets. We have to be very careful about uh, you know, uh confidential stuff. And uh if somebody comes to you and says, here, oh, let me tell you something, but don't tell anybody If somebody comes to you and says that, can I suggest a response to that? If I can't tell anybody else, then don't tell me. Because I'm somebody else to you. So that that's not what we're talking about here, but a lack of confidentiality, a recklessness with um uh confidential things has hurt a lot a lot a lot of people. Now there's another side to this. They're being very secretive here. And Jonathan is going along with David just because of the circumstance. But let me say this: the other side of that coin. When we're operating outside of God's perspective Sometimes that requires a lot of secrecy. What I'm trying to say is this: when there's a lot of secrets involved, it's a good chance I'm outside of God's will. There's a lot of secret stuff going on. Here's one thing I really um I really appreciate about Baptist doctrine. We don't hide it. In fact, we publish it. We have brochures on our track rack out there, what we believe Now, there are certain religious groups, there are certain cults out there that are very, very secretive about what their beliefs are, about what their practices are. And I'm saying this If you watching somebody or you're reading some literature or or some Christian quote unquote red literature or you're listening to something or watching something T V And they don't tell you where they're who they are, and they don't tell you what they're associated with, and they don't tell you what their doctrinal position is. I would suggest stay far away from that And so there's this confidentiality going on and this secretness going on. There's a positive side of that, keeping uh confidentiality, but then also there's a negative side about having secrets and stuff. And that's not a good thing. So one, we notice David questions their plan. How are we going to communicate this information to me? Jonathan pulls them aside. We've got to keep this confidential Number three, under this, I noticed Jonathan's concern about David's trust. Look with me at verse 12 and 13 And Jonathan said unto David, O Lord God of Israel, when I have sounded my father about tomorrow any time, or the third day, and behold, if there be good toward David And I send not unto thee and show it thee, the Lord do so, and much more to Jonathan. But if it please my father to do thee evil, if he's out after you, David Then I will show it thee and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace, and the Lord be with thee as he hath been with my father. Notice he references the Lord twice. Verse 12, he says, O Lord God of Israel. When he's assuring David, I think Jonathan is concerned About whether David really trusts him or not, whether Jonathan will really keep his word or not. And he says, O Lord God of Israel. And then in verse 13 at the end, he says, The Lord do so much and more to me if I don't warn you. I think Jonathan is very concerned about whether David trusts him or not, and there's reason for that. If you go back to the first part of the chapter, David's kind of pressing him, listen, what's wrong with me? If I've done wrong, then you go ahead and kill me. And I think Jonathan's very concerned about David's thinking and his trust in him. So Jonathan is appealing to the Lord to assure David that I will be loyal to you. Did you ever hear this statement? I swear to God. Do you ever hear that statement? Now I don't believe that's a good statement for a Christian to make. I think that's borderline taking God's name in vain. And Jonathan is not doing that, but Jonathan is appealing to the Lord to assure David that: hey, I will keep my word, I will defend you, I will communicate to you the truth. Did you ever hear this? I promise, I cross my heart I'll do it. Anybody ever hear that? Cross my heart and hope to die. I'll do it. Did you ever say that when you were a kid? Cross my heart and spit in my other mother's eye, I promise. All these oaths that we're taking to assure somebody, yes, I promise this is the truth. Well, that's kind of what Jonathan is doing, except he's doing it in a biblically sound way He's appealing to the Lord. The Lord do so to me, and more also, if I don't keep my word to you. So number one, we have the response to David's concern. David has a question. How are we going to communicate? Jonathan pulls them aside confidentially. He expresses to David that, listen, I will keep my word, I will communicate to you. Then verse 14 through 17, I see the renewal of Jonathan's covenant. Look at verse 14. And thou shalt, this is Jonathan still speaking to David, and thou shalt not only while I live while yet I live show me the kindness of the Lord that I die not. But also thou shalt not cut off thy kindness from my house forever. Jonathan had made a sincere Unconditional promise to protect protect David uh any way he could. Remember back verse four, look at verse four, last part As the Lord liveth, as thy soul liveth, or I'm sorry, verse four. Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will even do it for thee. David, whatever you need me to do, I will do it Then back up in verse number nine, he said, Jonathan said, Far be it from thee, for if I knew certainly that evil were determined by my Father to come upon thee, then would I not tell thee Now here in verse 13 he says, in verse 13 he says that thou mayest go in peace and the Lord be with thee. He says, I will tell you. So Jonathan has made this covenant with David that I will protect you, whatever I can possibly do, I will protect your life. Now, he's asking the same thing back from David. He's saying, listen, David, however this thing comes down, I want you to give me your word that you will protect me and not just me, but my offspring in verse number 15. Whenever I'm dead, my kids and my grandkids, David, I'm asking you to do for me what I have promised to do for you. Now, is that a reasonable request, yes or no? Sure. We know for a fact, in fact, it's repeated here in just another verse or two. Jonathan loved David intensely. Jonathan loved him. And I found something about love. I found when we love someone, we want to communicate that to them. Anybody agree with that? Remember in junior high school, you write a little note, I like you. Do you like me? Check one, yes or no. Remember passing those notes? Now they text it, I guess. That was texting back in the day. We'd scratch it on slate and pass it. I like you. I want if I like if I love someone, I want them to know that I try to find some way to communicate that to them. That's what Jonathan. David, I love you. I commit myself. I want to protect you. I will do everything I can to protect your life. But I found something else about love. If you love someone, not only do you want to communicate that to the one loved But you want that one that's loved to love you back. I like you, do you like me? I want you to love me back. And that's what David is, that's what Jonathan is asking from David. David, I want you to feel about me the way I feel about you. I want you to care as much about me as I care about you. I want you to be as committed and loyal to me as I am to you. Now Jonathan wasn't making that a condition of his loyalty. You already assured him of his loyalty. That was unconditional. But he's making this request. David, I'd like for you to do the same for me. And I couldn't help but think about our Lord's love for us. Does God love us? Yes or no? Has He given us unconditional promises? Yes or no? Somebody came to Jesus one time and they said, what is the first commandment? And Jesus said, the first commandment, the greatest commandment, is what? Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. You know what it is? God wants us to know He loves us. He communicates that to us over and over and over. Don't ever let somebody say this to you, God doesn't love me. That is a lie of the devil. What in the world more does God have to do to prove his love to us? He gave his own son for crying out loud. And then God says, this is what I would like back. Those whom I love, I want them to love me back. I want them to love me back. And we see that with Jonathan. Jonathan says, Listen, I have committed myself to be loyal and to take care of you. And David, I'm asking you. I want you to take care of me and protect me and take care of my family. And we see the love of God there. So uh the renewal of Jonathan's covenant. Now notice something else here before we move on. Look at the last part of verse 15. There's an important word here. What does David think is a very real possibility that's going to happen to him? Somebody tell me, before we look at that. What's a very real possibility in David's mind that's going to happen to him? He's going to be what? Killed! As they say down south. Killed. He's going to be killed. But look how Jonathan addresses David here. David believes that's a possibility. And in fact, you get an impression David thinks it's likely it's going to happen. But look what Jonathan says in the middle of verse 15. No not, you see where I'm at? No, not, what's the next word? When the Lord hath cut off the enemies of David, every one from the face of the earth. I saw that. I circled that word when. You know what that tells us? That tells us that Jonathan was more certain of David's future than David was. Wow. And David's going to be king. David's going to be the one that the throne, that Jesus Christ is going to sit on the throne of David, not the throne of Jonathan. But here we find David being very man, man-ish. And he's wavering and he's struggling about his faith in God's promise. And Jonathan, standing off on the side, says, David, there's no doubt about it. When your enemies are cut off, I want you to remember me. So Jonathan was more certain of David's secure future than David even was Now, having said that, let me say this in David's defense, and I I know this from experience, it's a whole lot easier for me to be certain and have faith in God's taking care of you when you're going through a trial than it is for you to have faith and go through a trial. Anybody here been through some storms? Anybody here ever been through some valleys and heartaches and trials? Anybody here ever been where you don't even know how this whole thing's gonna play out? I don't even know where this is gonna go. Scared to death. And somebody comes along and says, Oh, I'm confident God's God's going to get you through this. It's going to work out all right. Now always appreciate that, and I say that to other people. But it's a whole lot easier for me to have faith in God taking getting you through the storm than it is for me in the storm to have faith in God. Does that make sense And so we can't be too hard on David here. He's gone through it. He's scared to death. But I thought it was interesting that Jonathan was certain, David, you're going to be fine. You're going to get through this. And David really needed to hear that, I'm sure. Number three, real quickly, I notice in verse 18 through 22, they come, I notice their resourceful communication. Alright, here's the issue. We've got to somehow communicate to David however Jonathan responds. And so they come up with this plan. Pretty good one, I think. He says, all right, we're going to do that. And David, you wait three days. We'll give it three days to play out. If Daddy, Jonathan says, if daddy gets mad and blows up Or uh uh uh if Daddy uh gets uh is okay with it and he's fine, there's not an issue, I'm gonna go out like I'm practicing Bo. Fear season's coming up, I've got to start practicing Bo. I think that's in the Hebrew And so he gets out there and he shoots three hours and he says, David, when I shoot these arrows, if everything's good and everything's fine and there's no danger to you, that is cool, I'm going to shoot them a little short of the target. And I'll send my guy out, and I'm going to yell out to him, hey, the arrows are on this side of you. Come towards me. That will be the secret code. And you'll know everything's good and you can come on in and everything's fine. He says, however, if I shoot the arrows and I shoot them beyond the lad, now my concern was for that lad standing out there having these arrows shot around him. If I shoot beyond the lad and I tell him they're beyond you, go out and get them, then that will be secret code. David, it's not safe. Get out of here. Get out of town. So that's a pretty clever uh scheme, a pretty clever uh secret uh uh s uh clandestine Is that what it is, Ken? Uh uh communication. But notice I notice two things about this plan. Number one, it required patience. Look at verse 19. And when thou hast stayed how many days? Three days. Wonder how many of us like David would be. I'd really like to know tonight. Whether he's out to kill me or not. Anybody that way? Anybody anybody here ever go to the doctor or have tests? Oh, we'll let you know in a month. A month! I would imagine those three days were awfully long days for David. He's hiding out here in the field, you know, he's he's laying low and he's waiting. Man, a lie. Is he blowing up? Is he good? Am I going to be able to come back and settle down and have a normal life again? Or what's happening? And uh it required patience. And this isn't the first time that we saw Jonathan dealing with patience and not reacting to things right away. Jonathan, I believe, very wisely is saying, let's let this thing play out and not react to the very first situation we find. And if you notice there when they go through this the first night King Saul doesn't erupt. The first day that David's not there, he doesn't say anything If they would have responded to that and said, oh, everything's cool, we didn't get mad and brought David back, it would have been premature and David would have been endangered. So it wasn't until the following day that again David's not there. Then King Saul reacts, and then they realize what the situation is. So it required patience. I'm telling you, patience is very good for us. How many times have we reacted to things and we jumped to conclusions right away rather than waiting it out and being patient and determining exactly what the situation is? Can I get a witness or not? Anybody here ever be impatient on something and regretted it? And so I think Jonathan is a very patient man. We're seeing that through here. And especially whenever we're dealing with people It is very, very helpful to be patient with them. The second thing I noticed, their plan required patience, but in this plan they acted on principle. And he references the Lord twice. Look in verse 21. Behold, I will send a lag, go find it. If I expressly say the arrows are beyond this side thee, take them, then come thou, for there is peace to thee and no hurt. Look at he says, as the Lord liveth. Come down to verse number 22, the last part. He says, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee. Go thy way, for the Lord hath sent thee away. What's the principle here? The principle is this: they're going to act on faith. He's saying, whatever way this goes out, we're recognizing this is God leading you, this is God working as the Lord liveth The Lord is sending you away. He didn't say, oh, you gotta run because King Saul is running you out of here. No. He says God's doing all this. And Jonathan not only was a patient man, he was a principled man. He acted by faith. However this plays out We're going to take it as from the Lord, and we're going to trust him that he knows what he's doing. He's allowing this to happen. And in the end, he's going to work it out for his glory. Now that's not all spelled out that way, but I believe in that statement, the Lord, as the Lord liveth, and then when he says, the Lord has sent thee away, he's recognizing God's providence in all of this. So two great principles for life we can take from this. Number one, be patient. Will you say that with me? Be patient. When you get home tonight, look in the mirror, look yourself in the eyeball, and say, be patient. You'll never regret that. And number two, have faith in God. I'm sure David's thinking, this is crazy. Why on a what is happening to me? What this doesn't make any sense. And Jonathan is reassuring him, listen. If you get run out of here, the Lord is with thee. The Lord's sending you out. The Lord's got something. God is doing something. And I found it helped me, and I'm not, I've struggled with this, trust me But I've found it has helped me a lot of times throughout my Christian life when things were falling apart and I didn't know what was happening, just stop and reassure myself, hey, God is still in control. God knows what he's doing, God's allowing this to happen. And I can trust them. So Jonathan is making these little statements and he's taking these little actions that are communicating to us, a man of tremendous faith, and are examples to us Of how we can respond. Then really quickly, I've got to give these last few here. I want to finish up. Verse 23, I notice the reminder of Jonathan's care. Look at verse 23. And as touching the matter which thou and I have spoken of, behold, the Lord be between me and between thee and me forever. Why does Jonathan keep re-emphasizing their covenant of loyalty to each other. That's what he's referring to when he says, uh touching the matter which thou and I have spoken. That's that promise they made to each other, this commitment they made to each other Why does he keep re-emphasizing that and keep re-emphasizing that? Now I don't know. This is speculation on my part. The Bible doesn't tell us expressly why he keeps doing this, but I want to suggest this. Jonathan loves David very, very much. And think about David's situation right now. He has lost his position in the kingdom. He was chief of staff. He's been run out of that. All his vocational, his job security is gone How many people understand job security to a man is very important? That has been taken away from David When he was a shepherd, he was in good shape. He killed Goliath, he's chief of staff, head of the military, he's in good shape. All of that's gone. Jonathan knows this. Jonathan loves David. He sees David's situation. His position is gone. His job security is out. Not only that, he's lost his family. Remember when Saul had his house staked out and he had to sneak out, Micah uh covered for him, he snuck out and he's gone And his wife's back there, he has no idea whether she's being loyal to him or to Saul. He doesn't know what's going on. He's on his own. He's lost his family. And so Jonathan sees David, and uh he's I think Jonathan sees David's faith wavering Now I have no idea. I may be reading way into this, but I wonder if when David said to Jonathan, you lie to your daddy for me, I wonder if that didn't shape Jonathan a little. I wonder if there wasn't just a hint of disappointment. And Jonathan to hear David say something like that. And so his job security is gone, he's lost his position, he's lost his family at this point, and he sees David really, really struggling with his faith. And Jonathan keeps reassuring him, David, listen, I'm with you. I've got your back. I'm loyal to you. You can trust me. You can depend on me. And then he's throwing these little statements in. The Lord's sending you on your way. God's involved in this, David. Jonathan, let me put it this way, Jonathan is a good friend to David. He's helping him. He's reassuring him. He keeps reiterating this. I thought of Romans chapter number 14 and verse 1. It says, he that is weak in the faith. Receive ye. Not to doubtful disputations. And I think that's exactly what Jonathan is doing for David, who at this point is obviously struggling and is weak in his faith. Now David's going to recover down the road. We know that he's an amazing, amazing man. But right now, he needs somebody To say, God's involved in this. I'm with you. I'm supporting you. I know your enemies will be destroyed. You will one day sit on that throne, David. I am absolutely confident. I believe that's what he needed as much as anything. Receive ye. That phrase in Romans 14, he that is weak in the faith, receive ye. I looked that up. You know what that has the idea? To take by the hand or to take under arm, under wing. That's exactly what Jonathan's doing. And it says not to doubtful disputations, it means argumentative judgments. You know, Jonathan, if he would have been an independent Baptist, some independent Baptist I know, if he'd have had that mindset, he'd be all over David. You sorry rascal, why aren't you trusting God? You're so carnal, you're so worldly, I'm gonna separate from you, I don't want anything to do with you. That's dis that's doubtful disputations. What David needed He says he needed somebody to take him under arm because he was struggling. He needed somebody to take him by the hand, and Jonathan did that exactly. What a good friend Jonathan is. And what a good friend our Savior is. And when we're down and maybe nobody else will stand with us, over and over in the Bible, the Lord reassures us of his loyalty. Over and over in the Bible, the Lord reassures us that in the end, we're going to be fine. Our enemies are going to be destroyed, and we're going to be exactly where God saved us to be. And what a tremendous picture. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for Jonathan. I thank you for David, and that we can learn from these men in this experience here. And I pray you teach us, Lord, to be patient. To wait on you, let those three days go and see how you work it out. And then, Lord, help us have faith and understand that however it works out, that your hand is in this. Now you are loyal to us and you are faithful God. We can trust you. Lord, I pray you'd help us to not just have good friends like Jonathan, but help us to be good friends to people. to support them and take them by the hand and take them under arm and encourage folks when they're struggling. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, let's just check off a little list here for our invitation. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I need more patience. Anybody like that uplifted hand? If your hand's not raised, you're lying. We all need more patience. I said that in Christian love. We need patience. How many people would say, preacher, I need to exercise faith when I don't understand. Maybe you've got a situation So it doesn't make sense. I don't know how this playing out. But uh God's in this. I know he is. God has a hand here. I'm going to trust him. Of course. We want that. Of course we do. And then being a good friend Loving people the way Jesus loves us. Caring for others and helping others the way the Lord helps us. How important is that? Father in heaven, bless our meditation, help us in these matters in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed