James chapter number five. I would like for us, if you would, look with me and um towards the end there, James five and verse number sixteen. Let me get here. James 5, 16. Says, confess your faults one to another and pray for one another that you may be healed. Now look at this last phrase. And this has been on my heart. For several months, this last phrase that says, the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. And I tell you that that's been on my heart. I've and I've been had this like I guess on a back burner for preaching for some time. And I just want to preach a message, and there's a little phrase in that statement. There's a little there's two words in that statement that caught my attention that stand out in my mind. Says the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. I want to talk this morning about a righteous man Particularly the prayers of a righteous man. So let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of your word, and particularly this passage here. I pray you'd challenge us, all of us, in our prayer life. God, I ask that your Holy Spirit would challenge us in our personal prayer lives, on a daily basis, and then our families. This matter of the family altar. And praying together as a family. And then, Lord, I ask that you would challenge us in our prayer life as a church, that we would be a church of prayer, a body of believers that prays earnestly. And so, Lord, I yield myself to you now for this hour. I present my body anew to you. I yield my mind, my heart. I ask that your Holy Spirit would guide my thinking and my words as I preach. Help me say only what you would have said. Lord, I ask that your Holy Spirit would speak through me. Take your word and challenge every one of us. to uh in this matter of prayer. I ask all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. As you would imagine, the penman of the book of James is who? James. Now of course God is the author. We always emphasize that. James is the pen man, but God is the author. And by the way, recognizing the penman, the actual writer of the book, does not take away from God's inspiration of that book. Follow what I'm saying? I had a fellow years ago, and I've had this several times over the years, people would say something like this, well, the Bible's just written by man. In a sense, that's true. God did use men to write it down. But Peter tells us that the Holy Spirit of God moved on the hearts and minds of those men. And they pin down exactly what God would have them to pen down. And so Peter is the man that the Holy Spirit of God moved on his mind, moved on his heart And directed him, whether he was conscious that God was doing that at the time or not, I don't know, but he what he penned down in writing this General epistle, as we call it, as he's writing it down, the Holy Spirit of God is guiding his thinking, guiding his words. And when we read the book of James, we are reading the very words that God intends for us to have. So James is the man behind this, God being the author. Now what do we know about James? I like to, as you know, I like to do a little background on a passage and uh get some of the background on it. And what do we know about James? Well one thing we know about James is that he is the brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now the interesting thing about James is he doesn't mention that anywhere. And I always point this out whenever I preach on this that um Uh it's uh it's interesting to me. He doesn't start out James, the brother of Jesus Christ, the half-brother of Jesus Christ. Now he's the half-brother. They had the same mother, but they didn't have the same father Jesus' father was God. James's father was Joseph. But they had the same mother. So he's a half-brother of Jesus Christ, but he doesn't say that. He doesn't start out the epistles. James, the half-brother of Jesus Christ. Doesn't say that. He says, James, the servant of God. I don't know about you. If Jesus was my half-brother, everybody would know that Oh yeah, Jesus, son of God, my head, brother. James doesn't do that. And that tells us a lot about the man James. And it tells us a lot about his relationship with Jesus Christ. He saw beyond just the human aspect. He saw the Son of God And the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he's the half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. Interesting thing about James, he didn't get saved until after the resurrection of Jesus Christ. You'd think he's seeing his half-brother do these miracles, he's hearing this powerful preaching. But the Bible is very clear. He and his brothers and sisters did not believe until they saw Jesus rise from the dead. Now uh let me throw this out there to you. If you have some family members that are unsaved, and most do, you know, and maybe some of them you think, I don't think that what has to happen? What do they have to What does God have to do for them to get saved? Don't you give up on them. Because even Jesus' own family didn't believe on him until after the resurrection. And so he's the half-brother Jesus Christ. He was saved after the resurrection of Jesus Christ. He became the first pastor of the first Baptist Church of Jerusalem. You say, how do you know it's Baptist? Well, it was they believed the Bible and Baptists believe the Bible, so I just I just want to stir you up a little bit. But he was the pastor of the first church there in Jerusalem. He was very highly respected, very well known, very, very influential man in that early church and the believers there in the book of Acts. He was martyred for his faith. Probably, the history books, I think it's Josiah, tells us that he was probably stoned there in Jerusalem for his faith. He wasn't killed. They didn't take his life because he was a thief. They didn't take his life because he was a murderer. They didn't take his life because he was a ra It took his life because he preached the gospel of Jesus Christ, because he was serving God. And so um the guy looking at what a some of the some of his contemporaries said about him. How did the people during his lifetime view James? And we have some information, different writings Where people reference James or mention him, some of the early church fathers that mentioned James. And we get a little picture of him personally, what he was like uh personally, one of the things that is mentioned repeatedly by others outside of Scripture referencing James is they say that he was deeply in love with the Lord Jesus Christ He loved his Lord and Savior with all his heart. In fact, that's evident in the fact that he was willing to give his life for the Lord Jesus Christ. Greater love hath no man than this. And a man lay down his life for his friends. If James was willing to die for the Lord Jesus Christ, you mark it down, he loved Jesus dearly. So he is in love with the Lord Jesus Christ. They say that he lived a very humble, very godly life. They say he was a very godly man He had great compassion for others, particularly the poor. And uh I think um uh In Galatians, I think again in Acts, I believe, they reference the fact that James was concerned that Paul would remember the poor. That he would care for the poor. I don't know. I'm my guess is is that if if uh if they had him available back in the day when James was pastor of the church there in Jerusalem, my guess is if they had them He would be running buses all through Jerusalem, picking up folks that didn't have rides and wanted the near and wanted the Lord and uh wanted to reach people. He was a very compassionate man. He cared about folks, particularly the poor And they say that James was devoted to prayer, a great man of prayer We see all of these characteristics if we wanted to, if we had the time, we could go through the book of James. We would see every one of those characteristics come out in his book here, the book of James. James was not is not just a book that was inspired by God, and it is that. Bottom line It's given to us by inspiration. But I think it's more than that. I think in the book of James, we see the heart of the man James himself. Man that loves the Lord, cares about the poor. He talks about that in the book. About not somebody comes into your assembly and they're very wealthy and they're very rich. Don't treat them any different than you would the one that comes in poor. Amen or not. I thank God for our church. I thank God that we have people come in here. Some are very some are fairly wealthy, uh Ed Davis, people like that, just rich as can be And um if you need anything, go see Brother Ed, he'll be glad to help you out. And uh and then some of us uh aren't uh on the other end of that scale. But I tell you, we have one thing in common, that's our love for the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we see all these characteristics to the book of James. He addresses all these various things. The book of James is a burden of his heart He's expressing, and God inspires his writing. God preserves it for us to help us today. They say that James was a man devoted to prayer, prayer warrior. And we see this passage here that Evan read a few moments ago, and he's addressing this issue of prayer. He's dealing with prayer. I think you'd agree with me, our country is in a mess. We have a very, very divided country. I'm not big on news. I try to I have a couple little things I look, just kind of gives you a rundown of what's going on in the country. In the morning I'll look at a little bit, uh just some headline type stuff. And you can't come to any other conclusion than our country is in trouble, very divided, wickedness on every hand. We have a somewhat conservative government right now, leadership in government, but I tell you, conservatism does not equal godliness. And we need godliness. We have a troubled nation, a very divided nation. Um I think, uh I don't think, I know, our churches are struggling spiritually. Across the board. We were talking about this in Sunday school. Abandoning the faith, apostasy on every hand, through churches claim to be Christian, yet all across the board, turning away from the Bible, turning away from Scripture. Our homes are hurting. Our homes are hurting. We're talking in, again, in Sunday school we dealt the last couple weeks with divorce. The breakdown of the home treatment. Talking this morning with some folks who are telling me concern about some homes that are struggling and hurting. I think What we're upset about, we get upset about the fact that there's no Bible in our government. We've throwing Bible out of government. We throw Bible out of the State House and the White House. There's no prayer. We're uh worked up because we don't have Bible in our schools And we're on a prayer in our schools. And by the way, I think we ought to have the Bible in our government. I think it'd be a good thing if our governor of our state would get up and announce an executive order from now on Well I'm gonna read the Bible over all the networks every day. We're gonna read some scripture start the morning out. Wouldn't that be something? I think it would do a heap of good If across the board the Congress, the senators and the representatives, the president all get together and say, All right, we're going to open every session, we're going to read scripture, and we're going to spend half hour in prayer before we make any decisions. Wouldn't that be something? I wish there was Bible in the government. I wish there was prayer in the government. I wish our schools got back to reading the Bible and praying, saying the pledge again. But I tell you where my main concern is. My big concern isn't about the Bible not being in government or prayer not being in government. My main concern isn't about the Bible and prayer not being in our schools. My main concern is about getting the Bible and prayer back in our churches. When churches aren't praying, then don't expect the government to be praying. When churches aren't praying, don't expect the schools. My concern isn't so much the Bible, and I wish it was and it would do good, but how about we get it back in churches My concern is getting the Bible and prayer back in our homes. I'm telling you, we can have revival if we just got this one thing settled. Every home have a family altar, personal prayer time, family altar, gather together, read the Bible, pray, seek the Lord. I'm telling you, we could have revival in our land My concern is about prayer in our homes. Prayer back in our individual lives. Learning to pray. Jesus said when he uh rebuked the marketer the the merchantmen there in the temple and he turned the tables and he threw them out And he says, the money changers, he says, my house shall be called a house of what? Prayer. It's interesting, notice what he didn't say. He didn't say, My house shall be a house of sacrifice. Now the temple is where they did sacrifice. That would have been correct There was a place of sacrifice. He didn't say, my house shall be a house of ceremonies and feasts. And they had ceremonies and feasts. It was instructed in Scripture for the temple. certain uh rituals and ceremonies, all this, but that's not what he said. He said, my house where God's people assemble, where God's people gather together. It should be known for their prayer. Their prayer. Now, uh, I'm all for preaching. Uh I think preaching ought to be the centerpiece of a church service. We're all for singing. Thank God for the music this morning. Wasn't that choir special? That was great. The congregation, the men singing, was good. It sounded good. They didn't look that great, but uh they sounded good. No, you guys looked wonderful. But prayer, prayer. God wants his house to be a house of prayer. God wants his people to pray. To pray. Pray. Um my house shall be a house of prayer, Jesus said. I like to I like to study uh church history and and and read about I like biographies. I'm reading right now a biography of uh Peter Cartwright. Anybody rec uh familiar with that name, the old Methodist Evangelist, back in the pioneer days of our country, down through Tennessee in circuits all through Kentucky and Illinois, Indiana, I think it was up in Ohio, and all through there, powerful man have got thousands and thousands people get saved. I uh uh you study uh revivals throughout church history and you study ripe revivals uh throughout scripture and they all have one thing in common. Every single revival that hit our nation and hit our world. Every single one of them had one thing in common, and that was this. They were backed up by the prayers of God's people. Um Second Corinthians Second Chronicles seven fourteen, if my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and what? Pray. Pray, pray. I enjoy reading biographies. I like doing studying character studies in church here, as you know. Wednesday night we're doing Moses. We've done John the Baptist and Joseph and David I love studying these men. You study great men of God, you find they all had one thing in common. And they were men of prayer. Men of prayer. They weren't all popular But they all prayed. The men and people God used, they weren't all rich, but they did all pray. Some held powerful positions, kings of nations. Others were farmers and crop workers But they were used of God, I believe, because they prayed. They were all men of prayer. So James ends his book here. on this matter of prayer, dealing with a call to prayer. Notice verse number 13 with me if you would. He says, any among you afflicted? Let him pray. He says, pray for the afflicted. Pray for those that are sick. Pray for those that are in the hospital. Pray for those that are suffering. Pray for those that are going through heartache. Pray for those that are Gone through difficulties. Pray for those that are struggling He calls us to pray. We ought to pray for one another. Amen or not. We ought to pray. We ought to pray for Rusty's daughters in the hospital. Had a major heart attack on Friday night? Was it Thursday night Thursday night. We ought to pray. And pray for others, we mentioned. And so he says, pray for the afflicted. In verse number 15, he says we ought to pray in faith. Look what he says there. He says, and the prayer of faith. We ought to pray in faith. We ought to believe God's promises. We ought to trust Him. Take our requests, our burdens to Him, pour them out, and say, God, I trust you. I have faith in you to help me and see me through this and lead and direct and meet this need. Lord, I'm trusting you. Look at verse 16. He says, pray for one another. We ought to pray for each other, a praying church, praying for one another. Verse number 17, he says the effectual fervent prayer. We ought to pray fervently, earnestly. Pray with all our heart, poured out to God. And then verse 18 he says, and he, speaking of Elijah, he says, and he prayed again. We ought to pray persistently. Keep praying. Keep praying. Keep praying. I tell you, if you don't get anything else, uh if you just get this one thing out of this message I hope you get this. Pray for your need, pray for your loved one, pray for your situation, and keep on praying and keep on praying and keep on praying and keep on praying and keep on Praise Till God does one of two things. Either He answers the prayer or He changes your request. Just keep on. He says he prayed again, he prayed again, he prayed again. Persistence, persistence. Now, verse 16 has been on my heart for several months now. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Notice it doesn't say the effectual fervent prayer availeth much. It says the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. Anybody in the world can pray, right or wrong. Unsaved can pray. It's funny, these people in the media and all this. They have no time for God. They have no time for the Bible. They have no time for prayer. But some tragedy will happen and they'll say this, oh, our prayers are with you I tell you, anybody in the world can pray. An unsaved person can pray. A backslidden Christian can pray. A carnal Christian can pray, a self-righteous Pharisee can pray. In Luke chapter 18, Jesus told of two men that went up to the temple to pray. And one was self-righteous and looked down on others. And he said this great prayer, Lord, I'm grateful that I do this, and I tithe, and I do this, and I do that, and I'm not like this publican here. And he prayed. God didn't hear his prayers. Anybody in the world can pray, but not anybody in the world can get their prayers answered. You follow me? Can get their prayers answered. I'm telling you, it is in the answer to prayer where God's power is displayed It is in the answer to prayer where God's love is displayed, God's concern is displayed. Anybody can pray. Anybody can do that and great. I'm glad they pray. But I'm telling you, I want answers. Are you with me? I look at what the Bible teaches about prayer, and I see the emphasis on Bible teaching about prayer is that prayers are answered. Not just prayers pray, pray and pray and pray and pray and pray. Where are the answers? Where are the answers to my prayer James says the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. Availth much. I don't know about you, but I've got some prayers I want God to answer. Anybody with me? I've got some things I want God to answer these prayers. And James says the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man. Anybody can pray, but not everyone's prayers are effectual. Not everyone's prayers avail much, like James says. What does it mean for our prayers to be effectual? Well, I got looking that up and studying that word, how it's used. And it has this idea. Something is effectual. It has an effect. It has, it produces results. It's effectual, it has effect. So what he's saying is the the uh the um the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much. He's saying these prayers, when they're prayed, this righteous man prays, he prays And there is an effect to his prayers. Avails much, has along the same lines, has this idea to have much force To have a profound result. So the emphasis on this, the promise here, the message here, is that prayers that are fervent A righteous man's prayers that are fervent are effectual. They have an effect. They avail much, they produce. Um this is the impression I got as I'm studying this. This is the impression of what I think he's saying. And this is challenging. I'm preaching myself as much as anybody this morning. This is challenging to me. This is what's been God's been dealing with my heart about my prayer life. I think what he's saying is the effectual fervent of prayers Of a righteous man, the effects of those prayers can be documented. Alright? He prayed, and here's evidence. That his prayers had an effect. You follow me? How many people would like to have a prayer life like that Where I pray and I see results. I read about, and I don't have the details, and I read years ago, but about a church there was a liquor store or a bar or something in town. And uh the church was preaching against it of course. Any church worth its salt preaches against liquor. And um and uh so they were preaching it and they decided to get they were gonna get it and they couldn't close it down. They tried different um government ways they couldn't close it down. So they decided they were going to pray. And they were going to pray that God shuts that place down. And they prayed and they prayed earnestly And word got out that the church was praying that the saloon would shut down. Lo and behold, sometime after they'd been praying, lo and behold, the saloon burned to the ground. I mean burn flag. Gone. The owners of the liquor store, bar, or whatever it was, saloon, the owners took the church to court. And said because our ch our business burned down because of that church's prayers. How about that? Now this is the ver this is the story I get. This is what I understand from that. The church went to court and said, our prayers had nothing to do. You can't hold us responsible. Our prayers had nothing to do with that. Isn't that a shame? It looks to me to stand up and say, to God be the glory, God answers prayer. God answers prayer. And so he says the effectual fervent prayers of a righteous man avail much They're productive. They produce. And again, if you study Jesus' teaching, you study the Scripture's teaching on prayer, the overwhelming emphasis Is on the fact of answered prayer. God answers prayer. They have an effect, they make a difference. So James is saying, effectual fervent prayer, a righteous man, you can document the answers, the effects that that man's prayer has. So that catches my attention. I would like to I would like to have a prayer life like that. Amen or not So he says a righteous man. So that leads me to this question, and this is where I buckled down and started seeking the Lord about what is a righteous man? If it's a righteous man that gets results to his prayers, if it's a righteous man that uh prayers are effectual that avail much, what is a righteous man? I want to be a righteous man so that my prayers can be answered and my loved ones can be saved and my needs can be met. And my community can be affected by the gospel of Jesus Christ because God hears and answers my prayers. I want to be a righteous man. But I don't need to know what a righteous man is If I'm going to see those results. So I got looking up what a righteous man is. And it's really not complicated. The basic bare bones definition is well, a righteous man is one who does what's right. Just does what's right. Now there's more to it than just doing what's right. More than just doing what's right. A righteous man is not just one who does what is right, but a righteous man is one who is right. I can be wrong in my heart and yet still do right things. Right or wrong. When studying Malachi, they were going through the motions. They were doing outwardly what's right. Their hearts weren't right. That's not righteous And so a righteous man is one who does right, but much more than that is one who is right. In other words, he's one who is everything he should be before God. A righteous man is a man who does the will of God. A righteous man. What is God's will? I'm going to do it. With my heart and my soul, I'm going to do it for the glory of God. That's a righteous man. A righteous man is one who conforms To God's expectations. What does God expect of me? What does God desire of me? What does God instruct me to do and be? That's what I want to do and be. That's a righteous man. A righteous man is one who does right and is right. So I want to be a righteous man. I'd like to believe I'm talking to a heap of folks this morning. Do you want to, in your heart, you want to be a righteous man? Ladies, tell me ladies, in my heart, I want to be a righteous woman. I want to be a righteous teenager. I want to be what God expects me to be. I want my life to please God, my heart and my mind and my actions. I want it all to be what God expects of me. So how do we do that? How do we do that? Let me give you a few thoughts in the little time I have. Number one, I put this down: a righteous man trusts Jesus Christ as his Savior sincerely. He trusts Jesus Christ as his Savior sincerely. Now I put that word sincerely in there on purpose He sincerely trusts Christ. It's not just talk. His faith in God, his faith in the Lord Jesus Christ isn't just talk. It's sincere from his heart. He sincerely, in his heart, believes that Jesus died for him, was buried, rose again, and has trusted him as his Savior. Yesterday I had the opportunity to stand ador as a young man. I asked him if he knew for sure when he died his sins were forgiven, he'd go to heaven and not to hell. And he said, no, he didn't know that. I asked him if he was concerned about that. He said, Yes, I am I said, if you got a couple three minutes, I got my Bible with me, I'll show you from the Bible how you can know for sure. Your sins are forgiven. When you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. I said, would you be interested? You know what he said? He said, yes, I would be interested in it. I stood there at his door and I took my Bible. He leaned over beside me and I went through and showed him from Romans. I showed him that we're all sinners. Wages of our sin is death. I and go to hell. He admitted, yes, I know I'm a sinner. He believed that if he I asked him if you died now, where would you go? I'd go to hell. You don't want to go to hell, do you? No So God doesn't want you to go to hell either. In fact, he's done everything he can to keep you out of hell, and I showed him Romans 6. 23, for the way he says that, but the gift of God His eternal life through Jesus Christ. Explained how Jesus died for his sins, took responsibility for his sins. God judged him in his place, was buried, rose again. I said, Not just yours, but mine and everybody Rose again. I said, Do you believe that? He said, I believe that. I said, God's gift of uh going to heaven is a gift. He did He paid for it with His own blood. And he rose again, and he offers you this gift of forgiveness and eternal life. Would you be willing to receive it? He said, I would. Show them Romans 10, 13. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I said, Jesus died on that cross for you. Since he died on that cross for you, took all your sins. Would you be willing to call on him? He said, I would. He bowed his head. And before we prayed, I made the same. I said all that to say this. I said, I'm going to help you pray a simple little prayer. We're going to have you repeat it with me. I said, but this. But just repeating these words is meaningless. You gotta believe in your heart. You've got to meanness with your heart. You sincerely recognize yourself as a sinner. You sincerely believe Jesus died for your sins, buried, rose again, and you sincerely are calling, trusting him. Come in your life, forgive you and save you. And he says, I mean it. And he bowed his head and he prayed with me to trust Christ. The point is it must be sincere. You can just lip words all you want. People in all kinds of religions just repeat, memorized prayers, and I'm telling you, they're meaningless. From your heart. If I'm going to be righteous, I've got to be sincere. I need to sincerely trust Jesus Christ the Savior. The fact of the matter is you and I have no righteousness of our own. None whatsoever. If you would, keep your place here. If you would come over real quickly with me to Romans chapter number three. Romans chapter three And verse number 10, Romans chapter 3 and verse 10. We have no righteousness of our own. I can't Stand before God and say, God, I'm everything I ought to be. I'm everything I should be. Notice what it says in Romans chapter 3, verse 10. It says, as it is written, there is, what's the next word? None righteous. And then he comes back for emphasis and says, No, not one. There are no exceptions to that statement. There is nobody righteous before God. Then he goes and he elaborates on it. Look at verse 11. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seek after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No not one. Then he goes down and elaborates about their throat and their tongues, their lips, their mouth, their feet, their weights. We have no righteousness of our own. Philippians chapter 3, verse 9, Paul said, not having mine own righteousness. Isaiah chapter 64 and verse 6, he says that we all do fade as a leap, and all our righteousness are as filthy rags. Now does that mean I can't do anything righteous? No, I can do righteous things. We're going to see that here in a minute. I can do righteous things. But when I take these righteous deeds, would you agree with me? Helping a brother, helping someone that has a need and helping meet that need, would that be a righteous thing to do? Sure. Being kind to one another, helping one another, forgetting, these are all righteous things. But when I take these things I do that are right and are good in and of themselves When I take them and I bring them to God and say, all right, God, you have to accept me because of my righteous things I'm doing. Because of these righteous deeds, these good works I'm doing, I'm bringing that to you to buy my salvation, to earn my salvation. God says it's like filthy rags I cannot make myself righteous before God with the good deeds I do. If I try that, God says they're filthy rags. And by the way, in in I in Isaiah there where he says filthy rags those were the rags that the lepers would use to wipe the pus and the fluid that would come from their open source. They would reek. They were nasty. And when you and I try and earn God's acceptance with our greatest deeds and we bring it to God, God says it's like filthy rags. Fact of the matter is, you and I do not have our own righteousness. Our only righteousness with God is found in Christ. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says that he hath made him, Jesus, to be sin for us. Who knew no sin. In other words, Jesus did not never sin one time. He was perfectly righteous in every way Everything God intends for a man to be, Jesus was. No sin. He was without sin. He was undefiled. And he came and he took my sins, the things I said that are awful before God The things my hands have done, the things my eyes have seen, things my ears have listened to that are such an abomination before God The bitterness that's been in my heart, the hatred. Jesus Christ came and said, I'll take all that on myself. And on the cross, he was before God. And he said, God, I take responsibility for all those things Dennis has done. All his sins, known and unknown, the deep things in his heart, I take responsibility for all that and judge me in his place. And God suffered, Jesus suffered the wrath of God for my deeds. But that doesn't stop there. For God hath made him, Jesus, sin for us. He took our sin. He was made sin in our place. He didn't know any sin. But then it goes on and it says, He had made him sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God. in him. The moment a person accepts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, all their sins are forgiven. They're forgiven. And then the righteousness of Jesus Christ is put to my account. That's what we call positional righteousness. And what we mean by that is this. When God sees I'll use myself as an illustration. When God sees Dennis Leatherman. He doesn't see me as I really am, and I'm telling you, I'm a sinner. Nobody said amen there. Praise the Lord for that. But uh I'm telling you, I'm a sorry sinner. But when God sees me, because way back May 7, 1979, I trusted Jesus my Savior, He no longer sees me as the sinner I am. He sees me in Christ as righteous as Jesus Christ. Isn't that something? Now I know that's not what I really am, but that's my position before God. I am righteous before God, not because of any righteousness I do, but because of what Jesus did for me. And he put that on my account. What I'm saying is if you're here this morning or you're listening online and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you really need to do that. You really need to get that settled. I cannot, I will not have answers to my prayers. Until I have the righteousness of Christ on my account, because it's the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man. That avails much. And the only righteousness I can come up with before God is in faith in Jesus Christ. Does everybody follow me? Everybody with me? And so what is a righteous man? Well, first of all, it's a man who has trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. That's positional, the way God sees me. I must be righteous for my prayers to be effectual. James makes it very, very clear. Second of all, number one, he trusts Jesus as his Savior. Number two I put it this way, he turns his life over to the Lord completely. A righteous man. I accept Jesus Christ. as my personal Savior. He forgives my sin. And before God, as far as God's concerned, I'm as righteous as Jesus Christ. Now, because that's true, I take my life and say, Lord, you did that for me? You died for my sins. You took responsibility for all my sins. You gave me your righteousness to stand before God? Lord, I just give my whole life over to you. If you did that for me, I'd give my whole life to you. Romans chapter 12 puts it this way. Paul said to the Roman believers, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, they're saved, brethren. People that have trusted Christ, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, all this that God has done for you Present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. And you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. You know what he's saying? If God saved you, if Jesus forgave all your sin, if Jesus took responsibility for all your sins, buried, rose again, and you've accepted that and he's forgiven you You and I ought to just turn our whole lives over to him. Paul said, it's no longer I that live, but Christ in me He said, I died a self. It's not me anymore. It's not my life. It's not mine. I've given it all to Jesus Christ. A righteous man is one who's trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. A righteous man is one who's given his whole life over to Christ. His whole life over to Christ. Not mine. I don't live for self anymore. It's all Lord. I died to sell. The power of my prayers, the effectiveness of my prayers is not found in my great intelligence. And believe me, praise the Lord for that. The power of my prayers is not found in my position as pastor. I do not have, because I'm a pastor, that doesn't mean my prayers are more effectual than anybody else. Now I'm grateful people call and say, Pastor, I want to call. I want you to pray for me. And I tell you, I'm glad to do that, and I tell you, I do that. And I pray and I pray earnestly for every member of this church. I'm telling you the truth. But I have no more access, my prayers are no more effective than anybody else because of my position as pastor. My intellect doesn't make my s my prayers effective. Um my abilities However many or few I may have, they are not what make my prayers effective. It is not my oratorical ability to pray. So he says, Oh, that was such a beautiful prayer. This doesn't matter if the prayer is beautiful or ugly. If I ain't righteous, it ain't getting through. It's not the length of my prayers. Jesus rebuked the Pharisees. You guys just drag it on and on, just they're meaningless. What makes my prayers effective is the righteousness that God Christ has put on me. And then I give myself over to God to live for Him. The power of my prayers is in the strength of my life, of my faith, I should say. The power of my prayers is in the strength of my faith in Christ. The power of my prayers is in the purity of my heart. David said, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Sin kills the effectiveness of our prayers. Our sins have separated us from God. The power of my prayers are not in my intelligence, my position, my abilities. The power of my prayers is in the strength of my faith, the purity of my heart, and my submission to God's will One of the most powerful prayers, the greatest prayers in my mind ever prayed, the greatest prayer ever prayed in my mind was prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane by our Lord Jesus Christ. He said, Ah, the Father, all things are possible unto thee. If it be possible, let this cup pass from me. And then he said, I believe, the most greatest prayer ever prayed. Nevertheless. Not my will, but thy will be done. Tell you there's power now. When Jesus, and this is humanly speaking, this is Leatherman, alright? This is Leathermanism But I believe when Jesus made that statement, he prayed to God, said, Not my will, thy will be done. Salvation was settled right there. God's will is going to be done. He's going to die. He's going to judge. Be judged in our place. He's going to be buried, gonna rise again. Power in submission to the will of God. That's where the power of prayer is. That's righteousness. Trusting Jesus, having positional righteousness before God. And then this surrender is what we call practical righteousness. I'm living for the Lord down here. The Bible I read this morning my devotions, Proverbs 11, verse 30. He said, the fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that winneth souls is wise. A righteous man witnesses, tries to win other people to Christ. A righteous man surrenders and submits to the will of God, living practical righteousness, living out because of my position before the Lord. Ian Bounds put it this way. The power of prayer is not in the words, but in the life and the faith behind the words. Living a righteous life, trusting Christ for a righteous position. And then I'll end with this. A righteous man, number one, trusts Jesus Christ sincerely. Number two, he turns his whole life over completely. And then number three, he talks to God fervently. Again, come back here to James if you would, and notice he says, uh He says the effectual, fervent prayer, uh uh fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. Fervent I got studying that word fervent. What does it mean to be? What does it mean? My prayers are fervent prayers. Well, the word itself means intense. In 2 Peter 3, verse 10 and verse 12, it's used there about the the heaven and earth are going to uh melt with a fervent heat. It means intense to burn intensely. Has the idea of not giving up? I'm going to pray I'm going to trust Christ and know that I'm accepted by God through Christ. I'm going to surrender my life and submit myself to Him and live for Him completely. And then I'm going to pray and I'm going to pray and I'm going to pray. And I'm not going to quit. I'm going to pray fervently. Elijah in verse 17, he says that Elijah prayed earnestly. That's the idea, fervently. He kept on praying. If we had time, we don't have time. We'd go back to 1 Kings 17 and he's praying for rain and he prays and he sends the fellow up and he looks and he says, Do you see any clouds, any rain? He said, I don't see anything Seven times he goes back and forth, but he keeps praying and he keeps praying and he keeps praying and he keeps praying until the rain comes. Until the rain comes. I don't want to give any false promises. We can't claim promises God didn't make. Amen or not? Got a bunch of uh crackpots out there on TV. They're trying to claim promises God never made. But I am saying this: if God has promised something Then don't give up holding them to that promise. Amen? God, I'm gonna keep praying and keep praying. You got an unsaved loved one. I'm telling you, I know I emphasis this, but you got an unsaved loved one. Don't you quit praying for them. Don't ever quit praying. You have a need. You keep praying until God either meets that need or he changes the situation. Fervent, fervent, fervent. Prayer, prayer, prayer. Means to pray with passion and persistence. We cannot be content when our prayers are going unanswered. I don't know where you're at. I don't know how you're taking this. But let me ask you this. Are you content with unanswered prayers? Are you okay with that? I have a prayer request. I'm in praying. I don't have an answer. Are you okay with that? Now I understand. Sometimes we have to wait. Amen? God's timing. Sometimes it may it may not answer right when I'm so I keep on, keep on, keep on. But are we content with just going through the motions of our prayers? Never seeing any change, never seeing any effects, never seeing anything available because of it. Am I content with my prayers being unanswered? Am I content with my needs being unmet? Am I content with the lost remaining unsaved? Am I content with ineffectual prayers? If not Then I need to be righteous. I need to make sure I've trusted Christ. Make sure my heart and life is yielded to Him, living for Him practically. And then praying and talking to God fervently, persistently, staying at it. R. G. Lee, a great preacher of years gone by, he was a Southern Baptist preacher out of Tennessee He passed away long before I came on the scene, before I was saved. I never got to hear him preach. I've heard audio recordings of him. I've read his sermons. He told of a little boy that was playing with some toys, little little cars or something out in the front yard, and his mother was sitting on the front porch and she was knitting away there. It's just an afternoon, a lazy afternoon And out in the front yard, while the boy was playing, without looking up or anything, he would mumble a little request to his mother, say, Mother, I'd like something to eat. And he really didn't pay attention. He was just praying. And it seemed like the mother just ignored him. She just knitting away. And he's out there praying, Mother, can I uh I'd like to eat something. And she just seemed like she'd nor him, just knitting away. A little time would go by and he'd mumble a little request up to her about something to eat. Time went by. Finally the boy stopped. He laid his toys down And he got up and he ran up to his mother and he clutched her with both hands. R. G. Lee said he clutched her with both hands and pulled her down to him and looked in her face and he said to her, Mother, I need something to eat. He said at that moment the mother got up, went inside, and granted his request, got him something to eat. And the point was this: as long as we're content playing down here With our little toys in this world, we throw these little prayers up to God and we really don't pay attention to Him or anything, we're not going to get much accomplished. But when you and I get serious about it and we come to God and we say, God, I need this. God, I'm willing to make whatever changes in my life I need to make. I'm willing to forsake whatever quote-unquote toys I need to forsake. I'm willing to, God, I need you to do this. Then we get God's attention. That's praying fervently. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to teach us to pray. Lord, I Lord, at my request, this message would stir some hearts to pray. Mine. And Lord, we could get on praying ground where we see. Results of you responding to our faith and our prayers. I wonder with heads bound, eyes closed, if there's any this morning, say, preacher, I've got I got some things in my life I really need God to help me. I have some things I really need God to do. And I need to get serious. And maybe some of us need to examine ourselves. And you know, am I really submitted to the Lord? Am I really surrendered? Am I saved? And if I'm saved, am I living for Him like I should And then am I praying and praying earnestly, believing it. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, that's me. I have some needs. And I need God to help me. Any like that by the uplifted hands, sure there are. I know for a fact there's many in our church. My uh my hands are raised And what I'm saying, my appeal this morning, my call this morning is this, let's give ourselves the prayer. Let's get thoroughly right with God Unless, God, we need you. And not let go of the throne of prayer until God does something. Father in heaven, bless our invitation now. Now with our heads bowed, one other thing I wanted to mention. I wonder if there's some here this morning who say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that my sins are forgiven. I'm saved. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. God will help me get that settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me I need to get this matter settled. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Any at all? Father, bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.