Very last statements of the great sermon on the mount of the Lord Jesus Christ and uh greatest sermon ever preached, greatest preacher ever preached. And the interesting thing was I got thinking this afternoon laying in the mud under the house um that uh we're w working on this what about two years now we've been on this? It probably took the Lord about twenty-five minutes to preach this message. But um uh that says several things, and one of them is the significance uh and the the the power of this message that people have been reading it and studying it And preaching from it for thousands of years, and yet it still has a tremendous impact. All right, thank you. Jamie, I'm turned on now. Verse number 24 of Matthew chapter 7 I'm going to read down through verse 27, the end of the sermon. He says here, therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I circled that phrase in my Bible. Heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, him will uh I will liken him unto a wise man which buildeth his house upon a rock. How many people agree it's wise to build a house on a rock? Yes, so uh that's what he did. And the rains descended and the floods came and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. Okay And he goes on and says this and everyone that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not Alright, here's the contrast Shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house upon the sand. How many people agree it's foolish to build a house on sand? Why would you do that? And the rains descended, the floods came, the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell. No surprise there. And great was the fall of it. Let's pray. Father, I ask you bless now our study of this last portion of this great sermon, and I ask that you would teach us and help us. I pray, Father, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would be our teacher. This is your sermon, Lord. These are your words, and you've preserved them for us here all these years. So I pray that you would speak through me. And Lord, I present my body anew as I always do when we preach. I yield my will to you, and I ask you again that you please fill me with your Holy Spirit. And that you speak through me and help us in this message. In Jesus' name, amen. It's all about having a rock solid salvation. That's what I'm calling this portion here as we look at this. And if you remember a couple weeks ago, by the way, wasn't Dr. Creed a blessing last week? That message was tremendous. from James. And so anyway, we're back here in a couple weeks ago. We looked at this and I tried to point out, just in an introductory way, to lay the foundation for this statement here. I wanted to point out and have us notice that there is an invitation here. He's inviting people to uh uh to respond to his sermon. I believe giving an invitation at the end of a message for people to respond to the preaching is a biblical thing. I think it's uh something God uses And um I think preachers in churches are making a mistake when they get away from that. Now sometimes the circumstances is such that, you know, it's difficult to give one. Uh in funerals, for instance, it's difficult to have people respond to wedding, that type of thing. But uh I think in a general setting when you can You ought to give an invitation. So that's what the Lord's doing. He's been discipling those disciples. He's been teaching them what it means to be a disciple. How to live the life of a disciple. And uh he's going into great detail. Now he's at the end, and he's saying, all right, this is how you need to respond This is the invitation. And so I think it's important to view this portion of scripture in that light. But then we also pointed out the audience. Who he's talking to. This is not evangelistic. He's talking to disciples. And this is where I found tremendous encouragement. Notice in the verse number 24, he says, therefore, what's that next word? Whosoever. Now he's talking to believers. These are folks that have trusted him as Savior. They've gone beyond that. They've taken up their cross. They're following him. They've denied themselves And uh they are committed to live for Christ. They're serious about their walk with God. But he makes this statement, whosoever. That tells me this. That anybody, now get this, anybody can be a good Christian. That word, whosoever, do you remember? We looked at how that applies to salvation. Anybody in the world can be saved. There is nobody that has been left out of the possibility of salvation. Now the Calvinists will teach God selects some for salvation, others are elected to judgment, and that's not scriptural. Whosoever will can be saved. You can't meet one person who cannot be saved if they will simply turn from their sin, trust Christ, and God will save them. Amen? So who should but he's applying this here to disciples, and that means anybody can be a good Christian. I've had over the years I've had people make statements like this to me. Brother Leatherman, I'd be a better Christian uh if I wasn't married to the person I'm married to. No snide remarks there, no comments by anybody. But that's not a true statement. Whosoever Can be obey God. Preacher, if you know what my circumvent, the place I work in, it's impossible to be a good Christian in the in my workplace. That's not true. I don't believe that. I believe anybody in the world. Now it might be easier some places than another, right? But he says, Whosoever anybody in the world can obey the Lord. Anybody in the world, any Christian, you don't have to have a certain uh win you don't have to have a certain level of intelligence You don't have to be gifted especially in any particular way. It simply is a matter of trusting God and following his instructions. So that's what the Lord's saying here. Saying to this great crowd of disciples, hey, you can be a Christian You can be a disciple. You can do what I've instructed you to do. Whosoever in the world will simply do this. I've often said this. There's no reason in the world A 10, 11, 12-year-old child in school cannot be filled with the Holy Spirit of God and be a good disciple of Jesus Christ. And there's no reason in the world that a 97-year-old seasoned citizen, and regardless of what their circumstances can't be filled with the Holy Spirit and be a good disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, and all points in between And so that's an encouragement to me that I don't have to be have a certain level of intelligence, I don't have to be gifted in some way, I don't have to have all the great personality and all this type of stuff. I can be a good disciple So now he gives this invitation here. And by the way, there's one other thing I wanted to point out in this matter of the audience. I believe he's speaking to people who are very interested in what he's saying. These are not disinterested people. These are folks who have left their changed their schedules. These are people who have left their homes. They've come out into the side of the mountain. They wanted to hear What the Lord Jesus Christ had to say. So these are people who are engaged. They are interested. I picture them listening intently. And I hear I hear I can see in their minds, I can see their minds working and saying, I want to be a good disciple of Christ. I want to be a good follower of Christ. And he's telling me how to do this. This is how to pray, not to pray. He goes down through this thing And so they're listening intently. But when I see these last statements of the Lord, it tells me this the problem is not in listening to the Word of God or even being interested in the Word of God. That's not our problem. Our problem is what? According to what he's, the statements here is what? Doing the word of God. And a lot of times we'll say, boy, that was a great sermon. I really enjoyed that. Man, I learned a lot from that. And we go out, and our life has never changed. And we don't do what God taught us and what we learned from the Word of God. We just listen to it, we hear it, we're fascinated by it, we listen intently But then we go out and we never change the way we behave. We make no decisions based on that. And that is what he's saying to his disciples. Herein is a very serious danger as a disciple of Christ. And that is this, is being a hearer and not a doer. Now, if you would, before we get into what I want to give to you, I'd like you, if you would, turn over to James, chapter number one. James addresses this same issue. And it is a danger for you and I at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And let me say this: it's a danger that I as a pastor face It's possible for a pastor and I I wish I could say I've never been guilty of this, but I can't honestly say that, but prepare a message and you it seems like a good message and something true and It's from the Word of God and preach it and then not go out and actually do what I just preached that people should do. And so it's a real danger that disciples face. Look at James, are you there? Way back at behind Hebrews, after Hebrews. And chapter 1, look with me if you would at verse 22. Now he again he's addressing the same danger. And he says this. But be ye what? Doers of the word. I circled that word, doers. And not hearers only. Now look who we're fooling. Deceiving who Listen, just because I enjoy good preaching, that does not make me a good disciple. Huh? Just because I can sit and listen intently to a message, a Bible passage or something, that doesn't make me a good disciple. A good disciple is someone that hears it and then what Does it? Obeys. Let's read on. For if any be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. For he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. But whoso looketh in the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful here, but a doer of the work This man shall be blessed in his deed. Can I rephrase that a little bit? This man's house is built on a rock. Same principle. James is addressing the very same danger that the Lord is ending this sermon on the mound is, and that's his You've heard this message. You're excited about it. Maybe the people were amen and all of that. Maybe they were under conviction. And he says, all right, I'm finishing this message up. Now here's how you need to respond Don't be like the foolish guy that heard it and didn't do it and it didn't affect his life. Be wise and apply these truths to your life. Do what I'm instructing. Very simple concept, right? I feel griefly. That's pretty simple. I can understand that. Do what he says. It's very simple. It's simple, but it's not always easy. And that's where he's warning us. And so that's the whole tenor of this last statement here. So let's come back here. I want to break it down. I've got three thoughts from this passage. We're going to look at two of them tonight And then I'm going to save the third one for uh as a as its own uh message. And then I've got beyond that I got I want to look at the sand and the rock and all of that too. But uh let's look at a couple things here. First of all I'm going to give it two out of my three thoughts. The first one is this. I want us to notice the symbolism here. The symbolism here. Now this is probably pretty obvious, but I want to take a moment and look at it. The symbolism. When he says in verse 24, he says, I will liken him to a wise man which built his house upon the rock. And then verse 25, the rains descended. The floods came, the winds blew, beat on that house, it fell not, it was found on a rock. Then the next section, the foolish man Same thing happens. He builds a house. Floods came, winds, storms, but it's on sand, it falls flat. So he he he's he's using symbolism here. When he's mentioning the house, he's not talking about a literal house. Right? How many people agree with me? That's obvious. Yeah. How many people are awake? All right, there's a little few of 'em. That's obvious. I I need I need you to respond to me here. Uh that's obvious. When he's talking about the wind, he's not talking about literal wind, right? Alright. He's not talking about literal waves and rain. He's not talking about literal sand. Of course, all that would be true. But that's not what he is. These are all he's using these as symbols. He's wanting to teach a lesson. He's trying to illustrate a truth. So with that in mind, let's look at what does he mean by the house? When he says, the wise man, I liken him to a wise man which built his house. Now he's not talking about a literal house, not by way of application anyway. So what would he be talking about when he what's he symbolizing when he says his house? That would be his what? Not his physical body necessarily. It would be his life. He's building his house, his entirety, the entirety of his life. And uh he's taking, uh he's uh he's building uh what I he's talking about what I build my life into. The word build there means to construct. Or put something together. Now listen, you and I cannot control all the circumstances of life. But we can control our response to the circumstances of life. And that is the house that we are building, my life. For 57 years now, I've been building this house. Let's call it my life. And whenever this time ends and now I'm done building, then what I have there is uh what I what I have, what I built And so when he's talking about building this house, he's talking about what I do, my actions to put my life together, the type of life I am developing. Um the word build there kind of caught my attention a little bit. Uh Garrett had his surgery yesterday morning. And uh children's hospital in Pittsburgh. So I went up there. Garrett was a little anxious. We had prayer, but Tom had told me he was a little anxious and and I thought, well, I'll go up and pray with him before I go back, spend a little time with him before he goes back. Maybe the Lord would help him And so we went up there and I got him, I sat and got him a uh little uh Lego race car thing. Little thing. And so we brought in and I didn't know what to get out. So he's a boy he'd like this brought in. Tom and Sherry said, that's perfect. He loves that stuff. And so while we're standing there waiting, and you know Garrett don't say five words in an hour, and so we're talking away, and he got that thing out. And he started putting that thing together. And by the time I left, he about had it done. He was he he had worked through it. And it was kind of complicated, at least in for my mind. It was very complicated And while I was and I got looking at that word build and how it's used and the idea behind it and I thought of Garrett and he would take the little parts, there's a little Lego piece here, a little wheel, and he's there looking, follow instructions. And uh if it would have been me about two minutes into it, I'd have thrown it against the wall. But uh he's got that thing going and he would take those little parts and he was building that little car and doing a good job And that's the idea behind here. He says, this wise man went out and he built his house, and the different circumstances and the opportunities he had and the resources that the Lord made available to him As he made decisions and used all that, the type of life he was building, the type of light that he was putting together. So when the Lord says this wise man and this foolish man Both of them are building their lives. They're taking the opportunities, the resources that the Lord has made available to them, and they are building a life. And the question that comes to me is, what kind of life as a child of God, as somebody who claims to be a disciple, what kind of life am I building? And how am I building it? And what am I building it on in particular? And so though when he says he'd build a house, he's obviously not talking about building a literal house. He is talking about you and I taking the individual moments of our lives, the opportunities that come into our lives, the decisions we make, the circumstances we face, and that is all part is what is putting my life together. And when it's all said and done, what will my life have been? What will my life have amounted to? What did I build? With my life. What does it come to? What is it like? So that's the idea, the symbolism behind the word house. And then he uses the word rock. He built his house upon a rock. Now, our immediate, as Christians and people that know our Bible a little bit, our immediate thought is when he says he's building upon the rock, we think the rock is what? Jesus Christ. That is the response that comes Jesus. Build your life, your house, build your life upon Jesus Christ. And I agree that the Bible teaches that. You go through the Psalms, David said over and over, the Lord is my rock and my salvation, the Lord is my rock in my defense, the Lord is my rock in my high tower. Corinthians and I think Ephesians references the Lord Jesus Christ being our foundation. No other foundation can any man lay than that which is laid. The Lord Jesus Christ And so Jesus is the rock. Jesus is our foundation to build our lives on. But I'm suggesting to you that is not what he's talking about here in the context. In the context here, the rock that I'm building on is my obedience to Jesus Christ. Did you catch that in verse 24? If any man hear my words and what? And do them, or how how does he word it? He says, uh uh sayings of mine, and do it them. That is the rock That he's referencing, that rock is symbolizing obedience to Jesus Christ. In fact, when we say the Lord is our rock, what does that mean? How does that play out in my life? It simply means this. I trust the Lord and I follow his instructions. My life is based upon his teachings and who he is and what he instructs me to do. And so the rock, I believe, in the context here is referencing my obedience to Jesus Christ, my doing what he says, my trusting him, and then following his instructions. In fact, the immediate context is the sermon he's just preached. And I believe he's suggesting here that you and I can build our lives as disciples on the truths that he has just preached in this sermon. He's told us how to pray. He's told us how to interact with others. He's told us what kind of attitude as a disciple I should have in the Beatitudes, how to view myself. He's told me my purpose in life. I am salt of the earth He's given me all these very clear instrument instructions and he says, if you will do them, that is like building your a house on a rock. If you will listen to what I say, trust what I've just told you Follow these instructions, obey them, do what I said, your life will stand. That's the rock. And of course, we have the whole word of God. In addition to the Sermon on the Mount. So the rock, I'm convinced here, is my obedience to the will of God. And then he references rain, floods, wind. Rain floods and wind. All right, so group discussion. Uh what would those be symbolizing? Ah, circumstances of life. And in particular, what? Trials and difficulties, hardships that come into my life Um you know, the other day, uh was it yesterday, uh I got back from Pittsburgh and uh I was going to mention this, but Mrs. Kite went to be with the Lord yesterday morning, so I was there at the family, went down to the funeral home after I got back and And then I had a few hours of the afternoon, evening, and um I thought, well, I'm just going to relax. I'll sit out back here, I'll work in the garden a little bit and do a few things. And uh man, it was just so beautiful out. And it was nice out. How many people noticed yesterday afternoon was just beautiful? And I thought, you know, we had a my Kathy made some zucchini We've got so much zucchini. We have zucchini for breakfast, zucchini for lunch, zucchini for supper, and then we have zucchini for snack at night before we go to bed. We have every version of zucchini and come up with. We're working on zucchini ice cream. But I like zucchini, so that has nothing to do with the message. So anyway Um we had zucchini for supper and I thought, man, it's nice out. It's been a busy day and uh I got a couple hours for dark. Uh how many people want to guess what I thought about doing? Ah, I'll get the boat out, I'll go fishing. This would be great. And for some reason I thought, before I do that, I better check the radar. Good heavens. It was like a wall of darkness and wrath and uh retribution coming at us. And so I thought, well, maybe I won't. And so I stayed in the house. Well that's the idea, the picture, and and our house stood. Praise the Lord. But um uh that's the picture. We build our lives. And here's the thing, it's not hard to be a good disciple when there's no storms and rains and floods, right? Oh stand for that. You get somewhere where there's a climate, they'll just build a house out of wood sticks and stuff, you know, and they're fine Brother, you get somewhere where there's hurricanes and all that stuff. You better have a secure house. And that's what he's saying. He says, listen, life is not all sunshine and roses. And whether you're wise or foolish, you and I are going to have to face some difficulties. There's going to be disappointments. There's going to be heartaches. There's going to be setbacks. There's going to be opposition. There are going to be some tough Tough times. And so when he's using the storms and the winds, he's talking about trials and hardships. But the lesson is this: by following the Lord's instructions, Concerning all aspects of my life, my life is going to stand. And so whether God, in his providence, gives you and I a fairly storm-free life Which there's none completely storm-free, but some people do you notice some people go through storms a whole lot more than others. And it's not always of their own making. Sometimes it is, but not always And God says, if you will listen to what I'm teaching you, if you will listen to what I'm saying to you, and if you will follow my instructions, When those hard times come, when the setbacks come, when the when the when it's uh scary and it's stormy out there in circumstances. Listen, your house, your life can still be together. It doesn't have to fall apart. You don't have to become bitter. You don't have to become angry. You don't have to lose that walk and that sweetness and peace of God. You can stand. If you will listen to what I say and do what I say, follow my instructions. That's the whole point. Your life can be something in spite of how difficult it might be. It can be a success. And he addresses all the different aspects of life. If you go back and look at the sermon as a whole, it's amazing how many different areas of life he touches on. And he says, if you will follow that, you will follow that. Then of course he the last section where he talks about the foolish man, he says the exact opposite's true. If you and I are we can listen to God all we want. We can listen to sermons every day. We can read our Bible every day, which we can, and it's good. But if I'm not going to do what it says I'm not going to stand up when that tough time comes. I'm not going to stand up when people say and do things that hurt me or maybe there's some persecution or everything falls apart all around me and the flooding my life is being overwhelmed by circumstances. If I'm not willing to listen to God and follow his instructions and do what he says, it's not going to hold up. And so it's a very, very important lesson he's given us here. So that's the symbolism uh that behind all of this. It's me building my life, taking the opportunities and and circumstances, the decisions I make, and the type of life I'm developing and I'm living out, and uh then the storms that are come and my life is built upon what God tells me and following that and doing exactly what he says. Now notice the similarities between these two guys and this caught my attention. Outwardly, there's little difference between these two guys. I jotted down a few similarities here. I put this down, there's no obvious differences between these two men other than the foundation they're building on. And the final outcome of their life. But other than that, they look identical. If they're sitting in church, you wouldn't tell the difference, meaning they'd say, Oh yeah, they both look like great Christians. They both sing the songs, they both quote the verses, they they they look, there's there's very no obvious differences between them. And yet there was two horrendous, uh horrendously different outcomes at the end of their life I uh some of this stuff I'm assuming, and I think it's a safe assumption. It appears to me they had very similar backgrounds. No doubt they've heard the same sermons. Maybe by way of application, they went to the same church. They had the same Sunday school teachers. They went to the same revival meetings. They memorized the same verses. They had the same background behind that. Both of them apparently had the same background But one of them decided he was going to do what God says, and he was going to follow the instructions of the Lord in his life, and the other one says, You know, I've heard it all. But I'm going to make my own decisions. I'm going to go my own way. Listen to this. I'm going to lean on my own what? Understanding. And when two people who have identical backgrounds perhaps and one decides I'm going to not lean on on my own understanding, but in all my ways acknowledge him, do what God says, follow his instructions. I'm going to do uh and uh uh uh do his word. And the other one says, I've heard all the same thing, I've been all exposed to all the same stuff, but you know, I'm gonna do things my way. And the Lord says there will be two very different outcomes Two very different outcomes. And that is what he is cautioning. They had the same background, same opportunities, no doubt. It looks to me they had both had the same desires. They wanted to build a house. They wanted a nice house. Nobody in the right mind sets out and says, I want my life to be a total failure. I never met anybody like that. Nobody says, what's your nobody says to a teenager or whoever, whatever age, says, what well, what would you like to see in life? Oh, I'd like for my whole life to fall apart and be a total disaster. Just collapse and everything. So what's the matter with you, kid? Nobody says that. These guys both had the same desires. But they had two different ideas how to accomplish that. One thought and he and we'll look at when we look at the uh the the differences between the two, one uh was very foolish. And just disregarded the word of God, just disregarded God's warning, just disregarded God's instructions, and it was horrendous. And the other one says, no, I'm going to trust God and I'm going to obey Him. And so they had the same background, same opportunities, same desires. I look at the houses, and to me, just the little bit we're told about them, I think they're identical. I mean they're the same houses. They apparently are using the same materials. The only difference I can find between these two was something that was below the surface. It was how they processed what the Lord did. It was the decisions they made in life. And this has been the Lord's emphasis all through there. Remember back earlier when he said about false prophets, they appear to be sheep. But they're really what? Wolves? Outwardly, everything looked good. Outwardly, they put on a front. Outwardly, they put on a show But inwardly, they're leaning on their own understanding. Inwardly, under the surface, one of them is trusting the Lord, following his instructions. The other one is doing it his way, processing things through his own understanding. Um it's like we've all seen it. Uh I was talking about uh going fishing then And the one place I like to go, it's the side of the mountain, it's all trees. And I mentioned this just recently, but you know, I go along there, they can be two big old oak trees. And they can look identical. And uh they're on the same mountain, they're they're growing in the same soil, they're facing the same winds, the same snowstorms, uh they're getting- they're everything's the same. But one collapses in a storm and the other one keeps standing. And you say, what's the difference? And if you look carefully, you find on the one the whole inside is what? Eaten up, rotten out. Ants got in there. And I think that's a picture the Lord's kind of explaining here. He's a look at it and outwardly they look fine. And the houses are the same and the fellows, you know, they're working everything outwardly. But this guy has built his house. He didn't get down to the rock. He's just on sand. He's just done it his way and he's followed his own instructions. He didn't listen to what God said. He pushed all that aside. And not immediately, but down the road. When things got tough, when it how do they say it nowadays? When things got real? Right? Man, that thing fell apart. That thing fell all apart. I like the way Mike Stubler used to put it. He says, man, when everything comes down, I want to be ready. You know, at first I thought, what do you mean everything comes down but I'm fearless? That's a cool way of saying when storms and things get tough And so outwardly they're very similar in a lot of ways. This is why superficial Christianity is very, very dangerous. This is why it's important for you and I to make sure that we're not just putting on a show. Amen or not. We've got to be for real. We've got to have a genuine walk with God. We need to be genuinely in our hearts, not just putting this outward show, but in our will, in our hearts and minds, we are yielded to the Lord and surrendered to the Lord. And submissive to his instructions and trusting him and doing what he says. Because we just a superficial Christianity is not going to stand out It will be inadequate and it will be dangerous. Now, I'm really working towards this third thought is this, and that is the subtle differences. There's two things that are different about these guys. One is wise and one is foolish. Foolish. And so I want to, next week, Lord will, I want to look at the characteristics of the wise, what wisdom is. The Bible talks a lot about wisdom, especially in Proverbs. and what foolishness is, and I want to study that because I do not want to be a foolish disciple. I want to be wise. Tom and I have been preparing for hunting. Some of us have been talking about hunting a little bit. Pretty much the only deer I shoot are foolish deer. I don't get very many smart ones And the foolish deer are the ones that get shot. And foolish Christians and foolish disciples are the ones whose lives fall apart. And some of us have been around long enough we've seen it, haven't we? We've seen it. See somebody start out good, have great opportunities, everything's there. They could be something for God. They could have a life that counts for eternity But they're foolish and they disregard the will of God and that whole thing falls apart. And so it's internal. It's my decision making. It's my thinking, what I'm trusting, is where the difference is. So we'll look at that next time. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to heed this final warning of the Lord and this great invitation he's giving to the crowd of disciples there. To hear what he's said and then respond in faith and obedience. And I pray you'd help each one of us, myself included, help us to trust you, Lord. And follow your instructions and do what you say so that we can have a sure foundation, so that we know this life is being built the way it should be built, the way it'll last. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I I really need Lord to help me in my in the unseen part of my life? And my heart and my mind, my personal walk with God, that I would be obedient to the Lord and trust Him and do what He says there. Any like that? Know what I'm talking about? And you say, preacher, that's God's touched my heart, that inner man, that walk with God, that personal unseen part of my life. And I need that to be right with the Lord and yielded to God and submitted to Him. And we don't want to just be superficial. Would it by chance be anybody here tonight and say, Preacher, I'm not even saved? I can't honestly say I know for sure I'm going to heaven And you'd say, Preacher, I'm concerned about that, and I need that settled. Would there by chance be somebody here or no? I'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need that settled. I need to know for sure my sins are forgiven I'm on my way to heaven. Now, Father, I ask you to bless us as disciples. You help us to be very, very careful that we trust you and follow your instructions in every aspect of our life in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads about eyes are closed.