Matthew chapter number seven, if you would turn there in your Bibles, Matthew chapter seven. If you would also find the book of Proverbs and just mark that. We're going to be looking at Proverbs a little bit tonight And my intention is to use our Bibles a fair bit, going to different references. I want to, because of the nature of the message, I want the Bible to speak for itself Uh rather than me trying to tell you what the Bible says, I have to do that sometimes. But um so Matthew chapter 7, all the way at the end of the chapters where we're going to be, and then um Proverbs. Just mark that. That'll save us a little time. We're going to jump back and forth there a little bit and spend a fair bit of time in Proverbs Uh Matthew 7, verse number 24. Am I turned on, Dave? Am I is it on There we go. I think I forgot to turn it on Verse 24, Matthew chapter 7. Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, now when he makes that statement, these sayings of mine, what's he referencing? Yeah, everything leading up to it. This is his Sermon on the Mount. And he's just preached this message to disciples. And I say this every time, and sometimes I'll preach these messages out at different meetings. I preached one a little while ago. uh one of these Wednesday night messages and um even there everywhere always point out the fact the Sermon on the Mount is not targeting unsaved people. He's not preaching to unsaved people. He's not telling anybody how to get saved Now he references that in the message, but that's not the message. He's preaching to disciples, and he's telling them what being a disciple means. and how we should behave and think and and function if we're a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. So when he says, it says, Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, he's saying this sermon that I just preached You hear these things. Now look what he says. Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which build his house upon a rock And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell not, and the reason it didn't fall is because it was what? It was founded upon a rock. Alright? And then he goes on and he gives uh the contrast to that. And he says, And everyone that heareth these things of mine and doeth them not, so he's given a very stern warning here. Shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand. And the rain descended, the floods came, the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell. And the fall, and the great was the fall thereof. So he's referencing two people, two categories of people He's referencing the wise pi man or wise person and the foolish man, the foolish person. And the basis of their foolishness or their wisdom is whether they will heed his words or not, whether they will listen to what he has to say, what he said to them, and whether they'll do them, carry them out. And so I've called the message, and this is ongoing. We're going to be a couple weeks. There's a lot of aspects to this I want to zero in on. But I called it the solid rock foundation. A solid rock foundation. So let's pray, and I'll give you some thoughts for tonight. Father, I ask you to bless now our time as we wind down this sermon you preached so many years ago And Lord, it's still preaching to us, and you're still speaking to us today. And so I ask that you would take this final statement of your sermon. And open our hearts and minds that we would see how this your words apply to our lives and our situations and the circumstances we find ourselves in and the ministries you've called us to. I pray you'd help us to heed your words here. I pray, Father, that you would speak through me. I pray it would be you teaching and preaching tonight, not me. And so with that in mind, I want to get myself out of the way, Lord. So I yield my body to you, I yield my will to you, and ask you to fill me with your spirit and speak through me to each of us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I view this last statement here, as I pointed out before, as the invitation of the Lord's sermon. The Beatitudes were the introduction. He laid the groundwork. He said, this is the way you think. If you're a disciple, this is the way your thoughts are. This is the attitude you ought to have, the beatitudes. Then he gives the meat of the message. You get into the bulk, the body of the message. Now he's brought things to a head. He's made a series of pretty strong statements leading up to this. And his final statements in the sermon Is he is inviting the people, and I'm using that term it's probably a too weak of a word. This is more than an invitation. He is maybe a better word would be exhorting The people to take pay attention to what he said and now incorporate these statements into your life and and do these things. And he illustrates that. Of course, we pointed out the symbolism. He's not talking about literal houses, literal storms, literal sand, literal rock, literal uh little not literally rocks. He's this is symbolic. He's using these to illustrate a truth. And uh the storms and this and the winds and the waves, we're going to look at another message, but those are the The difficulties of life, the quote-unquote storms of life. They hit everybody's life. Wise men and foolish men face storms. We're going to talk about that in another message. Of course he's not talking about building a literal house as we said. He's talking about our lives and what we were doing with our lives and how we are investing in our lives. What kind of life am I producing? With the decisions I made and make and the actions I take, what is this house I'm building and what is my life based upon? What is the foundation of my life And so we looked at that and the rock itself. Of course we think, well, the rock, Jesus is the rock, and that's true. But in the context here, the rock he's referencing is my obedience to Christ. Am I building my life upon hearing what Jesus says, his instructions given his word, and then heeding that and obeying and doing what he says Or is my life built upon doing things my way and what I think and my words and my understanding? And so he's contrasting these two lies that are being built and the basis of those lies and the consequences. Of how they're built and where they are. Now, what I want to zero in on tonight is the two men. Because I would like to look at these two men here. Uh we noted before last week, I think it was, we noticed their similarities. They both uh are building the have the same background as far as we can tell. uh same opportunities. They desired, both desired to have a good, nice house. They wanted their house to succeed. They wanted their house to be adequate and be secure I don't know anybody in the world that wants their life to be destroyed. We end up destroying them. A lot of times people end up destroying their lives, but they don't start out. Nobody graduates from high school and say, what are you going to do with your life? Oh, I'm going to destroy it Nobody says that. Even the wise and the foolish want their lives to be something. And so there's a lot of similarities between these two, but there are some very subtle differences And these differences are internal. These differences between the man that built his house upon the rock And though a foolish man that built his house upon the sand, the difference between these two guys is not an outward difference We have no indication that one's more gifted than the other, one's more talented than the other. That's not a factor. The difference is how they think Is the decisions they made, their thought processes. And it is really the r the battle for my life. And for your life. And a successful life or a destroyed life boils down to the decisions I make in life. And how the thought process behind making those decisions. Everybody with me? You follow what I'm saying? And so, what as I got looking at this and thinking, I said, these guys make decisions One guy decided, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but the wise fellow, he decided, I'm going to put in a little extra time, I'm going to put a little more work into this, and I'm going to get down past the sand, I'm going to find the bedrock. And I'm going to do what I need to do to get this. That was a decision he made. The foolish man, he had, as far as we could tell, he had as many resources, he has much opportunity. It wasn't that he couldn't get down to the rock, but he decided not to. He decided, I'll just stand fine, I'll just build it on top of the stand. And so the subtle difference between these two men is the decision processes that they make. And so you look at one person, you see one Christian And uh they're very successful in their Christian life. They're serving God, and they have a testimony, they have an influence, and and uh maybe God is using them, and it's very obvious By biblical standards, they are being blessed of God. They're successful. Proverbs chapter one, or not Proverbs. Psalms chapter one talks about success. Then you look at another person that's saved and claims to be a disciple, and their life is in shambles, it's a mess. Everything's falling apart, nothing's working. Storm's come and testimony is gone and everything's ruined. And the reason being is because of the decisions they made. What they thought and how those thoughts produced those decisions. So outwardly there's no distinction between the two, but inwardly it's a very, very clear distinction. I keep coming back to this reference, not deliberately, but in the messages it seems the last couple of years, keeps coming back to Romans chapter 12, verse 1 and 2. Paul says to believers in Rome, he says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, because of all that God has done for you. Present your beseech therefore, brethren, by mercy of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. Now listen to this. He says, then be not conform to this world But be ye what? Transformed by the renewing of your mind, by altering the way you think. By having your thought processes renewed and corrected and put in line with the Word of God And that is where our decisions come from. The way I think will produce the decisions I make. Or I can put it this way: the decisions I make are based upon the way I think. I think this, so I make that decision. So there's a very subtle difference here between these two fellows. And uh so I want to look at these, and this is where we're going to go back to Proverbs for a little bit, but I want to look at a few characteristics. of a foolish man. A foolish man. Now before we do that, if you want to go ahead and turn back to Proverbs, before I start giving some references, there are Five terms in the Bible use, in Proverbs particularly, use to describe a fool. Now, the reason I'm wanting us to look at the Bible so much, Jesus gave a very stern warning about calling another man a fool. Alright, so I want to be very, very careful. I don't want God to judge me or come even come across as calling somebody a fool. So if you're here tonight and you're a fool, I'm not calling you that. I'm just going to let you show you the Bible, and so the Bible will show you that. Okay. So anyway. So there's there's five I found five terms, five meanings for the word fool. It's used uh uh uh in context five different ways. Now we're not going to look at all these references. I've got a few I want to zero in on, but one of them is one of the terms, uh one of the definitions of the word fool as it's used in Proverbs means this, stupid You say, you shouldn't say that word. That was the word in the dictionary. That was the word the dictionary used to describe this person. This is somebody, I thought this was interesting Their definition of the word fool when it when it has this idea, stupid, deliberately, one who deliberately chooses not to follow wisdom. Would you agree with me? Here's a wise thing to do, and they deliberately choose not to do it. Would you agree with me? That person's stupid. And nevertheless, there are people according to the Bible. And Proverbs addresses that. It's not that they're ignorant of the wise thing to do. It's not that they don't know what the wise thing is. They don't. It's very clear. But for whatever reason, they very stupidly choose not to do that which would be the wise thing to do. So that's one of the meanings of the word fool as it's used particularly in the book of Proverbs. Another meaning, another term, meaning of the word fool in context is sometimes is talking about this. Somebody who is morally corrupt. Um they are this is the term, the one Dixon they use, to be morally dense. This is somebody who has a very difficult time trying to figure out what's the right thing to do morally. For whatever reason, they just don't see it. You know, this would be the right thing to do. Morally, it would be right to do this, but for whatever reason, they're just very dense in that, and they miss it. And these are people who are very immoral people. And these are people who, by all appearance, it seems like they don't even comprehend what is the moral right thing to do in any given situation. And they are, the Bible term for them, is a fool. They're foolish. And you know, maybe we can think of people we've come across over the years that, for whatever reason, they are just very immoral. And they cannot and will not make the decision to do right, to do morally right. Then another meaning of the word full. So it's used in context and coming from the Hebrew and Proverbs. It has this idea, someone who is proud to the point of arrogancy. This is someone, and this is going to apply to our message a little bit tonight, but this is someone who is convinced that they know more than everybody else They are they're they're proud to the degree they become arrogant and they look down on everybody else, they belittle everybody else. And uh the Bible says they are a fool. They think way too highly of themselves. Their estimation of their intelligence is greatly exaggerated. This is somebody who is not nearly as smart as what they think they are. Anybody ever meet anybody like that? So you've got folks who are um stupid. It is For whatever reason, they're right there. It's obvious they know what the wise right what the wise thing is to do, and they do the foolish thing. They're morally dense, they just are immoral They are very, very proud. Here's another definition, another re uh term, uh definition of the term foolish. This seems to be somebody who is very naive If somebody's naive, that means they're what? They're blind? Alright, that would be kind of a way to do it. They're naive. Ah, they believe anything. The word I was thought of I put along beside the word naive is gullible. They'll just believe anything. If somebody says that, oh you better be kidding, that's crazy. And they'll believe it. I like to joke around with people and I'll say sometimes ridiculous things in a very serious manner And sometimes people look at you and say, Really? You'll say, No, not really. Now I'm not saying those people are fools, but uh I am that. I'm not saying that. So I don't want God to judge me. But these are folks that just anything that comes along, they believe it. Now I'm treading on thin ice here a little bit, but these are folks maybe that anything that's posted on Facebook is it's gotta be true. It's on Facebook. I saw a picture of it. And we have to be very, very careful about that. Now I'm not saying we should go around and not believe anything. But I am saying this, we ought to be very, very careful. We we can't be naive, we can't be gullible because we'll end up being foolish. And will make foolish decisions. I hope your windows are closed when your car is closed. Or your motorcycles are knocking out in the rain. Keep mine when you're out there checking. Oh brother, they were seeing a little rain. Alright. Tuther gullible! Don't believe anything. And then everybody alright? Yes sir. Okay, good. Let me give you one more real quick. And I I didn't know how long this would take, but here's another one I came across in the book of Proverbs, uh the word fool, foolish, and how it's used. There's one more. It has this idea of a stopper Mocks, makes fun. Something that's very wise, maybe something's very wise, maybe something very godly. In fact, one of the definitions as it was used, this fool is somebody who mocks things that are very sacred. Maybe things of God, they'll just mock it and make fun of it. Um I want to suggest to you there are a lot of these types of fools on television, you know. There are a lot of these types of fools in our media out there. Late night talk show hosts. A lot of times they fall into this category. I'm telling you, I I hey I'm all for having fun, and you know I like to joke around, but we need to be very, very careful we don't mock and make fun of holy sacred things of God. Amen. That's foolish That's foolish. And so Jesus said, here's two men. I want he said he said I want you to listen very carefully to the sermon I just preached. I want you to take the instructions I gave you and apply them to your life. Listen to what I say and do. And if you do then, then you'll be like this wise fellow that dug down, built his house, and got it on the rock, on a good, solid foundation. If you don't pay attention to what my words, my words, you don't pay attention to my words, and you don't do them, you don't carry it out, then you're like this fool. Saying, just build his house on stand. How foolish is that? And the storms came, the wind blew, the waves hit against it, and Houston, Texas. Like what's going on down there? The one stood, the other fell flat. And uh so he's saying, here's the foolish person. Now I want to how the characteristics of this fool And how it applies to the fella that Jesus referenced. Then I want to look quickly at the characteristics of the wise guy and the wise fella, not the wise guy, but The wise man, and some characteristics of him that prompted him to build a house that would stand the storms of life. So we get the foolish guy, 30 trusts, 33 things about him, that would prompt him to build a house on stand, the storm's kind of falls flat. This wise man characteristics about him that uh prompts him to build his house in the rock, and the sword's gone that stands firm. Alright? So here's the fool. I think I look at this parable the Lord Jesus gave, and I notice one thing about him, he's in a hurry. He's in a hurry. Would you agree with me? I'm not a builder. I'm not in construction. I never have been, I don't claim to even remotely be an expert in it But I would imagine it takes a little bit more time to dig down and get to the rock than it does just to build the house on the topsoil Uh uh somebody help me out. Am I safe in assuming that? It took more time. And so this foolish guy builds his house on the sand, and that shows me here's somebody that doesn't take time They just rush into it, they don't think it through, and uh they're in a hurry. Now let me give you some scripture for that. Proverbs chapter nineteen. Are you back here in Proverbs? Go to chapter 19, and I've got dalves of verses here. We won't get to all of them. Chapter 19, verse number 2 verse Also, that the soul be without knowledge is not good. Alright, so kids, school is good for you. Right? You don't want to be without knowledge. We want knowledge. And he that hasteneth with his feet does what? Sin it. Listen. If we don't take time and build our life right. If we don't take the time to do the things that are right and that are necessary to have a successful Christian life, if we're too much, if we don't take the time to do that, we are sinning and we're setting ourselves up for destruction. I want to suggest to you being a good Christian, being a successful, victorious Christian requires time and effort. You say, I don't have time to read my Bible, then you're too busy. Amen? Well I don't have time to be faithful to church. Well I don't have time. There's some basics of the Christian life. The Bible is very clear that have to be true in our lives. if we're going to have a successful Christian life. And if I don't have time to do the basics of the Christian life, then I am acting like the foolish man And I've got to make time. I've got to take time to spend time with the Lord. Listen to what he says. Take the time to do what he says. So this foolish man was in a hurry, was in a hurry. Come over to chapter 21 and verse number 5 Look at this. The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plent plenteousness. Now remember, here's the thinking process. The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenteousness. But To everyone that is hasty, only to want to what? One. When that house collapsed, who was in once? The wise man or the foolish man? Bush man. He didn't take time to do what he needed to do and it collapsed. Building a godly life takes time. Building a godly life is tedious. There's a reason the Bible describes the Christian life as a walk. Walking is very tedious You agree with me? That's very it can be very enjoyable. I like to go for a walk and depending on the environment. I hate treadmills. Amen. I despise them, they're tremendous for hanging clothes up, but I don't like walking on them. One reason I don't like walking on them is the scenery is very boring, right? And number two, you always get off the same place you got on, you know that and you didn't get anywhere. But the Christian life is, humanly speaking, sometimes very tedious. Get up in the morning, I read my Bible, I pray, I keep some tracks in my pocket, I work hard at work, I come home. Spend time with my family, I uh pray and have devotions, pray in the meeting, I go to church Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, next Sunday I go to church and go to church, go to church, I mean by diet And it takes time. And it takes a little bit of effort. But the fool says, oh, I don't have time for that. I'll just show up. You follow what I'm trying to say here? I think that's one of the reasons we're told in First Timothy that you should not put a novice into a position of important leadership. They haven't had time to develop. They haven't had time to get that life built on the rock, so to speak. And so it takes time. Listen, sometimes uh Christians will get frustrated. They'll get saved And uh we'll get we get frustrated with the new Christian. Maybe they're not everything they ought to be. Listen, it takes time. Give them a chance to grow Give them a chance to develop. Um, I talked to somebody that's been a few years ago, but God has called them into the mission field to serve the Lord. And uh what they're outside of this church. And uh and uh they said, I don't understand why I can't go right now. God's called me. I didn't even get I said, listen, God has to prepare you There's a period of preparation before you go out there. It takes time. And um uh Paul when he first got saved uh he didn't go out into the ministry. He wasn't Doing his missionary journeys. I mean, it was a minimum of at least three years that he was in the Arabian wilderness. He was doing some one-on-one training with the Lord. Some suggest it might have been 13 years And so it took time. It takes time. And so a foolish person says, I don't I don't want to put the time in necessary. I don't want to put the time in. I don't want time. Uh second thing I noticed about this foolish man here, I think he was too lazy to put in the work. He was too much of a hurry to put in the time, and I think he was too lazy to put in the work. How many people agree with me It's probably, at least my thinking is, I would assume, it's more work to get down to the rock than it is just laying on top of the sand. Right? I mean you gotta run a back toe, and depending on the land, it might be a track toe, you gotta dig that all up And uh you gotta get down in the mud and all that. And uh tell you what, uh that's a lot of work. Let's just put it on top of the sand here Well that didn't work out so hot. Let's look at a few verses here. And uh look at chapter 6 of Proverbs and verse 6. I tell you, Proverbs is fascinating, especially when you get a subject like this and you get looking at all it says about it. It's absolutely fascinating. Proverbs chapter 6, verse 6. Now think about this guy building, and this is a fool. He's not going to dig down, he's just going to lay it on top of the dirt, because that was too much work. Verse 6, go to the ant, thou sluggard. Consider her ways and be wise. Alright? Contrast, the sluggard is not wise, the ant is wise. Which having no guide or overseer ruler, provideth her meat in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest. How long wilt thou sleep, O sluger? When wilt thou arise out of thy sleep? Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep. Look at verse 11. eleven. So shall thy what? Alberty come as one that traveleth, and thy want as an armed man. Wow. That sound like the foolish man It didn't take time, it didn't work, he was just uh like the sluggard and uh man the storms came, that thing fell down, he had nothing. And his poverty came upon him. And so it's two things to work. Number three, I noticed this about the foolish man. He sees only momentary gratification. He sees only momentary gratification. What I mean by that is hey he got that thing up and boy it looked good right now. But he didn't put into it what he needed to for that thing to look good in a couple years from now after the storm. And all he saw was, what do I get out of it now? And so many people, so many times, we as Christians, we sacrifice that which is That which is lasting for a momentary gratification. Would you agree with me that we live in a society today that lives to be gratified just this moment? What does it do for me now? What do I get out of it now? Doesn't matter what it's going to cost me later. Doesn't matter how much I'm going to have to pay later. Doesn't matter what the consequences are going to be later. I just want to have a good time now. I just want this house built now. I want to enjoy my house now. I'm not gonna I don't want to put in the work, I don't want to spend the time, I just want great here and now And we have to be very, very careful for that. Even you and I as Christians can get caught up in this world's mentality of immediate gratification, temporal gratification. The Bible says that many, for us as believers, our time here on earth, uh our life here on earth is often uh trials and difficulties. But it cannot it's not worthy to be compared for what the Lord has laid up for us in glory. Remember reading that in in Corinthians? And so we have to be very careful that we don't sacrifice future rewards and future blessing and being able to glorify the Lord at the judgment seat of Christ. We sacrifice all of that for immediate gratification. And so I see this guy was only for momentary gratification. Then number four, the fourth thing about this foolish person, I see this. He doesn't, I don't believe he listens to counsel or advice I just can't imagine. Now I don't want to read more into this than what the Lord says. I know it's just a simple concept. But I got thinking about this. This guy's over here. He filled his house. He's digging down to the rock and putting it in. And um here's the foolish guy right here. He's just laying You know, he's putting the floor on top of sand and stuff. I just can't fathom that there wasn't somebody that came by and said to him, Hey buddy! Can I offer a suggestion? What's that? Mind your own business. Well, I was just thinking, maybe, you know Man, that's those waves out there, you're not too far from the ocean. That's waves come up, you know, a high tide, a hurricane hits. You know, we get some high winds around here, rain pours down here. I don't know. I just think that maybe it'd be a good idea to dig down and get into a good pronation so that thing has something to hold on to. That's it, mind your own business. I see this guy as foolish is he's not willing to listen to counsel, listen to advice. He's convinced that the way he's doing it is best and he won't hear what anybody else has to say Let me give you some references here. Chapter 1, verse 7. In fact, Proverbs talks a lot about this character. He will not listen to what anyone else has to say. Look at Proverbs 1:7. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Look at this last statement. But fools despise what? Wisdom and what's the last word? Instruction. Ain't nobody gonna tell me what to do. Well, that's foolish. That word despise there, I thought was interesting. The word despise there means to view as insignificant. Wife comes home. Hey sweetheart. How's the house coming? Oh, it's going great. I saw Mr. Wiseman leaving a little bit ago. What'd he say to you? Oh, he's a stupid idiot. I ain't saying that picture, nothing he says. Okay. Won't listen to any instruction. I won't listen to any advice. Come over to look at verse 22 of Proverbs chapter 1. How long you simple ones? We love simplicity. That sounds like the foolish guy building his house. And scorners delight in their scorning, and fools hate what? Knowledge. They don't want to be told anything. I won't take time to do this. Let me just give you some references here. Chapter 10, verse 8. Chapter 10 verse 14, chapter 10, verse 21, chapter 12, verse 15. We could go on down And it says over and over and over, a fool won't listen to advice. A fool won't listen to advice. A fool won't listen to advice. Would you agree with me, build Your house is pretty serious Anybody agree with me? Kim's working on one. Some of y'all some of y'all here have built a house. You've built your house. That's pretty serious. There's a huge investment in that. You're gonna live there for a young time. That's where you're gonna raise your children. That's your home. That's serious business. It's very important. And we must not be foolish about building our house. And the Lord is using that illustration to talk about building our lives. What kind of life am I developing? And whatever age I am, what kind of life am I? And for me to just be flippant and negligent and careless about the decisions I'm making in the life I'm developing, that is so foolish. And we've got to listen to what God says to us. We've got to pay attention to what God has to say about living the Christian life and being a disciple. And then we've got to keep that and do what he says. Or we're very, very foolish. I don't have time. I just want to throw out the ones on the wise man over here. Just a few quick observations. Bear with me if you would. I put this down. The wise man listens and learns Nothing shocking. It's the opposite of the foolish guy. He listens and learns. He pays attention. Proverbs 1. 5. We looked at that. Write this down, Proverbs 13. 20. We don't have time to go there. I found that those who get the most out of a Bible message, when I preach a Bible message, those that get the most out of it are those who are paying attention and listening to what's being said. I never yet had anybody sleep through one of my messages and then get to the back and say, Man, that helped me, preacher. Nobody's ever done that for me. But you know what when I'm preaching a lot of times it seems especially somebody will stand out and they'll just be glued to everything I'm saying and they're going to the verses. I'm not saying you know I'm not saying anything other than what I'm saying And then they'll come back and say, man, God spoke of our heart and God taught these stuff. And that's what the wise man does Lord, what do you say? What are you instructing me? Alright. I applied this to my life. And that's the person that builds a successful life. Builds a successful life. Wise man does not stop here, I thought this was interesting. Looking in Proverbs at the wise man, not only do they not only does a wise man listen and learn, but if I was saying this, a wise man never stops listening and learning. He keeps on, he keeps on, he keeps on. Let me give you a reference. Proverbs 1:5. It says he will increase in knowledge. The word increase there means continually adding to. When I was 20, I figured, by the time I'm in my 50s, I'll know everything. And I'll be a tremendous Christian and I'll have total victory all this time. By then I'll have it all figured out and I won't need none. Uh but lo and behold, I'm coming up creeping up on sixties And I feel like I'm dumber now than I've ever been in my life. I feel like some ways I'm a sorrier Christian than I've ever been. And it's like, man, when does it ever when do I ever stop learning? When do I ever stop growing? When do I ever uh not until we get to heaven anyway? Not till we get to heaven. So a wise man says, you know, I'm not arrived yet. Paul said that, not that I'm apprehended. Paul said, I'm not arrived yet. I need to keep learning. I need to keep paying attention to what God says. I need to keep learning very, very careful that I'm doing what God tells me to do. I made this statement late uh several times recently. But the older that I get, the more concerned I am that I finish right. Yeah. That concerns me. I don't want to mess up. In my last years of my ministry, the last twenty whatever, hopefully Lord give me another twenty years it'd be wonderful. But I don't want to I want to finish strong, so I've got to keep paying very careful attention to what the Lord's saying. I gotta keep paying very, very careful attention that I'm doing what God says and stop don't take something for granted just because I heard it a thousand times Alright? That's wise. Proverbs 99 is another reference I put down. We will we don't have time to turn to them. I was in uh we were at loving and leaving last year, I think it was One of the recent years, John Wilkerson pastors, if not the one of the largest independent Baptist churches in America, First Baptist Church of Hammond. Monstrous church. Powerhouse for years. And I was taking a class on missions, incorporating missions in the Sunday school. Brother Dale Money was teaching, and a good guy, a friend of mine. And um and I'm sitting there and lo and behold the pastor, Pastor John Wilkerson, a very humble man, I just got to meet him a couple times, he come walk in and he sat down beside me and I thought, well, he's not teaching this class, am I in the wrong class? And he sat down, he got his Bible out, got his pen out and his notebook, and he sat there and he listened how to incorporate missions in the Sunday school. Now this is the guy that's a leader of leaders. And I came out of there and I thought there's a powerful lesson for me there. That you never arrived, I need to keep working at it, I need to stay humble and continually be able to be taught I think that's with wise man building this house. And then I am with this. Uh a wise man is willing to be corrected. He's willing to be corrected. Proverbs 98. If you'll write that down. I wish we had time to look at all these if we don't. Proverbs 9e. So a wise man is willing to take counsel and listen. You know what? That's why we hire architects. Because I don't know everything about it. And I need somebody that does that can help me. It's why we it's why we hire lawyers when we have legal issues. So I don't know. I need counsel. I need advice. That's why we go to financial advisors sometimes. We've got a financial situation or whatever. People that know that. And that's why as Christians we go to the Lord. Amen. Say, Lord, show me, teach me, what do I do? He said, Well, do this, do this. Several years ago when we started our missions program, I was struggling to incorporate faith promise in the early days that I was here And it wasn't working. Everything I was doing, Dr. Krieg came out and we preached and he said and he said to me, He said, Brother Leatherman, what you're doing is not working. I know that. I didn't say that I said yes sir. I said Dr. Free, if you will sit give me lunch, I'm gonna bring a notebook and a pen. If you tell me what to do, I'll do exactly what you say He goes serious? I said I'm serious. He says okay. So we went down to Oakmar. We sat there at the table, little restaurant they had, and he thought, alright, do this. Do this. Do that. Alright, do this. Okay And we did that and guess what? For 20 years now, our faith promised, God has blessed it in a tremendous way. And of things in my life, that was one thing I felt like I did right. Listen to what he had to say. And so what we need to do is listen to God and listen to what he has to say. Amen? This this was challenging to me. And so let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless us and help us to be wise, dear Lord. Not lean on our own understanding, but pay attention to what you say. Let you counsel us, what you keep teaching us and showing us. Then put the time and effort into doing what that requires. And then trusting you that our lives will be able to stand the storms of life and be what they really need to be. I wonder with our hands bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I hate to admit this. Now I'm talking to myself as much as anybody. Say I hate to admit this, but Man, those characteristics of pool, you know, I can see in my life a little bit of that. I see some areas there where I haven't been as wise as I really should have been. Is there any like that, Preacher? I can see some of that in me I can see it, sure. How many would say, preacher, I looked at the characteristics of a wise man, I see some areas there that I really need to pay attention to. So Mary's there, I could really use the Lord's counsel. I need God, I need to be take this more seriously. Any like that? I need to be a little more wise. And God will help us. I like what James says. If any of you lack wisdom, let him what? Ask of God, who give to all men liberally and break it not. So maybe we just need to stop tonight and say, Lord, give me some wisdom. Father, I pray you bless our invitation. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Have reset the pianos and play the invitation. Maybe tonight on a Wednesday night, school starting, we're heading on to the end of summer. month. They want to hit an order and say, Lord, I pray this next several months coming up, I pray you tell me to be wise.