Bibles turn to Matthew chapter number seven. First book of the New Testament. Matthew chapter seven. We're looking the Sermon on the Mound. While you're looking there, I got something here, and it has nothing to do with the message, but um I just read this just before the service. In fact, Tom walked in. I was in the back there reading, just reading through a few news articles And uh this one uh caught my attention. It's talking about the little microchips that they're introducing and putting in under people's skins. on their hands and different parts of their body for identification, for purchase, making purchase. And apparently the University of Wisconsin um Or a university or a Wisconsin firm, some business up in Wisconsin, required its employees to have microchips embedded into their bodies And it was to replace the badges and different things. And this kind of blew up. People were upset. This is what caught my attention. The headline says something to this effect. Sooner or later Everybody is going to have these microchips in their bodies. The fellow went on, he said, it's going to happen to anybody. This is Noelle Chesley, Associate Professor of Sociology at the University of Wisconsin. Might not be this year, it might not be next year, might not even be in my generation, but certainly my kids are going to have microchips inserted in their body I don't know about you. That caught my attention. And um Tom and I were talking a little bit, and I said this, uh, you know, it's for real. But the Bible says is happening, it's going to happen, it's for real. And uh my what I took away from that, now we don't know when the Lord's coming back. It could be whenever But uh I know the Bible has prophesied that there's going to come a time when our hands, our body, is going to be a part of our identification, our purchase, our economy And so um what I want to say is we we need to take seriously our walk with God. And we need to take very seriously What the Bible says and what the Bible instructs us to do. And I think that is what the Lord is saying in Matthew chapter 7 here as we come to the end of the Sermon on the Mount. I want to begin reading in verse 24. And the Lord makes this statement. The sermon's winding down. He's finishing up his message, and he's making this one last statement as he finishes this message. And he says, this. Therefore Now anytime the word therefore is there, you need to look and see what it's there for. Right? So what he's saying here is this, in light of everything I've just said to you. In light of all the truths, the instruction, I've given you the warnings. In light of all of that, because of all of that, therefore Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine. Now what does he mean by these sayings of mine? What's the context? What's he referencing? The sermon he just preached. It would be like me getting to the end of a sermon Sunday morning, hour and a half after I start. I get to the end of my message. And I say, therefore, because of all that I just said, because of these sayings of mine, these following things ought to be true. So I'll come back to that, but that's significant. Therefore Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, what I just preach to you, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man. Which built his house upon a rock. The rain descended, the floods came, the winds blew, beat upon the house, and it what? It fell not. It stood. It was there. It withstood the storm. For it was founded upon a what? Rock. Verse 26, and everyone that heareth these sayings of mine, what I just said, what I just preached to you, the instruction I just gave, and doeth them not. He shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand. And the rain descended, the floods came, the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell. And great was the fall of it. That's the end of the sermon. He's done. People are, he finishes up, maybe he gets up and walks away. I want to speak, and we're going to take a couple weeks to look at this because it's a very significant passage. I want to speak on a rock solid foundation. A rock solid foundation. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now as we uh give uh uh introduce this thought here and the things that I've seen and I believe the things that you've uh impressed upon my heart from this passage. I pray you'd help us to heed our Lord's words very seriously and take them very, very seriously. I pray, Father, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit again. That it would not just be me talking and giving my thoughts. But Lord, I pray it would be your Holy Spirit challenging us and confronting us And taking this and applying these truths to our lives is only your Holy Spirit can do. So please speak through me, I pray. I present my body anew for your instrument, your Your channel to speak to us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. As I said, these are the final statements of our Lord's Sermon on the Mount. Greatest sermon ever preached, greatest preacher ever preached. Now, I know I've said this for we've been looking at this about two years now, I think. And I know I've said this just about every time, but it is so important to understand our Lord is not preaching to lost people. He's not telling people how to be saved. There's only one way to be saved. That's by faith, by grace, through faith. And so he's not telling how people get saved. He's talking to people who are already saved. They trusted him, they believe he's the Savior, they put their faith and trust in him. And these are disciples, we noted in the beginning of chapter 5. These are people who said, you know, I don't want to just be a believer in Christ. I don't want to just be saved from sin and hell. I want to be a disciple. I want to follow him. I want to incorporate his teachings. and his instructions, his principles, his priorities. I want to incorporate them into my life and let these be my principles for living, my priorities for living. I won't be a disciple. And by the way, Jesus saves every person that gets saved, God intends for them to be a disciple. It's God's intention for every believer. God is not content with a person simply getting saved and never going beyond that, never growing, never developing, never becoming a follower of Jesus Christ. In fact, he will chasten them, he'll work and intervene. To get them to grow, to prompt them to grow. And so he's writing to disciples here. It's a very important, especially this passage here. He's talking to disciples. And he's explaining this whole sermon, as I said before, is he's teaching them, he's discipling them, and he's basically saying this, this is what a disciple is So if you want to understand the Sermon on the Mount, look at it this way. Jesus is explaining what a disciple is, how they think, what their attitudes are, the way they see things. He's explaining how a disciple interacts with other people. He talked about that quite a bit earlier on in the sermon. How we interact with others, how we respond to people who are unkind to us. In fact, he goes on how we respond to people who persecute us, say hateful things about us, do hateful things to us. How does the disciple respond to them? He discussed all of that He talks about dangers facing a true disciple. If I want to be a I I get to the point I say I want to be a follower of Jesus Christ, I want to just be saved, I want to be a disciple of Christ And I imagine uh most, if not all, the people I'm talking to tonight, that's your attitude. I mean I assume you're coming on a Wednesday night prayer meeting, you're more than just a believer, you want to I want to live for God, I want to be a disciple And he gives some warnings out there, and he says, Listen, if you want to be a disciple, you want to live for me and be a follower of mine, there are certain dangers facing you. And one of the first dangers, very early on in the sermon, he repeated over and over, was hypocrisy. Is falling into the trap in the mentality, I'm just going to put on a show. What I am, what I really am, is not that important. But how I'm perceived, that's important. And don't think for a minute independent fundamental Baptist people cannot fall into hypocrisy. All those Catholics, all those liberals, they're all a bunch of hypocrites. Yeah, but we you and I can fall in the same mentality. Anytime it's more important that I appear a certain way than actually what I really am I'm falling into the trap of hypocrisy. So he warned them against that. You and I, as disciples, uh face that danger of materialism Laying up treasures here on earth rather than in heaven and investing my time and effort on temporal, material things here, rather than trusting God for the material things and investing and laying up my treasure in heaven. And so he warns them about that. He warns them about false prophets and false thinking, false teaching. Remember just not long ago we looked, broad is the way, and wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction. Then he says, right on the heels of that, he says, uh beware of wolves in sheep's clothing. And I tell you, the devil, Brother Chester sang about it, the devil can get a disciple off track through false teaching and wrong ideas and get them completely off track. So he gives all these warnings, he gives this instruction, he warns of hypocrisy, he teaches how to interact, tells them how to pray, how not to pray, he does all of that. Then he ends with this statement. I said all that to get to this Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and the first of all he says, do it them, and he talks about that, and the one that does them not. So all this instruction, he's bringing it all to a head. And these statements here are very, very sobering They're very, very serious. The Lord is not joking around. I like to have a little fun. I like to inject humor. The Lord is not injecting humor here. He's ending his sermon with a very sober statement. If you do these things, then this will be the consequences. If you do what I've instructed you, this will be the consequences. If you do not the things I've instructed you, then these will be the consequences. And by the way, God knows what the consequences are of his own instructions. So we do be wise or foolish to listen to them and foolish not to Because he knows what he's doing. And so he's warning those who would disregard his words, his sermon, disregard his instructions. So I know better. I don't push that aside. I'm not going to listen to that. I'm going to live my life the way I want to. I want to be a believer, but I'm going to be the believer I want to be. I'll trust him as my Savior, but I'm going to live for him the way I think I want to live for him. And I've seen that in Christianity. He'll say, oh yeah, I'll get saved, I'll trust Christ, but you know I'm not necessarily going to live by his word. And so he's given this very, very serious warning back I think it was nineteen ninety-eight, somewhere around there, uh the Ford Company. Anybody ever hear of Ford Motor Company? And um I saw a little picture the other day. It was a little toddler about Brandon's age, Brandon Lewis, and he's pushing a little one of those little cars that they sit in, you know, and he's pushing it and it's The captain said, Oh look, his parents already got him a Ford. He was pushing it. I think it was ninety-eight. Uh by the way, I'm not loyal to any particular company. My favorite car is whatever one's the best deal on the lot That's my favorite car. Nevertheless, they came out with a logo. And the logo was this built to Anybody know in the next one? Built to last. Built to last. That was their big logo. I think they're still using. I don't know. Built to last. And the whole idea was this, that there's something about this vehicle that is going to last longer than other vehicles. There's something about this vehicle that's going to function and work when all the others are broken down, when all the others are gone. This one's going to last. This one's going to last. It's built to last. Now I want to take that little statement and apply it to Christianity. God created man, I'm going to back up a little bit. God created you and I as human beings. God created mankind to last. We had Gary's funeral on Monday, Gary Hardesty's funeral Monday. One of the things I try to point out, and I don't know that I brought out in that mess in that funeral, but often I try to bring out the fact That God did not create mankind to die. God created us to live. Death is an intruder, Romans chapter 5 tells us. Death came in as a result of sin. Sin entered mankind. But when God created man, he intended us for us to live. In fact, his very first actions after man's sin and death came in His very first actions was to repair that, restore that so that man can live forever. That's what he created us to do. In fact, even our physical bodies, do you ever notice if you cut yourself, God miraculously incorporated into our bodies the ability to what? Heal. That's an amazing thing. The body can heal itself. Why? That's part of the concept of God. We were created to live. We were created to last. Built to last. You say, what does that have to do with the sermon? I suggest this. Not only God does create us to live forever and not die. It's not why the purpose, not what we're designed to, that's an intrusion. But also, he saved us to live for him. He saved us to be successful Christians. He didn't save us to be failures. He didn't pay that awful price on the cross and then come into our heart and life when we trust him our Savior. Come in so that we would be anemic Christians. So that we would just be Christians in name only and just go through the motions and not experience any power or presence of God in our lives, not be victorious, not be an effective witness in this world. He saved us. To be disciples, to be what he intends for us to be. And that's what this whole sermon is about It's to be the Christian God saved us to be, how we interact, our attitude, all the beatitudes there, and our interaction, our response in a sinful, wicked world And he says, therefore, if you do these things, you will be successful. You will stand, you will last. If you don't do them, then there's that will not happen. God has designed us to live. He's designed the Christian life. God given to succeed. God has given to this important statement. God has given to you. How many folks here are saved and you know it? Say amen. If that's true, God has given to you and I everything we need to be a successful Christian. We have everything we need. And so God's design, God's intention is for us to be the disciples. He has instructed us to be here in this sermon, and uh he's bringing that to a head. I'm not going to get through everything I want to, but I want to, first of all, I want us to look at this passage as the invitation on our Lord's sermon. He has given the invitation. He's preached the message. And he's basically saying this, okay, here's the instructions to be a disciple, to live for me. Now, I'm inviting you to make a decision, to follow these instructions, build your house upon the truths I've just given you. And you'll succeed, your house will stand, you'll be what I saved you to be. Or you can decide to not follow my instructions. You can brush them aside, you can ignore them, you can disregard them And go on your merry way, and when you face the storms of a sinful world, and when you face the issues in a sinful world, it's not going to stand. Make sense? I see this as I was studying. I thought he's giving an invitation here. He's calling the people that are listening to him to make a decision. Follow the instructions I've given you or disregard them. And he addresses that. So I see this I I got looking, I thought, why does he put this story here at this place in the sermon? And as I said, it dawned on me, it he's given an invitation. He just preached a very clear message of what it means to be a disciple. What they are to do and what they're not to do. How they're to pray and how they're not to pray. How they're to treat people and how they're not to treat people. Now, I want us to notice, first of all, the audience that this invitation is being given to. You say, well, it's disciples. Correct. But it's interesting, he's talking about building a lot. What's the whole little last statement? He's talking about somebody building a what? Building a house. What kind of people build houses? Carpenters, builders, construction people, Mark and Randy and people like that, really smart, gifted people that are just something, can, others. He's not people like me. Uh architects Say, well, he's talking to architects. You know, if you gotta build a house you gotta get down there, the bedrock and the foundation, gotta have uh uh builders, make sure you get down and But the thing is, he's not talking to architects, he's not talking to builders, he's not talking to carpenters or construction crews. Who's he talking to? He's talking to ordinary, everyday disciples. I would imagine in this crowd, it's a pretty large crowd, the impression we get, the first part of chapter five, I would imagine there's some young people here. How many people agree with me? There's probably young people in that crowd there listening to them preach You know, his invitation to young people is this. As a young person, why don't you make a decision that I'm going to follow the Lord's instructions? I'm going to follow his teachings. I'm going to listen to what Jesus Christ has to say to me as a young Christian. As a young person, it's trusting Christ Savior, I want to live my life by the principles and teachings of Jesus Christ. And people agree that's a good thing for a young person to do. Pastor Brett and I were talking today about how young people between the ages, what do we say, seventeen, twenty-something in that range there, seventeen, twenty-five maybe, in that range there That at that fra and that age of life, young people are making decisions that are going to affect them for the rest of their life How many people here are living with the consequences, good or bad, consequences of decisions you made in that age time frame? How many people? Sure. Every one of us. Decisions we made then, I'm 57, I'm living with decisions I made in that time frame. Now stop back up and think about it. I think I've touched on this before, but back up and think about that for a moment How much experience does a 19-year-old kid have to make decisions that's going to affect them the rest of their life? Now let's go let let's let's say 1819. So let's back up. The first four years of that 19, 18, 19 years are spent as a what? An infant? Toddler. I mean they can't even clean themselves. So how much how much experience? How much do I have to lean back on there when I'm running around in diapers? So how many people agree with me? There's not a whole lot of experience there to help me make a good decision for the rest of my life. Everybody agree with me? So let's take four years off of that. So now they're five and take that from let's say 18. So that gives me 13 years So from five to let's say about age twelve or thirteen, I'm a child. I need to be taught how to read. I need to be taught how to write. I can't drive a car. I can't operate machinery. I can't even hardly prepare a meal for myself. And so, how many people agree with me? That amount of experience there probably not a whole lot to go on to make decisions that are going to affect me the rest of my life. How many people agree with me on that? Sure. So now we're up to age thirteen. So from thirteen to eighteen, let's say, that's five years. I still don't I still don't have enough experience. The the world doesn't see think I have enough experience to drive a vehicle. I'm still learning things. I haven't never uh uh uh started a business I've never made any decision that I've had to live with for longer than just a few years. So I don't have a whole lot of experience to go on there. So what are you trying to say? 18, 19, 17 year olds, pretty dumb. But um no, I'm kidding. That was a joke This is what I'm trying to get to, and this I was stirred today when we talked about this. This is what I'm trying to get to. A person at that age of life, at that point in life, where they're going to make decisions that they and their family and their offspring are going to have to live with the decisions they make at that point for the rest of their life, I think it'd be wise To do at least one of two things. One, you ought to listen to folks who have already been through that and made decisions and know what the consequences are of those decisions. Right? Can I get it? Everyone over twenty-five is saying amen. You know why we're saying that, young people? Because some of us were stupid. And didn't listen to people and we're living with it now, and we're trying to save you some heartache. Amen or not. And number two, and even above that, I would say it would be extremely wise to listen to the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen to the Lord Jesus Christ. And say, you know, I'm going to make my decisions based on the teaching of Scripture, on what God, what Jesus says to me, because I don't have a whole lot of my own experience to go on. So I'm going to listen to folks that have already been through it, know a little bit what they're talking about, and I'm going to listen to God who designed me. And knows the end from the beginning so that I can be, at the end of my life, I can be the person God created me to be. And I can stand before Jesus Christ, hear him say, well done. Well done. And so in that crowd, I would imagine there are some young children, young people that have trusted him and they're listening. And he's saying to him, listen, because of all he said, if you will listen us, if you will do what I've instructed you to do Your house is going to stand, your life is going to stand, your life will be what it's intended to be. You'll find fulfillment and joy and satisfaction when it's all said and done. So there's young people in there. There's older folks in there. Folks that have been through it. Folks that have made some dumb mistakes. Folks that have been involved caught up in materialism. Folks that maybe have been caught up in hypocrisy. And they've trusted Christ and they've gotten Satan who says, all right, this is the way you need to live. And he says, and he's saying to the older folks, listen, listen to what I've said Yeah, how many folks I found the older I get the harder it is to change. That's not my toothpaste. I've always used pressed. Follow what I'm saying? And so sometimes the Lord confronts us as older Christians and He wants something to change. And I found sometimes a Christian that's set in his ways that may be not in line with Scripture and the Lord deals with them, sometimes that's hard for an older person to say, you know, I've been wrong this whole time. I need to make this right. That's a challenge. It's unusual for a person in late in life to trust Christ as Savior. And so he's addressing young and old, and I spent longer on that than I wanted to. It's Pastor Brett's fault, because he got me stirred up today talking about that. I would imagine there was some rich folk in the crowd, there were some poor folk in the crowd, there were some smart people in the crowd, and there were some not smart people in the crowd. Ron says what I'm thinking. There might have been some new believers, and there might have been some folks who've been saved a long time. So there's all classes of disciples. All stages of life, all classes of disciples. And look what he says, and this is what start got my attention. He says, Therefore, whosoever Heareth these words of mine, whether you're young or old, whether you're rich or poor, whether you're smart or not smart. Whether you're a new Christian or a longtime Christian, whatever the case is, if you'll listen to what I have to say, you can be the kind of Christian God wants you to be. The word whosoever means each and every one, anyone of any category. Now that word whosoever made me think about salvation. The Bible says that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Would you agree with me? Anybody in the world that will trust Christ will be saved. Whosoever. I had a whole list of verses here. Sake of time, we won't. Matthew 11, 28. Come unto me, all ye that labor in heavy laden, I'll give you rest. There's no exclusions, there's no qualifications, there's nobody left out John 3, I wanted to read 14 through 18. Over and over, he uses that word whosoever, whosoever, whosoever. Anybody in the world will come and put the turn from their sin and put their faith and trust in Christ, God will save them. Romans 10, 9 through 13, Revelation 22, the bride and the group and the church say come, the Spirit say, Come, whosoever will may drink of the water of life freely. There's a wicked, wicked teaching goes around that only certain people that God chose before the foundation of the world can get saved. Nobody else outside of that group can get saved. That is unscriptural. The Bible clearly teaches that whoever will hear the gospel, in fact Romans goes to great length. Chapter ten. Faith cometh by hearing. How can they how can they believe in whom they've not heard? How can they hear without a preacher? So he's saying, Anybody that will hear the gospel, believe it to be true, put their faith and trust in Christ Anybody can be saved. You say, preacher, we know that. What does that have to do with this? I think this is what he's saying. He's saying, whosoever, any Christian, any Christian, can be a good disciple of Jesus Christ. You say, well preacher, you don't understand my circumstances. If you lived in the home I lived, you know why I can't be a good Christian. No, he says whosoever Preacher, if you knew my background, if you knew my history, if you knew all the stuff, the baggage I've gotten, the skeletons of my closet, if you knew all that You'd understand why I can only be limited a limited disciple. I can't be everything. God says no, no, no. He says whosoever. Doesn't matter what your past is, doesn't matter what your circumstances are, doesn't matter what your situation is. Doesn't matter how limited you may be intellectually or education-wise or financially, every single Christian can be a good, successful, spirit-filled, effective disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. No exclusions. No exclusions. Successful discipleship is to whosoever. Every Christian can be a successful disciple. Every Christian can be a victorious disciple. Every Christian can be an effective witness for the Lord Think about the disciples. I like when Dr. Creed is here. By the way, he called me the other day. They're coming up for vacation next week, and he's going to be in church next Wednesday night. And I told him, I said, there is no way in the world, no way in the world, I'm gonna stand behind that pulpit and you're sitting in the pew. So guess he's preaching next Wednesday night. But I like it when he he's done it a couple times over the years when he gets twelve guys to stand up front here to to uh represent the the the disciples. Anybody remember him doing that, twelve disciples? Man, what a motley crew he had. But here's the fascinating thing. Think about those disciples, the people that he called to be his disciples and be eventually be his apostles. They were, uh I put a list down about them. Uh they were uneducated. All right, they didn't have degrees from Harvard. Uh they were divisive. I'm gonna be the I'm gonna be in the highest seat. Uh-uh. I am. Seriously? Yeah. They were fickled. They were short-sighted. They never could see beyond what the Lord was doing right now. He says, what? He says, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. Oh, we don't have enough bread. Where'd you get that? I'm talking about the false teachings. They were very short-sighted. They were selfish. They were divisive. They were even hateful. Remember when the mothers, the parents brought the little infants to Jesus so he could touch them? What were the disciples doing? Get those kids out of here. Come on, get them out of here. We don't have time for that. Hmm, you knucklehead. I'm gonna bot him in the head when I read that. Imagine someone standing out of church, the bus comes in and one of the the leader deacons or somebody in church saying, get these kids out of here, we don't got time for these kids How many people would want to bop them in the head if they were doing that? Yeah. That's what the Lord had. And you say, how in the world are these guys going to be you know what? They listened to what the Lord said and they did what he instructed them eventually. You know what happened? They turned the world upside down with the gospel. And you and I today are the results of those twelve men Paul later filled in. uh those twelve men who simply did what God said and followed his instructions and they the gospel goes on today. They gave their lives for the gospel So my point is this, whosoever, any Christian, every single Christian sitting in this church tonight, you can be a victorious Christian. Don't let the devil lie to you and make you think I cannot be a good Christian. I cannot have a house, the Christian house that stands and is what God wants me. I can't do it. That is a lie of the devil I struggled when I first came here as pastor for well not at first, but after I was here about four or five years and I had all these visions of grandeur in my head and all this stuff And I think it's good to have a dream and all that. But you know, God was blessing and we were growing. But I saw these guys downstate, particularly Norris Belcher. And he's from the hills of West Virginia, and he's down there outside of Baltimore, and this church is huge. And people are getting saved by the hundreds and hundreds and baptized and all this And I got and this just tells you how ignorant I am, but I got in my head, he's gonna get more rewards than I will. That ain't fair We got twenty-eight thousand people in our county. He's got twenty-eight thousand people in his neighborhood. How can I reach as many people as he can? He's gonna get more I started thinking like the disciples. And man, the Lord convicted me. And he showed me from a passage that I'm pointing out before, but a passage scripture, and he showed me Hey, wait a minute. I can be just as obedient to God here as he is down there. I can be just as good of a Christian Wherever I'm at, is he is there. The reward is not based upon what God chooses to do through us. The reward is based upon you and I simply trusting God and obeying his instructions. And that's what the Lord is saying. Whosoever, your success in the Christian life, your influence as a witness is not based upon your circumstances. It's based upon you simply doing what God instructs you to do. Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and do it them. Endoeth them. Endoeth them. They became powerful preachers of the gospel, turned the world around. I was thinking about some of the kids that were in our youth group in Indianapolis when I was there for four years and um I I You know, we moved on. They didn't have social media and cell phones and all that stuff. We moved on. I lost touch with most of those kids, all of them really, for years. And then this thing, they came out with this thing called Facebook. So we started got on there and started s interacting with missionaries and family members. And these little things requests came up from kids in Indianapolis, but they weren't kids anymore. Hey, I recognize that name. Light Boop. Hey, that's one of our kids in the youth group. Bing, I want to be your friend. Who are you? Oh, that's one of those kids. And I got to see what was happening in these kids' lives. The thing is they weren't kids anymore. I tell you when I started feeling old is when the kids in our youth group became grandparents It's like, what? They're sending me pictures of their grandbabies. You know what I you know what I saw? Some of the kids that I thought there's no way in the world that are kids ever going to amount to nothing. Some of these kids came off the buses and different stuff and one guy He's uh coming to church. Kathy and I like this story. We're picking him up Wednesday night and I'm driving the bus. We got all these teams, uh, you know, and they're wild. And um I look back and this one kid, Chad, he's got this stuff coming out of his nose. And that wasn't what normally comes out kids' nose. I said, Chad, what are you okay? Yeah, I'm fine. It's just coming out. I said, what's going on? Oh he and Kathy said, What what's that? What's wrong with your nose? He goes, Oh we just had chili for lunch and I got upset and it's coming out my nose. It's fine. I mean this is that level that we're working with. You know what? I found those kids, a bunch of them, are workers in churches now. They're winning souls. They're living for God. And I'm looking and I thought, there is no way in the world that kid could ever done anything and hear God's using them. Isn't that an amazing thing? And so when I read here, whosoever doeth these sayings of mine, heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, he's like a guy that builds his house on a Rock and the storms come and the guy's successful and his life means something and it amounts to something. The building is his life. You know that. We'll look at that. Whosoever, whosoever. So it doesn't matter our backgrounds. You say, how can I be a good disciple? How can I be a Christian that God saved me to be? How can I be that Christian? that I know in my heart and soul that God wants me to be. How do I do that? It's very, very s it's very, very simple, not necessarily easy, but it's a very simple concept. Trust God and do what he says. If I will simply trust God, what God said, say, God, I don't see it that way. Trust me. Okay. Do what I say, okay. We sing about it all the time. Trust and obey. But there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. There's a great danger, and that is lack of obedience. Lack of obedience. Which really is a lack of faith. Just hearing what the preacher says, just hearing what God says, just seeing in the book, reading what it says, and then never doing it. Never following these instructions. I know I should be, but you're not. How do you think you're going to have a successful Christian life? How do you get to the judgment seat of Christ? Hear Christ say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant You know what he says to do and you don't do it. So it's a very simple concept Trust God and follow his instructions. And that's what the Lord is saying. He's given an invitation. Listen, I told you what a disciple is and how they function. Now inviting you to come make the decision. I'm going to not just hear what he says, I'm going to do it. And he says, if you'll do that, your house will stand. Your life will amount to something. My wife and I were reading our devotions. I don't think it was last night or the night before. I'm at the point now, I don't even remember what happened three hours ago, but it was one of the nights in the last couple days We're reading in 1 Samuel chapter 15. Saul, King Saul. You know how that turned out. The winds came, the storms came, and his house fell flat. And the Lord Samuel makes a profound statement. I want to turn there, but this went longer than I wanted, but The Lord makes this, and I'm not quoting this. In fact, tell you what, I'm going to turn there very, very quickly, because I think it summarizes what the Lord is inviting. The people here. 1 Samuel chapter 15. Let me get there. If you trust me, just let me read it if you don't find it. Not 2 Samuel, 1 Samuel 15. And look what it says here. I want to quote it correctly. Listen to this. See if this doesn't sound like what the Lord's talking about. And Samuel said to Saul, now this is where he's supposed to kill Agag and all the sheep and everything, but he doesn't. He keeps Agag and keeps the best of the flock Samuel said, Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Here's that classic statement. You can probably say it with me. Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice. And to hearken than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, he has also rejected thee from being king. Your house is falling flat. Because it was not built upon the rock of obedience to the Lord. So let me ask you this, and this is what I had to ask myself preparing this. What is God instructing me to do? What is it that I, as a disciple, the Lord's made very, very clear in his word that I should be doing or should be avoiding, watching out for? What has he warned me about? What has he instructed me to do? That I need to trust him and obey him in that area. Because that's what his invitation is. Hearken these words of mine and do them. So what is God for you between you and the God? What is He wanting you to do? What is He instructing you to do? My word is, listen, if we want to be the Christian we ought to be, then Let's hear what he says, trust him, and then follow his instructions. Follow his instructions. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us. Help me, Lord. I pray it would begin with me. To see and hear very clearly what your word says and what instructs me. And then help me, Lord, to trust you and just follow those instructions and say the things you instruct me to say and do the things you instruct me to do. Just follow your word. With our headbound, eyes closed. How many would say tonight, Preacher, God is dealing with my heart, and from his word I've seen instructions and I need to just trust them in this matter and just follow those instructions. Is there anybody here that says, yeah, there's something specific? The Lord has dealt in my heart about it. There, I know it. Anybody at all uplifted hand? God bless you A bunch. That tells me God's working in your life. The Lord's real in your life and He's speaking to you, He's instructing you. And like me, all of us, let's just trust Him and say, okay, Lord, I want to be that Christian. I want to live for you. I want to please You I want my life to be something for the Lord. I'll follow that instruction, whatever it may be. There's someone here tonight and said, preacher, I'm not saved. I'm not sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. You'd say, look, I need that taken care of. God will save anybody, whoever. Is there any that say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm on my way to heaven. I'm concerned for that. Would you slip your hand up and I pray God will bless you and help you? Now I want to give an invitation just like the Lord did. He's given us clear instructions here. Let's hear that and then follow his instructions. Do what he says. And maybe find a place old altar and say, Lord, okay. I'm going to trust you. I'm going to step out. I'll do exactly what you say. Like Dr. Creed says, I'll agree with you. And I'll walk with you and I'll follow what you say. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now in Jesus' name, Amen.