Ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached, of course the Lord Jesus Christ, the Sermon on the Mount. It's been quite a journey working our way through here. And uh I have tonight, I believe I'm gonna bring one more message from this uh sermon, um uh Lord will next Wednesday evening and we'll kind of bring it all to a head, but we're at the last several verses what I uh consider the Lord um giving the final invitation. He's preached this message, and now he's calling his disciples that he's been preaching to. He's calling them to respond and uh to what he said. Look at verse number twenty four with me, if you would. Matthew chapter seven. We're down to verse number twenty-four. And uh you follow along as I read these last statements of our Lord. It says, Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, of course, the sayings of mine, or is this sermon he's just preached, I believe, is the context. And do it then, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock, and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and hurricane Irma came by, and um Oh, wait a minute, that's not in there. But uh and it fell not, for it was founded upon a what? Rock. And everyone that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man Which built his house upon the sand. And the rains descended, the floods came, the winds blew, and beat upon the house, and it fell. And great was the fall of it. And he finishes preaching, he's done, the people are sitting there, and uh they respond then to what he says. And so I've entitled it A Rock Solid Foundation. We've been looking at this for a little while. I want to bring another thought from This uh final statements of our Lord. So let's pray together. Father, we ask you now that you would speak our hearts. Our Bibles are open in front of us. Lord, I ask that our hearts and minds would be open to your Holy Spirit and that you would apply this passage to us Each individually as we have need and as you see fit. I pray, Lord, you'd help us to push others out of our mind and focus tonight on our standing with you and our spiritual condition. and our walk with you, myself included, I ask you to help me, Lord. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart I plead with you, Lord. I pray it would not uh not be a good sermon. I pray tonight's message would be a life affecting um truth, and that you would uh r really help us, I pray. Lord in Jesus' name. Amen. Given his final statements, a very familiar um story here, I guess you would say. The audience is disciples. He's challenging these folks who are claiming to be his disciples. He's saying, listen, take what I've said to you. Take these words I've given you. Listen very, very carefully to them. And now you need to incorporate them into your life. You need to obey. and do what I've instructed you to do. We pointed out, I want to try and get right to my thought here, but we pointed out earlier, just to lay a little foundation here again, the symbolism. He's not talking about literal houses, literal wind, literal storms. uh literal rock and sand. He's being symbolic. And I get that from the word verse number 24. He says, I will liken him. Verse 26. He shall be likened unto. The word likened there means to be uh to illustrate. I'll illustrate to you or I'll show you a comparison. He's like this. And so he's uh it's a symbolic uh thing. Uh we pointed out that we believe the house he's referring to is the entirety of my life. How I'm building my life, what kind of person I am and I'm becoming. And uh and the um uh the rock is obedience to the Lord's word and the Lord's will. Of course, Jesus is the rock, but in the context here he's saying You need to build your life on hearing what I say and then doing it. And that's the fr rock he's referencing. And then we said the w the rain, the floods, and the wind are the trials of life, and that's what we're going to look at tonight. So it's a symbolic statement he's making here when he's referencing the house rock winds and all of that. Then we noted the similarities between these two guys. Everything we are told about them, with a few exceptions, there is very little difference between the men. Uh they both built a house, no doubt. They both had the same desires. Uh before the storm hit, they had the same outcome. They had a nice house apparently they're living in. And so I'm surmising here, I'm speculating a little bit that No doubt they had similar backgrounds. No doubt they had similar input into their life, similar training maybe. But for one reason or another, they made two very different decisions And that's what brought me to our, brings me to our third point that we already looked at, the subtle differences. Nothing externally in these two men was obviously different. However, internally one was wise and one was foolish. Outwardly, no distinction. Inwardly, clear distinction. We went down and looked at some characteristics of this fool. And uh just real quickly I want to run through him. The first thing we noticed about this fool, and the some of this is implied, he apparently was in a great hurry. He didn't dig down to the rock. He just In a hurry, just built uh uh the house on the sand. Rather than to take the time to do it right, he just rushed through it. And uh we pointed out if you remember in our Christian life It takes time and effort to s to develop a good, strong Christian life. And uh he was unwilling to do that. So the fool was in a hurry. He was too lazy to put in the work he needed to put in. And then we pointed out he saw only momentary gratification. Just want to quick get that thing up. And as long as it looked good, everything was fine. And then uh he obviously did not listen to counsel or advice. So the one fellow was foolish. His foolishness was rooted in his frame of mind, the way he thought. the decisions he made. That's where the foolishness is. Not in our circumstances don't produce foolishness. Our education doesn't necessarily produce foolishness. But the way we think and the decisions we make, that's where the foolishness is. Then we reference the wise man. The wise man listened and he learned. Bible Proverbs talks a lot about that. The wise man did not stop listening and learning. Proverbs talked about that. The wise man was willing to be corrected. In fact, the Bible suggests that a wise person loves correction. He's glad when somebody comes and corrects us. How many folks have, you know, Christians are strange beings. We'll go to a revival service. We'll go to church The preacher will tan our hide. He'll tell us how terrible we are, how carnal and worldly and fleshly, and he'll just rip us up one side, down the other, and we'll walk out and say, Man, that was great Anybody ever notice that? Well a wise man says I want to be corrected. I want to be uh challenged. I want the Spirit of God to take that which is in my life as So he did that. And then there was one state uh one thought about the wise man that if I did mention it a couple weeks ago, I brushed her very, very quick. And that is this. The wise man is very prudent. Or in other words, he has discernment. And that is a big part of wisdom. Proverbs says that the um uh the the well I'll tell you what, turn there if you with me if you would, real quick, and I just want to do this quick. But this is an important point. Proverbs chapter number 16, I think is the verse I want. Proverbs 16 This is the verse. Now, just came to me. This is the verse. The prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. But the simple pass on and are punished. How many people are familiar with that verse? Anybody ever hear that? That is a profound verse. I think it's 16, verse 21. Somebody tell me if I'm correct on my references There. Yes. No, that's not it. Go uh twenty what is it? Sixteen twenty one, but that's not the verse I'm looking for. Look go to twenty two verse three. Maybe that's it. I got a whole slew of verses here and I I just want ah 22 verse 3. If that verse is not underscored in your Bible, it really should be. It's a a key verse. Look at ver Proverbs twenty-two, verse three. A prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself, but the simple pass on and are punished. In other words, a wise man Is able to see what the consequences of his actions are before he acts. Follow what I'm saying? A wise man says, you know, if I do this and this then that is gonna happen. That's not good, so I'm gonna avoid doing this and that. A prudent man foreseeth the evil. He sees what the consequences going to be before the action is taken. However, the foolish person says, I don't even think about the consequences. I'm not even going to give any thought to how this is going to affect anybody, what impact this is going to be is going to have on others or myself. I'm just going to do what I feel like doing right now and just pass on and the consequences are horrendous. And so this man that built, dug down and built on the rock, he thought this thing through. He was prudent. He says, you know, and of course this is speculation here, but he says, you know, if I just build on the sand, eventually a storm's gonna show up, and that's gonna blow this thing down I've got to think this through a little bit. And uh he foresees the evil, so thus he puts in the time and effort to get down to the rock So that when that storm shows up, his house stands. You follow what I'm trying to say? That is a key part of wisdom. Being able to see the consequences of my actions before I act Now inevitably in life there are going to be consequences we didn't anticipate, maybe things we could not have foreseen. But as much as is humanly possible, and of course the Lord helping us We need to be able to think about the decisions I'm making, the actions I'm taking, and what will be the consequences of that. Don't wait until after you've made the decision. Don't wait until after the damage is done and then find out what it is as much as you can try and anticipate it. And that is such a profound uh characteristic and truth of a wise man. And I think we see it here. So come back here to Matthew. I just wanted to buzz through that uh very, very quickly and touch on that last character last characteristic of a wise man. So the difference between success and failure in life in general and spiritually begins with my character. And that is what the Lord is addressing here. One man was very wise. He had some character about him. He thought things through. He was willing to be taught. He put in the extra time and effort. He anticipated what the consequences were would be. He was a man of character. The other was very weak in character, very lacking, and he just did whatever. He didn't bother putting the time and effort in, didn't think about how that was gonna what's going to happen when the The storms came, it's just here and now and whatever, and went through that. And so we have this tremendous contrast. Now, oh, and by the way, this is the way I put it. I said uh six uh I wrote down The difference between success and failure in life begins with my character, which is a result of how I think, which in turn affects the decisions I make. And so uh the Lord says in in Romans the Bible tells us in Romans chapter twelve that we need to be renewed in our mind. And so if we're if we don't have That wisdom. We seek the Lord, we yield ourselves the Lord, we trust the Lord, and God can renew us and help us have that wisdom. So now I want I said all that very quickly because I want to get to our last statement, observation in the this in these last statements, and that's the storms. The storms. We had the symbolism, we had the similarities, we had the subtle differences. Now I want us to look at these storms that show up. It's interesting from about verse 13 on, from that part of the Lord's sermon to verse 27. It's a series of warnings. Anybody notice that? He's making a series of warnings here. In verse 13 and 14, he's warning them about the uh the wide is the gate, broad is the way that leads to destruction And there's a warning there about just going along with the crowd, but making sure that uh uh I'm saved on going through that straight gate. So he gives this warning about the broad way and the wide gate. Uh and then uh verse 15 through 20 he gives a warning about the false prophets. He says, beware of false prophets. And he gives that warning. In verse 21 through 23, he gives a warning about empty profession. Many say to me that day, Lord, Lord. And he warns about that. Now he's given this warning here about, I think in part, this is a warning about being unprepared for storms. And he references these storms and he says, listen, let me tell you what a person is like that hears what I says say what I say, but he doesn't do it. He's like this guy that filled a house that he wasn't prepared for the storm that came. And here's a fellow that did listen to what I say, and he incorporated in his life, and he did what I taught him And he's like a fellow that was prepared when the storms show up. And um uh and so he's talking about being prepared for the storms of life, I believe. And here's the thing, we can Uh we're pretty good. Some of us are pretty good at arguing and debating and talking about all that the Lord says Well the Lord says this, and the Lord said that, and he didn't say this, he said that, he didn't say that, he said this. And we get on, when I was in Bible college in the dormitories, we'd have these debates about the stupidest stuff all night long These big debates about some little verse in the Bible or something. And um uh uh uh I lived in a it when I my first year at Bible college, uh the school was booming and just exploding in attendance. And so they rented out these ratty apartments. And uh Howie Hall was the name of it. Remember that Catherine But anyway, we had one bedroom apartment. We had eight guys in a one-bedroom apartment. One bathroom, no showers, an old evil cloth tub. And we had eight guys in there And uh all of us prepare and then we're in Bible college, you know, and we had all the answers. It's strange. When I was in Bible college, I knew everything. And now I'm fifty-seven years old, and I feel like I don't And every split, every little hair about what the Bible says. Here's the problem. If we don't do what the Bible says, we're a failure. We can argue about it and debate it all we want, but the Lord's concern that we listen to what He says And that we do it. And if we do if we do what our Lord says and the storms of life hit us, we're prepared. We're ready. We can handle it. We can weather those storms. But if we don't do what our Lord says, we can argue it all we want, but if I don't incorporate my life and say, hey, this is what the Lord says, this is what God's instructed me to do. I trust them, I'm gonna do it, then when the storm comes I can weather it. And that's the point. Not knowing just what the Lord says, not just talking about it Proverbs says, the talk of the lips tendeth unto penury. The word penury means poverty. All they do is talk, talk, talk, talk. And it never worked for person. And they're not prepared for storms. And so um uh uh and so the important question is this Is my faith in God's Word? Now let's ask ourselves this. Is my faith in God's Word and my obedience To his instructions, strong enough to enable me to weather the storms. Now you and I have to answer that for ourselves. If something happens, you get hit by some unexpected trial, unexpected thing, and we'll look at a few of these. Can I honestly say, you know, I believe my faith in God and my obedience to God is everything it ought to be And I'm prepared to face that storm. They just had uh Irma paid a visit to Florida and up through there, through the Caribbean Some of the people paid attention to the warnings that were given, right? Some people paid attention. They boarded things up. They did everything they could to weather that storm and um maybe they got out of town. Others said And they got hammered. And as a perfect illustration of what the Lord's saying here, can I honestly look at my spiritual life, my walk with God, my daily devotions, my faith Faithfulness, my purity, my heart and mind. Can I honestly say, you know, I think everything is in place, and when the storms of life hit me, I'll be prepared for it. For him already for. That's what the Lord is talking about. That's what the Lord is talking about. Um who cares if a person has this luxurious, luxurious, beautiful house But it's on sand, and when a storm when it starts raining and the floods come and the wind blows, the thing falls down And we've got people in churches all around. Man, we can say the right things and we can talk the talk, and we've got all the right answers. Book the verses. We can do the song. Our lives are not built on the rock. We're not doing what we talk. Uh with uh but we don't walk That's what the Lord's w uh warning us about here. That it has to be more than just talk. It has to be uh we have to incorporate into our lives. He finishes his sermon with this warning. Everything in this world is going to be tested. He said the storms are going to come. Everything we trust in. Now get this Everything we trust in is going to be tested. How many folks here tonight say, preacher, I believe the Bible is God's word? No doubt in my mind. I'm sure. That's called faith, right? Faith in the world. Word of God. I tell you something, if it hasn't already, at some point that faith is going to be tested. Our faith in God's Word, our trust in God's Word is going to be tested. You say, you're a preacher, you never get your faith never gets tested. Every one of us is going to be tested. Or uh everything in this world is going to be tested. Everything we have. Everything we trust in, everything we believe in, our view of life is going to be tested. We live in a world that challenges us On our worldview, on the way we see God and w and ourselves and the world. Uh we were at the fair and I think I referenced this fellow some time ago, but But he came by, he told me he was a nuclear scientist, worked for the government, he's retired, he lives up here in Swanton. And he asked this question, he says, why are Christians and scientists so antagonistic to each other? And I said, we're not antagonistic to each other. I said, there are many Christians that are tremendous scientists, and there are scientists that are tremendous Christians. I said the two are not mutually exclusive. And in his idea, you were either a Bible-believing Christian or you were scientist. It couldn't be two. They're antagonistic to each other. And I said the antagonism is not in science, and I think I mentioned this before. Antagonism is not in science, the antagonism is in our worldview On how we interpret the scientific facts, on how we view them. The atheist excludes God, and he says, well, obviously the only other option, there's no God, the only other way we must have evolved, somehow by natural process. If there's no God, that has to be it. And then the Christian looks at it, the Bible leaving Christian says, Hey, you know, there is a God. I see these all this evidence and all the fossils and everything, and I say there is a God. And that view, our world view, is going to be It always is by the world. They challenge us. They question us. And so these are the storms that come by. They test us. Our Christian testimony is going to be challenged. Our faith in God is going to be challenged. Our commitment to Christ is going to be challenged. Our marriage relationships are going to be challenged. Our faithfulness to the ministry is going to be challenged. And that's what the Lord is saying. He's saying, listen, you need to hear what I'm telling you. You need to do it because the storms are going to come, the challenges are going to come. And if all you have is just hearing and not doing, you're not going to stand up to them. Not going to stand up to them. Nowhere does the Bible suggest that a Christian is not going to face storms. How many people understand that? We hammer that all the time because of the lies on television, these guys say, oh, if you get saved then God will do everything That's not necessarily true. In fact, I would suggest to you, at least my experience has been, some of the most difficult, heart-wrenching times of my life had been since I'd been saved. Not before. Then somebody says, Well, you know, if you become a disciple, if you accept Christ, well, you know, but if you really sell out for God and you dedicate yourself, you take up your cross and you follow him, you deny yourself Well, you're not going to have any challenges, you're not going to have any storms. Ha! There's even more so sometimes when we face Christ. You read the book of Hebrews Some of the most faithful people to God are the ones that were sawn asunder, were beaten, were killed, persecuted, and run from their homes. And so there are storms, and sometimes not in spite of us being a disciple of Christ, but sometimes because we're a disciple of Christ. face some storms. And so um the Bible goes to great lengths to warn us and to tell us you need to be prepared. You need to be prepared. So let's look at this. I said all that. Now let's look at what the Lord says about these storms. And I never really thought of this much until I got study. But notice in verse number five twenty-five He gives three aspects of this storm. He says the rain descended. All right, there's one. Then he says the what? Floods came, so he mentions rain. He mentioned floods. And then what's the third one? The winds blew and beat upon the house. Then you come down to verse number 27, same thing. Rain. Bloods wins. Now we have to be very, very careful that we don't read too much stand to an illustration. Generally, uh when the Lord illustrates something use a parable, generally there's one major truth communicate, one point you can call. However, the Lord doesn't just say a storm came It doesn't just say a lot of rainfall in the house. He doesn't just say a point. He mentions specifically twice three different aspects of this point. Now again, I want to be very careful. I don't want to read too much into this. And what I'm going to touch on now, I'm telling you, is just my thoughts. He doesn't say that's what these are But I do believe in him mentioning three distinct aspects of this storm and these trials these guys went through that brought the one house down and the other house was able to withstand. He mentions three distinct aspects of it. And so I'm going to suggest to you, in my mind, what these three different things stand for. Number one, the rain I'm going to suggest to you under uh represents or stands for the unavoidable trials of the flesh. The flesh. Now think about that. This rain, this wind, and the floods got out of order. Rain, floods, wind. Their whole objective, so to speak, is to tear that house down. They're coming in, the house is going to fall. So one of the objectives of the flesh is to conquer the spiritual part of my being. Are you with me? Galatians 5 says that the lust of the flesh and the Holy Spirit, the flesh, and the spirit lust against each other. They're constantly Trying to run my house. And my flesh does not want the Holy Spirit of God to rule my life, to control my life. The flesh wants to run it. And so the flesh wants to take down my spiritual house, so to speak. And the flesh is unavoidable. It rains. I got thinking about rain. Rain it ra it rains fairly regular. How many folks notice that? Especially around here. Uh this summer. Rains fairly regular. Anywhere you go in a row. I was in Kazakhstan it rained. I was in New Zealand, it rained. I was in Ireland, it rained and rained and rained and rained in rain. Uh wherever you go, we're in Mexico it rained a little bit. And so rain is fairly, happens fairly regular, and it falls on all. The Bible says the Lord sends rain on the just and the unjust. And so the flesh is something common to everybody. How many folks here realize you have flesh? I'd be scared if you didn't. But we have a sinful nature, every one of us does. And it's something we have to deal with regularly. Just like rain. Um the flesh uh uh will uh rise up in times of illness. How many folks get grouchy when you don't feel good? Anybody here? No, let me put it this way. How many of you folks your spouse gets grouchy and they don't feel good? I found out my flesh doesn't might be feeling. When the flesh takes over, a testimony can know we're talking about your say you know when I'm really sick of sick of it. How many doesn't say much. Love, joy, feet, long suffering. So sickness comes in, the flesh takes advantage of that. And says, ah. And we get grouchy, we get irritable, we snap. We get selfish. Disappointments come. The flesh reacts to that. Setbacks. Somebody says or does something that hurts us. Maybe someone passes away or something, real grief comes to us And if we're not careful, if we're not trusting God and walking with God, if we're not doing, following the Lord's instructions, that flesh will come in just like rain Tore that man's house down, and that flesh can destroy our testimony and destroy our Christian life. It is my is my walk with God strong enough That I can continue to sing and rejoice even when I have these setbacks, these trials, and keep my flesh out. You follow what I'm trying to say here? So he says, one guy's foolish. He listens, Lord, but he doesn't do what he says. And the rain falls and the rain gets in. Flesh gets a hold of it. And does that And hurts my testimony. I say things I shouldn't say, and I do things I shouldn't have said, and I uh react in ways, and all this is flesh. Read Galatians 5 And so I'm suggesting that maybe one of the things we need to guard against and be wise and listen to the Lord and uh and incorporate what he says, because we've got this flesh that wants to tear our The second one he mentions, first is rain, and I'm suggesting I the Bible doesn't say it's referencing the flesh. I'm just suggesting this: the unavoidable trials of the flesh. The flesh is going to hit us Number two, floods. What does he mean by floods? This is what I'm going to suggest. Here's two men. One's wise, one's foolish. They both got sinful flesh, but one listens to the Lord and does what God says, and he's able to keep the rain, the flesh, at bay. The other one gets washed out by it. Then the floods. What does the floods represent? This is what I'm suggesting. The overwhelming enticement of this world. The flesh. And then the world. Floods come in. And the reason I'm suggesting that is you and I live in the world, right? We're not careful. The world can get in us. The world can get in our homes. And the world can come in like a flood, and a worldly Christian is on shapy, shaky ground as we for his testimony and godly life. This world is not our friend. The world is not a friend of grace. And just like we want to keep the flood out, you've got to work very, very hard at keeping the world's philosophy, the world's priorities, the world's values. The world's perspective on life, we gotta keep that out. I'm not an expert on this, but I watched the duke about floods, and um uh I think there's There's two ways perhaps that floods get into a house. One is it comes very suddenly. We live in Colorado and certain parts of Colorado and out in the West still have these bowings uh that are just dry. It's just the celly, it's dry. In fact in New Mexico we're doing a Bible time rally. We did our destination on note in the river bed that was dried out. But they had some one position up the riverbed from us in case it would rain up top, there would be a what am I talking about? Flash flood come down through there. And they said there would be little or no time to get out of it. That thing just comes suddenly. Sometimes floods come in suddenly. Sometimes out of nowhere, all of a sudden the world has got a grip on us and and uh and uh You know, some of us maybe would say, you know, we're just going along, we're doing good in our Christian life, we're walking for the Lord, we're pretty we got things right, then all of a sudden we're kind of ourselves in a Situation and oh and the world has all this appeal, and uh and uh man, how did I end up like that? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I've seen it. The world, the world came in like a flood, however Floods aren't always flash floods. Sometimes a flood comes in a little subtly, a little more subtle. You've got a basement, maybe it's raining pretty good, and there's warning a about floods, not really paying attention, but lo and behold you look in the basement and water sometimes. Then it works its way up to the doorstep. Next thing you know, you look out, boy, that floods right there at the door. Then before you know it, it's running in under the doors. It's coming into the living room. You know what your first floor is got water, four or five inches of water in it. And it just has I'm suggesting to you that is the way the world usually is for most people. Starts out in the quote unquote basement. But he sees it. He knows it's down there. Ah, a little bit of water in the basement. Oh I can take care of that. And before we know it, it's coming in the front door. And the world will take over our home and take over our Christian lives. Take over our homes if we're not careful. It'll start unseen in the heart. Nobody else sees it, but we tolerate a little bit of worldliness. We indulge a little bit in this and a little bit of that television, a little bit of that, a little bit of this worldly music, and a little bit of these worldly books. Just in the basement knows about it But I'm careful, that water keeps piling up, piling up, piling up, and so the house is crashing down. Warns, he says, the wise man went down against the rock. Flood can't get in. They keep that water out. The best thing for us to do against the world is separate from it. And then so that's the flood. And then the last one he references are the winds. And I thought, what in the world? The w the rain? That would be the flesh. with them all the time straight comments. Color is uh that would be the world. We're in this world and what's a very So we got the flesh, the world. Anyone want to guess what I uh thought maybe the wings represent? Girl, the flesh has uh Evel. I'm gonna suggest to you that the win that if he and look what he says here, look at the terminology he uses, and again, I'm just suggesting this Uh but the um verse 25, the floods came, the wit, and then look at this, the winds blew and beat upon that house. Same thing in verse 27. The wind blew, the winds blew, and beat upon that house. I got looking up that word beat. I had this idea. What's a pull for pulling? That is uh double. That is double Matthew chapter 4, we have a record of our Lord's testimony. We pass it 40 days back. The Bible says Satan Excuse me. First country. Or just eat that initial bus That's what says it is written. And the way we act, a lot of us act is, oh the Lord defeated the devil, the devil's gotta take on the tree. So I've often probably packaged. And then later on we find in the The part of the seminary of uh all truth as divine. Um I think that's a good idea. Um So excited, I've been pressing about the action. So excited, one of the power houses, big values It's just going to be glory like It was great, I loved it. When I showed up, the devil was really, but And uh man, all three bibliography, the devil kept me hit me. I think I graduated with great honors and all good. Oh finally, no, I don't have to deal with the devil no more. And uh I got to my first uh position in Panthers Indianapolis, the devil was one of the deepest. No, not really And it has, and you know what I learned? Just like when the devil just keeps feeding and feeding and beating. I'm 57 years old, I've been in the ministry for 32 years now Surely the devil will leave me alone. How many keys? How many keys coming? And by the way, that's a stern warning for our church. God has blessed our church. Uh I wish I could take all of you back to nineteen ninety-three. Some of y'all were there. There wasn't much here. But uh no, we don't want to go back to that. But there wasn't much here, but there were some people that loved God and believed that God wasn't done with Mount Lake and the Baptist Church. And God's very stuff, God's been good to us But I'm telling you this, Satan wants to destroy us today just as much as he wanted to back 24 years ago. And that wind is still going to beat against our church, and that wind is still going to blow And we have got to keep our feet grounded on the rock. We've got to keep trusting God and keep doing what's right and keep obeying his instructions. Because if we let up That flood comes in, that rain comes in, that wind blows us down. Am I making any sense? When I studied this, God stirred my heart. I can see that And so the key to the Christian life is not complicated. It really isn't. I got these books, the secret to the spirit-filled life. Oh, the key to victory in the Christian life. There's no secret, there's no fancy little shortcut. It simply is this. Listen to what God says to us. Trust Him. And do what He instructs us to do. And if we do that, we're on solid ground. And when the wind blows and the floods come and the rain falls, we're going to be okay. We're going to be okay. Amen? That makes sense. So let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord is this tremendous sermon you many, many years ago has challenged me. And I pray you would give us Faith, give us believing and obedient hearts. And when you speak to us and when you instruct us in your word, we'll believe you and then just do it, incorporate it into our lives. Help us, Lord, I pray. In Jesus' name. With our head bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say tonight and say, Preacher, there is some area God's been speaking in my heart. Maybe there's something I know it's there in the Bible, but for whatever reason. I just had a hard time doing what God says. I just struggled in this area, or maybe we just deliberately put it aside.