Peter chapter four verse number nineteen. I just want to look at this final verse of uh chapter four, and it's actually verse nineteen here is actually, I think A summary of the subject he's been dealing with up to this point. So notice what it says. Wherefore, let them that suffer according to the will of God Commit the keeping of their souls to him in well-doing as unto a faithful Creator. Now what I noted, a word that caught my attention in that verse is the word commit. Commit. And I've entitled the message A Safe Deposit for the Soul. A safe deposit for the Soul. I'll explain what I mean by that title here in a minute. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we thank you for a good day And what a blessing to hear of folks trusting you as Savior and uh testimonies of your goodness and working through us. Lord, I'm I speak for the church uh when I come to you, Lord, and say we want you to use us. uh to impact our community and world with the gospel. And so we're grateful when we hear reports of that. I ask now as we finish out this special day on a special weekend in our country That you'd stir our hearts, challenge us, get our perspective clear as we go into this new week. Help us to see you, Lord. Help us to trust you. I was to walk with you this week, and so do what you need to in our hearts and minds tonight. I yield my will to you, and I present my body to be used of you as a conduit for you to speak through me I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and be the preacher now in this next few moments. I ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen. How many people know what a safety deposit box is? Safety deposit box. I don't know if you have one. We have one. And uh we have various things in there. A safety deposit box is you no doubt are completely aware of is uh is a an extremely secure container and you use it to put your valuables in something that is valuable you put it in there to keep it safe to keep it secure And then what we do is we put it in there, and that ideally gives us peace of mind that these items that are incredibly valuable are going to be okay regardless of what happens Maybe a flood hits, but my valuables are going to be okay. They're in the safety deposit box. Maybe a fire hits, God forbid. A fire hits my house, but I have a safety deposit box And that box is very secure, and my valuables are going to be safe. That which is valuable to me is going to be secure. It's going to be safe in that box. Maybe thieves break in Well you have a safety deposit box. If you ever notice, if you have a safety deposit box at the bank, which is where you mostly get them, you notice, you go in there, it's in the most secure place in the bank Anybody go in there? There's a big vault you got to go through to get there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Can you picture that in your mind? You go in, has this huge vault, and there's a two-key system to get into that thing And a lot of times a bank will have a guard. The building itself is very secure. And so a safety deposit box is a place we put something that is very, very valuable to us. And it keeps it safe, it keeps it secure, it gives us a peace of mind. And so Peter here is talking to these believers. He's writing to believers, as we mentioned. They have been going through it. They've been persecuted very intensely for their faith. They have been suffering. And that has been the subject that we are finishing up here in verse number 19. For the last Almost the whole chapter four, going back, he's been addressing suffering, unjust suffering, unfair suffering, being treated unkindly, being treated unjustly, and how to respond to that And verse 19 kind of comes to a head. Notice what he says here. He says, wherefore? Because of all that was said, everything that was said, all we've discussed. Now, this is what you need to do. You've been treated unkindly, you've been treated unjustly. People have persecuted you because of your faith. You've lost family members maybe, you've lost your job, you've lost your home, you've been run out of your community, been beaten, violently treated? Now, in light of all of that, here's what you need to do. Wherefore? It's interesting. He references suffering at least 21 times. In this passage here, and actually in the book of 1 Peter, 21 times suffering of some form or another, he addresses that. And they knew what he was talking about. These New Testament believers knew firsthand what it was uh to suffer for their faith. And actually, and I mean I've said this numerous times as we worked our way through here, all through church history, Christians have suffered for their faith. Is anybody anybody here familiar with the little book, Trail of Blood? Anyone familiar with that little book? We've had some folks read it during the lockdowns and everything. It's a history, a testimony of the price that our forefathers have paid for their faith. Many gave their lives Shed blood, literally a trail of blood. Anybody here familiar with the old book, Fox's Book of Martyrs? Anyone familiar with that? Yes. That's a classic. Everybody ought to read Fox's Book of Martyrs at least one time in your life. Now there's more current ones come out. I read one a year or so ago and gave it to some folks, and it's a daily, it's 365 days account of somebody that paid a price for their faith imprisoned Life-taken, something, where they were persecuted for their faith. Church history is replete with God's people suffering for their faith And the Lord Jesus Christ, their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. I've said this before, I say it again. You and I are living in an abnormal time where we are not being persecuted for our faith That isn't that is an abno that is uh an uh what's the word I want? Uh um uh anomaly. A minomaly It's unusual. And you and I are experienced that. So Peter's writing about suffering, and he makes these concluding statements. I have four observations I'm going to give you very, very quickly. Number one uh I uh is the cause of suffering. I want us to consider the cause of suffering. Look what he says here. Now you might think we say why does somebody why does somebody suffer for their faith? Why does somebody suffer unjustly? What's the cause of that? Look what he says here. Wherefore, let them that suffer, now here's a statement, according to the what? Will of God. If I understand what he's saying here, there is some suffering that it's God's will for us to go through. You're suffering according to the will of God. Now, the way it's worded there implies to me that some suffering is God's will for us, and some suffering is not God's will for us. Notice what he says. He says, wherefore, let them that suffer according to the will of God. The implication being, some people are suffering, and it's not the will of God. In other words, it's possible to operate outside the will of God and bring unnecessary suffering on myself. I can operate outside the will of God and bring unnecessary heartache on myself. Some Christians suffer adversity and heartache and difficulties, and they don't have to But it's because of decisions they make. It's because of actions they take. I like what that great theologian said, um John Wayne. He said life is tough, and it's even tougher if you're stupid. I've quoted that before. And my my variation of that, my modification of that is life is tough, and it's even tougher if you're sinful. And some people sin against God deliberately. They know it's wrong, they know they shouldn't do it, and they do it anyway. And sin has consequences. You and I are free to make whatever decisions we want to, but we are not free to choose the consequences of those decisions. And it is possible for a person to operate outside the will of God. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that made decisions to go out of the will of God and it cost them dearly? You're going to say Jonah? God is good, yes, you're right. When you're a bus kid, the ans best answer to give to any question is God. You'll be right 70% of the time on the questions. Jonah. Was it God's will for him to go to flee to Tarshis? No, he was supposed to go where? Nineveh. And did he suffer for it? Would he have had to do that? Would he have had to have been swallowed by a whale? No. Peter trusted God and did what was right He was suffering outside the will of God. It wasn't God's will for all of that. Now God dealt with them and he got it right and he went back, but it cost them pretty dearly. Cost them pretty dearly. I was reading one account, some science Some bi um m uh uh what's a biologist of the ocean? Ocean biologist Yeah Uh but they were analyzing that and they said because of the acids inside the whale that it probably scarred him for life. But there probably was damage done to him permanently, physically, for life. That's very possible. I don't know. But he says, wherefore you that suffer according to the will of God, implying that some suffering is not the will of God. Can you think of someone else in the Bible that suffered that would not have to, out of the will of God? It wasn't God's will. Uh, we said Jonah. Samson was the one I got down. You guys saw my notes. Samson, I bet I think, my understanding, studying scripture, Samson died prematurely. He could have lived a much longer life. He could have been a great judge of Israel. But he's stepping outside the will of God cost him dearly. He would not have had to lose his eyesight, I don't believe He would not have them been killed the way he did and lose his freedom. But he refused to obey God. What I'm trying to say is this When we sin, when we deliberately step outside the will of God, the revealed will of God to us, there's a price to pay for that. There's a price to pay for that. Sometimes I work with people and they get uh they get very angry about things. They make decisions and those decisions have consequences. And then they get angry because of the consequences. What they need to do is back up a little bit and wait a minute, the problem isn't the consequences, the problem was the decision made that produced the consequences And so it's possible to suffer, have heartache, difficulties, trials, adversity outside the will of God. I put someone else down here, I put down the prodigal son Man, his father apparently was very wealthy. He could have had that money if he'd have been patient and waited on God's timing and the appropriate time, could have got that, could have been had a nice life. He got selfish. He said, Gimme the inheritance that is mine. And what'd he do? He ran off and what? Wasted it on what? Riotous living. And it cost them. Cost him dearly. He suffered. He wouldn't know how to eat pig slop. He wouldn't know how to live in the pig pen. It's his decisions. And so some suffering is outside of the will of God. However He says here, wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God. I looked at that little phrase, will of God. It's interesting. It means this. It says, wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God or the plan of God for their life. Or the purpose of God for their life, for their experience, for part of their development, for part of their discipleship and spiritual growth. They need to go through this period of suffering. They need to understand and experience opposition. They need to experience what it means to be reviled for the name of Christ. And God says it's part of His plan for us many times, and sometimes for a Christian to go through persecution. Not because of some sin they did, but because of their faithfulness. And God uses that as part of his purpose, his processes, his method of developing us and helping us grow. Suffering many times is part of God's plan. It's part of God's purpose. Came across a quote. They said this: God shapes and develops our Christian character. With the hammer and chisel of adversity. In other words, our character as believers, our Christian character, is developed many times by the hardships we face in life. the difficulties in life. Some uh today's this is Memorial Day weekend. We think of our military men and women that gave their lives. But some of y'all have served in military. Um, boot camp is not designed to be ease and luxury. Imagine you just sat back, drank iced tea, went out fishing, and you know, strolled around. We would not have a fighting force. We would not be prepared to defend our country and put lives on the line. It would be a disaster. But they deliberately make it hard. They deliberately make you suffer Difficulty. Why? Because it develops strength, character, a a whole new frame of mind. God uses persecution, God uses unjust treatment, God uses the unkindness of the world God uses all of that and he uses it as a plan to develop you and I and make us stronger and stronger and stronger in the Lord. And develop character. Many times that persecution will search ourselves and will and will grow and will purge the things out of our life that are that are are un And things that are uh are temporal and meaningless and valueless, we purge that out of our life and because of the opposition, because of the difficulty, Because of the adversity, we develop a clearer view of what our priorities should be, of what's important and what isn't. When people experience ease and luxury and and uh uh uh ease, all of that, a lot of times the priorities get out of whack. Anyone know? And that which is valuable gets lost. In the pleasures of the ease and comfort. I like what Helen Keller said. Anybody familiar with Helen Keller? Anybody think maybe she knows a little bit about tough times? Yeah. Blind, deaf. Listen to what she said. Character cannot be developed in ease and quiet. But only through the experience of trial and suffering can the soul be strengthened. Ambition be inspired and success be achieved. You know what she's saying? Can I put it in my words? Nothing of any value ever comes without a cost. There's a price to pay, there's suffering, there's effort. Many times that includes persecution and unjustices. Romans chapter 5 and verse 3, Paul said this, tribulation worketh patience. How many people here could use a little more patience in your life? Yeah. Uh I told somebody this week, I said, please be patient with me. And uh you know what they said? They said, I will. I said, Praise the Lord. Thank you. We want people to be patient with us. How many of us need a little bit of patience ourselves? Yeah. How many people here ever prayed for patience? How many people ever prayed this way, Lord give me patience and right now? Yeah. In the midst of an argument. And you and you know it, you know you shouldn't say it. Lord, I need patience right now. Um if you're praying for patience, you better buckle down. Because you know where you know how you get patience? Tribulation. Tribulation worketh patience. James said something very similar. Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. God's will is for us to go through adversity and suffering and difficulty, and sometimes people treating us unjustly so that we can develop patience And learn not to react. Learn not to open our mouth before the mind is engaged. 2 Corinthians 12, 9, Paul was praying. He had a thorn in the flesh. He was asking God. Three periods of time, he pled with God to take this thorn away. And God says, nope, I'm not going to do it. God says, my strength is made perfect in your weakness. When you go through that, you'll see how strong I am. You'll see what we Here's the thing. If we're not careful, we can get what we can produce. God doesn't want what we can produce. God wants what He can produce through us. Sometimes he needs to break us down to get us out of the way. 2 Timothy 2 and verse 12, Paul told Timothy, If we suffer, we shall also reign with him. If we suffer, we shall also reign with him. I think what he's saying there is: listen, God puts us through suffering, and he develops our character, and we get to heaven And he rewards us. Brother Wilbur and I were talking before, we were working on our memory verse. And he said he wanted to hear, he's going to quote the verse to me, he wanted to hear the preacher say, Well done, thou good and faithful Wilbur He got it almost right. But we're faithful to the Lord. God puts us through trials and difficulties. We're faithful to the Lord. I tell you, there's a day coming. We stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Wouldn't that be something to hear Jesus say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant? Come reign with me. Suffering. Sometimes suffering is the will of God. He puts us through it to develop our character. We're so we we as an Americans we have it so good and so luxurious and so comfortable we have fall I'm afraid many times we have fallen in love with our comfort and our painlessness Even more, we're concerned more about that than we are about the will of God. If anything causes me any pain, if anything costs me anything, if anything is any sort of un comfortable or requires any sort of effort or trial on my part or difficulty on my part, then somehow this is terrible. I don't know God's developing us. He's growing us. He's strengthening us. I do not know. I think I can say this dogmatically. I do not know one great Saint of God. I mean with a godly, humble character, consistent, mature, that has not paid a price and been through heartaches and storms and trials. So some suffering is the will of God. He says, wherefore, let him that suffer, let them that suffer according to the will of God. Second word I put down here, second statement is our commitment in suffering. He says, wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to him. Commit the keeping of their souls. That word commit. Now, this is where I got the title from. That word commit means this. I love it. Get this picture, get a word picture in your mind, a picture of a definition. That word commit means this: to take something of value and place it into a secure box. In fact, part of the definition of the word is to deposit Into a secure place. He says, when you're going through suffering, it's the will of God. God's putting you through a trial God's uh uh allowing you to face opposition. God's developing your character, he's teaching you patience, he's strengthening your faith, he's putting you through all of this. What you need to do is take your soul And commit it, deposit it into the secure hands of the Lord. I love that picture. To place into a secure container, to commit Now, if I'm suffering because of foolish behavior, the young person is disobeying their parents and smarting off the parents and lying to their parents. They're teachers and stuff. And they get in trouble for that and they lose some stuff. The way what you ought to do in that setting, in that suffering, is stop doing wrong. Right? If you're suffering because of your behavior, change your behavior. But he says, but if you're suffering according to the will of God, Then you take yourself, you take your soul, your thinking, your mind, your heart, and you deposit that into the hands of God. You let God take care of you. You let God see you through that. Put your soul in the hands of the Lord. Keep your place here. I'm just about done. Come over, if you would, to 2 Timothy chapter 1. Just back before Hebrews. Get the Hebrews. Go back, Titus. 2 Timothy is right after 1 Timothy. And chapter 1. Look what Paul says. He knew a little bit what he was talking about. 2 Timothy chapter 1, look at verse 12. For the which cause I also, what? Are you there? Everybody, 2 Timothy 1, verse 12. Everybody there? Y'all got King James Bibles? Alright, good. Look at verse 12. For the which cause I also what? Suffer these things. Huh, that's what we're talking. That's what Peter's talking about. Look what he says. Nevertheless, I'm not ashamed. I'm suffering for the cause of Christ. I'm preaching the gospel. People are throwing me in prison, beat me, leaving me for dead. But I'm not ashamed. For I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have what? Committed unto him against that day. You know what Paul said? He says, Yeah, I'm suffering. Man, pay the price. Stoned, beaten, imprisoned, left for dead, tempted murder multiple times on his life. He says, You know what I've done in the midst of all of that? I've just committed it to him, and I'm persuaded God will see me through it. God will take care of me and God will strengthen me. My third point is this, real quickly, back there, our consistency in suffering Notice what he says in 1 Peter. He says, Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to him. But then he has a little statement in there, in well-doing. And I put this down. Our consistency in suffering. First, the cause of our suffering, the will of God, the commitment of our suffering, put yourself in God's hands. Just trust him. Just put in his hands. Let him see you through it. But Stay consistent in well-doing. In other words, keep on doing right. If somebody's, if you get thrown in jail for preaching the gospel, keep on preaching the gospel. If you lose all your friends because you read the Bible and pray and talk about Jesus, then keep on reading your Bible and keep on praying and keep on talking about Jesus. Commit the keeping of your soul to Him, and in well-doing, you just keep on doing right. You just keep on preaching the truth. You just keep on winning souls. You just keep on preaching the gospel. You just maintain your integrity. And the whole world's against you. You keep doing right. Keep doing right. Keep doing right. When we're being treated unjustly because of our faith and commitment to Jesus Christ, that is not the time to walk away from our faith and commitment to Jesus Christ. He says, keep on in well-doing. You just stay at it. You just stay at it. You just stay at it. You say, preacher, I feel like quitting. Listen, that's fine. Just don't do it. I heard a preacher say one time, he was preaching for a fellow, and he went into his office and the guy had a little placard on his desk. It says, Don't despair. But if you do despair, keep on doing right. That's not the most encouraging thing I've ever heard in my life. But it's a good point. Just keep on. There's a little phrase I've kind of taken for myself, and that is this. Stay the course. Just stay the course. Just keep you say, pray chair, my whole family's turned against me. You just stay faithful to the Lord Say, preacher, every kid in the school hates me because I'm trying to be a Christian. That's probably not every kid in the school does, but still live the Christian life. Say, preacher, all the guys at work cuss me out because I have a Bible. Keep carrying your Bible. And well-doing. Just stay the course. Stay consistent. Stay consistent. Maintain your integrity. Keep a sweet spirit. I like Psalm 126, verse 5 and 6. They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. They're weeping, but they keep right on sowing. He that goeth forth and weepeth bearing precious seeds shall doubtless come again with rejoicing. He's weeping, but he's still out there sowing the seed. In Job chapter 1, of course, Job gets hit by everything he doesn't understand. And his wife of all people Comes by and says to Job. Now what was Satan trying to get Job to do? Curse God. That's what Satan said twice. He said, oh, you take your hedge away, he'll curse you to your face That's what Satan was trying to get Job to do, to curse God, to abandon his integrity of all people. Job's wife comes along. You know what she said? Curse God and die. She was Satan's ally. Now, no doubt she was hurting. Her kids died also. She lost everything also. She's in, you know, she's right there with them. It's kind of tough that the woman, the person he was nearest to and dearest to him, allied with Satan and said, you do exactly what Satan's trying to get you to do Job could have thrown his hands up and said, I quit. This doesn't make sense. I give up. I'm done. But he didn't. Know what Job said? Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speak. I'm gonna maintain Oh, she questioned, she said this, curse God and die, dost thou still retain thine integrity Curse God and die. He said, you're speaking like one of the foolish women. Shall not God give us good and also give us evil? And Job stayed the course, stayed the course. Now he had his questions, he had his struggles, good heavens. When it was all said and done, Job continued in well-doing. Continued in well-doing. Listen, I don't know what the future holds for Christians in America. It looks to me there's dark clouds on the horizon. For Christians in America. And I'm by Christians I mean people hold to this old book and not compromise. I don't know what it is, but I know this. We need to take, commit, the well-keeping of our souls, commit it to the hands of Him, the Lord Jesus Christ. And then just keep on doing right and keep on doing right and keep on doing right and keep on doing right and keep on doing right. And they knock us down, we'll preach the truth when we're laying down. They throw us in prison, we'll preach the truth in prison. They bind our hands, we'll still do right with our hands bound. Consistency. Verse 10, Job 2, he says, And all this did not Job sin with his lips. And then last of all, I end with this our confidence in suffering. Look what he says. Wherefore, let him that suffer let him that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to him in well-doing. And he says this: as unto a faithful creator A faithful creator. What is someone that's faithful is what? You can what? You can trust them. They're trustworthy. You can rely on them. Take the keeping of your soul. You say, Man, my world is turned upside down, the whole world's turned against me because of my commitment to Christ. I'm trying to live for Jesus. We don't have to go out and look for trouble. It'll come And just doing right and living for God, I'm committing the well-being of my soul. I'm placing it in the safety box of God's hands. I'm going to keep doing right. And he says he's a faithful creator and the confidence we can have in suffering. I was reading, I did a little googling. I was trying to find how secure are safety deposit boxes. How often do they get broken into? How often do the things lost? And according to what I read, apparently the bank is under no obligation to honor anything we lose if it's in a Safety deposit box. If we don't donate if we deposit finances, then they're obligated to keep that secure. But in the safety deposit box, if it gets lost, sorry, Charlie, am I right, Joey? I think don't correct me if I'm wrong Just what's that? Oh, so all right. Just don't pay any attention to that woman over there. But my point I'm trying to make is this. I'm trying to end this thing. Um the point I'm trying to make is this. No safety deposit box, no safety deposit box that man comes up with is 100% faithful. There's always some chance that something can go wrong. It's always some chance that can get stolen. Now it's a lot safer than most places, but it's not 100%. What I'm trying to say is this. I take my heart and soul. I put my life in the hands, the safety deposit box of God's hands, and it is 100% faithful. 100% secure. There never has been a person that trusted Jesus Christ as Savior that ended up in hell. Never one time. Not one person. There never has been a person that has trusted Jesus Christ as Savior that has been abandoned and forsaken by Jesus Christ. He's 100% faithful. He is a faithful creator. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. We don't know what tomorrow holds, Lord. We'd like to We sure would like to keep our freedoms, our liberties. But Lord, whatever tomorrow holds, I pray you'd help us just to commit the well-keeping of our souls into your hands. Lord, I pray, strengthen our faith, use the trials we deal with to help us grow. Help us to sort out our values and things that are important and things that aren't. And we just want you to be glorified in our lives. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Maybe tonight, as we go into a new week. Just kind of visualize this altar as a safety de God's safety deposit box. Just come and say, Lord, I put my whole life, my heart and soul. I put it in your hands. I commit it to you. I trust you to lead me, to keep me, strengthen me, use me however you see fit. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, let's stand together.