They go to Luke, so keep find that and keep that, and then come to Matthew chapter number one. And I want to just read a couple verses from Matthew chapter one. And uh we are glad that you're out today. We were out Christmas caroling last night and uh actually it was snowing pretty good over out towards Gorman. We hit out there and we're driving around. And we were coming back. We finished up. We're heading back. And we're coming down Dennett Road here. And lo and behold, a herd of reindeer ran out right in front of us. I think they were reindeer. But um they're gonna come up one short this year. Uh no, not really. We didn't hit any It was a better story if we hit one than not, but um due to the tr the bus driver's tremendous driving skills, we were able to avoid Hitting of them. No, Matt was not driving, by the way. Matthew chapter 1. And if you would notice with me, verse number 21. Matthew chapter 1, verse 21. The Bible says, and she, of course, Mary, shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus. Now, look closely at this next statement. For he shall do what? Save his people from their sins. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophets, saying, Behold a virgin. Shall be with child, shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is being interpreted God with us. Shall call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Now, if you would come back to the Gospel of Luke, where we read from here a little bit ago. Again, these are very familiar portions of Scripture. We read them. We quote them at Christmas. One of the young men up here quoted just a moment ago. So very familiar passage of Scripture, but I want us to notice something now in verse number 11. Of Luke chapter 2. It says, For unto you is born this day in the city of David. Now look very carefully, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a what? A Savior. A Savior, which is Christ the Lord. Come over if you would to verse twenty five of Luke chapter two Same chap same chapter. Look at verse 25. Notice what the Bible says here. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon And the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Ghost was upon him. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. So God told him, You're not going to die until you see the Savior, until you see Christ. And he came by Spirit, verse 27, to the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law. Then took he him, Simeon, took little baby Jesus, took ye him, up in his arms and blessed God and said, Now look what he says here Lord, now letest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy words. Look at verse 30. For mine eyes have seen thy what? Salvation. For he shall save his people from their sins. A Savior is born. Simeon says, I have seen thy salvation. My message this morning is this. A savior is born. A savior is born Let's pray. Father, I ask now you'd speak to us from your word. I pray that you would open our eyes to understand what exactly took place. That Christmas morning so many years ago and what it means for us and the significance of that. Lord, I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. And Lord, that it would be you speaking through my lips to each of our hearts. And I pray, my prayer, Lord, is that each and every one of us, myself included, We would take very seriously our spiritual well-being. God, I pray you'd help us to examine very, very earnestly our relationship with you, our God and our Creator. And I pray that this Christmas season, our hearts would be drawn to Christ. So again, please fill me with your Spirit And speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Before we get started, let me just make uh just one real request real quick. If you if you have cell phones or those types of things, anything like that, we just ask that during the preaching time, especially Maybe put them up and turn them off or put them aside so we can uh uh focus on the Word of God this morning. We appreciate that. Uh I don't know about you, but I like Christmas. I mentioned this a couple weeks ago in the morning service, and it is still a bit of an ongoing debate, but I am a real tree Christmas guy. None of this artificial nonsense. Right? And so I praise the Lord for Brother James in his love and mercy for his pastor, bought me a real Christmas tree. And um it's in our bedroom. But nevertheless, I have a real Christmas tree. Now for those that weren't here, my wife wanted artificial. She likes artificial. I like real I like real because the smell and just because it's real. She likes artificial because she doesn't have to clean up underneath it and do all of that stuff. And so we compromised and got an artificial one and it's been a real blessing. But I enjoy Christmas. And here's here's what I wanna here's what I want to emphasize right from the get-go in my message this morning. Christmas is first and foremost. It is a celebration of the birth of a savior. That's what this is all about A Savior being born. Salvation coming to man. Christmas is not primarily, it's not about the star. Right? How many people are fascinated by the star? That captivates me. I would love to know the specifics of how God did that What an amazing event. The stars and all that m uh captivates me and just this thought of the star moving and stopping over the place where Christ was born. That to me is fascinating, is captivating. But that's not primarily what Christmas is about. Christmas is not about the shepherds. I like the shepherds. I'm going to talk about them here in a minute. I can relate to the shepherds It's not primarily about a manger. What an amazing thing, a baby born and laid in a manger of all places. But um that's not primarily what Christmas is about. Christmas is not primarily it's not about the wise men That showed up. And um uh you all know I'm I'm gonna ruin your nativity scenes right now. I'm gonna totally ruin your nativity scenes. The wise men were not there when Jesus was laying in the manger. I mean, we have convictions around here. No, if you have wise men in your nativity scene, we'll bear with you. But they didn't show up till two years later. And so uh Mark, don't don't talk to Mark about that. He gets worked up about Shepherds being in the nativity scene. Jackie said they had a little nativity scene. She goes, I'm gonna get this the wise men, I'm gonna put them in the other side of the room. You know, they're on their way Christmas is not primarily about the stars or the shepherds or the manger or the wise men. And I'll tell you, Christmas is boy, this is gonna this is gonna flip some of your lids. It is not primarily about elves. In fact, let me say it this way, it is not at all about elves. Christmas is not all about reindeer. I'd love to have a few in my freezer, to be honest with you. It is not at all about slaves or Santa. Christmas is about a savior. Showing up, being born miraculously, so that you and I can have eternal life That's what Christmas is. That's what Christmas is about. Now Jesus showed up and um uh Jesus was a great educator. He was a tremendous educator. In fact, I would recommend and I teach occasionally I teach the Sunday school uh teachers on teaching And I would highly recommend, if you teach a Sunday school class or you teach in any capacity, I would highly recommend you study the methods of the Lord Jesus Christ in teaching. I refer to him as the master teacher. He is a phenomenal educator. He was a phenomenal teacher. And he was a master at using everyday illustrations and questions. And various methods to get the message across, to convey the information that was important for people to understand. He was a master at that. He was a great educator. Jesus was an amazing miracle worker. More miracles were performed by the Lord Jesus Christ in that three and a half year period of his ministry than any other period of time in all of history. He was a miracle worker, uh uh uh uh uh uh spectacularly what he what God did and what he could do. Jesus was a bit of a political reformer. Nations are altered because of the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to suggest to you America is great in many ways because of the influence of the Word of God and the Lord Jesus Christ's teachings. He's a profound influence on the nations of the world, the Lord Jesus Christ. He was a perfect example. He's a perfect example. Now, there's this thing went around a number of years ago. What would Jesus do? They had the little things and headbands, I think, and stuff. What would WWJD And that's fine. I'm not going to go off on that. But um uh you have to be careful about that. Uh uh the the the the more important thing there is not what so much what would Jesus do, but what did Jesus tell me to do You follow what I'm trying to say? And so he's a great example in a lot of ways, and uh uh we can uh follow in his steps to some extent. But um but what the point I'm trying to get at here is though he was all of these, that is not why he came. a reformer or even just simply a godly example. We came to be a savior. That's my message this morning. That is the importance of Christmas, I believe. A savior is born. Jesus did not come to, Jesus was not born to become a savior. He was a savior at his birth. I was fascinating and I would toyed with praying about preaching on Simeon holding Jesus and saying, mine eyes have seen thy salvation. And then in that little baby, as he held that little baby there, he said, I saw salvation. The whole purpose of Jesus' existence as a man. Was to provide salvation. Salvation. So a savior is born. Now, here's the question: all right, Jesus is a savior, he came to save us. Here's the question I have: what do saviors do? He's the Savior. What do saviors do? Well, let's ask a few other questions. Let me ask you this: what do farmers do? They farm, right? What do bakers do? They bake stuff. Uh what do um builders do? They build things. What do preachers do? They preach. What do deacons do? Some place they don't do nothing. No. I better say this so I'm gonna pay. We got good deacons here. We got good What do saviors do? They save. They save people. They save people. I looked up the word savior in various dictionaries and It has this and it means pretty much what you think it would mean. It means this. One who rescues. Now get this. One who rescues or delivers Someone from danger or from destruction One who rescues or delivers someone, that person is in danger, they're facing destruction, and a savior comes in and rescues them from that danger. Delivers them. From that destruction. So when the Bible says that Jesus came as our Savior, a Savior is born. He came to deliver us, to rescue mankind from certain danger, from certain destruction. Now, but here's my next question is, what did Jesus come to save us from? What is that danger? What is that thing that man and you and I are so in danger of? What is that destruction that we are facing that we need a Savior to save us from? Well, Matthew chapter 1 and verse 21, we just read a moment ago, tells us that he came to save us from our sins. To save us from our sins. You've folks been around here very long, you've heard my testimony, you haven't memorized, I'm sure I'm telling you, uh I was saved at the age of nineteen, the day after my nineteenth birthday. It was May 7, 1979. It was at 1030 at night, by the way. It was this coming May, it will be 40 years ago, that as a teenage boy, I bowed beside my bed. I cried out to God, be my personal Savior and come in and save me. The night I got saved. Are you listening? The night I got saved. I was not seeking the Lord to save me from hell. Now, hell was my destination. If I would have died that day, it was a Monday. If I'd have died that day, I was out carrying on. If I'd have been in a car wreck or OD'd, if I'd have died that day, I would be right now standing before you, I would be in hell. Right now. But I wasn't thinking about hell. I wasn't thinking about heaven. I wasn't thinking about dying. I was concerned about one thing, and that was this. I was a sinner. And sin was destroying me. A few months earlier, I began praying. My life would, you know, it's amazing, it's amazing. How thoroughly a young man can mess his life up by the time he's nineteen years old And I had done a phenomenal job at totally messing my life up. And I saw what was happening to people around me, and I saw my some of my dearest friends at that time in jail and another one that OD'd on drugs in the backseat of a car and others were messed up and I saw what was happening to them and I saw the lives they were living. And I saw where they were headed, and I saw that I was heading that exact same way, and I did not want to be the man I was becoming I began to cry out to God, oh God, have mercy on me. Help me, help me. I don't want to live this way. I don't want to be this kind of person. I wasn't thinking about heaven or hell. I just wanted to be forgiven of my sin. I just wanted to be the man God created and designed me to be. Under great conviction of my sin and seeing myself as uh as a as a messed-up kid I bowed on my knees and I called out to God, not to save me from hell, but Lord Jesus, save me from my sin. I knew he died for me as I was trying to straighten my life up and I try and uh do everything. This is the way I used to say it. I'd say, you know, I tried turning over a new leaf. And I found out the back side of that leaf was just as rotten and poisonous as the top side of the leaf was. I could not reform myself and I could not change myself. I was a servant to sin. I bowed on my knees that night and I called out to God. You know what I found out? Jesus is a savior from sin. And he forgave me and he gave me a new life. And I don't I can't explain it, and I know it doesn't hasn't happened to everybody exactly the same, and I don't know why it was this way with me. But that night when I called out on the Lord, the Lord delivered me immediately from that sin. I mean my life was transformed on the spot. Next day I got up, went off to work early in the morning, went off to work, and I was a new man. There was no lights flashing, there was no angels singing in the sky, there was no bells ringing. Down inside my heart and soul, God gave me new life. God made me a new creature. Now, am I perfect? No. Have I sinned? Yes, it's still a struggle with sin and different things, but I'm telling you, God delivered me. Jesus came to save us from sin. And I'm telling you, there's not a person here in this auditorium, there's not a person on planet earth that is not involved in sin to such a degree that Jesus Christ cannot forgive and save them from that sin. Your most hardened sinner, the most depraved person. If they will come to Christ in repentance and faith, God will forgive them and save them and deliver them. from that sin. We have a great Savior. All around the world people can stand and testify the fact Jesus Christ changed my life. Jesus Christ took on all an impure, ungodly heart. He made it clean and pure. Jesus Christ is our Savior and He came to save us from sin. From sin. But He also came to save us not just from the presence and power of sin in our life. But he came to save us from the judgment of sin. You see, the God that created this world, this amazing world in this universe, the God that just spoke it into existence. This God that is here right now, he's invisible, he's omnipresent, he is here right now. You don't see him, you don't feel him, you don't hear him, but I'm telling you, he is here That God is a holy God. He is holy in the sense that his standard, his very essence Is pure and righteous, and he cannot tolerate sin. And there is an unchangeable natural law because of the holiness of God, and that is this sin, disobedience, impurity, immediately falls under the judgment of a holy God. The Bible says in Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin, the consequences, the natural consequences, the judgment of God upon sin is death. It's physical death, but it's also spiritual death, is what he's referring to there. And that spiritual death, what you and I are as spiritual beings, that death, if I die in my sins, if I die unforgiven, if I die unsaved. The Bible was very clear. I'm telling you, this book is very clear. If I die unsaved in my sins unforgiven, I am separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. And Jesus Christ came to save us from sin and from its judgment hell. Not one person in the world has to go to hell. Not one person in the world has to go to hell. In fact, God is not willing that any should perish. God wants all to come to repentance. God wants everybody to be saved. God didn't create us to die and go to hell. He created us to live and live forever. But sin came in. And the result of a holy God, that sin is judged. The judgment is separation from our holy God for all eternity in hell. When I was in, I've told this before over the years, but uh when I was in Chattanooga, uh a friend of mine, uh Randy Miller, pastors out in Illinois, just turned uh older yesterday, I forget how old it is his birthday. But um we were driving, he had a car, I didn't, he was rich, I was poor. And um we're in Bible college and we're driving, we're going off somewhere, and we're driving down the road and came to a stop sign, this uh gal, and she was obviously living on the street. She could tell by the way she was driving And she's knocking on the window of the car. Uh can you give me a ride? Can you give me a ride? I was in the passenger seat and we're like, uh okay. So I jumped back in the back seat. She sat up front there And we began driving and Randy started talking to her about the Lord and different things. Ask her if she was a Christian. No. Oh, if she know for sure she's going to heaven? No. Can we show you sure And so he's kind of witnessing, and I'm in the back there kind of reinforcing it. We're talking. And she agreed that she was a sinner. We're all sinners. And when Brother Randy mentioned about the fact that the wages of sin is death, that the consequences of sin, if we die in our sin, we're separated from God for all eternity, she got very, very angry. And she began screaming and yelling. She goes, God would never send anybody to hell. God would never send anybody to hell. God loves us too much. He would never send anybody to hell. L Get me out of this car, let me out of this car We quickly pulled over and she jumped out and ran out and we tried to tell her before she got out, listen, God doesn't send people to hell. God's done everything he possibly can to keep people out of hell. And he gives us the choice. We can accept best Savior. He can accept what he's done for us. and be forgiven and saved from hell, or we can just say, no, I don't want anything to do with it. I'm not interested. And just go on our way. God's not willing that any should perish. That's why Jesus came. The Savior is born. We as mankind have sinned against God. We've broken his law. We've rebelled against him. Our hearts are uh have turned against him and the consequence of that is judgment, sin, and death and hell. He said, I love him. And he sent his son to be our Savior. He sent his son. I put, I wrote this down. I like this statement. God loves to save sinners. What does God love to do? I'll tell you what God loves to do. He loves to save sinners. Forgive them and change their life. Give them eternal life. God loves saving sinners, save them from sin and save them from hell. My first thought this morning just quickly is this. Number one, Jesus is a personal Savior. A personal Savior. Look with me there in Luke. Chapter number two. And look at verse number 11. This is the angel speaking to the shepherds, and he says this, for unto you Is born this day in the city of David unto you. That angel, that messenger angel from God, was addressing a handful of shepherds And he was talking directly to them, and he says, unto you, you guys, a Savior is born. Of all the folks in this whole Christmas event, of all the people that were on planet Earth and in this region at that time. My favorite are the shepherds. All the wise men we talked about and other people there, all that, my favorite is the shepherds. You know why I like the shepherds? Because they were just ordinary everyday people. When Jesus came, when God sent his angel to announce the birth of a Savior, He did not send him to great political leaders. Now, Jesus, as we said, his life and teaching, his influence is going to alter nations powerfully, like nobody else in history. But Jesus, God didn't send the main the angels to announce his birth to the political leaders, to the kings of that day. He came to some shepherds Just a bunch of ordinary guys working trying to make ends meet. He didn't go to the political leaders of their day, the theologians and the seminaries. Oh, a Savior's born. He'd go to the preachers and the seminaries and he'd announce it to them. Nah. He shows up with the shepherds. The shepherds. He doesn't go to the financial leaders, the wealthy, rich people. He says, unto you, you shepherds. You individual fellows, just ordinary everyday sinners, just like everybody else, but just ordinary folks. Jesus came to be a savior, not in general terms, but he came to be a personal savior. I'm glad that night on May 7, 1979, when I dealt by my bed, that God saves individuals I'm sorry, there's not enough people here. I can't save you. We need a group of people before I save you. No, if I was the only person on earth that night, he'd have saved me and forgave me. Same with you. It comes to individuals. Individuals. Being saved from sin and hell is something Christ does for me individually. He does for us personally. Can I say this? Nobody ever gets to heaven because mom and dad were saved. I thank God for my daddy. He moved down and joined the church last week, living down here. Y'all pray for me. I'm having to behave. I love having my daddy. I love having him at service in the service. Listen, when I die, I know for sure I'm going to heaven, no doubt about it. But not because daddy's a Christian, but because that Bible promises me, whoever calls the name of the Lord shall be saved. Nobody gets to heaven because their daddy's a good Christian, or because their mama's a good Christian, or because they're in a Christian family. Nobody gets to heaven because they're a member of a church Lord William will have a baptism here in a moment, in a little bit. Nobody gets to heaven because they are dipped in the waters, the baptism waters. It is a personal transaction, it is a personal event, it is a personal introduction as a center of uh uh uh under the judgment of God putting my faith and trust personally individual in Jesus Christ who is the Savior of the world. That is where salvation is It is an individual thing. It's not through my parents. It's not through a priest. It is only through a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. It's interesting when he references the uh shepherds here. I got studying about the shepherds back in that day. Now we picture, I don't know how you picture shepherds back in then. But we kind of picture them kind of celebrity status almost. You know, boy, they were right there. They were the Jesus announced them. These shepherds are something. Actually In that day and age, shepherds were just uh uh that that was like the bottom of the barrel Um a lot of times the shepherds were actually prisoners of war that they brought back and they would give them responsibility to watch and and uh keep the sheep and clean them up. They were a lot of times just young boys, hirelings. As I said many times, they were just slaves. It was not a highly respected position. In fact, I would suggest to you, from what I understand of studying it, no little kid would say, when I grow up, I want to be a shepherd. In fact, the one history book I was reading about them, they said this: shepherds many times were considered just one level above lepers. I'm glad, I'm glad God loves and saves bottom of the barrel people. Because that's what I was. That's what I was. It doesn't matter how badly you may have sinned, it doesn't matter how lowly you may view yourself, and it doesn't matter how badly a person may have messed up. I'm here to tell you. God loves you enough to come down here and suffer the judgment of your sin for you and rise again. He didn't just do it for kings and rich people and religious leaders. He did it for shepherds. Just ordinary people. Ordinary people. So we have a personal Savior. The next thing I notice here in this Savior, it's a prophesied Savior. Look at. Verse number 11 with me for unto you as born this day. In the city of David, a Savior. Why does he say that in the city of David? You know why he used that term? Because that was a direct fulfillment of an Old Testament prophecy. Scores and scores of references from the Old Testament, written hundreds, some cases thousands of years before, were fulfilled literally and clearly at the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm telling you, it's a fascinating study. How God, in his word, thousands of years ahead, gave details About the birth of the coming Messiah, the birth of the coming Savior. For instance, in Genesis 22, 18, he prophesied that he would be a descendant of Abraham. Now that in and of itself, there's thousands and millions of descendants of Abraham. But then he went farther and he said it would be a descendant of Jacob. Then in Isaiah chapter 7, verse 14, he said he would be born of a virgin conception. A virgin would conceive. And the miraculous conception of a child in the womb of a virgin without the seed of merit. Amazing thing. Thousands of years before prophesied, that's exactly what's going to happen. The timing of his birth is given in Daniel chapter 9, verse 25 and 26. God said this is when he's going to be born. Now the second coming of Jesus Christ, we are told no man knows the day nor hour. We have no idea when Jesus is coming back. Let me throw this out: He is coming back. But we don't know when. By design. God did not tell us. It's not for us to know. However, his first coming, he told exactly when he's coming. They could have and should have known when Jesus Christ was born. Daniel tells us Um so the timing of his birth, of the place of his birth, Micah 5 2, that he would be born in Bethlehem Jeremiah 31 and verse 15 prophesied the fact that many children there would be murdered by her Herod Hosea chapter 11, verse 1 prophesied his return from Egypt. They would go down to Egypt for a period of time, then come back And on and on and on we could go that God, years in advance, prophesied the coming of the Savior. Only the Word of God can do that. Nobody has ever been born Like Jesus was born, and nobody has ever fulfilled prophecies like the Lord Jesus Christ had. I am holding in my hand right here the eternal perfect word of God. And that is the only thing that could have prophesied the birth of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. His birth was like no other birth. It was prophesied. And last of all, let me give you my ther- my last thought, Bess. He's a powerful Savior. Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. That little baby born that day in the arms of Mary, laying in the arms of Mary, was God Almighty. God became a man, the God that spoke this into existence, this eternal God Took on flesh. And Mary held in her arms God Almighty. John chapter 1 and verse 1 says, In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God. Say it with me, and the word was God. And you come down to verse number 14, it says, And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. God became a man. And born in that little child. Thursday night I was out knocking on doors here in town. I was in a little apartment complex downtown and um knocking doors and most folks weren't home. I don't understand. It seems like nobody's ever home anymore. Then I got to think about it, I'm not home. So I stopped my critical spirit. And the last door I knocked on, a lady came to the door and I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Baptist Church that's just out here inviting folks out to our Christmas service. And uh leave an invitation with you. Love to have you and your family come on out for our special day. She goes, thank you very much, but uh I already tend to have my own uh place of worship I said, okay, well that's fine. We're not trying to get anybody away. I said, where do you go to church at? She says, I go to Kingdom Hall. I said, okay. I said, well, listen, uh let me leave. I got some literature here, a little book that tells how we can know for sure that our sins are forgiven, that when we die, we go to heaven, be with the Lord in heaven and not end up in hell. And uh it's a wonderful promise. And she goes, no, no, that's fine. She goes, actually I do Bible studies with folks and I go door to door out and do Bible studies with folks. And I just loved it. Here's a Baptist knocking on the door of a Jehovah's Witness. And she was actually a little irritated with me that I knocked on her door. I said, talk about irony I was very kind to her, and she was very kind to me. But her, not personally, but the Jehovah's Witnesses are wrong. When they say that Jesus is not God, Jesus is God. He's Emmanuel, God with us. He said, He that has seen me has seen the Father. And our Savior is none other than God Himself. In human form. That our Savior is God Almighty. Our Savior is God all-powerful. Our Savior is the creator of the universe. Our Savior is perfect in knowledge and wisdom. Don't tell me Jesus can't save you. He's all powerful. He's all loving. He's our Savior. Savior from sin and hell. So our He's a powerful Savior in that He is God Almighty in the flesh He's a powerful Savior in that he is Lord. Notice what it says. Christ the Lord. Now what is a Lord? They say he is Christ the Lord. What do they mean by Lord? It's not a name. It's not his last name. It's a description. It's a description of his character. It's a description of his position. It's a description of his authority. He is Lord. What is a Lord? A Lord, the definition of the word is this: one to whom a person belongs to. One who has authority over it. If Jesus is Lord, it means we belong to him. He has authority over him. Our Savior that was born on Christmas, we celebrated this season, is Lord of all His authority. His power. We make a mistake in our witnessing sometimes. mean it exactly that way. We we omit a little bit in our witnessing, maybe I should say. And when we tell people that God will save them and they c they can escape hell and God will save them from hell, that is absolutely true. Salvation is God saving me from going to hell, and I thank Him for that. I'm glad that I can lay my head on my pillow tonight and know for sure that whatever happens I know I'm going to heaven. Not because I'm good, not because I'm better than anywhere else. I'm not. But because God promised that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved from hell. But he's more than just a savior from hell. He came to be the Lord of our lives. To be the Lord of our lives. If you would, and I'm going to end with this. Turn with me, if you would, to Luke chapter number six. Luke chapter number six. He doesn't save a person just to keep them out of hell. He saves a person, get this, to take over their life. To give a new life, to give a pure life, to give a good life, to give eternal life. Luke chapter 6, and I want to read verse number 46, if you would find that with me. Luke 6. And verse number 46. Notice what the Bible says. This is Jesus speaking. He said, Why call ye me Lord, Lord? And do not the things which I say. Now he's talking to his disciples. He's talking to folks that have been saved, that claim to have trusted him as Savior He says, why do you call me Lord, Lord, but you don't do the things I say? Now look at this, look at the illustration he gives. Whosoever cometh and heareth my sayings and doeth them not, I'll show you to whom he is like He is like a man which built a house and dig deep and laid the foundation on a what? Rock. And when the flood came, the stream beat vehemently upon that house. And could not shake it, for it was founded upon a rock. But he that heareth, uh he that heareth and doeth not. It's like a man without a foundation built a house upon the earth, against which the stream did beat vehemently. Immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. What's he telling us? He's saying I came to be your Savior, to save you from sin in hell, but I am Lord. And if you'll trust me as your Savior, if you'll turn to me and trust me as your personal savior, I'll forgive all your sin. I'll save you from hell. But I came to be your Lord. And if you will follow my instructions, if you will trust me and do what I say. You can have a good life, you can have a stable life, you can have peace and fulfillment and purpose in your life, and when the storms of life come and Sickness and setbacks and financial troubles and heartaches come. You can still have peace and purpose in your heart and life. It doesn't have to be destroyed. He is our Savior, but he came to be our Lord. I've been around 58 years coming up on 59, May 6th. Write that down, May 6th. Been around a little bit. And I'll tell you, I'd far rather have Jesus Christ running my life than me running my life. I tell you what, I've taken things into my hands more often I care to admit, and every single time I regretted it. Can I stand and testify you before God, before all the world, before all witnesses? Can I stand and testify when I trusted what God said, when I followed his instruction When I did what he says I should do every single time, I've been glad I did that. I'm glad I trusted the Lord. I have never regretted obeying God's word. I have never regretted. I have never regretted. Trusting the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, it's been a heap of times I thought, well, I think I'll just do that. I think I know. No way. We're doing this my way. Every single time. Messed it up. Messed it up. Messed it up. I'd far rather have Jesus running my life than me. Let me ask you a question. Is Jesus your Savior? He came. He is the Savior. He came as our Savior. And a simple act of faith, Lord, I know I'm a sinner. Lord, I know I am. I've got to be honest. If we'll believe that he died on that old cross for our sins, paid that judgment of hell, suffered hell in our place, rose again. And by faith, say, Lord, I accept what you've done for me. I receive that by faith what you've done for me. My Bible says God will forgive us and save us, and forgive all our sin and give us a new life. Once of those of us who have trusted Christ that have done that, let me ask you a question. Are you living for Him as your Lord? Following his instruction, doing what I said. We're talking this morning, but Phil got saved. He says, I need to be baptized, doing what God says. One of our young people got saved. She's going to follow the Lord in baptism. Living by the Word of God. God says that, all right. I trust God. I believe it He's the Lord. I'm going to follow His directions and instructions. And I'm telling you, that is what a successful life is built on. Wally was nine years old. He's a little, I don't know the word you would use. You say slow, not really, but just a little backward maybe would be the word. Wasn't real outgoing. And the children's workers said, Wally, we're having a Christmas program, and we want you to be in the program. Huh? Me? Yeah, Wally, we got a role for you. So all the kids got their parts and they began practicing. And Wally's role was to be the innkeeper. And he had one line. When Joseph and Mary showed up in the play, when Joseph and Mary showed up, he's standing in the door of the inn and he is supposed to say this. This is his line. I'm sorry, we have no room. Boy, he took that seriously. He practiced. I'm sorry, we have no room. I'm sorry. For weeks he practiced with his parents. All right, Wally, what's your line? I'm sorry. We have no room. I mean, he was ready for this The night of the play came, the Christmas play, and Christmas Eve, and the stage was set. They had these shepherds and the angels and the little sheep and the little priest schoolers in their little sheep clothes. And Mary and Joseph. And Mary and Joseph in the play are making their way to Bethlehem. And they come up and in the play, and the fellow acting out Joseph was very confident. He was into it. And he knocked on the door of the inn. Lil Wally, the innkeeper, answers the door. And Joseph says to him, and the line was this: My wife and I have traveled far. She is with child. You have a room that we could stay in. That was the line he was supposed to say. And he said that. And Wally went. He looked down. I'm sorry, we have no room in the inn. And Joseph decided he was going to add to the story. And Joseph says, Oh, come on, man We've been traveling forever. My wife is going to have a baby and we don't have anywhere. Is there any way at all he could possibly keep us? Old Wally's mind went And while he looked at the ground, he says, I'm sorry, we have no room in the inn. And Joseph, oh and starts walking away. And while we stay in there. And tears began rolling down his cheeks. And he said, wait a minute, wait a minute. Come back. You can have my room. Now that ruined the story. But I tell you, that attitude is exactly What we ought to have as sinners. Lord Jesus Christ, you're the Savior. You come into my life. I have room in my heart and life for you. I need you. I need you You know for sure, you know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven. You go to heaven and not to hell. You don't have to go to hell. God doesn't want you to go to hell. He's already suffered hell for you. You'll just trust him, turn to him, acknowledge your sin, and trust him as your Savior. He'll forgive you. And give you eternal life. If you've already trusted Him, are you living for Him? Why don't you give a gift to the Lord Jesus Christ as a Christian this year and say, Lord, I give you my life, I'll live for you. I'll live for you. You show me and tell me, instruct me, and I'll follow your instructions, Lord. I'm telling you, God will bless you. God will bless you Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use some of these thoughts maybe this morning to challenge us and help us. God help us to see what this is all about. Help us to see Jesus, our Savior, and our desperate need of that Savior. Before I continue on, I'm going to offer a simple little prayer. I don't do this often from the pulpit, on certain times we do. But if you're here this morning and I don't know, but you're here this morning and you say, preacher, I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven. I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. And I'm concerned about that, and I don't want to go to hell You'll acknowledge to God that you are a sinner. You've broken his law. And if that concerns you, you just understand the seriousness of that And if you believe in your heart that God on the cross in person of Jesus Christ suffered his judgment, suffered your judgment, my judgment for you on that cross, he suffered hell. He was punished in your place. Rose again. You'll by faith in your heart turn to him and call on him. My Bible says God will forgive you and save you. I'm going to offer a simple little prayer. It's not magic words. You can lip it all you want. It's not going to do a bit of good. But in your heart, say, I want to accept Jesus as my personal Savior. I want to know that my sins are forgiven at a little home in heaven. You could pray this simple prayer with me. I'm going to give it right now. Between you and God in your heart, here it is. Your Lord Jesus, I acknowledge to you I am a sinner. I believe you died for my sin and rose again. I'm calling on you. Be my personal Savior. In Jesus' name. Amen. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. If you prayed that prayer with me just now, you say, preacher, I meant that. I did in my heart. I called on the Lord. I'd like to pray that God would bless you Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, I prayed that prayer. I meant it with all my heart. God bless you. How about it? Any others around, preacher? I prayed that prayer. I mean, I meant it. God bless you Now if you're here this morning and you've been saved, you know you've trusted Christ, there's no doubt Maybe God spoke to your heart this morning and say, I need to start living for him. There's things I know God instructs me to do, and I'm just going to trust him. I'm going to obey him and let him be Lord of my life. Is there any like that, preacher? God spoke to my heart. There's areas in my life. I just need to trust the Lord. Obey Him. Any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. It's ongoing. It's lifelong, I'm telling you. Just constantly trust and obey. Trust and obey. Father in heaven, thank you for your great promise, for this great Savior. We can have eternal life and have new life. I pray you bless now our imitation. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's stand together. Our head