And uh well we complain about the weather and all that, but it sure is Christmassy out there, isn't it? With snow everywhere and all that. And I'll tell you one thing uh that has been such a blessing to me over the years. This is just a little simple thing might be uh 'cause I'm just simple minded maybe, but I love in the evenings, especially Sunday evenings, uh it's dark out and the choir's over here practicing. Sometimes I'll run to the house and freshen up and whatever And I'm coming back when there's snow on the ground. These windows are kind of orangeish, you know, a little bit tint to them. And those lights from inside this church out reflecting on that snow is just beautiful And uh I just that just is a blessing to me. So has nothing to do with the message, but it was a blessing to me. So if you would, Luke chapter 2. Oh, I gotta tell you this one I heard this week, or some time ago, actually. A fellow was uh sitting at the table reading the newspaper one day And his wife comes up with a frying pan and slams him across the head, the back of the head with a frying pan. Uh he kind of recovers himself, his head is splitting. He says, What in the world was that for? She said, well, it's doing wash, and I found in your pocket a paper that had the name Mary Lou on it. He goes, sweetheart, that was from when I was at the horse race, and that was the horse's name that I was betting on. It's not another woman. And uh he says, you gotta believe me. She goes, Well, okay A couple weeks went by. He's sitting at the table eat reading his newspaper and she gets a cast iron frying pan and smack across the back of the head, knocks him over. He's unconscious for a half hour Finally comes till he gets up, he says, What in the world was that for? She said, Your horse called yesterday. And um So you gotta be careful. But um So there you have it. Acts chapter Luke chapter two. Our text is verse eleven. I'd like for us to read this verse together. Am I on Dave? I think there we go, thank you. Uh verse eleven. Let's read this together with me. Would you read it with me? Here we go. Ready? For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. Untitled The Message A Savior Is Born. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this Christmas time and uh thank you for just the whole atmosphere and uh uh the the joy of the Lord that so often permeates our services in a special way. I ask now that we just settle down our hearts and minds, put the weather and and other things out and just focus on your word here for a few minutes. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and I pray that you would speak through me. Help us, Lord, to understand what this is all about And Lord, I pray it would uh uh help us to grow in our faith in you and our walk with you. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Christmas, for the believer especially, is first and foremost a celebration of the birth of a Savior. Now, notice in verse number 11, I underscored the word Savior in that verse. That is what Christmas for the Bible believer is all about: the birth of a Savior. The Bible does not say, for unto you is born this day in the city of David an educator. Now Jesus was certainly an educator. We learn a lot. From life, and he has inspired the life of Jesus Christ and the teaching of Jesus Christ have inspired colleges and universities to be sprout up all around this world. for thousands of years. Certain certainly Jesus' influence on the world has promoted education in its true sense. But the Bible doesn't say, behold, I uh the Bible doesn't say for unto you is born this day in the city of David, an educator. The Bible doesn't say that for unto you is born this day in the city of David a miracle worker. Now we know that Jesus performed miracles. And we believe the Bible. When the Bible says that Jesus performed a particular miracle, we have no reason to doubt that. We believe that with all our hearts. And by the way, I believe Jesus is still in the miracle-working business. We do not uh strive to m uh healers per se, but we do have a God that heals And we've seen miracles. I think we've seen some miracles here in our church, where God has done amazing things that cannot be explained. But the Bible doesn't say that behold, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a miracle worker. That was not what he came to do. That was not the purpose of his birth and life, to educate or to heal. The Bible does not say, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a political reformer. I'll be honest with you, there's a lot of politicians that need reformation, in my mind. And no doubt Christianity and the Word of God and the life of Christ has influenced nations and uh politics uh in many ways over the years. There was a day, particularly here in the United States, it was true of England years gone by, where some of our politicians were Christian statesmen In the truest sense of the word, in that they held to the word of God, they had biblical convictions, and they stood on them. But that is not why Jesus came to establish a Christian nation or to uh establish some sort of form of government. We talked about that last week. The Bible doesn't say, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a great example. Jesus did not come, he was not born, he did not come simply to be an example for you and I. Like the one guy was complaining, he says, Well, Jesus is our example. He says, alright, go ahead and walk on water Um, you know, there's a lot of aspects of the Lord Jesus Christ that we cannot emulate in our lives. There many are. And no doubt he was a great example in all that. He was all of these things, an educator. Miracle worker, a political reformer to a degree, a great example. He was all that, but he was more. He came to be a savior What does Luke 19:10 say? For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. Luke 19:10 is a good Christmas verse. The Son of Man has come. That's Christmas. Why? To seek and to save that which was lost. Jesus, on Christmas, we celebrate the birth of a Savior. Birth of a Savior. More than Jesus Christ wants to see a man educated. He wants to see him saved. He had the greatest education in the world, but if that man is not saved, he ends up in hell. More than Jesus Christ wants to miraculously heal people, he wants to save people. I would far rather go to heaven as a result of dying some awful sickness than live a healthy life for 120 years and end up in hell. Jesus came to be a Savior. That is what he wants on the part of mankind. He wants people to be saved. He was born to be a savior. Now here's a profound question. Think about this. Help me out. What do saviors do? They save people. What does it mean to save someone? I think it's interesting. I was reading this week the progress of the word save, savior. And how its definition has changed over time. Let me illustrate. Webster's dictionary of eighteen twenty-eight I'll be very honest with you, for many of you this might not mean much of anything, but in my mind, Webster's Dictionary of eighteen twenty eight is the greatest English dictionary that has ever been put together It is the most accurate, most thorough definition of words, of English words that has ever been come up with. If you're ever able to get a hold of Webster's 1828 dictionary, you ought to do that and get it online You can buy it on disc or whatever you can buy it. It's still being printed. Listen to Webster's of 1828 dictionary of uh definition of the word savior. It means this: one who saves or preserves. Primarily applied to Jesus Christ the Redeemer, who opened the way to everlasting life by his death and resurrection. That was Webster's 1828 definition of the word savior. I like that definition. Imagine the kids in school studying the meaning of the word savior from Webster's 1828 dictionary. In 1913, they revised Webster's dictionary to a new edition. The 1913 edition says this: Savior is one who saves or preserves or delivers from danger. Then as a secondary definition, they have specifically the Savior, He who brings salvation to man, Jesus Christ. So they've dropped down the definition just a tad bit, and they kind of tacked on Jesus Christ as being recognized as the Savior. Still not a bad definition. Would you agree with me? Still not too bad. The current Webster's dictionary has this. A savior is one who saves from danger or destruction, one who brings salvation. Period. Jesus Christ has been completely eliminated from the definition of the word Savior. Now I don't know about you, but I don't like that. Jesus Christ is the Savior. He was born to be a Savior. Now question, all right, what does a Savior do? A Savior Saves. Now what does he save us from? What was Jesus born in that manger? Alright, he's come to seek and to save that which is also What is he saving us from? Let me give you a few, by way of introduction, a few thoughts on that. First of all, he came to save us from sin. Listen to Matthew chapter 1 and verse 21. Speaking to Mary, the angel says this, the angel Gabriel, thou shalt call his name Jesus. Why should I call his name Jesus? He tells her, thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Jesus Christ came to save us from the power of sin over our lives. He came to save us from sin's destruction in our lives. Now you've heard my testimony enough times. When I got saved, I was when I May 7, 1979, I was calling out to Jesus Christ to come in my life and be my personal Savior. I was not calling him to save me from hell That was the last thing in my mind about dying. I was not planning on dying for a long time. What I needed Jesus to save me from was the sin that was destroying my life. And I was crying out and calling out, oh Jesus, come in my life, deliver me from this sin. Lord, break this sin's dominion over my life. God, free me from this sin. And I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ can and will save whoever believes on him from their sin. There is not a sin binding man that Jesus Christ cannot save a person from. Not drugs, not liquor Not dishonesty, not stealing, not self-righteousness. There's not one sin that Jesus Christ cannot and will save a man from. He came to save his people from sin. You know what Americans need in the world today? They need salvation from sin. I was reading in Sunday school a news report about a um uh baker out in Colorado, I think it was, that refused to bake a cake for a sodomite quote-unquote marriage And he's being thrown in jail for his adherence to his biblical convictions that sodomy is sin. Now I tell you what you say, well we need to pass law as an outlaw, outlaw. I'm not against that, but I will tell you this sodomites simply need to be saved from that sin. That's the answer. Just as adulterers need to be saved from that sin, and drunkards need to be saved from that sin, and self-righteous people need to be saved from their sin. Jesus was born to save people from sin. Number two, what else does he save us from? Well, according to Romans 8. 1, he saves us from God's judgment on our sin. Now, don't misunderstand. I'm not suggesting a person gets saved, they'll never sin again. We have an old sinful nature. We talked about this recently, and that battle goes on, but I'm here to tell you, God can give us victory over that flesh. God can give us victory. Jesus Christ can save us from that, and we don't have to be bound by that, though it's a constant battle. But he also comes to save us from God's judgment on sin. The Bible says very clearly, the wages of sin is. Death. God's judgment on breaking his laws, God's judgment on sin is for a person to die. Now the Bible when it references death Particularly in the book of Romans, it's not talking about physical death. We all understand we are going to die. That's a result of Adam and Eve disobeying God, introduced death into the world, and death passed upon all men for all sin But the Bible is referencing death in this case as far as God's judgment on our sin, being separated from God forever in a horrible place called hell, ultimately the lake of fire. Now, Jesus Christ, get this. Jesus Christ does not want anybody to go to hell. God Almighty is not willing that any should perish. Now, if you get in a church or you hear somebody talking or you read a book or something that suggests that God selects certain people to go to heaven and God chooses other people to go to hell, you mark it down, that is wrong. God's not willing that any should bearish. God is willing, God wants all men to come to repentance. He wants to save us from God's judgment on us and not just What sin does to us and sin's devastation in our life. He wants to save us from that, but also from God's judgment on our sin. Um And the way he did that was when he was nailed to the cross, he took, the Bible says he was placed in our stead, in our place. He took responsibility for all of our sin. God's judgment fell upon him rather than on me or all the rest of mankind. He was judged for our sins, suffered eternal hell on that cross. was buried and rose again, and now he is able to save people from the judgment of God. How many folks here this morning? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. Amen. Hey, I got some good news for you. You will never be judged for your sins because Jesus already has for you. Isn't that a good thing to know? We struggle with it, we still have issues, we confess and forsake uh forgiven, 1 John 1 9, all of that, but we will not be judged by God for our sins, Jesus already has And that's good news to me. Praise the Lord for that. So he came to save us from sin and its dominion over our lives. He came to save us from God's judgment on our sin, and tied in with that, he came to save us from hell. Came to save us from hell. I don't know how this all works out, to be honest with you. Maybe we'll get to heaven someday. God will explain it to us. I don't know how it all works out, but on that cross, Jesus Christ suffered an eternal hell for you and I. And those six hours on that cross, he suffered an eternal hell. I don't know how God could take all that time frame and all of that, but when he was on that cross, he cried out, it is finished. And he said the full payment's been made, hell has been suffered, the judgment of God on sin has been completely fulfilled, paid in full. And he came to save us from hell. So I marked in my Bible, I underscored in verse 11, a savior. A Savior. We are celebrating, as Christians, we are celebrating the birth of a Savior Someone to save us from sin and hell, and we rejoice in that and we thank God for that. Now let me give you a real quick outline of this verse here as I studied it and came across this. First of all, I put down this He's a personal Savior. A personal Savior. Look at the first part of verse 11. For unto you Ed's using a different version of the Bible, so don't pay attention to him. For unto you is born this day. Boy, I'm tempted to say some more things there, but I won't do it. For unto you is born. Unto you. Who's he speaking there? Now look at the context there. Look at the verses preceding that. When this angel is saying, For unto you is born, who's he talking to? Shepherds. He's talking to a handful of men. And he says, unto you guys, He's not referring to humanity as a whole, although that certainly would be included, but he's addressing some individual people. Jesus Christ came to be our personal Savior. It's not just to save mankind in general. Well, that would may be a result of it in a sense. But he came to be a personal savior of all the folks in the Christmas story. You got Mary, you got Joseph, you got the wise men. You've got the shepherds, you've got angels. You know who I think I can relate the most with? With these with these with this crowd of folks involved in this event? I like the shepherds I like the shepherds. They're just ordinary, everyday people. You know, Mary, in my mind, she's kind of special. Now she's not what the Catholics say, you know, venerated and sinless and all of that. But man alive, she's the mu she gave birth to Jesus Christ. So she's kinda there. And Joseph, you know, he's kind of an elite in my mind spiritually. And the angels, um, you heard about the one guy says, Yeah, I'm married to an angel. She's always up in the air harping about something, but uh um that's not what I'm talking about here. Um that's bad. But anyway, uh uh but these shepherds, I can relate to them. I did a little research on uh shepherds, what their standing was in society back at this time frame And uh, you know, shepherds were considered uh kind of lowly folks. I read one uh history book was saying that um they were often just uh uh young boys Didn't have much experience. They were out there training. And that fits in with our understanding of David when he was a young boy. He was out there as a shepherd. It's kind of a an apprenticeship. You learn. It's kind of starting on the bottom rung uh in the in the work world, you know, just starting out. It's kind of like uh a guy gets out of high school and gets a job at McDonald's. You know, they're just starting out and then they protest and want $15 an hour and and all that. Uh that's what uh the w being a shepherd was kind of just starting out. It was a low level entry position into the work world. And so it wasn't something, yeah, hey, I want to grow up and be a shepherd. That wasn't the frame of mind. A lot of times it was reserved for hirelings. They would find someone that, you know, couldn't work anything else. They couldn't do anything. It just well hire you come on in and be my shepherd. The guy didn't want to do it himself. He'd hire someone else there. Remember um the prodigal son, he was uh took care of the pigs. He was hired on the farmer didn't want to do that. That was a nasty job. He'll just hire some uh, you know, some uh guy not working and uh I'll hire him. That's kind of uh the mentality of shepherds of that day Low-level entry position in the work world, uh hirelings. A lot of times they would use their slaves would be the shepherd. And uh someone that wasn't going to go anywhere in life. Uh one book I was reading said the shepherds were lowly considered, quote unquote, just above the lepers. So these were not men that the world thought very highly of. These were not the kind of people that would get person of the year. These guys out on this hillside that this angel says unto you, these aren't the kind of guys that are that are going to ever be a king, or or they're not going to be something venerated by the world. But yet God Almighty came down, gave his son to become flesh, so that these individual shepherds could be saved from sin in hell. What an amazing God we have. You would think if God was becoming flesh That you would go to the kings and the great political leaders of the world and say, hey, listen, God Almighty has become flesh. But God didn't do that. You would think he would go to the great theological leaders of the day and the great religious leaders and the chief Pharisees and announce to them God has become flesh to save men from sin and hell and take God's judgment. He didn't do that. He didn't go to the political leaders, he didn't go to the great religious leaders. He didn't go to the big financial, wealthy leaders of his day, the Donald Trumps of his day, and say, hey folks, listen. Uh uh the God Almighty. No, he doesn't do that at all. He comes to just a handful of individual shepherds of all things, and says, Unto you guys. Savior's born. A Savior's born. That tells me that Jesus came to be a personal Savior. Unto you. Unto you. Well, yeah, mankind sure needs saving. No, yeah, that's true. But you need saving. I need saving. It's an individual thing. It's a personal thing. Every individual needs Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Every individual needs to come to the point in their life where they recognize the fact that I have sinned against God. And because of that, I'm under God's judgment. And I can't do anything about it. I need someone to save me and recognize that Jesus is that Savior that can save me From the judgment and wrath of God for my sin. Save me from that and give me eternal life and put me in favor with God. Every individual needs that. I told you the night I got saved, it was a Monday night. That Friday, if I rem have my sk my calendar right in my mind, that Friday my daddy got home from out on the road trucking And he may have been home a day or two, I don't remember exactly. But um I I do remember this. He was down, we had a s kind of a split level house and he was down in the bottom level and he had his office area set up and he was doing I came down there as of an evening. It's probably Saturday night, I want to guess. And I said, Dad, I need to tell you something. Just the fact that I was home on a Saturday night was earth-shattering. He goes, what is it? I said, Dad, I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. If there's one picture in all my life I wish I could have a picture of, I wish I had a picture of my daddy's face that night. He just was shocked with joy, tears. My personal Savior, Jesus Christ, came into my life personally and forgave me and saved me. And that's what he does. Each individual personally, Jesus Christ, when the person accepts him, will come into their life, forgive all their sin, give them eternal life, and give them a new life Isn't that a wonderful thing? A Savior is born, a personal Savior. Number two, not only is this a personal savior, but look at verse 11. This is also a prophesied savior. For unto you is born this day. Now notice he makes a statement: in the city of David. Now, why would he say that? I believe the angel is referencing the fact that where this Savior was to be born was actually prophesied hundreds and in some cases thousands of years before. That this Savior would be born. In fact, there are scores of Old Testament passages, hundreds, as I said, even thousands of years before Jesus was born, that gave very detailed and specific prophecies of who this Messiah, this Savior that God was sending, how he would be born, where he would be born. You study the book of Daniel carefully, when he would be born And all these details were given, and this is so much more than simply just a coincidence This was God Almighty stepping into humanity and providing a savior for mankind. Let me just, I put a list of them here, just a few, and there are scores of them. This would be a great study. In Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, the Bible said that Jesus, the Savior, would be born of the seed of a woman. Now, without taking too much time, I think all of us here understand that the woman in the birthing process, the conception process, the woman does not have the seed. The man provides the seed. What is he saying here when we would be born of the seed of a woman? This is a reference to the virgin birth of Jesus Christ. There would be no seed of man involved in it. In Isaiah chapter 7 and verse 14, she reaffirms that, says she would be born of a virgin. In uh Psalm chapter 2 and verse 70 would be the Savior that would be born would be the Son of God. Uh in Genesis 22, 18, be the seed of Abraham Genesis twenty one twelve, the son of Isaac, and you trace the lineage back in M Matthew and uh Luke and you see these things to be true. The son of Jacob, Numbers twenty four seventeen, says of the tribe of Judah Genesis uh 49 10 says the family of jesse isaiah 11 1 says of the house of david uh jeremiah 23 5 says Born in Bethlehem, Micah chapter 5 and verse 2, presented with gifts in Psalm 72, verse 10. Herod killing the children at the birth of Christ was set uh was prophesied in Jeremiah 31, 15. The circumstances around Jesus Christ's birth and his birth itself were prophesied hundreds and thousands of years in great detail before it ever took place. Jesus Christ is the Savior, sent by God, prophesied by the prophets of old. He's the Savior. The circumstances surrounding Jesus' birth are not rare. Now, what do we say? If something is rare, what do we say? It's what? If you go to an antique store and you find a photo of Abraham Lincoln and the man behind the desk says, this is a very rare photo of Abraham Lincoln, what's he saying? There's very few of them. There's others out there like it, but not very many. There's not a lot of these around. photo. Or if uh you have a certain uh event takes place with a comet or whatever. And uh you'll say in the news and I'll say, Well go out At uh this four o'clock in the morning and look towards the east and you'll see this uh meteor shower. It's very rare. What are they saying? It doesn't happen very often. It does happen, but not very often, every so many hundred years. Listen, never refer to the birth of Jesus Christ as being something rare. It is not the birth of the circumstances around Jesus Christ are not uncommon. Boy, the birth of Christ was very uncommon. Well, if something's uncommon, it implies what? It happens, but not a lot. It's very uncommon. When we refer to the birth of Jesus Christ, we always refer to it as being unique. You follow what I'm saying? It is unique. In other words, there are no others like it. Actually, to get technical about it, the birth process of Jesus Christ itself was the same as any other person being born. It was the conception that was miraculous. That Mary would conceive and be with child as a virgin, that is miraculous. I like what uh in Hebrews, and I didn't intend to get into this, but Hebrews gives us a little hint, at least in my understanding of Scripture, of how this transpired. The Bible says the Holy Spirit came upon Mary, and she conceived. The word conceived means to receive into. Hebrews tells us that God prepared Jesus Christ a body. This is the way I see it in studying scriptures. That that night that Mary was conceived of the Holy Ghost, God Almighty had a body, a little embryotic body that he had prepared and placed it into the womb of Mary. A virgin. And that body began to grow and develop until Christmas Day, as we celebrate Christmas, she gave birth to that little Savior, Jesus Christ. What I'm trying to say is this: the birth of Jesus Christ never has happened before, never will happen again. It is a unique one-time event prophesied of God to be a savior for mankind. If he was born, as many of our liberal theologians suggest, just uh many of them, one big theory among the liberals is, well, Jesus was uh was raped by a German soldier And that's how she can see. That's nothing short of blasphemy. Jesus Christ was God's Son in the flesh. Conceived and born of a virgin, exactly as the Bible prophesied. So, number one, he's a personal Savior. Number two, he's a prophesied Savior. Um Number three, he's a powerful savior. He's a powerful savior Look what it look again at our verse. Brunke is born this day in the city of David a Savior. Then he then he expands on that a little bit. Which is Christ the Lord, which is Christ the Lord. That baby, born that day, In that little manger to marry the Virgin Mary was God Almighty. God Almighty becoming man. Take your Bibles, if you would, and turn over to the Gospel of John. Next gospel in line in your New Testament there. You finish up Luke, you come to John, John chapter 1 Now John one one is a great verse. Next y in in January we're beginning the great Scripture Memory Challenge of 2014. And we're challenging our members to memorize Scripture. And this is one of them on our list to memorize. Look at verse 1. In the beginning was the word Now let's stop right there. Who do we know that the Word is referring to there? As Jesus Christ. Over and over through Scripture, he's referred to as the Word. He says himself that He is the Word. So in the beginning was the Word. In the beginning, that's before Christmas was started. That's before Bethlehem, before the babe was born in the manger. In the beginning, back before creation. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. So what so far, what does this tell us about Jesus Christ? About his existence? He's eternal. Whatever the beginning was, he was already there. It doesn't say he began in the beginning. In the beginning, he was. And he was with God. Now let's read on. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. Now look at this. And the Word what? Was God. In other words, Jesus Christ is God Almighty. That little babe that Mary gave birth to, that they wrapped in swaddling clothes and laid in the manger, that little babe Newborn tiny infant was God Almighty becoming man. It's called the incarnation, the taking on of flesh Now, we got verse 1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Now come down. I took in my Bible, I marked verse 1, and I drew a line down to verse number 14. Look at verse 14. Now in the beginning, verse 1 was the word. The word was with God, and the word was God. Verse 14, and the word was made flesh. And dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Verse 1, the Word is God. Verse 14, the Word becomes flesh. Jesus Christ is God in the flesh. 100% man, born of a woman. But 100% God, born of God. That amazing thing. Our Savior, the one that hung on that cross and suffered the judgment for your sin and my sin. was none other than God Himself being judged. You say, how can it be God the Father and God the Son? Hey, if you study your scripture, throw in God the Holy Spirit, the great three and one Can I be real frank with you? When the Jehovah's Witness come by your door and try and tell you that Jesus is not God, they are wrong. The Bible is clear. The only way you can come to the conclusion that God, Jesus is not God, is you have to rewrite the Bible and change what the Bible says, which is exactly what the Jehovah's Witness did with their New World Translation. You cannot take God's word at face value and come to any other conclusion than that babe in the manger, that savior on the cross was God Almighty. The Son of God, God in the flesh. Our Savior is God Almighty. Our Savior is God all-powerful. My wife sent me a little thing on the phone. She goes, you know what, my favorite, she says, you know what, from now on, my favorite Christmas verse is? I said, um, no. We're texting. And so she texts back. It's Luke 137. So I've got my Bible out. I looked it up. You know what Luke 137 says? For with man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible. Isn't that a neat verse? I hate to admit it, but she did pretty good on that one. And uh now it's my favorite Christmas verse too. It's our favorite Christmas verse. God Almighty, God all-powerful. Hey, you know what that tells me? What do you get if you have a Savior that is all powerful? You've got a Savior that can save anybody. How many folks here? Now I I don't want to I don't want to be inappropriate, but how many folks here you'd say, you know, I know someone humanly speaking, I don't see how they'd ever get saved. Humanly speaking, I just don't see them coming to the point where they accept Christ as Savior. I just don't see that happening. How many people would say it looks impossible? to me for that person to ever get saved. Sure we know people like that. But I I'm here to tell you the Savior is God Almighty, all powerful. Now, he will never save anyone against their will, but he is awfully good at getting people to be willing to be saved. Our Savior is a powerful Savior. That babeborn that day, God Almighty, the creator of the universe, perfectly wise. But not only is he God Almighty, look at our verse here again, come back to Luke. It says, a Savior which is Christ the Lord. That's an interesting way to refer to Jesus Christ the Lord. We and church here, we use the word Lord pretty loosely Well, he's the Lord. Yeah. Praise the Lord for this. And Lord, and we'll use that word a little loosely. I don't think we really comprehend what that word is saying to us. When the Bible says that Jesus Christ is Lord. What is that saying? The word Lord means this: one to whom a person belongs to. Get this. One who has authority over another Back in the medieval days, and even somewhat in the days of uh of the New Testament, they had what were called lords And then you had the vassals under them. And the Lords owned everything. They owned the houses, they owned the land, they owned the cattle, they owned everything. And all the individuals were who were lived in those under those lordships, all they were, were simply possessions, possess uh possessions of the Lord. And their responsibility was to care for, to be a uh a steward of everything the Lord owned. When the Bible says that Jesus is Lord, our Savior is Lord. It is saying that He owns everything. That means everything you and I have, everything we possess, is really not ours. It's simply God's. He's simply allowing us to be a steward of that. Are you with me? He is Lord. He's he he's you say, well, you gotta make Jesus Lord. You can't make him Lord. He is Lord. The only thing you and I can do is simply recognize that in my life and hey, I'm not my own. I've been bought with a price. And as my Savior, I recognize that He owns me. He has authority over me. And I found it works out best when I submit to that authority. Because he's all powerful and he's all good and he's all wise and he loves me. When I submit to him and trust him and obey him, As Lord, boy, then things make sense. Things work out, and God blesses. So that Savior is a powerful Savior. God doesn't save us just to keep us out of hell. He saves us to take over our lives and fulfill the purpose for which we were created. Turn with me if you would, just quickly, and I'm going to end here. Luke chapter 6. Come over there. Look at verse 46. Jesus speaking to his disciples. Question, disciples, good guys or rebels? They're good guys. I mean they had their ups and downs, but they were good guys. They were his chosen, they were his elite, they were his they were his SEAL team six You know, they were the guys that he's going to use to establish the church and do tremendous things. Look what he says in verse 46, Luke 6, 46. And why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things that I say? That's a good question, isn't it? We refer to Jesus as Lord, but do we really recognize his authority over our lives? Do we really trust him and obey him? He came to save us, not just from hell and all that, but he wants to be our Lord. Whosoever saith unto me, whosoever cometh to me and heareth my sayings and doeth them, recognizes him as Lord, submits to him as Lord. Look what happens. I'll show you to whom he is like. He is like a man which built a house and digg deep and laid the foundation on a rock, and when the flood arose, the streams beat vehemently upon that house and could not shake it. For it was founded upon a rock. That rock is submission to the Lordship of Christ. If I will trust God and obey Him, the storms are going to come, but God will keep me strong. If I trust him and recognize his lordship, then look what he goes on and says. But he that heareth and doeth not is like a man without a foundation built on a house upon the earth. Against which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. I've been in the ministry long enough now, I can look and I can see patterns. When I first started out, I believed it because the Bible said it, and that's really all we need. But now I've been in it long enough, I believe it not just because the Bible said it, but because I've seen it pan out. And I've seen people get saved, trust Christ as Savior, and they say, you know what? I'm glad I'm saved. I'm glad my sins are forgiven. I'm glad I'm on my way to heaven. And they never submit themselves to the Lordship of Christ. And they never really surrender over and live their life as God intends for them to live. And they keep they do their own thing and they do it their way and they do it when they want, what they want, how they want, and it's me, me, me You know what I've seen? That Christian life doesn't go very far. And so often it ends up in heartache and destruction and the storms come. But on the other hand, I've seen folks get saved. They trust Christ as Savior, and God forgives them and saves them, and they say, you know what? I want to live for God. I want to live the way God intends for me to live. I want to trust them and obey them. And I've seen God bless them and carry them through storms. Listen, Jesus being Lord doesn't keep us from storms, but it does keep us through the storms. And I've seen folks that have trusted Christ as Savior and then trusted Him and lived for Him as Lord and go through some horrific storms and they never lost the joy of the Lord. And they never lost God's blessing on their life. And God brought them through there. Just a sweet, humble, godly spirit right through that storm. Jesus Christ came not just to save us from hell and judgment of God, but he came to be Lord of our life, to give our lives purpose and meaning and direction as we trust him and submit to him. Not only is it a powerful Savior, he's a prophesied Savior, he's a personal Savior. Powerful, he's God Almighty, he's Lord. I am with this, and He's the only way to eternal life. There's an atheistic group has bought a, you probably saw it in the news, they bought a billboard in Times Square. A big money for it. Times Square. All the world can see it. It says, who needs Christ? And they have Christ crossed out. Who needs Christ at Christmas? And underneath that, they have in big bold letters: nobody. How arrogant can you get? My first question when I saw that, I thought, I wonder why they didn't put something up there about Allah. Why didn't they mock and ridicule Allah the same way they did Jesus Christ? I'll tell you why, one, because Allah doesn't exist And number two, I think they're scared to death of the Muslims. They know they'll kill 'em. You can mock Christians and you can blaspheme Christians, God, and you can ridicule Jesus Christ. Christians aren't going to kill you Muslims will. So thus the our brave liberal friends will attack Christians and not Islam. That's leathermanism there. I got that off my chest now. But isn't that interesting? Who needs Christ at Christmas? Nobody. I'm going to suggest to you, Jesus Christ is the only hope of the world. You wouldn't even have Christmas if it wasn't for Christ, number one. And we need Christ, not just at Christmas, we need Christ in our heart and life to be our Savior. Because without Jesus Christ, we have no life. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth upon him. Jesus Christ the only way to eternal life. Jesus Christ the only way. They're wrong. The atheists are wrong. Make sure you have Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. If that's not a settled fact in your heart and life, I'm telling you, the greatest thing you can do this Christmas season is get that settled. I know Jesus Christ is my personal Savior. The way that happens is simply calling on Him and trusting to come in your heart and life. And number two, let's get the gospel of Jesus Christ to as many people as we possibly can. The best way is the way Jesus, is the way the angel approached those shepherds one-on-one, one-on-one. I said I've been in the ministry long enough to see a pattern. You know what I've noticed? That we see more people come to Christ on one-on-one interaction than anything else we do. Now I thank God for the radio station, track month, and all these things. But I tell you where we see most people come to Christ is when one Christian approaches a non-Christian and has a ministry one-on-one in sharing the gospel with that individual. That is where God, and that is how God works most of the time. If everyone in this room here that knows Jesus Christ as Savior would commit ourselves to bring someone else to know Jesus Christ as Savior, we could see God do some amazing, amazing things. It was an old-time preacher. I think his last name was Stearns. D. M. Stearns. He was preaching in Philadelphia At the close of his service, a stranger came up to him and said this, I don't like the way you spoke about Jesus and the cross. I think that instead of emphasizing the death of Christ, it would be far better to preach Jesus, the teacher and example. Preacher Stearns replied, If I presented Jesus Christ in that way, would you be willing to follow him? The stranger said, I certainly would. All right then, said the preacher. Let's take the first step. He did no sin. Can you claim that for yourself? The stranger looked confused and somewhat surprised, and he said, Why, no. I acknowledge that I do sin. Preacher Stearns replied, then your greatest need is to have a Savior, not an example. And this world's greatest need is what was born in that manger 2,000 some years ago, is a savior. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would help us this Christmas season to see the birth of a Savior, a personal Savior. A prophesied Savior, a powerful Savior. Lord, I pray that in every one of us, in the sound of my voice, that the matter of our own personal salvation would be settled. If not, I pray it'd be settled today. And those of us that know you as personal savior, I pray you'd help us to be bold, compassionate, and wise in sharing the gospel with others around us and around the world. And we ask that you would use us to bring people to a personal knowledge of Jesus Christ as Savior. With our heads bowed and eyes closed,