Your Bibles, turn back to Matthew chapter six, and then also when you find that if you would uh turn to Luke chapter six also Matthew chapter six and then Luke chapter six. We're going to read from two passages to get the message going while you're finding those two places. Matthew six where brother Pat read from, and then uh Luke How many folks, how any football fans in the service here? Anybody like follow football? I enjoy it. Have for a long time. Let me give you some terms that apply to church football And uh see if you can relate to this at all. Uh quarterback sneak. You've heard in as you're watching a football game, you've heard about the quarterback sneak. Well, in church football, the quarterback sneak is when church members quietly leave during the invitation time, is the quarterback sneak. And uh I have a feeling these aren't going to go over very well Uh they play they do a draw play in a football game. In church, that's what children do on the bulletin during the service is the draw play. Halftime is the period between Sunday school and church service where folks pull out and leave during halftime between there. Bench warmer. Those who do not sing, pray, or go to the altar and apparently do not do anything at all, but sit there. That's the bench warmer. Backfield in motion That is folks walking in and out uh during the service, staying in the pocket. You ever hear of a quarterback? He's staying in the pocket. That is uh what happens to a lot of money that should be put in the offering plate Uh two-minute warning. You know, they get to the two-minute warning. That's the point when you realize the service is almost over and begin putting things together in your coat on and packing everything up. Uh instant replay, what happens when the preacher loses his notes and goes back on previous illustrations? He uses them over and over and over. I'm glad that doesn't happen here. Sudden death. Uh that's what happens to the attention span of the congregation when the preacher goes into overtime. It's sudden death. End run around. It's getting out of church quickly without speaking to anyone and just getting out as fast as you can. Halfback option. That's the decision of 50% of the congregation not to come back for the evening service. And I like this one, the blitz. That's the rush for the restaurants as soon as the last amen is said So I thought those were uh of course none of that ever takes place here. We praise the Lord for that. Matthew chapter s six Uh I'm just going to read a portion of what Brother Pat read a little while ago. Am I on here, brother? Yes, I am. Thank you, Sam. Notice verse 19 of Matthew chapter 6. Lay not up to the But lay up for yourselves treasures in In heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, but where thieves do not break through nor steal. In verse number 19, the phrase lay up, lay not up, the phrase lay up there, and the word treasure come from the same word. They're translated both from the same word. Word. And so he's saying something to this effect. Don't treasure your treasures that are on earth. And I thought that was an interesting way of looking at that. Now, if you would come over to Luke chapter 6 And uh I want to read one verse here, Luke chapter 6, and verse number 38. A lot of us are familiar with this verse. We've memorized it here before. Luke six thirty-eight, the Bible says, Give and it shall be given unto you. Good measure, pressed down, and shaken together and running over. Shall uh Uh let me start over. Give and it shall be given unto you, good measure, and pressed down and shaken together and running over shall men give unto your bosom. For with the same measure that These passages are taken from a sermon that Jesus preached that is often referred to as the Sermon on the Mount. Well, I want to take just this little portion out of the Sermon on the Mount, and I want to preach on the Sermon on the Amount. Father in heaven, I thank you for the And Lord, I know a lot of folks uh made a special effort to be here this morning, and I ask, Lord, that you would bless that and honor that, speak to our hearts, help us to get something From the Word of God. The singing has blessed my heart already. The fellowship has encouraged me. And now as we look in your word, just uh have your way. Give us open hearts and minds. You said that faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the word of God. So I pray that looking into your word this morning would strengthen our faith to believe you and trust you. You and follow your direction in our lives. I yield myself to you, Lord, with all my strength. I yield my will to your will. I present my body anew to you, that you'd fill me with your spirit and speak through me, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen. When I first got saved, my daddy got saved when I was about ten years old. He began praying for his family to uh come to know Christ. He had never really been uh uh uh uh uh very uh it wasn't a A depraved man before he got saved wasn't openly wicked in a lot of in a lot of ways he was what the world would say was a good man. But he needed Christ. And by the way, good people need to be saved also Just as much as bad people do. And so he trusted Christ, began praying for our salvation. You know the story? When I was nineteen years old, I God finally been working in my heart and I accepted Christ as Savior I told my dad, of course, he was a static, he was out on the road when I had uh made the decision trust trust, he came back, I told him what up my decision and He saw what God was doing in my life and uh it wasn't long after I got saved. He set me down. He had at that point we were living in a split level house. It was just the two of us and here uh down in the bottom level we had like a uh office area where he did his paperwork and everything he sat me down I was just a couple weeks old at the most in the Lord and uh he said I want to teach you something in the that's important in the Christian life. I said, okay, and I was a hungry uh new Christian and I uh anything he could tell me to help me live the Christian life, he said And he pulled out uh the drawer on his desk there and he showed me these series of envelopes he had. And he said, I want to show you something that's very important because He said that is the giving of our tithes to the Lord. I said, okay. And he said, this is how I do it. And he told me I get his check and he cashes his check and this is just the way And uh he brought in and he says uh the very front envelope he pulled out and he says that's it on it he had written the Lord's tithe. And he says I put in there ten percent of my income I put in there, then the rest he had it laid out, savings and bills and this and utilities and various other things, and he did all that and he says then I live on the rest of the He said, but the thing I want to teach you is the very first thing is put in there the Lord's tithe. He said, If you will do that, God will bless you. And years ago, that was 1979, and God challenged me, and God taught me through my daddy to trust God with the tithe. This morning I want to speak on Christian giving. On Christian giving. Now, I want to be, first of all, I want to be scriptural in my teaching on Christian giving. I don't want to give you my opinion. I want to give you what I'm convinced the Bible teaches. So I want to be scriptural. Everybody appreciates that, right? We want to go by the Word of God. But I also want to be spiritual about it. If you follow what I'm saying, it is possible to be scriptural and not necessarily spiritual The Pharisees, in many of their practices, were very scriptural, but they certainly were not spiritual. They were very self-righteous. And uh boy, they would a lot of times they'd go by the letter, but they sure missed the spirit. And so not only do I want to be scriptural in our teaching on giving, but I want to be spiritual about it too. And let me say this. You can be scriptural without being spiritual, but it's impossible to be spiritual without being scriptural. Follow what I'm saying? So the Bible has to be the basis, but we want to have the right spirit about it. We want to have the right attitude, the the spirit of Christ about it, and not a self-righteous thing here. So uh I want to speak about giving. Now this is a sensitive subject. When you talk start when a preacher gets up and starts preaching and teaching on money and giving of our money, uh that is one area that people are very, very sensitive about. Do you agree with me on that Uh if if uh preachers preachers in particular um g take uh see The Lord's moving, I can tell. Baptist preachers in particular, boy, they get up and preach on money. A lot of times, it's not been the case here so much, but a lot of times, boy, they'll take a lot of heat. Now, why is that Why is the teaching of what the Bible says about money, why are people so sensitive to that? Why are they so easily offended? I think there's two reasons. And one reason, I'm going to lay part of the blame on preachers. I'm telling you, there are preachers who have abused the Bible teaching of giving. They've abused the Bible teaching about money. You don't believe me? Just turn on channel 9 sometime. Channel fourteen. And these TV preachers, I'm not saying they all do, but I'm telling you there's a good percentage of them that will use the Bible teaching as a means of making money to make merchandise of the people of God. And that is wrong. We all know high-profile evangelists who have been dishonest and have used Bible passages out of context and misapplied them and became very, very rich at God's people's expense. And so I think part of the blame for people being sensitive about it is maybe they've been burnt. And they've seen this and they've heard these what people have done and so therefore they just write it off. And they say, ah, I'm not I'm not paying anything any attention to anything a preacher says about money. And so sometimes it's a preacher's fault. But I think there's another reason why people are sensitive about the issue of money, and particularly churches and the work of the Lord. And I think one of it is we love our money. We love our money. And uh we don't want to part with it for something we doesn't gratify the flesh or myself in some way. And again, I want to be spiritual about this and Christian about this, but I want to teach this morning and preach. And by the way, we don't do this very often here. But Jesus preached about money a whole lot more than I do. In fact, I got looking this week, and um the word faith, the word giving of money is used. One Bible student had recorded down that it was used 700 times more than the term faith is used in the Bible. Isn't that interesting? So, I want to speak this morning about Christian giving. Number one, if you're taking notes, write this down, write this down. The basis of our giving What is the basis of our giving to the Lord and the work of the Lord? Well, Christian giving is first and foremost an act of worship It is an act of me when I give financially to the Lord through his church, I am, that is an act of worship on my part. Now what do we mean by worship? There's a lot of misunderstanding. out there about what worship is. Worship, this is my definition of worship, and of course I like it or I wouldn't use it But uh this is my definition of worship. It is the recognition of God's authority over my life and my possessions. And I humbly submit to that authority by trusting him and obeying him. Let me say that again To worship God is to recognize His authority over my life, and I'm adding in here for the context of the message my possessions. To recognize God's authority over my life and my possessions, and humbly submitting to his authority by trusting him and obeying him. You say, where do you get that out of worship? Well, in Genesis chapter 22, and we're not going to take time to turn there. Most of us, I think, are familiar with the time, uh, the event where God approached Abraham. And he instructed Abraham to take his son, his only son, who he loved, Isaac, and to take him up on the mount and offer him for a sacrifice to God. What was God doing? God was asking Abraham to give his son Isaac up. He was asking him to for his son, in so many words. He was asking him to give. Give something that was incredibly precious to Abraham. Give something that was of an unimaginable value. And asking him to give it to the Lord. Well, we know the story. God obeys. Or Abraham obeys God. And he tells his son, he says, we are going to worship. And Abraham describes his offering his son to God. He uses the term worship to describe that act. So in Abraham's case, for him to worship God, he recognized that God had ultimate authority over him and everything he possessed, even his children. And when God said, Give me your son, your only son whom you love is Isaac, Jacob worshiped God in recognizing that God had the authority to make that request And he humbly trusted God and submitted to God and took his son and offered him up to the Lord. Now we know what happened. God intervened And God was testing Abraham there. But he gives us a powerful illustration and a very clear illustration of what worship is. It is recognizing that God is the ultimate authority over my life, my possessions, everything I am, everything I have, God is the authority. And I worship him by acknowledging that authority and trusting him and obeying his instructions in my life concerning my life and my possessions. So The basis of our giving, we really need to understand it is an act of worship. More than paying the electric bill when we give to the Lord in the local church. We're not paying the electric bill. We are worshiping God. We are recognizing God's authority over my possessions, and I submit to his instructions and his word concerning those things. Now, the basis of our giving. Let me give you a few thoughts concerning the basis of our giving. Number one, the basis of my giving to the Lord is God's love for me. What's John 3:16 say? For God so loved the world. First John chapter 4 and verse 19 says this: we love him because he First loved us. God loves us very dearly God is aware of us. This is something the Lord has been really impressing on my heart and mind in recent weeks. Is the fact that I am continually in the presence of God. Every moment I am in all of us right now, we are right now in the very presence of God. And God is aware of us. We can't see Him, we can't feel Him. He is here. He is aware of us. His attention is on us. He is working in our lives. He's trying to speak to our hearts. He's trying to direct us in our lives. And that God that I am in his presence right now, that is conscious of me and focused on me and you right this very moment, he loves me dearly. He loves me to the extent that he gave of himself for me, that I can be forgiven and I can have a new life and have a home in heaven, be in his presence someday. That is the basis of my Christian giving, is the fact that God loves me. I came across years ago an illustration, a parable of sorts, I guess you would call it, of a lady that was married to a very harsh man And uh the story goes he was very demanding. He was not affectionate at all. And uh he laid the law down, he expected certain things from his wife and demanded those things and uh uh there was harsh consequences if uh she did not fulfill the the demands he made and one of his demands Was that each morning she'd be up at a very early hour and she'd have a very specific menu of breakfast made, and it had to be made just right. It had to be ready in there when he comes in the kitchen, it absolutely had to be And uh she trying to be a good wife sought to fulfill his demands. He was on he was unloving, he was unaffectionate, he showed no compassion to her at all, just demanded, demanded, demanded. And she would seek to fulfill those demands. And she get up on it. Well lo and behold, time goes by and he dies And she's no longer married. She meets another man. She marries him. This guy is the exact opposite of what her first husband was. He's very gracious, he's very compassionate, he's very kind, he's very patient. You know what she found herself doing? She found herself getting up early in the morning. Putting together the best breakfast she possibly could, and having it all ready and waiting for there. And one of her friends said to her, So why are you doing that? Your first husband was so mean and so harsh and so demanding, and you gave and gave and gave. Now your second husband, he's kind, compassionate, he doesn't make any demands, yet you give as much, maybe more. She goes, the reason is I know my second husband loves me. She said it's a willingness. It's a giving because he loves me. I'm glad to do it. It's a voluntary response to the love that he shows me. Now listen, there's two approaches to giving. One is very demanding. You have to, you have to, you have to. The other is God loves me. God loves me dearly, and I want to give to him because of his love for me, his forgiveness, his graciousness, his kindness to me. And so the basis of our giving, I think, begins with the love of God for us. Why does a Christian give of his finances to the Lord and the church and the things of God? Because God loves me. God has been so kind and gracious to me. That leads me to my second basis for our giving is uh God's love for me, but I also put this down: God's generosity to me In 2 Corinthians 9, verse 15, the Bible makes reference to God's unspeakable gift. Now, in the context there of that passage. Um it is referring to the gospel that God gave his son Jesus Christ to die for my sins and give me a new life, a new lease on life, a new a home in heaven And God has just been so generous. But that word unspeakable there, thanks be to God for his unspeakable gift is the term you use. The word unspeakable has the idea of it's impossible to describe. There aren't words adequate enough to describe how gracious and generous God has been to me. I put it this way: no tongue of men or angels has been able to adequately describe the greatness of God's generosity to his people. God gives and gives and gives and gives and gives again. That's where I would say Amen. God is generous. His generosity is indescribable. Take your Bibles, if you would. I want you to see this passage. It's Old Testament, fifth book of the Old Testament, Deuteronomy, chapter number eight. God is addressing, of course, the nation of Israel, and uh they're in a dangerous position. He has brought them out of the land of Egypt. Question, did they have a rough time in Egypt? Yes, the answer is obvious. They had a very, very difficult time in Egypt, and God brings them out, and we know the story. I'm reading it right now in my uh devotions. Moses uh at God's instruction is performing these miracles and the plagues and all of that going on. Well, they're at a dangerous point. They are going to now go into the promised land. Moses is about to be taken home. And he says to them, he says, When you get into the promised land, you are going to be very prosperous. And God is going to give you tremendous things, and you are going to be in a dangerous position of thinking That you accomplished all your prosperity. That you somehow made all this happen. And you will be wrong, because God points out here in a moment we'll see I am the one that gave you the ability and put you in a position where you can have the things you have Now look with me if you would at Deuteronomy chapter eight, and I'm going to begin reading in verse number seven. Now it's a fairly lengthy passage, but I want you to see the whole context here and think about this In light of what our message is this morning. Look at verse 7. For the Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land A land of brooks of water, of fountains and depths that spring out of valleys and hills, a land of wheat And barley and vines and fig trees and pomegranates of pomegranates, a land of olive oil and honey A land where thou shalt eat bread without scarceness, thou shalt not lack anything in it. A land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thou mayest dig brass Metalli. That sounds like United States of America to me. In fact, as we're reading it here, I got thinking where he says Uh you may eat bread without scarceness in verse 9. My wife came home Friday with a trunk load of bread from downtown that uh they were just throwing out. They had more bread they were able to sell And um so I've been eating bread every day since then. Look at verse 10. When thou hast eaten and art full, look at this. Then thou shalt bless the Lord thy God for the good land which he hath given thee. Now here's what I'm getting at. Beware. That thou forget not the Lord thy God in not keeping his commands and his judgment and his statutes when I command thee this day, lest thou Lest when thou hast eaten and art full and had b hast built godly hous goodly houses and dwelt therein, and when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied Look at this. Then thine heart be lifted up, and thou forget the Lord thy God, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage. Who led thee through the great and terrible wilderness wherein there wherein were fiery serpents and scorpions and drought Where there was no water, who brought thee forth water out of the rock, who fed thee in the wilderness with manna which thy fathers knew not, that he might humble thee, that he might prove thee To do thee good at thy latter end. And thou say in thy heart, My power and the might of my hand hath gotten me this well. Look at verse 18. But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God, for it is he that giveth thee power to get wealth. that he may establish his covenant, he swear unto thy fathers as it is this day. Do you see what he's saying here? He's saying, I have given you everything you have I have put you in a position where you're able to prosper. I have given you the facilities to be able to be and have everything you have. I am the one that gives wealth Trust me. Recognize that. And so my giving to the Lord, the basis of my giving, is first of all because God loves me. Second of all, God has been so generous to me. We say this so often, and we know it's true, but man alive! Uh the poorest person in the United States is better off than 90% of the rest of the people in the world. And uh uh we forget the fact that God has been very, very generous to us. So the basis of our giving, number one, God's love for me, number two, God's generosity to me. I put this one down. Number three, God's instructions to me. Not only do we give because God loves us so much and we want to give back to Him and because He's so generous to us and we want to give back to Him, but we give to God because He teaches us to Christian giving is an exercise of faith. It's a matter of trusting God and following His instructions. It's saying, God, I believe you know best. I trust you. When you tell me to do something, I am going to by faith follow your instructions. And trust that you will do what you said you will do if I will do what you tell me to do. It's an act of faith. It's not fanatical or unprincipled. Some of these guys, these so-called preachers and religious leaders, teach uh teach uh teach on giving. And what they're teaching is unprincipled. It's unscriptural. This idea just recently there I heard a fellow was saying, if you send a thousand dollars in seen faith That God will multiply that a hundredfold and he had all these figures. There was this another gal who was preaching and and uh she was going on and she had some passage from psalm and she was taking the numbers from the church, from the chapter and the verse. And figuring that out into some figure that God would do for you if you sent her $1,000 or something. And I'm looking at this and I'm saying, this is crazy. This isn't anywhere in Scripture. God has given us some instructions in the Word of God. They're not fanatical, they're not unprincipled, they're very clear, biblical, common sense instructions concerning Christian giving. Now, what are those instructions? If you would, turn with me to 2 Corinthians, back to the New Testament, and chapter 8. There is You can't hardly open the Bible, a page in the Bible, without finding something mentioning Christian giving of some form or another. Go to 2 Corinthians 8 And of course, chapter 8 is the great faith promise passage with missionaries preaching in our missions conference all the time. But sometimes there's a statement here that often we miss when we look on this matter of giving. 2 Corinthians chapter 8. Look with me at verse 5. Now he's addressing the churches there in the Macedonian area. And he says that they uh well look what it says in verse 5. And this they did. He's using these other churches as an example. This they did, not as we as hope. Look at this. This is so important But first gave their own selves to the Lord and unto us by the will of God. Before they put a penny In the offering plate, they gave something else to the Lord. What was it? Their own selves. They said they had come to the point in their Christian life. That they say, God, you everything I have is because of your grace and mercy and love. Everything I ever hoped to be. Is completely because of your mercy and grace. And God, I give myself to you. All I am, all I have, all I ever hope to be is completely yours. I am yours, God, to be used however you see fit. And he says, that's where they began. That's where you started off. They gave of them own cells to the Lord. I think sometimes we resist biblical, God's instructions on giving. We resist that maybe because we haven't come to the point yet where we've given ourselves to the Lord. And we're still holding on to ourselves and our possessions and our future and our dreams and our plans. And it's still me on the throne of my heart and not Christ. And he commends the churches of Macedonia for their generous giving, but he says before all of that, they first gave their own selves. You know what God wants from you and I All of us. He wants every part of me. Romans 12, 1 and 2 has been coming back to my mind almost on a daily basis for several months now. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, giving of ourselves to the Lord. God wants us. There was uh I heard a preacher say years ago uh he was baptizing a fellow and as they were getting down into the water the preacher noticed he still had his wallet in his back pocket as he was going down into the water. And the preacher said, You probably want to take that wallet out uh before you get down and get it all wet. He goes, No, I want my money baptized too. You know what he was saying? I want the Lord to have it all. I'm not holding out. And that's what he says here. God's instructions to us as Christians, the people that know God. is he wants us. Listen, I'll be the first to tell you, God doesn't need our money. He has a cattle on a thousand hills. He doesn't need our money, and our giving to the Lord is not somehow making sure God stays fed. Our giving it to the Lord isn't somehow make sure the lights of heaven stay on. God doesn't need our money. God doesn't need our nothing. I think that's good English. I'm not sure. But you know what God wants? He wants our heart. He wants our love. He wants our lives. He wants us. And that's where it starts. God's instruction on the Sermon on the Amount is giving of myself. So his instruction in 2 Corinthians 8. 5 is, I want you. Romans 12, 1 and 2, I want you. I want your life. I want your plans. I want all of it. By the way, you can trust God with your life. We can trust God with our future. We can trust God with our plans. We can trust God with our finances. Has anyone here ever put money in a bank? A savings account or something, anybody? About three. It's a good thing to do occasionally, you know. Put some money up. You know what you do? You hand that money over. You give them that check and you say, I want so much in my savings account and some in my check, even though in the Christmas club and that type of thing. And uh, you know what I'm doing? I'm trusting that bank With my possessions. What if I come back a week later and say, alright, I want to withdraw that withdraw what? Uh the money I deposited, sorry, we You can't have it, sorry. What? We trust the bank. I'm telling you, God's more trustworthy than a bank. Tell you in our economy I'm getting a point where I don't hardly trust the banks. Huh? But we can trust God. Say if I give myself and my life to God, I'll end up in some hut in Africa. I'm telling you what, God is good to his children. He's not going to abuse you and I. He's going to put us in the exact place he designed us for. He's going to use us in the exact way he's designed us to be used. We can trust God. With our lives, our future, our possessions. So the first instructions to us, under the basis of our giving, God loves me, He's generous to me, He's given me some instructions Uh first is the give of myself, Malachi 310. You knew I was going to end up there. You cannot preach on Christian giving. Last book of the Old Testament. Let's turn there. Might as well. Malachi chapter 3 and verse 10, right before Matthew. Now this is where you get start getting response a little bit. Malachi chapter 3 verse 10. He says, Bring ye all the tithe into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts. If I will not open you the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it That word prove there, bring you all the ties into the storehouse that you may be meeting my house, and prove me, the word prove means to test or to investigate. God's saying, try me out. There are very few times in the Bible that God says, try me. 99% of the time, God says, trust me. But in this case, he says, just give me a test. Just try me out. See if I don't come through. Bring you all the tithe in the storehouse. The tithe is simply a word that describes 10%. You say, and never fails. Every time I touch on this, somebody comes and says, Brother Latherman, don't you know that the tiding was Old Testament? And my answer is, yes, I know that. Did you know thou shalt not kill is Old Testament The verse we're memorizing, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, is Old Testament. Say, well, it was the law. It was for the nation of Israel. Now that's this is not the purpose of my message this morning, but I do want to defend our position on this. Abraham gave the tithe before the law was ever given. Centuries before the law was given, Abraham was giving his tithe to the Lord. Where did he get that idea from? God instructed them. Jacob gave tithe. Long before the law. Of course, the Jews, God instructed them. During uh the period of dispensation of the law, God instructed the Jews. to bring their tithe? Did you know that God also instructed the Jews to bring all kinds of other redemption finances and all kinds of other offerings? Bible scholars have totaled up all that the Jews were instructed to give. during the law and they tallied that up to over thirty-three percent of their income under the law. The Jews were instructed through the temple uh sacrifices, through all kinds of other things, they were to give to the Lord. 33%. So if we want to stick just to the law, then there's 33%. But the tithe preceded the law. The tithe was taught during the dispensation of the law. In Matthew 23:23, Jesus commended the Pharisees of all people for giving their tithe. And he says, yeah, you should do that also, but don't forget justice and judgment and mercy also. Don't leave that off, but do the tithe. He commends them for it. You get throughout the New Testament. Paul in Corinthians makes reference to churches giving a portion of their income. Now, these were Jewish believers at that time. If you said to a Jewish believer, giving a portion of your income, what figure do you think would come to the Jews' mind? It would 33% maybe. My thinking is they would think of the tithe. That's what's been drilled into them And so I believe the tithe is a biblical principle that God has instructed his people to bring to the house of God. As I said The tithe was actually a small portion of the percentage the Jews were uh told to bring. And so let me say this: listen to me. Giving money to the Lord will not save your soul. Giving money to the Lord will not keep a person out of hell. The rich man died. And in hell lifted up his vo his voice, his eyes. And so, uh, Richard, uh, how much should I give? I want to, God loves me so much, He's given me so much, what should I give back to Him? Well Give yourself to them. Put yourself on the altar. Say, here I am, God. Everything I am, everything I have, it's all yours. When it comes to the work of God in a local church, a good starting point is the tithe. Very few people that have come to me and uh taken issue with giving the tithe, very few of them give more than the tithe. Generally, it's folks when take issue with that, they want to give less than the tithe. I found that a lot of people that believe strongly in giving the tithe, majority of them end up giving much more than the tithe. It's a poer starting point. It's a principle. It's a gu it's a it's a a reference point, so to speak And so giving. Uh give of ourselves. Uh we give ten percent, I believe the Bible teaches, and then also you got your faith promise missions and then uh building and all those other things So there's plenty of opportunities. In 2 Corinthians chapter 9 and verse 6, he said, we are to give bountifully. He that soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. He that soweth sparingly shall reap also what? Sparingly. So there's a principle here. Be generous in your giving. Now listen: this is between the individual and God. Is everybody still happy? Everybody happy? Ravens are gonna lose, so just be happy. Brother, that ruined everything right there. And so, anyway, generously. And then 2 Corinthians 9 7 says, give cheerfully. God loveth a cheerful giver. Uh I knew it. I get up, drive in a snowstorm, get to church, and he preaches on giving. Oh, right here. God ain't gonna bless that. Amen. God loves a cheerful giver. The idea there is excited about giving. And uh stirred up. Um Let me say how we should not give. We should not give out of embarrassment. Well, I'll be embarrassed if I don't. That's the wrong motive. Amen? Shouldn't give out of embarrassment. Uh shouldn't give for a show. Amen? With that fifty dollar bill. Make sure everybody sees it. We were in the Indianapolis. We had testimonies Sunday night. I hope nobody from there is listening right now. Don't send any CDs to Indianapolis. Guy got up on Sunday night to give testimony, and he is a good guy. But the preacher had preached on giving. And God stirred his heart, and I'm grateful for that. And he got up. This was his testimony. He said, Preacher preached on giving. He says, I'll and he said it this way, I'll tell you right now, there's going to be more honey in the pot after today. Listen, God stirs your heart. The Bible says don't let your left hand know what your right hand's doing. It's between you and God. It's not a show. You're not impressing God. None of us here are even remotely able to outgive God. So we're not impressing him. So don't give out of embarrassment. Don't give for a show. Let me throw this one in. I added this to the last as I was going back over the message. Don't give because you're pressured. Huh? That preacher will be mad at me if I don't give. Listen, that's that's that's the wrong reason to be given. Now I'm I'll be mad at you, but that's don't no, I'm kidding. We ought to give because we love the Lord. Because we believe in the ministry, what God is doing. I'll tell you right now, I believe in what God is doing at Mount Lake Independent Baptist. Church with all my heart. And my giving should reflect that. I believe in what God's doing here. We ought to give because we have an influence. Believe it or not, our kids, they see it. They pick up our attitude about it, our actions. It has an influence. And so the basis of our giving, I hope you get this. I hope you get the spirit I'm trying to preach this in this morning. God's good to us, God loves us. He's given us instructions here, not just the amount, but the frame of mind and the whole motives behind it. So that's the basis of our giving. I don't have time to go through all these, but there are blessings involved with giving. You could do a whole series on this. Proverbs 1125, I love this verse. The liberal soul shall be made fat. I've claimed that verse many times. The word liberal there doesn't mean liberal in theology or position and philosophy. It's talking about generosity, very liberal in their giving, and that soul shall be made flat. Fact Now I'd try to somehow apply that to the body to justify a few things and um but I can't. It's something about our soul. The fullness of our soul and the joy and fulfillment that comes when I'm generous, liberal in my giving. Malachi 3. 10, bringing you all the tours of the storehouse. Bring all the tithe in the storehouse, prove me. I will open up windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing, and there shall not be room enough to receive it. That's a promise of God. Now, don't use the world's definition of blessing and don't replace God's definition of blessing for the world's definition of blessing The world's definition of blessing is you're going to have a million-dollar house, you're going to drive a BMW, you're going to wear $500 suits and have a vacation home on St. Thomas in the Caribbean. That is not God's definition of a blessing. God's definition of a blessing is there's stability in my life. There's fulfillment and purpose in my life. I have something beyond the here and now that I've invested in. Proverbs 3, 9 and 10: Honor the Lord with thy substance and with thy firstfruits of all thine increase, so shall thy barns be filled with increase. Luke chapter 6, verse 38, cannot get any clearer. Give, and it shall be given unto you. Good measure pressed down and shaken together. Do you ever um D'Eu ever buy a box of cereal at the store and the box is about this big, about that big, you pay three, four bucks for it, and you say, good night, that thing will last me a month. And you open it up, and you go down halfway down the box, and there's a few flakes down in the bottom, and a raisin. And you say good night, and no prize. You know what happened? Probably when they filled that thing, it was filled up there, maybe. And over shipment and traveling, in fact, they put it on the side, some settling may occur during shipment. That's they cover their tracks, I think. But uh that thing settles down. Why? Because it was shaken and pressed together. God says that He will give to us If we give, he will give to us, and it won't be stingy. It's going to be shaken down, pressed together, and then he adds a third statement. What is it? And overflowing, running over. It's like you're getting that flour and you're putting it in a uh container for the neighbor. So he says, can I borrow some flour? Sure. You put it in there, boy you shake that thing. Snap it around a little bit. Boy, that stuff settles down. You dump a little more in there. You shake it around. Well, it settles down a little more and you dump a little more. And she comes by and she's there. Good night. I didn't need all that. I know, but I want you to have it And she's going over there and it's falling out the side. She got it all over her dress, and uh she's getting over there. That's the picture that God says that He will give to us. Let me ask you a question. Does God lie? God doesn't lie. What does he mean? Yeah. What does he mean when he says, give and it shall be given unto you? Is he tricking us? No, he's making a very clear statement. I will take care of you. You will be okay. One of the most godlike things that we can do is to give. One of the most God-like things that I can do is to give. For God so loved the world that he gave. The gift of God. is eternal life. You know you read through the Bible, you know what you find God doing over and over and over and over and over and over Is giving, giving, giving, giving, giving, giving. One thing God does best, and that is give. So when I give as a Christian, that's one thing I'm doing that is very much like God. Don Sisk. Anybody recognize that name? Don Sisk, great missionary to Japan for many years. He was the director for Baptist International Missions, B-I-M-I, for many, many years. He's elderly now. He still travels and preaches He told the story of an American soldier was in a country, I don't know the country what it was, it was a war-torn country, and uh soldiers were there, our men were there and they were fighting, and this one b uh fellow was brought back off the lines. It's a very poor country. He didn't like I said, he didn't tell didn't give the name of the country in the in his um accounting of the story. But he said this one American soldier was back off the lines and there was a bakery there in the town. And he was going to go in there and get for one of his uh other buddies, he was going to get some baked pastries and different things and uh and for himself and so as he went into the bakery there was a poor little ragamuffin kid there. And he said he was in ratty clothes, obviously very poor, probably a kid of the streets. And he had his nose and face mashed up against the window of the bakery, looking in at all the doughnuts and the chocolate cake and the cinnamon rolls and uh uh somebody gave me a gift card to sweet uh sugar and spice down south of town here. And gave me a gift card. I told my wife, I said, I'm only gonna I'm I'm only gonna buy stuff that's good for ya in there. Oh and in there there ain't nothing in there good for ya. I came out with chocolate cream cake pie and blueberry pie and but I took care of all that. So anyway. So this little boy is looking, his face is mashed and he's looking inside at all those goodies And the soldier comes by and he sees the little boy there. And he goes in, he orders some pastries, and he gets some for herself, and he gets a bag for his buddy. He looks back and he sees that little hungry kid looking in there just drooling over everything. And he says, Give me a dozen donuts in a separate bag. First bound to counter, put him put him in the bag, he paid for it. He walked out with his two bags for himself and his buddy, and he said, Hey kid, he said, Here you go. He gave him a bag of donuts. Story goes, the little boy's face lit up, and he looked at that soldier, and he said, Are you God? He always heard that God gives good things. And in that little boy's eyes, that soldier was just like God. When you and I give, we're doing something that God does. God gives. Now I really need to say this. Giving any amount will not save a person's soul. We don't as I said, we preach very seldom on this. And I do not want anyone to think that by giving something it's going to get me out of hell or earn me favor with God. That is not the scriptural teaching on giving. God wants us to give because we're saved, not to get saved. There's only one way that a person can be saved: that's admitting to God that I'm a sinner. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We've broken his law. We're guilty under the judgment of God. If we believe that Jesus died on the cross for our sins, was buried, and rose again and will by faith accept what he did and receive what he did for ourselves, and he died for me. God says he will forgive us and save us and when we die we go to heaven, whether we ever put a penny in that offering plate or not. Has absolutely nothing. One of the sweetest funerals I ever did was a fellow Isaac Brown, a black guy, buried him here in Potter's Field in the m in the memorial hospital, uh in the memorial um cemetery gardens here on Memorial Drive. Or no, I'm sorry, Oakland Cemetery. They have a little f section down in the back for poor folk. He didn't have one family member, didn't have one dime to his name, but I was able to lead him to the Lord a few months before he died. One of the most blessed funerals I ever did, beside a grave, nobody there, snowflakes falling, and the body of a saved man. As far as I know, he never gave a dime. But God saved him So don't misunderstand what's being said. Not talking about our salvation here. We're talking about people who have been forgiven an awful, awful debt. And have been given an unbelievable gift. And say, God, I just want to give back. Father in heaven, bless our church, help us in this matter of Christian giving. I pray that you'd help all of us to trust you, myself included, that we would trust you and just live by faith. And see what you can do. I know, Father, that I'm talking on a sensitive subject for a lot of people. We don't mean to offend, but Lord, we do want to obey you. And we want to be true to your word. And so help us in this matter. Their heads bowed and eyes closed, you say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. But there are areas of my life that I've really held on to. And you say, God's dealing with my heart. Whether it's money or whatever it