First Peter four verse seventeen. The Bible says, For the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God. And we we spent the whole message last week on that statement there. And I believe that. I believe we ought to be uh we ought to we ought to judge ourselves before we start looking at others. We ought to get the beam out of our eyes before we start looking at moats and others. And so very very important statement there. I believe especially when we see Especially when we see a world that is so in disarray, it's so easy to get obsessed with the sins of the world and then overlook our own. ones in our own hearts and lives. So we talked about that last week. Then he continues on. He says, and if it first begin with us, then he makes this statement, what shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of God? If we are going to be held accountable for our actions as the people of God, what's the end going to be of those that do not obey the gospel? Then he goes in verse 18. And if the righteous scarcely be saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear? And so I want to talk tonight about a serious question he asks here. A serious question. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father, we come to the end of another Lord's day. And again, it's just, it seems like every week is just such a blessing. And these babies this morning and just the whole spirit today has just been a joy and encouraging. Now, Lord, we want to finish out the day on topside. And I ask that you would challenge us, challenge our hearts, our faith, our minds, as we prepare to go into the work week, that our focus would be clear on Christ. That our hearts would be in tune with you. You could fill us with your spirit this week and use us to be an effective witness in this old world. I ask you to fill me with your spirit now as I seek to preach on this passage. I yield my will, present my body, and I pray you'd speak through me as my constant prayer. And I ask that again tonight, and that you'd give us receptive hearts to what you have for us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I look at this, and this is a very solemn text here this evening. In verse number 17, the first part as I mentioned as I was reading through there. He challenges Peter under the inspiration of God is challenging these persecuted believers that are scattered around throughout the region there. He's challenging them to uh uh to judge themselves. And he tells us that self-judgment will purify the church. You and I can and must Examine ourselves, look at ourselves very carefully in the mirror of God's Word, as James describes it The glass of God's Word, and we need to address our issues and our lives as Christians, and then in doing that, it purifies the church And when the church is pure, when sin is addressed in the church in each event of our lives, it's addressed and dealt with, confessed, forsaken, then God's hand can be upon us and God can use us. And so that self-judgment there, it cleanses the church. It purifies the church. Then he comes on in verse number 817, the second half in verse 18. He mentions the future judgment. I think he's addressing the future judgment of the unsaved and what they will face. This personal judgment, judgment beginning at the house of God, and then he says, what will be the end of those who are unsaved, the ungodly, the sinners? My two thoughts tonight, and I just want to get right to the point. I have two thoughts, as I said. Number one, I want us to consider, now, before you react to my statement I'm going to make now, hear me out. I want us to consider, first of all, the difficulty of salvation. The difficulty of salvation. If you would, look there at verse number 18 with me And he makes a statement that we really have to think about and consider a little bit. He says, and if the righteous, and we could say, for sake of our message, saved people Those that know the Lord were righteous in the eyes of Christ because of what in the eyes of God because of what Christ did. If the righteous, and He uses a word here, scarcely be saved That's an interesting approach to say it that way. The word scarcely there means this, to be very rare. Or it's also used in different contexts, various contexts, it's used with the idea of very much difficulty. Very rare, or with much difficulty. And so he's saying here, he's saying, if the righteous If it's rare for the righteous to be saved, if they're being saved with much difficulty, what in the world's going to be the end of those that don't get saved? Now, I want to think about this statement where he says, if the righteous scarcely be saved, the difficulty of salvation I want to say right up front and very emphatically, salvation itself is very simple. Salvation is very simple. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 1 through 4 tells us what the gospel is. Christ died for our sins, according to the Scriptures, was buried, and rose again according to the Scriptures. Would you agree with me? That's a very simple concept. I'm a sinner, you're a sinner, we're sinners. God loved us. Jesus came down, took the judgment of our sin for us, for our sins for us, buried, rose again. And uh and uh if we believe that, we have eternal life. Very simple concept, yes or no? Sure it is In fact, if you study the Gospel of John, and the Gospel of John is the whole emphasis is on being saved. He says at the end of the book, I wrote that humanly speaking, he says, I wrote this so that people would uh could have eternal life. Wrote under inspiration of God. And if you study it carefully in John chapter 4, particularly in verse 14, Jesus is speaking to this woman at the well there, this Samaritan woman who was the object of intense hatred of the self-righteous Jews. He's speaking to her, and he told her that being saved, now I'm simplifying this here a little bit, but he told her basically that being saved is as simple as drinking water Taking the drink of water. He said, Whosoever drinketh of this water that I give him, he'll have eternal life swelling up within him. He was telling her the concept of salvation. Salvation itself is very simple. It's just like drinking water. A little bit later on in John chapter 6, he's addressing the crowd there, and he's talking about him being the bread of life that comes down from heaven. And he says, Whosoever eateth of this bread shall have eternal life. And what he's telling us here, in very simplified summary of what he's saying, was basically this: salvation is as simple as eating some bread. Taking a drink of water? Eating some bread? How many people here find it easy to eat bread Yeah. Somebody put a form of bread on my desk this week. It was a type of bread. I think they call them donuts. It's very easy, very easy to eat that bread. So Jesus, all through the Gospel of John, he's emphasizing the simplicity Behind salvation, just like drinking some water, just like eating some bread. Later on in John chapter 10, he's talking about the Good Shepherd. Good shepherd gives his life. And in the middle of the chapter there, he calls himself, he addresses himself, he says, I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall have eternal life. I don't know, I'm quoting exactly right. And there he's telling us that salvation itself is as simple as walking through a door. So salvation, my point is this, but salvation itself is a very, very simple concept. It's a very simple thing. Salvation is simple, but salvation is not always easy. Simple, but it's not always easy. How many people here, before you got saved, you knew you needed to be saved, you knew how to be saved. But boy, you struggle with that for a while before you finally made the decision, trust Christ. Anybody here? My hands raised for whatever reason. I want to be saved so bad. But yet for some reason I struggled with that. It wasn't an easy decision on my part until it got desperate. So salvation itself, the whole act of trusting Christ in and of itself is a very, very simple thing. Just eat some bread, take a drink, walk through a door. Make that decision, put my trust in Christ, turn them, believe on him with all my heart. Trust him as my Savior. That in and of itself is very simple, but it's not always easy. And Peter, I think, is addressing that here to an extent where he says, if the righteous scarcely be saved, there was uh I think he's saying uh going along these lines, there's so many obstacles That were overcome to be saved. For instance, if you would take your Bibles, now keep your place here, but if you would, take your Bibles with me and turn to Matthew chapter number 7 We're going to jump around a bit, so I'm glad I saw a lot of Bibles out there. So let's, we brought them, we might as well use them. Amen Well, Brother Mark invites the men out there sometimes to the camp and you know we bring our guns. We bring your gun, you might as well shoot it, right? So you bring uh if li uh never mind. Um you brought your Bible, we might as well use it. Amen. Look at Matthew chapter 7 with me, if you would, verse 13. Jesus speaking here, he says, Enter ye in at the straight gate. For wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth where? Destruction. There's a key word coming up, and many there be which go in thereat. Because straight is the gate and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, but few there be that find it. Now this is a troubling statement, right? And he's not saying here that it's easy to go to hell and it's hard to go to heaven. That's not what he's saying. Salvation itself is very simple. It's like walking through a gate, walking down a road, he's saying here. Salvation in and of itself. What the difficulty is, is the decision to which way I'm going to go. Am I going to trust Christ? Am I going to put my faith in Christ? Or am I going to go along with the crowd? And sometimes salvation is difficult because in many cases it's an unpopular decision. Follow what I'm saying? And everybody's uh no uh I don't know anybody that's worried about their soul. I don't You know, a m vast majority of people I'm associated with, I'm around, my workers and even family, they're not concerned about their soul salvation. They're not concerned about heaven and hell. They're not concerned about their relationship with God. And I've got to make a decision here. And the whole thing that the Lord's talking about here, the old thought that he's presenting, is listen, to trust Christ many times requires making an unpopular decision. To trust Christ when others don't. And so sometimes salvation is scarce, is difficult. Because it requires an unpopular decision. By the way, it is not worth going to hell with the crowd It's better to go to heaven alone than go to hell with a crowd. That's what Jesus is emphasizing. You've got to make a maybe sometimes you've got to make a difficult decision to trust Christ They go against the whole grain. Would you agree with me? And I'm going to talk about this here in a bit, but would you agree with me? In some Muslim countries, they got to go against the grain to trust Christ as Savior. For some of our dear Muslim friends, to trust Christ is going through a very straight gate. Man, it's a tough decision. Jesus in John chapter 6 had great crowds following him and he made some strong statements and people began leaving by the thousands. I mean they were abandoning him And Jesus turned to his disciples and he said to his disciples, Will you also go away? Man, they had to make a decision. Now, in this case, it wasn't necessarily salvation I don't think he was addressing, but they had to make an unpopular decision And sometimes for a person to get saved is a very, requires making a very unpopular decision. Had a fella the a couple weeks ago trusted Christ, devout Catholic. Raised devout Catholic, strong. Now f he saw what was happening in the Catholic Church and he He rejected that. But I've seen it many times where somebody in a Catholic church, they're going to trust Christ. They've got to make a decision to go against the rest of the family. And that's tough. The difficulty of salvation isn't in the salvation itself. It's in the decision to trust Christ and be saved. It's difficult sometimes because generally it's an unpopular decision. The vast majority of the world is not on board with you and I getting saved. Second of all, I put this down. Sometimes Salvation is difficult because it's a costly decision. It may cost us friends. Some cases it may cost us a job. I know someone years ago it's they were involved in the liquor industry. And they got saved. And God began dealing with them and they had to make a hard decision. Am I going to stay in this industry, stay in this business, or am I going to walk away from it? Now their salvation wasn't dependent on that, but sometimes salvation can be costly. Ahead of time saying, man, if I trust Christ, I'm gonna have a you know I'll have to give up this job. Let me say again, and I know I'm preaching the choir tonight, I know most of, if not all of us, we already know Christ the Savior, but I'll say this There's not a job on planet Earth that's worth going to hell for. If me trusting Christ costs me my job, then so be it. If me trusting Christ means going against the grain of this world, so be it. But that makes it a difficult decision sometimes. As I mentioned, our Muslim friends Years ago, and I don't know if I still have it, probably somewhere in the computer, I had an article uh that was uh this was probably five, maybe more years ago, but an article of a young buzz Muslim boy. And the missionary had been there and I think he was in Pakistan, I want to say, but the missionary or the little preacher there had been witnessing to him, the Christians, he was a devout Muslim family, the majority were Muslim And they threatened him. They knew he was talking to the preacher, and they knew he was reading his Bible and considering salvation. And they threatened him. They said, if you'll turn to Christianity, if you'll trust Christ, we're going to chop your hands off How many people agree with me? That'd be a bit tough decision. Did you know Jesus addressed that? He said if thy right hand offend thee, it's better to go to heaven with one hand, go to hell with two. And they threatened them, if you trust this Jesus, if you turn to this Jesus, we're going to chop your hands off They had a picture of him getting baptized with stumps on his arms. They cut his hands off because he trusted Christ. Would you agree with me? That'd be tough. If the righteous scarcely be saved, if it's difficult, some difficulties have to be overcome. Salvation itself is very simple, just taking a drink of water. But making that decision sometimes can be costly. In an old sinful world that hates Christ. Jacob Garden House was a Jewish young man, he grew up in Israel years ago, back in the 20s and 30s, I think. I think he was Israel. He was Jewish boy grew up in devout orthodox Jewish home. He was head of the Jewish M, International Board of Jewish Missions, down in Chattanooga, Tennessee. He used to preach in chapel at Temple when I was there. He was elderly at the time, but he would give his testimony. Dr. Robertson would have him come in and give his testimony, old students, about once a year. He'd say, tell the tell the young people your testimony. As a young man, he came to New York. If I had my story correct, came to New York and somebody had witnessed to him, and he trusted Christ. And his family turned on him. I mean, turned on him. I can still s I can still hear sitting in chapel, I can still see him up there. an elderly man weeping and he would say, They beat me and they beat me and they beat me. Because I trusted Christ. Sometimes salvation is difficult because it's costly. Most most of the people. Yeah. It's an amazing story. The family actually had a funeral for him. He wasn't dead, but they disowned him, considered as if he was dead. It's an amazing story if you get his book and read his biography. It's costly sometimes. It's not easy. You and I have had it pretty easy for most of us. I doubt any of us were beaten because we trusted Christ. Now any of us lost our jobs, maybe, or different things. But if the righteous scarcely be saved, these people that Peter was writing to, they knew exactly what he was talking about. They paid a heavy price for their faith in Christ. Driven out of their homes, as we emphasize every time. So sometimes salvation is difficult, not because it's itself is difficult. It's very simple simple, but because it's costly Salvation sometimes is unpopular, sometimes is costly, but it's always opposed, it's always an opposed decision. In other words, there are forces against people getting saved. The world is against people getting saved. And I wanted to turn to all these passages, but we won't have time. But in Acts chapter 4, verse 18, the religious world told these disciples, the apostles, they said, Do not teach or preach in the name of Jesus anymore. And if you do, you'll be thrown into prison, you'll be beaten. Now that made it difficult. They were fighting people hearing the gospel. They were opposed to people hearing the gospel. This world is opposed to salvation. We had a fellow years ago came to church, an older, he was probably, he was probably then my age now, maybe a little younger. So he was fairly young. But he's in he was in the second half of life. And he started coming out, and everybody was amazed. Oh, so-and-so's going to church. So-and-so's going to church I went out and to visit him. He'd got a card on him and he always sat back here about where Brother Matt is. And um He started coming to church Sunday mornings. I went and visited him, tried to win him to Christ, he wouldn't get saved. And I'd plea with him, and I wouldn't I gave him, I visited him several times, and uh he wouldn't get saved One Sunday morning he was here and I was preaching and uh my heart was burdened and I mean I just hit salvation hard and I pressed it. Gave the invitation, sitting back there, like I said, about where Matt was. It was he had brought his girlfriend with him, and he was sitting in And his girlfriend was on the end no, no, he was on the end, his girlfriend was one in from him. I gave the invitation to sell stand together, everybody stood, heads bowed. So listen, you need to be saved. You know you need to be saved. You come on now. Let us show you how to be saved. And man, you can just see he's hanging on there. And he started to step out. And my heart was praise the Lord. He stepped out like that. His girlfriend reached over, grabbed his hand. She pulled him back. And he stepped back in there. And he never came forward. I witnessed to him, if I remember correctly, I don't believe he ever trusted Christ. He died in an accident sometime later. I'm telling you, this world is against people getting saved. They are not for it. They're opposed to it. So there's opposition to salvation what makes it difficult, the difficulty of salvation. This world. How about our own sinful flesh? Galatians chapter 5 talks about the spirit lusting against the flesh and the flesh against the spirit. How many people here remember before you got saved? that battle going on whether you should get saved or not. You're under conviction and something inside. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man, something's inside. Don't you do that. And then the spirit is convicting, you need to do this And this old flesh will fight, you and I, getting saved. In Matthew chapter 19 and verse 24, Jesus made this statement. He was talking to a rich young ruler, a rich young man, I should say And uh he's telling him his need to be saved. And the fella, without going into all the specifics, the fella ended up walking away unsaved. And the Bible says because he had great possessions And his money and his possessions kept him from trusting Christ. Anyone remember that story? And what did Jesus say? Jesus made an interesting statement. He said, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than it is for the rich man to be saved. Now, was he saying rich people can't get saved? No. Your financial standing has nothing to do with your opportunity for salvation. Rich folk get saved, poor folk get saved, middle class folk get saved. Rich folk reject the gospel, poor folk reject the gospel, middle class folk reject the gospel. The financial standing is not a factor in salvation. But my attitude is, if I'd say no, I'd rather have money than Christ, then that makes it difficult to get saved. And I'll be honest with you, a lot of times prosperity will keep people from Christ because they don't see their need of Christ. I've got this, I've got that, my bills are paid, why would I need Christ? And so there's opposition to salvation which makes it difficult. This old flesh loves things. This old flesh loves stuff more than it loves Christ. And sometimes that gets in the way. And then there's opposition by the devil himself. Satan will fight a person coming to Christ. In Daniel chapter 10 and verse 13, Daniel had been praying. He had a question about some of the timing of the prophecies that Jeremiah had given. And Daniel was studying these there in the city of Babylon, and he didn't understand, and he began praying and fasting that God would give him understanding about these prophecies, particularly the timing of them. And for, and I want to say 21 days, I forget the exact time, but there was a period of time where he prayed and fasted and prayed and fasted, and nothing from heaven. Until finally Gabriel showed up. And Gabriel says, from the day you first started praying, your prayers were heard. But the prince of Persia withstood us and hindered and delayed him coming down and answering that prayer. Now that wasn't talking, the context wasn't salvation, but it does reveal to us something very interesting. You and I live in a Universe, a world that is engaged in spiritual warfare We have the forces of hell, the forces of the devil are fighting, the forces of God and heaven And we can't see it and we can't feel it and we can't hear it. But I'm telling you, I am convinced, I am convinced Sunday mornings there is a spiritual warfare, there is a spiritual combat kicks up And Bible preaching churches where the Word of God is going to be preached and the gospel is going to be presented and people are going to be challenged to trust Christ, I'm telling you, the devil kicks in and there's a spiritual warfare. I think in this room right here. When the gospel is being preached. And Satan will do all he can to keep people from getting saved. Remember when Jesus told that parable that the sower went forth to sow, some fell on the wayside? And some fell in rocks, and some fell in uh thorns, some fell on good grounds. And what did he say? Later the disciples came and said, What in the world were you talking about? Now that's in the Greek where they say What in the world were you talking about? And the Lord says, don't you understand? The seeds, the word of God. And the soil is the hearts of men. And he says, when that seed is sown on the wayside, the birds come and snatch it up and take it away, and it never bears fruit. And he says, what that is, is the seed is sown, and Satan comes, the evil one. And snatches it away. Do you ever witness to somebody and you explain it as clearly as you possibly can, and they're just, huh? It's like they don't even comprehend. I think Satan ha in fact he says in Corinthians, Satan has blinded the minds of unbelievers. So there's a spiritual warfare. We were talking in Bible Institute. By the way, we're starting up another class of Bible Institute in August. I'm just throwing that out there. We're talking in Bible Institute about the Holy Spirit and his role in soul winning. And I'm telling you, there's a spiritual warfare going on, and you and I, our personality and our slick presentation. And our great illustrations are not going to save souls. We need the power and presence of the Holy Spirit. To speak through us and deal with people. You follow what I'm saying? And you know we're all for soul-winning training. Brother, brother Matt does a fantastic job. I've taught it probably pretty good, but um I'm kidding But we try to teach how to win souls as best we can. But I'm telling you, we ought to be armored up spiritually just as much as we are prepared with our little spiel. We need because it is spiritual warfare, Satan would. How many people here have ever been soul winning? I'm just talking now. How many people here have ever been soul winning? And right about the time, it's time for them to trust Christ. The phone rings, the baby throws up, the dog dies. Something happens. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Well, what a coincidence. I'm telling you, that ain't no coincidence. That's the forces of hell fighting that person from getting saved. The difficulty of salvation not isn't being saved, that's a very simple thing. But get overcoming these spiritual warfare and these obstacles in the world And the decision to make to trust Christ as Savior is very difficult. So let's come back to our text. And if what shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of God? Good question. That's a very serious question. And if the righteous scarcely be saved, if it's difficult for the righteous to overcome all these obstacles and then trust Christ. What shall the where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear? So the first thought was the difficulty of salvation, and then my second thought I think he's throwing out here is the danger to the unsaved. Listen, just because it's difficult doesn't mean it's not necessary. We've developed in many ways, we've developed a gener, how many people ever heard this term, the greatest generation? They came out of the depression. They learned to work. You did things that were hard. You may do without. What you did have, you cherished and treasured. You took care of it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's not the world in America we live in today. And there was a generation that knew what it meant to do hard things because they were important and they were of value. And nowadays, well, if it's hard I'm not interested. I tell you, there's a real danger of bringing that over into the spiritual realm. Well, you know, if I get saved, and I'll lose my friends, that's a tough decision. No thanks, not interested. Man, I might, it's it, and the whole world, no Too tough for me. I'm not doing it. Salvation is very simple. Sometimes it's tough to get to that point where I'm willing to drink that water or eat that bread or walk through that door. And he's making a real serious warning. He says, listen, if these people are overcoming, if it was tough, what in the world's going to end with those who don't trust Christ? And I'm telling you, there is a danger to live one day unsaved. Well, maybe next week I'll get saved. I'm telling you, there is a danger in that. There's a danger in that. The fact that God holds his own people accountable is a solemn warning to those who reject him. Look at a few words and I'm going to end. The end of verse 17. What shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of Jesus Christ? That phrase obey not means disobedient. I thought the one definition of that phrase was interesting: to refuse to obey. It's a conscious decision. No, I'm not going to trust Christ. No, I'm not going to obey the gospel. What is obedience to the gospel? The obedience to the gospel is receiving it, believing it, accepting it for my own. That's obedience to the gospel. And I refuse it. What's the end of the person that says, no, I'll not trust Christ, I'll not receive the gospel? He asked the solemn question. Look down at verse 18. He says, if the righteous scarce means, where shall the ungodly? He refers to the unsaved as ungodly. The word ungodly there means no fear of God. No concern about their relationship and standing with God, their creator. And then he says, and the sinner When the Bible refers to someone here in this case as a sinner, it's talking about someone who is still in their sins, is still on their account. They're unforgiven. And what shall the end of them be? The Bible tells us what the end of them shall be. We won't take time, but Revelation chapter 20 tells us. Stand before God at the great white throne judgment. Whosoever's name was not found written in the book, cast the lake of fire. Iron brimstone for all eternity. All eternity. I'm telling you, this is what I want to leave with you. And I know I'm preaching primarily to save people tonight. I want to tell you, salvation is not something to play with. It is not a game. It is not a toy. Salvation is deadly serious. And Peter is emphasizing that to these folks that are going out. And I think, this is my opinion, I think he's provoking them to be bold in their witness. Listen, you barely you scarcely got saved. You need to make sure you get out there and do everything you can to help these unsaved folks get their salvation settled. I think that's what he's doing here. If I'm saved, I ought to keep my life pure. Get and keep my life pure. Judgment must begin at the house of God. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen We must not tolerate sin in our lives. We must not. Must be dealt with, confessed, forsaken, confessed, up and go on. Not tolerated Not sugar-coated, excused, justified, confessed. There's only two things to do with sin. Confess it and forsake it. Number two, we ought to be grateful. Listen, a whole lot of people in the world don't have the opportunity of salvation that you and I had when we got saved. You understand that, right? There are a lot of people. For whatever reason, God in his compassion and his sovereignty It's allowed you and I to be in a country, in an area where salvation is so readily available, the gospel, and there's n primarily little or no opposition to it as far as people throwing us in jail. We have freedom. We ought to be grateful. I said we ought to be grateful And number three, I put this down, we ought to commit ourselves to reach people, do everything we can to overcome these obstacles that make salvation difficult. We ought to pray that Satan is defeated. We ought to pray that their eyes would be opened, the blindness would be removed, removed, removed. We ought to give ourselves to encourage and present. Paul said this, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, I persuade men. Just give ourselves. Give ourselves to reach others. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Very solemn text here this evening. And I ask that you would help us as a church keep our eyes on Christ, keep our heart and mind pure. And Lord, keep our hearts stirred to reach others with the gospel, to be a witness and a testimony in this old simple world. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed how we would say, Preacher, I need to learn to be more grateful for the salvation I have in Christ. Any like that? I need to be more grateful. God bless you, hands all around. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I really want and I need the filling of the Holy Spirit to be that witness in a world that is so opposed. And a devil that fights it so hard, I need the filling and power of the Holy Spirit in my life to be that witness God wants me to be. Any like that uplifted hand, my hand's raised. I need God's Holy Spirit power. I can't do it on my own I wonder how many would say, and don't raise your hand on this, but I wonder how many in your heart would say, you know, this in my life that the Holy Spirit is touching on, that needs to change. That needs to be made right. It needs to be addressed. Let's do that tonight. As we go into a work week, let's pray that God would fill us with our Holy Spirit. Our hearts would be pure. We'd be so grateful and praise God for what He's done And go out and be a witness, a light shining in a dark world. Father, bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.