That was really good. We appreci we might have you instead of Brian do that from now on, but no, I'm kidding. Uh oh I'm teasing. James chapter 1, verse number 1. James 1, verse 1. While you're uh finding this here, um on Tuesday, I mentioned this in Sunday school, but on Tuesday, Pastor Grant and I, I'm a little strong, I think, Dave, here Pastor Grant and I are going down to uh what's called the capital connection. I went down last year. Pastor Mike Creed and evangelist um Chuck Harding have put this together I I don't know if it's the monitors or what, but something's really strong. Um but Pastor Mike Creed and uh evangelist Chuck Harding have put together a um an event, I guess you'd call it, uh called Capital Connection. And what they're doing, they did it last year and they build on it this year, of inviting independent Baptist preachers from all across all 50 states of our nation. inviting them into Washington tomorrow night, all day Tuesday, and actually all day Wednesday, and uh arranging for the pastors to meet with our representatives, congressmen and representatives uh it down on the Capitol Hill in their in their offices and meet with them not to lobby them, not to address any issue. but to approach them as uh individuals that need the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior and come in and meet with them as a pastor and share a concern for them The Bible says that we're to honor those that are in position and honor the position they hold and Lord will open that thing up and be able to share Christ with them and see some of these guys come to know Christ or at least plant a seed in their hearts and minds. The Come to Know Christ and perhaps their staff members. So we're asking to pray earnestly for that. We have at least two meetings scheduled for Tuesday morning, Pastor Grant and I are going to go in with one of our state senators and another representative to Washington. We're going to meet with them. It's already arranged. It's cleared through their schedulers. And we're going to meet with them. We have two or three others that we're waiting to hear. It's coming down the wire, but they haven't got back with me. We're going to hopefully work that out. So what I'm asking the church to do, and as I taught in Sunday school, is just really pray that God opens the hearts of these men and women to the Word of God and that it might have some effect and influence on them personally coming to know Christ as Savior. I believe that Satan well we know that Satan has uh ranks of uh devils that have various authority throughout the world And I really believe he has assigned to various political uh leaders, he has his own um uh uh um henchmen or whatever you want to call it, his own devils that are assigned them to keep them in the dark, keep them blinded to the truth. And so I'm asking God to break through that and that these men and w uh women will receive the word of God. So please be much in prayer. Um we have a big rally tomorrow night, brother um David Gibbs is going to be speaking, of course, he's a tremendous lawyer, experienced working with folks like this for a long time. And Paul Chappell is going to be speaking, several others throughout the conference. And then we have these meetings And uh so please be much in prayer. We're earnest about this and uh we're just trusting God. Last I heard, uh all fifty states, we have preachers from all fifty states coming in Uh it's around the last figure when I was down with Brother Creed at the missions conference a month or so ago, he said he believes they have upwards of 400 preachers coming in for this thing So um uh the presence will be felt on Capitol Hill, and but we want the Lord's presence to be there definitely. James chapter one, we're beginning our series in the book of James. I am excited about this. And uh Uh I uh you know, I don't know how you look at when I start a new series here. When we start a new series, you know, it's just another service, he's a different subject But for me, this is a major thing, this is a large part of my week, is preparing these messages and studying this. And so I am thrilled of getting into the book of James And I'm going to urge you to try and be here on Sunday nights throughout this study. We'll be done this in probably 10, 15 years. And so just be in here And uh but I really think we're going to get a lot out of this. I'm stirred up about it. I hope you can sense that, and uh uh I I think it's gonna be a real blessing. Look at chapter 1 and verse number 1. That's just where we're gonna get started The Bible says James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting And so here we have James, a servant of God. Let's pray and look at this verse here. Father, I ask now as we begin this study of this book, Lord, it's uh I'm thrilled, and I ask that you would stir our hearts, give us a hunger. For what the book of James has to offer us. Help us to have open hearts to receive what you direct us and how you speak to our individual hearts and lives, that we would be receptive, that we would be submissive, that we would allow you To make the changes in our lives, we need changes. Help us to exercise the faith, to step out of our comfort zone and follow you. And please bless this study, I ask. Fill me with your Holy Spirit is my prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen. Listen to what Isaac Watts wrote. Just a little free frame here. He said this. Now you've got to listen to it carefully. So let our lips and lives express the holy gospel we profess. So let our works and virtues shine to prove the doctrine all divine. Now let me say it again. Now listen carefully to what he's saying. So let our lips and our lives express The gospel that we profess, let our works and virtues shine to prove the doctrine all divine. I think that little refrain catches the message of the book of James. The emphasis of James, the book of James. is not the doctrines of the Christian faith so much, but rather the behavior of the Christian faith I feel like I'm a little bit strong. Does everybody feel that way? I just feel like I'm a little overwhelmed though myself up here. Might be the monitor's day But anyway, the book of James, we go through the book of James, these chapters here. We're not going to get into a lot of theology so much, doctrinal theology But we are going to get into living ology, is what I'm calling it. The practical aspect of what our faith is. Not the doctrines, but the behavior of the Christian faith. Uh I've said this before over the years. We are a fundamental Baptist church. And by that we simply mean that we hold to the fundamentals of the faith. There are certain teachings of Scripture that are absolutely necessary if we are going to be Christian in any sense of the word. They are fundamental to the uh to the faith of re of Christianity, the Christian faith. Just like a car has certain fundamental components of the car, you would not have a functioning car if you did not have those fundamentals. Well there are certain doctrines, there are certain teachings that are fundamental to the Christian faith. And so Here's the danger. We say, well, we have a fundamental doctrine. Our doctrine we hold to the fundamentals of the faith. But here's where the breakdown is. If those fundamentals, those doctrinal truths, do not affect the way I live my life, I am really not a complete fundamentalist. A fundamentalist not only has the correct doctrines on a creed, the correct doctrines on a doctoral statement or in a pamphlet. But he has those doctrines dominating and controlling, governing how he lives his life. Best way I know how to illustrate is one of the fundamentals of faith is the return of Jesus Christ We believe Jesus Christ is coming back again. We touched on that this morning. Now, it's one thing to profess that I believe Jesus is coming again. And no doubt there's many Christians that had that doctrine in their religious creed, but it has absolutely no effect on how they live their life And we go about our lives as if Jesus is never coming back again. We go about our lives as if it's not even we don't even believe it. So that fundamentalism is more than just having those doctrines on our church pamphlet doctrinal statement. But it's having it in my heart and life affects the way I live. And that's what James is all about. James is saying, the book of James is saying, let's take these truths that we say we believe, that we sing about That we amen the preacher when he preaches about it. And let's incorporate these into our lives. This is how you live them out. It is faith in action. As we go through and preach through the book of James, our difficulty, the challenge to us, is not going to be understanding his theology. Now I'll be very frank with you. There are portions of Paul's writings, of course, God's the author, but in Paul's writings there's some there, some of his theology is a little tough to really grasp. Anyone know what I'm talking about I mean you get into Galatians and some of Ephesians and and Corinthian and Corinthians subplaces. Boy, you get down through there and uh you say, Boy, you know, I'm not exactly sure w where he's getting at with this Peter says that some of Paul's writings are hard to be understood. But we're not going to find that in James We're not going to find any teachings about God that are difficult to grasp. We're not going to find any teachings, theological teachings, that are difficult to grasp. I'll tell you what's going to be difficult in the book of James: it's this: doing what he says. That's where the challenge is going to be. Following the instructions he gives. I put it this way: our challenge, our difficulty is not going to be understanding his theology, but applying his instructions. That's where our challenge is going to be in the book of James. Faith in action. And so let's look at this. Let's break this first verse down here. First of all. This is my first point. If you want to uh do an outline through this and follow these sermon outlines, number one is this. I want us to consider the writer of the book of James The writer of the book of James, or the author, the writer of the book of James. Anybody want to guess who the writer of the book of James is? Ah, genius, aren't you glad you came to church tonight? What did you learn in church? James wrote James. And um uh so it's James. Now here's the question. There are a number of James recorded in the Bible. uh I think at least four that are referenced in the New Testament. So which, if any, of the James mentioned outside of the book here Which of these is the author of this? You say, well what's the difference? I think if we can determine who the this man is, might give us a little insight behind some of the things he says Now, without going into a long treaty on this, I've pretty much boiled it down, and I think other Bible scholars, I kind of agree with them. Most likely the human author, uh human penman of the book of James was James the brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. That seems to be the consensus along that. I know it cannot be James the apostle that we're studying in Sunday school. It cannot be James the son of Zebedee because he's killed in Acts chapter twelve and verse two, very early on in the in the existence of the church. He's executed uh for his faith. He dies for his faith. So this book was written much later than that, so we it we eliminate him. And so most likely it was Jesus' brother Half-brother, you would say, uh uh was the penman of this. You say, what's the big deal? In a minute, we're gonna see that that's significant. Also, James the Brother Jesus was most likely the pastor of the church in Jerusalem The first Baptist church of Jerusalem. You say, preacher, how do you know that church was Baptist? Well, they believed the Bible, so they probably were Baptists, I would say. They didn't have the name, but anyway, uh he was pastor of that church there in Jerusalem. And so what does that tell us about him? Well, he's the brother of the Lord Jesus Christ, half-brother He's the pastor of arguably one of the most significant churches in the history of the church. He's an influential man. He's a significant Christian in the development of the church. But it's interesting. Notice verse 1 again with me. James, the brother of our Lord Jesus Christ. Yeah, I'm saying. Notice what else he doesn't say? James, the pastor of the very first local church, the most significant local church perhaps in the history of the church age, doesn't say that. We learn a lot about James by how he introduces himself. James, now he could say If my understanding is correct and he is the brother of the Lord Jesus, he could say James, the half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. And you know what? That would have gotten people's attention What? You grew up with Jesus? Your kin? James, the pastor, First Baptist Church of Jerusalem What? You pastor that church? Good night. That's a significant church. You guys had 3,000 saved and baptized on one day. He doesn't say any of that. In his mind, it is not all about James, but rather it is about the Lord Jesus Christ. A couple things I notice here under James, the writer of this book, he makes no mention, as I just said, he makes no mention of his relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. If he is who I'm suggesting. He makes no mention of his relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. What does that tell us? Well, it tells me one thing: that all believers have the same relationship with Jesus Christ. There are no blood ties. You follow what I'm saying? I am just as much, I am just as close, I have just as much access to Jesus Christ as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ as James did as his half-brother. He had no greater access. He had no greater influence with the Lord Jesus Christ. As believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we have no special He had no special privilege, then all believers have. We all have the same relationship with Jesus Christ. I want to say this. How many folks here tonight? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. You have as much access as anybody else does, as Mother Mary did to God and to the Lord Jesus Christ, as James the brother Jesus had. We all have as much access as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. That encourages my heart. Uh I got family members. I can call them up and I can talk to them and ask them things and suggest things that I couldn't to people outside the family. You know what I'm saying? But James didn't have that relationship. He had no greater access to Jesus Christ than any other believers. So he doesn't mention his relationship with the with the Lord Jesus Christ And he has no desire, I don't believe, to exalt himself in the minds of God's people. It's not about James. And you know what we need to remember Our ministry in the church and our service to the Lord, it's not about us, is it? It's about Jesus Christ. It's about advancing the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's about exalting Jesus Christ. So many times we think we have to have this title, or I have to hold that position, or I have to have this, that, or the other. James had all of that. And he just brushed it aside. That's not the point. That's not the point. So he makes no mention of his relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. And the second thing I notice about him here He only refers to himself as a servant of God. He doesn't call himself a preacher He doesn't say I'm the brother. I'm a very powerful and significant uh uh person in the in the existence of the early church. Doesn't say that at all He uses that term servant. And it's interesting. Look at this. James, what's that next little tiny word right after James? It'sy bitsy little word. A He says James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. He doesn't say James the servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. By using the word a rather than the word the, what's he saying? He's not the only one. He's not the only one. I'm not the big shot. I'm not the servant. I'm a servant. There's tons of others. James did not have what I'm calling the Elijah syndrome. What did Elijah say? When he after he killed the prophets and Jezebel came, he runs out in the wilderness and he's feeling sorry for himself. I think the Hebrew says he's sucking his thumb. I think it says that in the Hebrew somewhere. And he's whining and crying and complaining. What did Elijah say? He said what? I'm the only one that hasn't bowed my knee to Baal. I'm I'm the one I'm the one. I'm the servant. Everybody else is compromised. Everybody else is carnal. Everybody else is worldly. I'm the man. Boy, the Lord was quick to rebuke that, huh? The Lord says, you're wrong. I have 7,000 that haven't bowed the knee. And I appreciate Brother James is here. Saying, I am a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm not the servant. I'm not the only one. Listen, we need to remind ourselves as we get uh as apostasy and and ungodliness increases, we need to remind ourselves we're not the only ones living for God There's a lot of people out there that love the Lord as deeply as we do, that are as committed to reaching loss, that are standing for God as strong as we're trying to. We are not the only ones. And we've got to avoid that mentality. And so James was very, very careful here. He was a great leader, actually. He uh was a had a great influence, but that's not what he wanted to draw attention to. And we have to be careful when we get the mindset that we want everyone to know how much I'm doing for God. We want everyone to know how How uh how great a influence I am for God. We've got to watch out for that. It's not about us, it's about Christ. And he says He says a servant of God. He refers to himself as a servant. Now that word servant is interesting. It refers to, if you get your strong concordance out and look up the dictionary, it refers to the lowest form of servitude there was. In this economy, they had various levels of servants. Some were just temporary, they're trying to pay off a debt or whatever, and they would hire themselves out as a servant or They'd hire a child out as a servant and try and pay off a debt or whatever. Sometimes it would be a uh you know they had did something wrong and they could uh do some kind of service and they would hurt hire a servant Then there was ones that were prisoners of war sometimes that they would bring back and you could hire, you could buy them on the marketplace, a prisoner of war. And you bring them in to be a servant, much like a slave you could refer to it, and um uh those were uh the uh pretty low and you could pay money and get them I don't know about you, if I'm a prisoner of war, I'd rather work for someone as a slave than rot away in a prison somewhere. But anyway they would buy these guys And uh they would be a servant. Uh and there was different levels of those. And then there was what was called a bond servant. And these many times were fellows that had worked as a slave under people, and they appreciated how their owner treated them. And the time would come when they could go free. Let me say this. When the liberals criticize the Bible saying it promotes slavery, they don't know what they're talking about. The Bible's address of slavery in the Bible is nothing even remotely compared to what America's slavery was back Civil War, that type of thing. Very different. And so they're wrong when they say that. But nevertheless, sometimes you would have a case, and the book of Leviticus addresses this, where a man was working as a slave, working hard, but his master, his owner, was very fair to him and treated him good. Maybe worked him hard, but the slave fell in love with the master and his family. And when it came time to go free, he got this might. You know, I've got it pretty good here He's been really good to me. And he would approach the master when it came time for his time was up and he'd go free, and he would say something like this: I would like to stay and be your slave. I would like to continue to serve you. And they had a process for that where they would take an awl, like you poke holes in leather, and they'd put his ear up against the post, and they would poke a hole in his ear. And that would indicate the fact that now he was a slave, voluntarily a slave, but for a lifetime. There's no getting out. There's no turning back. You do that, then you're mine for the rest of your life. And the slaves would do that, willingly, gladly do that in many cases That, I believe, is what James is referring to here when he says, I am a servant of God. And he's saying this: God has been very, very good to me. God is taking good care of me. And it has been a joy and a privilege to serve him. And I want to give myself fully and completely to be the Lord's slave for the rest of my life. It is what I would refer to the act of dedication. Where a person comes uh and saved, and I'm free to go. Lord save me from my sin. Lord save me from uh uh hell and uh and I'm free. I can go out there and live my life the way I want, do what I want, try and please the Lord a little bit, or I can say, you know, God's saving me is an amazing thing. And Lord is an awesome God. You know, I'd just like to give my life to be his, whatever he wants me to be, however he wants to use me. I just want to be a slave of his voluntarily for the whole life yielded to the Lord And that's what James is saying he is. God's been good to me, and I want to yield myself fully and completely. I am a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, in the Roman world, in the world's view, that was negative in every sense to be a slave. The world would despise that. They had no rights. And in the world's mind, that was the lowest position a person could hold. But in James' mind, to be a servant of God Was the greatest position he could ever hold. To be a servant of God. What a privilege. What an honor. And James had that mentality. It's interesting, and I've pointed this out in messages over the years, but it's interesting when God has someone that he wants to refer to them in an honorable way. He doesn't convey upon them honorary doctorates. He doesn't give them great certificates and plaques to hang on the wall like the world does. And there's nothing wrong with that in its place, I guess. But when God wants to honor someone that has been faithful to him and served him and trusted him, you know how he refers to him? Servant. Servant. I picked that up. I was studying the life of Moses years ago. And I noticed God kept bringing. Now Moses was a great leader. I mean, man a lot, just think of how God used him in his leadership and his influence. But God never referred to Moses as my leader. God always referred to him as my servant Moses. Huh. And then I got to King David. What a man of God. The king of the nation. A great leader. But God never referred to my leader, David. He always referred to him as my servant. My servant. And so God, when he wants to honor one of his people, he gives them the title of servant. And in James' mind, I can see this. James considered this a tremendous privilege. Now, as a servant, now think about the role of a servant. You have a house, you have a household, maybe you have some uh houses, outbuildings and whatnot, you've got property, and perhaps have a farm with some cattle. And uh the army's brought back some prisoners of war or whatever, and these guys are pretty rough and you pay some bucks for 'em, you get 'em in there and you uh you know, you keep them under lock and chain or whatever until uh they can be trusted and you go through the process of domesticating them, so to speak. And uh you give them various responsibilities. Let me ask you a question. If you're the owner and the sermon is there and the barn needs to be cleaned out of manure, who's going to do the manure cleaning out? The servant is. He gets the menial tasks. He gets the jobs that others really don't want to do. He is the bottom of the totem pole, so to speak. And James says that's my attitude. That's what I am. There's a great principle of leadership here. Leadership, genuine biblical spiritual leadership, begins with servanthood. And I think James is telling us there is nothing beneath him. There is nothing beneath him. If there's something that needs to be done for the cause of Christ, the advancement of the gospel, if it needs to be done, it's not below my Dignity. I'm a servant. That's what I do. Brother Holmes, sir, he's with the Lord now. He passed away last summer, founder of Neighborhood Bible Time. Tremendous man in my mind. Powerful influence in my life. And uh he said one time he was in the Midwest, I think it was Illinois, large church, and you know he'd always do the book booster chair. I tried getting him here, I never could. But he'd do the booster, he'd get everybody up. We are boosters, Baba Dam boosters. And uh he had the whole place doing this big church and they're carrying on and he had them all wound up and he sat and wonder look noticed over there and the preacher was just sitting there And he he wasn't the most tactful man in the world. In front of the whole church and everything, he says, Come on, preacher, get up and do the booster cheer. And uh the preacher says, uh-uh. And uh and Brother Homer pressed it in his l untactful way. And uh finally the preacher got indignant and he said, That is below my dignity. Ooh, right. You know what? Do a little something to win some kids to Christ, maybe something a little silly and and maybe lose your dignity. You know, a servant never says This is below my dignity. Servant says, Lord, if that's what needs to be done, then I'm willing to do it Lord, if that's what it takes to win a soul to Christ or advance the gospel, we're not talking about violating scriptural principles. We're talking about dying to self And putting away pride to say, I'm willing to do that. And so James refers to himself as a servant of God. That challenged me. And so, number one, we have the writer. Now let me give you other thoughts here, real quick, in this verse. What about the recipients of the book of James? Who is this written to? Look at verse 1 again. James. a servant of God and the Lord Jesus Christ to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. If you get a commentary out or you get a survey of uh of New Testament books or a survey of the New Testament, you're going to find the book of James referred to as a general epistle. In fact, the whole slew here, Hebrews back, are general epistles for the most part. A general epistle means it wasn't written to any specific individual. There are some letters in the New Testament that were written to individuals. 1 Timothy, Paul, writing specifically to Timothy, young preacher boy, and giving him instructions. James is not written to any particular individual. It's not written to any specific church. We studied 1 Thessalonians, written to the church at Thessalonica, Corinthians, written to the church of God at Corinth. Philippians. It's not like that. This is a general epistle. It's just out there. Now, the original, the immediate recipients at the time were Jews to the twelve tribes. Which are scattered abroad. And so he's writing from a Hebrew perspective to Jews, but we notice in verse 2 they're believers. My brethren counted all joy. So they're Jewish believers that are scattered throughout the Middle East there And uh perhaps by persecution, and they've left Jerusalem and are out there in various places, and he's writing this letter out them, and the idea is he's writing it out there to them, say, listen Make sure you don't just hold to the facts of your faith. Be sure you live it out. Make sure that where you are in those towns and cities Where you've been scattered to, you make sure they can see your life and know that you are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the recipients are these Jewish believers It's not a book on the doctrine of salvation. He's writing these people to display their salvation. Number three, what's the r- I notice the regard of the book of James or or the uh another way I mean to say that is his greetings to them. Notice what he says. James, a servant of God, a Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting. Greeting Now his whole introduction, his whole salutation to them fits my picture of James. He doesn't have this elaborate, showy introduction Paul had them. If you read the letters Paul writes when he's writing, uh uh Paul, Apostle, Lord Jesus Christ, and James and Silas. Grace, mercy, and peace be bestowed upon you from the Heavenly Father above, who blesses us with all blessings in Christ Jesus, to his glory now and forever. Glory to God. Amen. That would be his introductions. They were huge and flowery. Look what James says. Greetings, Earthling. And uh I just thought of that. Uh he says, uh it's just simple Nothing flowery, that fits the whole book, it's just boom, hey, here it is. Greetings. Now let's get down to business. The word greeting means to desire joy or on another person. It's a display of respect or goodwill for the other person. It's translated, I thought this was interesting, 42 times That word greetings there is translated in our King James Bible to rejoice. Fourteen times it's translated, be glad. Now, this is a strong epistle. When we get in here, he's going to make some strong statements. I mean, he just cuts to the chase and he lays it out and let the chips fall where they may. But he tells me in that one word, it tells me this. He really cares about these people. He wants them to be happy. He wants them to have God's blessing. He wants them to be able to rejoice in their Christian life. Now he's going to skin them alive in some things. I mean he is going to lay it out here and absolutely take them to task. But he wants them to understand right up front, I want you to know the blessings and the rejoicing of God on your life. And we ought to thank God. Now I'm not saying this about me, but we I thank God for preachers that God has brought through my life that preach the Word of God exactly as it ought to be preached. And preachers that preached against sin, strong and clear, and preached against my sin. That's you know what? I found those preachers that do that. For the most part, are the ones that care the most for my well-being. I have no time, I have no time for liberal preachers who won't preach against sin and try and convince me how much they love me Well, I love them too much to preach against their sin. That's nonsense. That's like going to the doctor. The doctor says, Doctor, something's wrong. I've got these lumps all over me and these oozing sores coming out all over me. What is it? Well, I just love you too much to say there's anything wrong with you. You knucklehead. It's obviously something wrong. I want you to look love me enough to tell me the truth. That's what James is saying. Greetings. Listen, I want you to know the blessings, the joy, the happiness of God. And so, and then last of all, let me give you this real quickly. The reasons for studying James. Why should we do a series on James? Well you're sitting there saying because preacher said he is. That's uh that's Well, why would we do this? Why would we put a time and effort? I hope that you'll take time to read through this book over the coming weeks and months and just read through it and do your own personal study. But I put down several reasons, and I'll end with this. James portrays a picture of the ideal Christian living. He's kind of setting it up here. Alright, you believe in Christ, you say you believe the Word of God, you say you believe that Jesus is God, and you've accepted him as your Savior. All right, here's the way we need to live. This is how it ought to affect your life. This is how it ought to be played out. And he gives us several reasons here why that's important. I put this down. We ought to study James, first of all, because the book of James will challenge our spiritual apathy. Well challenge our spirituality. You heard about the guy, uh somebody come up to him and said, What do you think about all the ignorance and apathy in the world today? He says, I don't know and I don't care. I hate to say it. I hope you'll bear with me. I hate to say it, but I'm afraid that's true in a lot of our churches. Well, as long as I can get out to a certain hour, as long as the singing's pretty much on key, as long as the preacher entertains me a little bit, I don't know and I don't care to skip through the motions. And we're not careful. We get into that mentality in our in our American churches. And we really lose that hunger for God. And we really lose that desire for the Lord to teach us and mold us and challenge us and we lose the inclination to make any kind of decision as a result of what the Word of God says. And what that means is we are apathetic We're satisfied. And James is going to challenge us on that. James is going to try to get us out of our rut. We study the book of James. There's no room for satisfaction with just being a Christian in word only. It needs to affect my life. And so, number one reason we ought to study the book of James, it challenges our spiritual app spiritual apathy. If only we had the zeal for living as for God, if only we had the same zeal. To live for the Lord as we have for pursuing our hobbies. Huh? If only we were as consumed And dominated by our love for God and serving the Lord as we are for our employment and our jobs. Maybe we'd see God doing some things. Maybe we would actually have an influence in our world. Maybe we would see souls miraculously saved and lives miraculously changed. If we weren't apathetic, but we were passionate about living for God, that's what the book of James challenges us. To be passionate. Passionate. Number two, and the second reason I put down, to convict us of our iniquity. Preaching against sin, as I touched on here a minute ago, is very scarce in our churches today. It's very scarce in Christianity to somebody get up and preach against sin. And I'll tell you, it's killing our churches. It's killing our young people. Warren Wearsby wrote a book. He said, and the name of the book was this: Whatever Happened to Sin? I think it was Warren Weirdsby. Whatever happened to Sin? We live in a world today nothing's sinful. In fact, we live in a world today the only thing sinful is saying that something is sinful. You get in the book of James, none of that. He just says it. This is sin. This is wrong. That is not right. And we need that. Hey, we need that in America today. And so he convicts us, we'll be convicted of our iniquity. Sin is a lifelong battle And as I look at the book of James, I see he addresses the terrible nature of sin. He talks about the reality of sin. He talks about the degradation of sin, how sin just destroys us and humiliates us. And shames us, and we don't even know it. Cannot study the book of James and come away thinking that sin is okay. Can't do it. Number three, the book of James will correct our authority. There was a period in Israel's history where every man did that was right in his own eyes. In other words, there there was no final authority. What was right for you is right for you, and what's right for me is right for me, and what's wrong for you might not be wrong for me But if if it's wrong for you, it's wrong for you. And there's no final authority. James reestablishes the authority of God's word over our lives And he gets us back to say, wait a minute, God is the authority. Number four, I put this down. We ought to study the book of James to confront our hypocrisy. You talk to missionaries that have been on the field for a while, you talk to pastors that have pastored for a while. You know what they'll tell you? They'll tell you that inconsistent living on the part of Christians is the greatest hindrance to the advancement of the gospel. Inconsistent living, saying one thing, and doing something else. Talking this talk, but walking a totally different walk. And it steals, it kills the influence of the gospel. It hinders the advancement of the gospel. Churches need the message of James. Hypocrisy is a very real problem in every one of our lives, myself included. It is a part of spiritual growth, addressing and overcoming hypocrisy. It is a lifelong battle. Every Christian faces it, every Christian has to deal with it. But if we do not face hypocrisy, if we do not conquer that hypocrisy, we will hurt the cause of Christ. Churches need the message of James. We need lives that match our lips. We need believers that not only talk holy, but they live holy. We need believers that not only talk humility, but live humility. Not only talk faith, but live faith. And that's what the book of James addresses. Being real. And the last reason I think we ought to study the book of James is to cultivate a soul-winning intensity. Cultivate a soul-winning intensity. Look at chapter 5, real quick, the last chapter, last verse. Look how he ends the book. But he goes through here and he just addresses Christian living, and then he ends the book this way, verse 20 of chapter 5. Let him know that he which convertith the sinner from the errors of his way shall save a soul from death and shall hide a multitude of sins. You know what he's saying? You get your living right. We get our living right. And we'll be able to see, we'll get a passion for the lost, and we'll see people, a soul saved from death. He's talking about hell. And hide a multitude of sins. That's the forgiveness and cleansing of the blood of Christ. And we study the book of James and we take seriously his instructions and his admonitions. And we deal with we confront our hypocrisy, we get out of our apathy, we confront our iniquity, that's the sin that's in our lives, and you know what? We get a genuine concern for the lost We get a genuine concern for the lost. I'm not mad at anybody. I'll tell you this: the longer I live, the more disappointed I become with myself. Can I get a witness? And the more amazed I am at the grace and mercy of God, that He would use someone like me, the more I get to know myself, the more disappointed I am in myself. And the more amazed I am at God. And I've got to tell you what my big concern as pastor is for our church. I'm sharing my heart with you tonight One of the reasons we're studying James, I'm afraid that our passion and compassion for the unsaved has cooled I'm afraid that our burden for the lost and our determination to get as many people into the the family of God as we possibly can, I'm afraid that has faded. I don't think it's extinguished. I believe it's still there. But I'm afraid we need God to stir us anew and give us a new boldness, a new zeal, a new excitement about getting out there And sharing the gospel with people and winning souls. You know what I was thinking of this week? I was thinking, it's been a number of years ago. We went out soul went on a Thursday night. We had about 12, 15 people. Might have been more than that. We went out to a neighborhood and just it was a summertime and we came back and we got hopped in the van in different cars. We got back here. Some of you all might remember this, and we got back and we had nine folks that night had trusted Christ as Savior And we were so stirred up, and nobody organized it. We just started singing The Value of One And what a joy there was, and what a zeal, and what an anticipation that God would use me to reach others. I'm telling you, we've got to keep that passion going. And James will help us. The book of James will help us have a new zeal, a new burden of reaching the lost. We need what Jane we need what the book of James offered. Let me put it this way. I need what the book of James offers. My greatest disappointment, as I said, in my own personal walk with, in my own personal Christian life, is myself. And I need God to help me grow and be stronger in my faith and be more real. And this is what I'm praying as we look into James. I'm praying for revival. That God will bring revival to my heart, and God will bring revival to our church and our ministries. And this is what I'm asking tonight as your pastor. Will you pray with me? That God will give us revival. And we'll break out of any apathy that may have hold of us. We'll break out of any sins that may have a hold of us. And we'll get a new zeal, a new vision for God, and what He can do for us. That's what I'm praying for. And I hope you'll join with me. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for James. My heart's been stirred as we start this study. And I pray, Lord, that there would be a new, you would inject a new reality to our Christian life, a new love for you, a new vision, a new passion. For Jesus Christ and serving him as a servant. Help us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I feel like you do? I need God to stir up My heart. I feel a little apathetic. I sense that in my own life. I know there's hypocrisy, it always has to be dealt with. And you'd say, preacher, I'm praying with you that God will stir. And bring a real revival to my heart and life. And maybe God will use the book of James and others, but I'm just asking God to do a great work. Is there any like that by the up-the-head? Pastor, I feel