Chapter 22. If you have your Bibles, turn there with me. 1 Samuel chapter 22. Appreciate folks that were praying for us up at the Beacon of Truth meeting Betty Gallagher was up there. She came up. Brian Sandy came up last evening. We had a great time. And boy, the singing was great. I'm telling you, the congregational singer was something else And uh we had a good time up there. So uh appreciate folks. I had several people say, How'd you do, preacher? I was praying for you. I said, Well, nobody threw anything at me and Uh I had fun, so I'm gonna read. We're gonna do I I own I started too, I was looking ahead uh the other week and I was gonna skip over verse six from 1 Samuel 22 To the end of the chapter. I was just going to skip that, go right to chapter 23, because we're studying the life of who? David. We're studying the life of David. And um we have a section here that kind of takes the focus uh off of David and puts it on Saul and some of the aftermath of uh of some of David's decisions earlier. But I got looking at it, and I think it's a part of his life. At the end of the chapter it does reference a little bit back to David. So What I'm going to try and do is I'm going to go from verse six to twenty-three. We're going to try and cover that whole section tonight. So um I'm just gonna try and do a survey. So hopefully we can get something out of it. Now you wanna you you uh you know you're probably aware of this. This that's not my style. to cover those many verses at one shot. But um we're gonna see what we can do. And uh I promise you we will be out in time for work tomorrow morning. I promise you that. So no. uh look at this with me and just pray that God would uh use this and speak our hearts and help us grow in our faith. That's my main concern. Verse six. I'm going to begin reading in verse six and we're going to go all the way to the end of the chapter just to get the whole thing. When Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men were with him, now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah. Having his spear in his hand and all his servants were standing about him. To try and get that mental picture in your mind Then Saul said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye Benjamite, Benjaminites, will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards And make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds? Who's the son of Jesse? David, he can't even bring himself to say his name So the son of Jesse, give you all this, fields, vineyards, make you captains, and that all of you, verse 8, that all of you have conspired against me. And that there's none that showeth me that my son hath made a league with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you that is sorry for me, or showeth unto me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me. Look who he's blaming for David. There's several things here. One, he's imagining that David's against him, which is not true. But who's he trying to blame for David turning Jonathan? You could put in the margin of the Bible, you don't have to, but you could put, this guy's messed up To lie and wait and as unto this day. Then verse 9. Then answered Doeg, remember him? Then answered Doeg the Edomite, which was set over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the the son of Jesse coming to Nob to Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub. Who's Ahimelech? He's the what? He was a high priest there back in Nob, remember? He's the one that gave David the s the bread off the off the uh chow bread and he gave him what else? The last sword. Then the king, verse 11, verse 10, and he inquired of the Lord for him, gave him victors, and gave him the sword of Goliath, the Philistine. Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, and the priests that were in the Nob, and they came all of them to the king. So he gets the whole gang together. And Saul said, Hear now, ye thou son of Ahitub. And he answered, said, Here am I, my Lord. Saul said unto him, Why have you conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse? And now thou hast given him bread and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me to lie in wait as at this day. Then Ahimelech answered the king and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David? Well, Ahimelech's giving it right back to him, isn't he? Which is the king's son-in-law, and goeth at thy bidding, and is honorable at thy house. Did I then begin to inquire of God for him? Be it far from me Let not the king impute anything unto his servant, nor to all the house of my father, for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more. The king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou and all thy father's house. The king said unto the footman that stood about of turn and slay the priests of the Lord Because their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled and did not show it unto me. Look at this. That the servants of the Lord would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of the Lord. My hats off to those guys. That wasn't an easy thing. Verse 18. And the king said to Doeg, there he is, turn thou and fall upon the priests. And Doag the Edomite turned, and he fell upon the priest, and slew on that day four score and five persons that did wear a linen epha. In other words, those that were in the ministry, the priests and those that served. He didn't stop there. And Nob, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of the sword both men and women and children. And sucklings, what would we mean by sucklings? Little babies, newborns. And oxen and asses and sheep with the edge of the sword. And one of the sons of Ahimelech, who was now dead, one of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, named Abathar, Abathar, escaped and fled after David. And Abiathor showed David that Saul had slain the Lord's priest. And David said unto Abiathor, I knew it that day when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul. I have occasioned the death of all the persons of thy father's house. Abide thou with me. Fear not, for he that seeketh my life, seeketh thy life. He says, We're in the same boat here now. But with me thou shalt be in safeguard. I called it, I just called it a slaughter at Nob. Nob the name of the town, of course. So let's pray and we'll just kind of get an overview of what's happening here and see if we The Lord will apply it to our lives somehow. Father in heaven, uh we come to you. Here's a uh disturbing passage of scripture, Lord. And um all through history we just see Um evil is so powerful and so so prevalent. And I pray that you would Teach us and help us to grow from this. Understand what you're trying to tell us. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will. I present my body anew. And I pray that your Holy Spirit be our teacher tonight. Instruct us. Show us what we need to learn about this, Lord. I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. There's two things in life that we can be certain of. Two things we can absolutely be certain of. One is this: man's sinfulness. Mankind is a fallen race. We're a sinful batch of people Um you can isolate you can take man and isolate him and he's still a sinner I put it this way, you can isolate man, you can vaccinate man, you can incarcerate man, he's still gonna sin. He's still gonna sin Mankind sins not because of the environment we're in. Follow what I'm saying? There was a I the how the the world the the humanistic idea is, you know, if we put people in the right environment then they won't lie and then they won't steal and they won't be unkind to each other. You just need to, you know, if they had a little better place to live, get them, you know, middle s middle class or get them out of the ghettos and then then they won't be so mean and so hateful. The problem is uh s uh most of the mass murders in our country around the world are f by fairly wealthy people How many people ever heard of w wealthy people killing somebody? Sure. So the environment and the The level of income has nothing to do with man's sinfulness. There's sinful rich people, there's sinful poor people. There's sinful educated people, and there's sinful ignorant people Uneducated. Uh there's sinful tall people, there's sinful short people. The fact of the matter is, and we understand that, we're all sinners. We have a tendency to sin And it's not because of our environment, it's not because of our uh our education or lack thereof, it's not because of our financial status, it's because we have sinful hearts. We're born that way If you raised a child, you know that little child has a sinful nature. You're honest. They're little rascals. Nobody in the world, nobody in the world ever taught their little infant how to lie You have to say, alright, alright, Bobby Su, this is how you lie. Nobody does that. In fact, we have to emphasize that they do what? They tell the truth. Did you eat that cookie? No, it's all over them. No, I didn't eat it. Uh you don't have to teach a child to be selfish. So one thing we can absolutely be certain of, we're sinners. We're sinful beings. You study, I like to do character studies. That's what we're doing in the life of David, and we've already seen it in David's life. And you do character studies through the Bible, and uh you know what you find out They all have flaws, with few exceptions. They all have recorded in Scripture some flaw or some sin, some selfishness, some part on some act on their part that is sin. Now there's a couple there we don't have real clear we don't say, well I don't see anything that David did wrong. Might not be quoted, but the Bible tells us very clearly, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. But that's the amazing thing about the Bible. God doesn't sugarcoat his heroes. God doesn't sugarcoat. You go back into Hebrews chapter 11, you have this hall of faith by faith. And he lists all these people that accomplish great, great things for God. But you go back and read their story, you know what? A lot of them failed and sinned in different ways. So you can anoint, you can anoint a man with oil, call him a king of God's people. You can empower him with the Holy Spirit and make him stronger than all the armies of the Philistines, give him the ability to carry city gates on his back and slay thousands with a donkey's jawbone jaw uh jawbone you can enable him to pull the pillars down in a public arena And give him the power of God, but yet he's still what? Still a sinner, Samson. Uh you can anoint him to be king of God's people, Israel, and he's still a sinner. King Saul, David. You can give the title of prophet. You know, Jonah was a prophet of God, and yet he's still a sinner. You can give you can uh give them the title of apostle in the New Testament. Still sinners. You can call them a A disciple, still a sinner. You can call him a pastor, he's still a sinner. A deacon, he's still a sinner. You can give him any title in the world you want. Mankind is sinful. It's from our heart. So that's one thing we can be certain of. Mankind is a sinner. Second thing that we can be certain of is this: God is faithful. God is faithful. Without fail, God keeps his word. Man fails at keeping his word. Man sins. Man does some of the, we're going to see here in a little bit, some of the most depraved. The pravity of man knows no depths. But yet God remains faithful. God keeps his promises. God keeps his promises. The greatest promise in all the world ever given, the greatest promise made by God or anybody in all existence was when God said that He loves this world so much. That he gave his only begotten son, that whoever, whatever sinner, but greater small, bigger, lower, bigger, little, whatever, whatever sinner, whoever, would believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. That they would have eternal life. They would not perish, but have eternal life. You can't find a greater promise than that. And what I'm saying to you tonight is this God is faithful to that promise. Doesn't matter how much I've sinned, doesn't matter how many times I've taken God's name in vain. Doesn't matter how many times or how badly I've lied, it doesn't matter. You go down the list, you can break every one of the Ten Commandments. Yet God is still faithful that He loves you And he died on the cross for those sins. And if you'll turn to him and trust and believe on him, he'll forgive you, save you, give you eternal life, and change your life here and now. Amen or not? So two things. One, God is man is a sinner. There's no doubt about it. He can't get around that. And number two, God is faithful. And he keeps his promises. And he keeps his warnings. We're going to see here two things. I started off with this because in this passage here, we're going to buzz down through it. We're going to notice both of these things. We're going to see the depths of man's depravity And we're going to see the extent of God's faithfulness. Now, God keeps his promise to forgive, God keeps his promise to save, God keeps his promise to lead us. He has all kinds of promises But I want to add this one in. God also carries out his judgments. He's faithful to carry out his judgments. And if we disregard his commands God is faithful to carry out his judgments. So we're going to see both of those. One, the depth of man's depravity, and two, the extent of God's faithfulness. Now Uh let's look at this real quick. I've got I broke it down into outline as I always do and uh have tried to alliterate it here. Dave, I'm gonna turn this microphone on. Get ready. We don't know what's gonna happen And you hear are we on? There we go. I broke it down the verses six through eight. I've uh I've given it this heading. Uh I put down notice Saul's interrogation. Look at verse number six. Says, uh, let me get there. He says, uh When Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men that were with him, now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree, and Ramah having his spear in his hand And all his servants were standing about him. Then Saul said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye Benjamites, and man he interrogates that. He interrogates that. Jonathan has assisted David. How many people picked up in our study Saul doesn't like David? That's an understatement. Saul hates David. He's threatened by David. He uh in his own mind, he's threatened by David. He's really not, but in his mind he is He's jealous of David. He wants David dead. This thing has been escalating until now it's all out war on David. He's enlisted the army in his crusade to give the destroy David and uh it's all out. So think about this. Jonathan has assisted David, this man that Saul is convinced is out after him and uh he wants to kill. His daughter, Michael, David's wife, has assisted David in escaping. King Saul. Jonathan, his son, helped him escape. His daughter helped David escape. And now Ahimelech, unbeknownst to Ahimelech, Has helped David escape. And this is this is starting to agitate King Saul. His mind is already deranged at this point. We've seen that. And now, in his mind, my son's turned against me, my daughter is turned against me, this high priest has turned against me. In his mind, it's this. Everybody's turning against me His mind is messed up. Question, how many people are actually against him? Nobody. Nobody. This is in his head. So under his interrogation, now I put a couple observations here. In verse number six, I put it this way. I noticed his unseemly pride. Now this is what I said when we read it. Picture this scene in your mind, if you would. Saul heard that David was discovered, that down at Nob where the high priest was, where he looked at that. But look at Saul. It says he has his men there with him. Now Saul abode in Gibeah, that's his home area there, under a tree. in Rama. Now that was a kind of the custom of the day, is they would find a grove. It says a tree. It was probably a grove there with one particular tree. But uh they w the kings or they would have a council or they were going to have some sort of meeting, maybe uh military heads would get together. They would find some sort of grove, some place to get under, probably get out of the sun And that's where they would hold their council. And it was very ornate. They would set up their tents and it was worthy of a king. And so he's here. And uh he's under this tree in Rama, and he having his spear in his hand. Now that's kind of interesting. He's standing here. Now get the picture. They have this very huge uh uh grove, probably. There's a tree there in particular. They no doubt have all the tapestry and tents and everything to accommodate the king and all of his uh uh entourage that's with him. And he's stand and I this is the way I picture it. I don't know. This is the way I picture it. He's standing there in his garb with all this stuff under this tree and he's holding his spear And then look what else it says. It says, uh, and uh having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him. I read that and it looks to me like he's posing for a photo uh to be put on his webpage. You know? To me, that this is to me, this scene oozes with pride. He's flaunting his position. I think he's flaunting his power. He's got that javelin, his authority. And in reality, now again, this is me, all right? This is just me. But in reality, this guy ought to be ashamed of himself. This guy ought to be bowing before God, asking God to have mercy on him for what he's doing. He is absolutely wicked. at this point. He has no right to draw attention to himself or to exalt himself in any way, shape, or form. By the way, neither do you or I Not before God, we don't. There's a real danger. Now I'm just throwing this out. I'm trying to make application. There's a real danger of having a significant position Or having being given authority. There's a real danger to that. Anybody want to know what that danger is? If you're given a position or you're given some authority, the danger is pride. The danger is pride. Anyone ever hear this statement? Power corrupts. Did you ever hear that statement? I don't agree with that. I don't think power in itself corrupts a person. I think power reveals corruption. I think power brings it out. There's been people that have tremendous positions of power, and they were honest, men of integrity, see that in scripture various places. So power in itself doesn't corrupt Power simply reveals the corruptions there. Paul was a very proud man. And here he is flaunting all that. So I see, first of all, this unseemly pride. When he's flaunting himself here, he should be ashamed of himself. And then I notice in verse 7 and first part of verse 8, and then you jump over to verse 13. Somebody said it here a moment ago, but I see some severe paranoia On the part of this guy. Look at verse 7. Then Saul said to his servants, Hear now, ye Benjamites, will the son of Jesse give you one of these fields or vineyards, or make you captains of thousands and captains of hundreds? Was David offering that? No. This is all a figment of his imagination. His deranged mind. He said, You guys, and then look at verse uh eight. Will he give you all this stuff or say that you have conspired against me? Has anybody conspired against them? No And there's none that showeth me that my son hath made a league with him. And look at this next phase. I'm getting ahead of myself, but look at this next phrase. There is none of you that sorry for me. You know how I picture that? Nobody feels sorry for me. Come on, number thirteen And Saul said against this is talking to uh Ahimelech the priest, why have you conspired against me? You thou and the son of Jesse and that thou hast given him bread. Uh Ah Ahimelech's not conspiring against him. This guy is getting paranoid. Somebody tell me what what does it mean if someone is paranoid What's that mean? What do we mean by that? Everybody's out to get them. They're scared of everybody. I looked up a little bit and got some uh medical definitions for paranoia. And it says it is a mental condition characterized by irrational suspicion of others, irrational distrust of others. Delusions of persecution. And then I thought this one was interesting. Dysfunctional self-consciousness. Now anybody here ever been in a situation where you got a little self-conscious? Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know, you're just not real comfortable there, you're not real confident, and you get a little I wonder what they think. What uh I did last night and Monday night, uh leading singing. But uh there's a world of difference between being normally and what's naturally self-conscious in certain settings and being delusionally self-conscious. This is somebody that's in a crowd and they're convinced everybody's staring at them. This is somebody that's in a crowd in a certain in a crowd of people and they walk in and they're absolutely convinced everybody's looking at them and watching them walk in. When in reality, everybody's probably just worried about their own issues going on in their own life And so Saul is incredibly d uh paranoid at this point, severely paranoid at this point. I try to define it in my mind, in my words, and my simple understanding. And I put this down as my understanding of it. It's a self-centered anxiety or a self-centered fear Now what's happening here is Saul has the sin of envy. Now is sin to envy somebody else's possessions or somebody else's position or their popularity or whatever. In David's case, Saul was ending his popularity initially, and that envy took root in his heart And this sinful envy that was in the heart of King Saul disabled his mind to be able to think rationally. And I'm telling you, sin, self-centeredness, and sin disables our ability to think clearly. If you ever worked with folks that maybe that sometimes have uh severe addictions or people that are involved in sin, and this has been my ministry for isn't that's what the ministry is, dealing with people in sin. And you get varying depths of sin or varying levels of involvement in sin, particularly physical type sins. And it changes the way people think. And I'm telling you, it's a fascinating study all through Scripture. Just throw it out there. King David. You re you study the and we will eventually, but you studied King David the night that he saw Bathsheba and ended up committing adultery with Bathsheba. You say David did that? Yeah But if you read and study that very carefully, his thinking changes as that sin begins to take root in his heart and mind. And after the sin, and particularly as it progresses, and he tries to cover it up, his ability to think clearly and rationally and scripturally and godly deteriorates Sin affects the way we think. You say, oh, it's not that big a thing. I'll just indulge this. I know God says we shouldn't do that, but it's not. This went And we do that. And what we don't realize is there's a whole lot more happening when we disobey God to us mentally and physically than what we realize. When Saul, I guarantee you, when Saul was sitting on that throne, and the armies come back, and David's leading armies, and they destroy the Philistines, Goliath is dead. Uh they've destroyed the Philistines. They're marching back into town and all the big parade and the women have gathered and they're singing, Saul has slain his thousands, and I'm sure that pleased him And David is ten thousands. And when he allowed that little tinge of envy to s to take root in his heart, I guarantee you he never dreamed. That'd be at this point where he's about to slaughter an entire village of innocent people. It changed the way he thought. He changed the way he behaved. It changed his whole ability to to to reason. Proverbs 21 and verse number 8 says, The wicked flee when no man pursueth. You know what that is? Paranoia. Oh no, somebody's out after me. When we do wrong, when we sin and we do wrong, there's a tendency to produce paranoia in our Hearts of minds. Before I was saved, and I laugh, it's not really funny. Before I was saved, we go out partying and we get stoned. And one of the characteristics of getting high on pot is paranoia And you're just convinced every guy's, every, every person you see is an undercover cop, you know? And uh and you just get paranoid and you get you flee when no one's pursuing. And that's true in the spiritual life also. So I see here, number one, I see this unseemly pride. Saul has no justification for flaunting himself if that's what he's doing. We see clearly here some severe paranoia. Sin has disabled his ability to think rashly. Number three, I notice here in verse 8, I see his self-preoccupation. Did you notice there's a couple words here he uses over and over and over? Anybody notice them? Look at verse 8. That all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that showeth me that My son hath made a league with the son of Jesse. There is none of you that are sorry for me, and showeth unto me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me. And then if you look over there in verse 13, a me, me, he's preoccupied. What does it mean to be preoccupied with something? If somebody's preoccupied with something, what does that mean? They're distracted, that's all they think about, it's all they're focused on, it consumes them, they become obsessed with it. I'm the kind of guy, I'm the kind of person, if I'm if I'm doing something, man, it just it takes over me. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I really like fishing I was just letting you know, Christmas is coming up, and I really like fishing. And I have to be careful, I have to be careful, I have to discipline myself because that can absolutely take over. I mean anybody y'all look at me so pious like if you never have this but it's true you it's easy to become preoccupied with something and just and man you just get so caught up in that I I knew a preacher years ago and and uh he he he was like me, he loved fishing and we did some fishing together, but I'm telling you, and it it was uh it was God showing me that you know that I gotta watch my P's and Q's. He let that thing take over. He would call me up Sunday mornings before church. Sunday morning say, hey, let's go out fishing for a couple hours before church. I said, are you nuts? I'm not doing that. I don't even go out Saturdays because church is Sunday. And Saul, King Saul, has become preoccupied not with fishing or hunting or shopping or whatever else in the world, video game. He's not become preoccupied with any of that. He's become preoccupied with what? Himself That's all he can think about. It's all he can see. It's all that uh everything revolves around him. I put it this way: Saul's world is now revolving around Saul. He's become the center of the universe in his mind. I looked up uh the uh the idea of uh being uh uh self-centered. And I looked up, I tried to find characteristics. I had a few of my own. And it got in it was interesting. If a person becomes self-centered and they're focused on themselves, they're preoccupied with themselves, here's some characteristics. One, they become very defensive Number two, they cannot see beyond themselves. And the idea there is this: if a person is self-centered, everything is valued based upon how it affects me It affects me in a positive way, then it's very valuable. If it doesn't do anything for me, then it's of no value. Doesn't matter how it may or may not affect others. It's all me. Um they become very uh cannot see beyond themselves. They tend to dominate things. They have to be the one. They often are insecure. They see other people as objects or tools to accomplish their desires. They tend to be very opinionated. They tend to have few friends. And here, they tend to have little sympathy for others. Man, that's King Saul to the T. And so now he's become preoccupied with himself. You know who our greatest enemy is? The devil. The devil. No, no, no. I don't think the devil. Oh, the world out there. The world is the enemy, and the devil's. You know who our biggest enemy is? Our own selves. Self-centeredness. Satan can't do anything to me that I don't let him do. I have all the resources of heaven, all the resources of a heavenly father available to me that I can live a victorious Christian life. But because of myself I tend to disregard that and let Satan at me and let the the world at me. I've often said this: Satan's greatest ally is our own sinful nature, our own self, our own pride. And so Saul here has become preoccupied. So he's unseemingly proud. He has severe paranoia. He has become self-occupied. Let me throw one more out here in verse number eight. He has self-pity. Wah, none of you that is sorry for me. I thought, good night. How many of you agree with me? That doesn't sound like the anointed king of God's people the way you talk. None of you feel sorry for it. That is not leadership. Can I say this? When you have leadership saying stuff like that, that is failed leadership. None of you feel sorry for me. Um so he has gotten self-pity. Uh Obsession over an exaggeration of one's own problems is the definition of self-pity. So the first thing here, the first uh verses six down through eight I notice Saul's interrogation of these guys. It all revolves around himself. Verse 9 through 17 goes even quicker than that. I notice Ahimelech's innocency Verse 9 and 10 we have Doeg here. Remember, Doeg was the fella that saw David showed up at this uh city knob, and this is where the town tabernacle was and all the priests And he gets uh he talks to the high priest, I need some help, I'm on a mission for uh the king. He lied. And uh I need some bread, and he got a sword here, yeah. And uh Doeg sees all this taking place. So here Verse 9. Then he answered Doeg the Edomite, not friend of God's people, which was set over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob to Ahimelech, the son of Ahitab. And he's given his report here to King Saul. And he inquired of the Lord for him and gave him victos and gave him the sword of Goliath, the Philistines. How is he making it sound? That Ahimelech and David. He makes it sound that they're what? They're in cahoots. They're conspiring together. He is giving a false impression of what took place here. I put it this way: he jumps at the opportunity to slander an innocent man. Let me ask you a question. What is it about us? What is it about us that makes us enjoy Having somebody else tore down. Yeah. There's something in it. What is it about us? Man, it's got some juicy gossip. Did you hear what Sister So-and-So did? Huh? Tell me all of it. Oh, did you hear about that, preacher? There's something in our fallen psyche. That has us convinced that if I can tear others down and make others look bad, that somehow that does what for me? Lifts me up or makes me more impressive. Insecurity. And so you know, we're speculating at what Doeg's motives were, we're not told. But man, he is absolutely jumpunity. And he comes in there and he is presenting, oh yeah, what he said was true, but the way he's presenting it, it is implying That Ahimelech is a bad guy. Now, we don't uh I guess I said I just want to buzz over this, but uh uh Doeg uh Doeg is uh is uh Edomite These are not the friends of Israel. The Edomites don't love God. They don't love Jehovah. Ahimelech is a high priest of Jehovah. So he's thinking, ha, I can take a dig. I can get it the chief, that the high priest of Israel's faith. And he becomes an ally with King Saul. So he's conniving. He's trying to destroy another man, we assume, to build himself up, to advance his own agenda, whatever that may be. But I thought it was interesting. I got looking at the report he gave there, verse 10, he inquired of the Lord for him, gave him victals, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine. Now You had to have been here or at least studied this. You have to remember, go back. Why did Ahimelech give David the bread and the sword? Why did Ahimelech assist David? To get away from King Saul? Was that no? He thought, he was led to believe that David was doing something for King Saul. So in Ahimelech's mind, I'm helping the king. I'm helping the kingdom. I'm advancing the well-being of our nation. Somehow Doeg conveniently left that out of the explanation. He never explained it. Well, you know, David told him that He was on a mission of your. He left all of that out. So that is in my mind that Ahimelech's motives are not pure. He is He is uh out to tear him down. Then we notice Ahimelech's response, verse 11 through 15. Uh look at verse 11. Uh he false uh uh he's falsely accused by King Saul. The king sent to Kalhemelech the priest, the son of Heatab, and all his father's house. And uh the priests that were in Nob, they all came on. He's got the whole uh uh uh uh he's got the whole clergical administrators here. I mean he's got the whole head gang here. He gathers them all around. Verse 12, and Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Hahatub. And he answered, Here I am, my Lord. And Saul said unto him, Why have ye conspired against me? Now that's a little question Do you ever hear a a statement like this? So have you stopped stealing out of the church offerings yet? Well, I'm not stealing it. So if you say no, then it implies what? You're still stealing it. And if you say yes, that implies you used to be stealing it. That's exactly what King Saul. He's setting them up. Why do you conspire against me? Well he did. He didn't give any questions. He didn't try and get the facts. He didn't want to hear a Himelex story By King Saul falsely accusing him, he's already made what? He's already made a decision. He's already come to a conclusion. Let me put it this way: he's already made judgment. Based on an enemy of Israel's accusations, incomplete record of what King David David did and what Ahimelech did. I'm telling you, sin messes up our rationale. Sin messes up our reasoning. You could preach on that for a while, just all the implications in that one statement Then he uh Ahimelech favorably describes David. He's falsely accused by Saul. He favorably describes David. He goes through and says, No, David's faithful to you. You know, man alive, uh, verse 11. Man alive is in the Hebrew. And uh who is so faithful among thy servants as David? He's honorable. Who's as honorable as David Verse 15, he fearfully defends himself. Look at verse 15. And then uh did I begin to inquire of God for him? Be it far from me. I wasn't trying to conspire anything In fact, look what he says. Let not the king impute anything to his servants or to all the I'm reading verse number 15. I'm starting Himelech's catching on where this is going. Imelect is starting to realize, wait a minute, it doesn't matter what I say, I'm a cooked goose. And I see him fearfully defending himself. He sees where this is going. I didn't do any of this, nor to all thy house, for thy servant knew nothing all of this, less or more. I don't know about you, but I picture in my mind a Himelech, this is the high priest This is the most powerful, most authoritative man in the spiritual life of Israel. And I see him beginning to I'm not grovel, but he's arguing for his life here. I didn't do any of this. We didn't know anything about this. We knew nothing, less or more. So we see Goeg's report, Ahimelech's response, then Saul's reaction. It's a cruel reaction. And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou and all thy house. Good night. That's his whole household. It's no deliberation. There's no opportunity to think this through. There's no time to try and Sort this out. His mind I'm guarantee you his mind was made up back up there in verse number 11. Saul knew Saul already decided these guys are dead. I see a cruel reaction and I see a callous reaction. There is no remorse on the part of Kingston. He's going to kill what he what who is, and I don't know what Saul's saying, but who's actually an innocent man, a whole slew of other high priests that have done nothing, that didn't even interact with David, he's going to kill all of these. Now what's interesting, and again we don't have time, I'm trying to cover too much here, but you go back to 1 Samuel chapter 15, where God, through Samuel, told King Saul to kill the Amalekites. And he told them to slaughter them all, all the cattle, all everything, the men, the women, everybody. And you need to understand, you say, why would God tell them that? These were incredibly wicked people. God was justified in this. They had earned it. So he says, I want you to slaughter them all. I want you to kill their oxen. I want you to kill their mules. I want you to kill their cats. I want Everything. Everything. And what did Saul do? He spared the best. He says, I'm not going to kill all these. Now how many people find it a little strange that Saul was not willing to kill all the very vile wicked people, but yet he was okay with killing the high priest and all these innocent people. Something's changed in his head. Sin has affected his thinking. He's not rational. I read an article just today and I printed it out and I forgot to bring it up here with me. I read an article, they did a survey uh somewhere, uh something And they went through and just asked people questions. And they asked them if it should be illegal to kill an eagle's egg If it should be illegal to kill uh to destroy an eagle's egg. And yes, yes, absolutely, absolutely, absolutely. On the same survey, the ver there was only two questions. That was that one. Then they asked It should it be legal to kill, should it be illegal to kill an infant child? And they said the survey was no. They said uh it should be legal to kill the abort. It should be illegal to abort up to birth, yes, yes, yes. And they said the survey was overwhelming In favor of protecting the unborn eaglet and against protecting the unborn child. You know what that tells me? Somebody's messed up. Somebody's messed up. They said one person It was a woman, uh, they asked her and she said, No, you shouldn't you sh uh uh you should protect the unborn eaglet. Uh what about the unborn child? No, the m woman's right And she says, You have no idea you're not a woman. You have no idea what a woman goes through to give birth to a child. And that was true. And the guy said, Well, do you have any idea what an eagle goes through to lay an egg? Right? I mean he laid three or four of them. So Saul here, uh my point I'm trying to illustrate is this The farther we get from God's Word, the farther we get from the truths of God's Word, the less rational our reasoning becomes. It affects the way we think. Am I am I making sense? And I see that with King Saul. How in the world can you Spare these wicked, wicked people that God said they've had I've had enough with them, they need to go, and then kill the high priest of God and these innocent people Then you have the, let me give you this real quick. You have the soldiers' refusal in verse 17. They had more character and respect for mankind than the people of God than their commander did. You have Doeg's inhumanity. Verse 18, he goes and kills the priest and all the prophets. Now, here's a little interesting side note. That was actually a fulfillment of prophecy. God had told Samuel, Samuel had some boys, Eli. And they were wicked men. And they would lay they would wait at the gates of the tabernacle when folks would come to their offering and their sacrifice and they would steal their sacrifice. And they would, when the women would come, they would say, You sleep with us before, we're not going to do the sacrifice for you. How many people agree? That's pretty wicked. And God approached him and says, You, your offspring will not be high priest anymore. I'm cutting off that line because of that wickedness. Guess who Elimelech is? He's in that line. And so it's a fulfillment. The reference for that is 1 Samuel chapter 2, verse 27-32. I said it was Samuel's kids. It wasn't Samuel's kids, it was Eli's kids. And so this is actually a fulfillment of prophecy. Now there's a whole slew we could say about that. That tells me that regardless of how wicked man is, God can still accomplish his will. And he's using this wicked man, Doeg. So it was a fulfilled prophecy. He was fiercely savage, verse 19. We already looked at that. He just slaughtered the whole town, babies, everybody, everything. I put this down. The farther we get from God, the more violent we become. The farther society gets from the Word of God, the more violent our society becomes. And then we have David's informant, and I'm gonna I've already I told you it's hard for me to cover this much ground. But verse 23-23, you have Abathar, this is the high priest's son, he escapes and he brings the ephod, that's the prayer thing. with him. And he comes in verse 21, he explains to David the whole situation, what's going on back there, the his dad's being slaughtered, all the high priests are slaughtered, the whole town slaughtered. David expresses his personal responsibility if you look there at verse 22. David said, I knew it that day when Doeg was there, that he'd tell Saul, I have occasioned the death of all the persons of thy father's house. Yes and no. If David hadn't lied, David hadn't taken this little reactionary excursion, none of this would have happened. However, Saul's responsible for Saul's actions. By the way, you can put Psalm 52 down. Psalm 52 was written when David found out about Doeg's actions. And it's an interesting psalm. We don't have time to look at it. And then you have David's embrace. He takes Abathar under his wing. And we'll find out later on. Abathar becomes a dear friend of David's. He becomes one of his chief men. And uh very, very helpful to them. So here is my here's what I try to take away from this whole thing. I know we I I wanted to just go through this quick. Number one, I put this down. The tragedy of pride and self-centeredness hurts innocent people. We've got to fight pride with every ounce of our being. We cannot let ourselves become proud. As individuals, as a church, as everything. Number two, there is no depth to man's depravity. How many people ever s hear something on the news, somebody did something, and you think, I never dreamed anybody could be that wicked. Do you ever think that? It sets in the heart, it lies latent in the heart of every human being. The most depraved acts. There's no depth to man's depravity. And number three, I put this down, God is nevertheless faithful. God is never less faithful. We study this. If we had more time, we could have looked at this, and we'd have seen that what God said would happen happened as he said it. What God said he would do, he did. And God is able to take even the worst of circumstances, even the most horrible act, failures, and he can take that and turn that around and bring some good out of it. Our God is an amazing, amazing God. That he could use someone like us, that he could forgive a sinner and give us new life. And what we need to do is simply make that decision by faith, Jesus, I believe you died for my sins. I believe that. You took the judgment for my sin, and by faith I accept what you've done to be my own personal Savior. And God promised He forgive us and He gives us new life. Isn't that wonderful? Father in heaven, please bless us now and help us to learn from this. Lord, I just tried to cover too much, I know. I pray our faith in you would grow. Our distrust of ourselves would Be clear in our minds, and we need to trust you. And I pray you'd help us be a faithful witness to this old sinful world of your faithfulness and your promises. Of salvation, of hope, and and eternal life. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I'm with you. I want to fight this pride. I don't want let pride in. I know it's there. I see it. I feel it But uh I want God to help me have victory over pride. Anybody join me with that? Sure. Goodness. Nobody would no Christian would say no to that. We need to ask the Lord to help us. Die to sell. Maybe you know someone, you say, preacher, I know someone that needs the Lord. I know someone needs the Lord. And you say, I'm praying that they come to Christ. Is there anybody like that? I know someone needs the Lord. Pray that they'll be saved. Sure. Maybe you're here tonight and you've not been saved. Tell you, tonight's a good night to trust Christ. Tonight's a good night, get that settled, nail that down. God will do it if we'll just Trust him. Let's stand together. Father, bless our imitation I ask. In Jesus' name.