I will turn to Second Kings chapter four. Second Kings chapter four Going to be reading verses thirty-two through thirty-seven, second Kings chapter four. Uh the U. S. Department of the Interior used to tag migratory birds just for their surveys and whatnot. And the bands they put on the birds used to bear the address Washington Biological Survey. But of course, you can't put all of that on a little band on a bird, so they abbreviated it And the abbreviation was Wash BioServe. Washington Biological Survey. There's a guy over in West Virginia out walking around with his shotgun. And he shoots a bird, one of these survey birds. And he writes them a letter. He said, Dear sir, I was out hunting, I shot one of your birds. I think it was a crow. I followed the cooking instructions on the leg tag, and I want to tell you it tasted horrible. The bands are now marked Fish and Wildlife Services. Nobody got it at all, did it? Wash, Boyle, Serve, Washington Biological Survey. Okay, forget that one. Second Kings, chapter four. I know y'all are thinking, what'd she just preach? Look at verse 32. And when Elisha was come into the house, behold, the child was dead. and laid upon his bed. He went in therefore and shut the door upon them twain and prayed unto the Lord. And he went up and lay upon the child and put his mouth upon his mouth and his eyes upon his eyes, and his hands upon his hands, and he stretched himself upon the child, and the flesh of the child waxed warm Then he returned and walked in the house to and fro, and went up and stretched himself upon him, and the child sneezed seven times. And the child opened his eyes. And he called Gehazi and said, Call the Shunammite. So he called her. And when she was come in unto him, he said, Take up thy son. Then she went in and fell at his feet and bowed herself to the ground and took up her son and went out. We're looking at this story of a sneezing child. We've been studying this now for several weeks. I want to bring the final message, a sneezing child. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you once again for the Word of God. And Lord, the power that is in your word to change lives, to encourage or discourage, and stir us up. Lord, I think of folks that are around the world in countries Preaching the gospel, strange lands, all because they heard the Bible preached one night and you touched their heart and you changed their life. And they ended up in a foreign land serving you. I asked, Lord, that you would speak to our hearts tonight. Father, as best as I am humanly able, I yield my will to your will. I present my body anew this hour to you, Lord. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me. I pray our church can be a blessing to the young people here that are visiting with us And I ask, Lord, your will be done in each of our lives. God, I think of this great country, Kazakhstan. Lord, we need people to go there. Somebody has to go to that country Perhaps out of our church or somewhere around this world, we're asking you to Lord, please do a work. Bless now I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, the child's dead. The mother, the Shinnamite woman, did not ask for the baby. She had provided housing and food for Elisha as he traveled back and forth to Mount Carmel. And in return, out of his appreciation, Elisha offered his services to the Shunammite woman. Can there's something I can do? Can I speak to the king? uh captain of the host, something, anything I can do for you. She goes, no, no, I'm happy. I've got my family. Everything's fine. Gehazi points out she's an older lady, he's an older man, it's an older couple, they don't have any children So Elisha says to her, About this year and the time about the next time of life you're going to have a child. And she makes a strange response, as we looked at before She says, uh she goes, uh nay my lord, thou man of God, do not lie into thy handmaid. I don't understand her thinking and saying that, but that's how she responded. Sure enough, about nine months later, as the time of life comes around, she gives birth to a little baby boy. The child's not very old. In fact, the implication here is it's a very small toddler. The daddy is out working the field, the toddler's kind of there toddling. That's what toddlers do. And um The child goes, my head, my head. And the daddy being the wise, compassionate man that he is, he says, take him to his mother. So they take him to her mother and she holds him and the child dies. The mother goes to the husband and says, Our child's sick. He goes. He says, basically, oh well, take care of it. So she gets no compassion from her husband, so she seeks out the man of God. And that brings us to the events here that we're looking at. She found no help or comfort from her husband. So she seeks out the man of God. The first thing we noticed, if you remember, in verse 27, we noticed the response to her sorrow. She finally catches up to uh Elisha and she falls at his feet and holds his feet. Look at verse 27. And when she came to the man of God to the hill, she caught him by the feet Now, just quickly I want to say that was that was not your standard operating procedures with profits. You don't go grab them by the feet. That was inappropriate. That was out of the ordinary. That was disrespectful. That was not to be done. And Gehazi responds in what I call a cold orthodoxy response. That's wrong. You don't do that. And the Bible says he thrusts her away. Technically, Gehazi was right. She shouldn't do that. But this was a woman who was broken. A child she loved dearly that she did not ask for has died And in desperation, no comfort from her husband, no help from her husband, in desperation she throws herself at the feet of the prophet, and Gehazi, like too many fundamental independent Baptists had no compassion for her whatsoever and simply said, you don't do that around here. Listen, I am all for keeping the standards high. I am all for having Bible convictions, but we've got to have a little compassion about it. We've got to be a little gracious. We need to give people a little bit of room. Hey, somebody gets saved. They never live for God. They don't know the Bible. They don't understand the principles of Scripture. We've got to give them a little bit of room to grow and develop and understand what God expects from them So there's cold orthodoxy. Then you have Elisha's response, which is what I can call compassionate fundamentalism. Elisha recognizes this is a broken-hearted woman. Now probably really shouldn't be grabbing prophets by the feet. But man, her heart's broke. He looked beyond her faults, and he saw a broken heart. And he saw someone who needed the compassion and love of God And so, we don't have all the answers, but God does. And we need to be careful, we don't just give our own pat little answers to everybody's problem and think, well, this is right. Wait a minute. Sometimes we just need to love people a little bit Sometimes we just need to uh uh uh tolerate a little bit and give God a chance to work in our heart and to find out exactly what's going on and try and help them. So we uh we're clear on that, right? Amen? And listen, as pastor, I want to be very short, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we are an independent, fundamental, separated King James Bible, soul-winning, devil-hating, king K uh devil kicking, uh Rindow window rattling, shingle pulling, separated temperamental, bad attitude Baptist Maybe not all that. But I want us to be nice ones. Amen? We need to be nice about it. And sometimes people come in and their hair is purple. Plus God ain't have enough purple hair in this church. Listen, let them come in. Should people have purple hair? Yes or no? No, you shouldn't have purple hair unless God gives you purple hair Or unless you're an older lady to get it done. Uh anyway, we already preached that So we have cold orthodoxy, bless God, it's gonna be or there's compassionate fundamentalism, and Elisha tolerated her grabbing his feet because he knew she was brokenhearted We need to work with people. Then we notice that was the response to her sorrow. Then we notice the resolution of her problem. She shares with them what the situation is, and so They're going to try and solve the problem. Look with me if it would at verse 29. Then Elisha said to Gehazi, gird up thy loins. Here, take my staff in thy hand and go thy way. If thou meet any man, salute him not. If any man salute thee, answer him not again, but lay my staff on the face of the child. Elisha's a busy man He's got appointments. He's got kings he has to meet with. He's got the school of the prophets. He's got to head that thing up. They have several schools around He really doesn't have time to be running off every time somebody shows up with a need and to be taken off. So he does what is convenient And he takes his staff, gives it to Gehazai, you go solve the problem. Nothing wrong with that. But you know, there are some instances where convenience is going to be inadequate. Just doing what is convenient is very seldom going to change anybody's life. Just doing the easy thing Just doing the thing that requires the least of my time, the least of my effort, is very seldom going to win souls or change people's lives or see God do great things We have convenience Christianity today. If I have time, I might get around to it. I'll try and work it into my schedule. Elijah tried that, it didn't work. Took the rod, put it on, nothing happened to the child. So then we notice not just the inadequacy of the of convenience, but the necessity of personal involvement. So Elisha realizes, and by the way, the woman knew that wasn't gonna work. Because I ain't leaving without you, Elisha. This is basically saying this is your fault. You're coming back with me. So Elisha recognizes that. He realizes I need to be personally involved. So he s erases his schedule, gets his cell phone out, says, I can't make it, something came up, and he heads back. If people are going to be helped, we're going to have to get personally involved in their lives. Dr. Clarence Sexton made a great statement in his message Wednesday night on friendship. And he made this. He said, we've got to go beyond just being friendly to people, and we've got to become friends to people. And what he's saying is this. We've got if we're going to influence lives, if we're going to change people's lives, we've got to get personally involved in their lives. We need to share their burdens. We need to get to know them. We need to become a part of their life. We need to involve ourselves in people's lives. And if this child is going to come back to life, if this woman is getting her kid back, Elisha is going to have to get personally involved in this situation. So there's personal involvement. But there was more than that. That in and of itself was not enough. Just getting personally involved wasn't going to bring this child back to life. There was nothing in and of Elisha himself. that could bring life back to this child. So when he gets there, what's he do? Praise. He prays earnestly. And he he gets so caught up in his prayer. You read it, it sounds kind of strange, but if you study it out, he gets so caught up, he is so intense. And earnest in his prayers for this child to come back, he literally climbs up on top of the child, puts his hands on the child's hands his face on the child's face and he's crying out to God to restore the life. He gets up off the child and he walks back and forth. Oh God, you've got to save this child. Oh God, you've got to bring them back to life. Please don't take this child from this woman. I believe this passage here is one of the most intense prayer meetings recorded in the Bible. This is a man of God crying out to God with all his heart. Listen. We can inconvenience ourselves and we can invest ourselves in the lives of people, but if anybody's going to get saved, if we're going to see God do great things, we have to get God in it. We cannot do it in and of ourselves. Now we have to be involved. There has to be human work. But we need God in this. I don't want a church that I can build. I want a church that God can build. And if that's going to happen, we've got to pray. We've got to get God in it. And so, the resolution of her problem required more than just convenience. It required personal involvement, and it required the necessity of earnest prayer. Now that brings us to our final thought, and that is this: the resurrection of the child. Again, look with me if you would at verse 32. And when Elisha was come to the house, behold, the child was dead and laid upon his He went in therefore and shut the door upon them twain and prayed unto the Lord. And the whole idea here is the intensity of his prayer And he went up and lay upon the child, put his mouth upon his mouth, his eyes upon his eyes, his hands upon his hands, and he stretched himself upon the child, and the flesh of the child waxed warm. Well, that's interesting. Then he returned and walked in the house to and fro and went up and stretched himself upon him. And the child sneezed seven times. And the child opened his eyes. Now let me just throw this in. As I was going over this, something hit me. I did a little digging. Elisha is called a man of God thirty-one times. Elisha More than any other person in the Bible, Elisha is referred to as a man of God. Three times more than any other prophet or anybody in all the Bible. Elisha, the only other one I forget who it was, was eleven times. Elisha's thirty-one times referred to as a man of God When God uses the term, when God refers to someone as a man of God, that's usually when God's about to do some great things. When God says this guy's a man of God and he shows up in the scene, you better put your seatbelt on because God's fixing to do something incredible. And Elisha is called a man of God. Now let me just throw this out. You don't have to be a preacher to be a man of God. A man of God. A man who is sold out to the Lord God. A man whose life's purpose. is to bring glory and to please God with his life. You don't have to be a preacher to be a man of God. And I'm here to tell you, we have some boys and girls who need daddies who are men of God. Your child ought to look up to your daddy and say, my daddy is a man of God. He loves the Lord. He walks with God. I can see God working in his life. God answers his prayer. God is alive and real to my daddy. God, give us some children who have daddies who are men of God Our ladies need some husbands who are men of God. You know what's a shame? You know what's a shame? In a Bible-believing church, that the woman would be the spiritual leader in the home. Now I'm not disparaging women. God bless you And if your husband is not the spiritual leader, then bless God, you have as much influence there as you possibly can. But God's intention is for the man to be the spiritual leader in the home. Am I right or wrong? I ought not to be the wife constantly nagging the husband to have prayer. I want not to be the wife constantly nagging the husband. You never read your Bible with me. The husband ought to be providing the leadership there. Every wife ought to have a man of God for a husband. Man who loves God and walks with God and has a testimony for the Lord. Every workplace ought to have a man of God on the workplace. There ought to be some man there that loves God as a testimony to the Lord, as an example. And by the way, there's nothing effeminate about being a good Christian. Man of God. In the workplace, in the hole, in the neighborhood, we need a man of God. And when we have a man of God, then we see God do great things. Now, back to the story. He returned, walked in the house to and fro, verse 35, went up, stretched himself upon him, the little child toddler, and the child sneezed seven times. What is that about? We've been building up to this, this child sneezing. In fact, last week somebody came up to me after service. They said, I'm really mad at you. I thought you were going to tell us why that kid's sneezing. And we never made it to that last week. So I'm going to tell you why the kid's sneezing. Sneezing seven seven times. Anybody here have a sneezing fit ever in your life? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I don't know what it is When I sit in my office at my computer, certain times of the year, certain times of the day, I'll sit there and I would just sneeze and sneeze and sneeze and sneeze. I don't know why it is But um a sneezing bit. So I did a little research and I thought, all right, why do people have incessant sneezing? I found out there's several reasons. One reason people sneeze repeatedly is because of a nervous reaction. Sometimes people get nervous and they start sneezing like that. And um they get nervous and just sneeze and sneeze and sneeze. I was wondering why my wife was sneezing the whole time on our first date. She was just nervous Not really, I'm just kidding. I was at the opera, I think we were as uh but anyway Sometimes it's a nervous reaction, sometimes it's a a mental disorder will cause someone to sneeze repeatedly And if I ever went pork chops again, I better be careful there. I don't think that this child had a nervous or mental disorder. I don't think that's why he was sneezing. The other purpose people sneeze repeatedly is because there's some type of blockage or irritation in the sinus passages. Now think about it. How long has this child been dead? I would say a day. I don't read where she's going overnight anywhere. It's possible In the morning he was sick, probably died in the forenoon, probably took her a few hours to get to the man of God. I don't think she was there with him very long, maybe a couple hours back, so we're of an evening. The body's cool Because it starts to warm. They notice the body's starting to warm when the life is coming back. So the child's been laying there. There could be various things that took place. It could be the thing that caused the child to die could have been maybe some type of hemorrhage, some type of um Uh aneurysm that may have ruptured, he said, My head, my head, there may have been blood that dried in the nasal paths. There could be any number of things But whatever the case, this child began sneezing. A choo! A choo! Choo! A choo! Seven times. Now I think there is significance to that though. I think there's some significance here, and that's this. Sneezing, I think you all agree with this. Tell me if you don't. Sneezing is a sign of life. Right? I've done scores of funerals. I don't know how many. I would say 80, 100, or more funerals since I've been here as pastor. Never one time have I stood by the casket and it all sudden started sneezing. I don't know what to do. That would bother me. Can I get a witness? I mean that would be a little disturbing if the dead body starts sneezing. I would say, you guys need to check it out. I don't think he's dead So sneezing is a sign of life. Dead men never sneeze. That's a good quote. So what about this? The child sneezing that tells us life is coming back. Now let me make some application. Sneezing is a very simple thing. Nothing difficult about sneezing. And this child, this miracle that God is raising this child from the dead. The fact that the child is sneezing tells us there's life there. God is working, God is doing something great here. Now it's nothing phenomenal about sneezing. We all do it. But dead men don't sneeze, and the fact this child is doing something as simple, as basic as sneezing, brings great hope Great joy. Can you imagine the mother outside the door and she hears her child sneezing? God answers prayer. That's my baby. Dead children don't sneeze. That's my baby sneezing. Life has come back. Now the interesting thing is, these weren't giant walls around the city collapsing. This wasn't some Red Sea party This wasn't a manna falling from heaven. This wasn't the sun standing still. It was just a kid sneezing. But it was just as miraculous as when Moses held out his rod and parted the Red Sea, God was imparting life into a dead child I tell you, last week in Bible time we had boys and girls every single day. I didn't hear any sneezing physically. But God imparted life into the lives, spiritual life in the lives of children and teenagers who trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. And I'm saying this, that is just as miraculous as if God would have parted Deep Creek Lake when God gives spiritual, eternal life to a little child. Are you with me or not? You say, preacher, my testimony, you know, I was never in drugs and rock and roll and I never lived all that wicked life. I was just You know, I grew up in church and I don't have any of these dynamic testimonies that people have and dramatic change in their life. I've just always basically been the same. I accepted Christ, I know I'm saved. Hey A child who is saved is just, whether it's out of drugs or from drugs, whether it was out of rock and roll or from From all that garbage, it's just as miraculous as the drunkard on skid row who gets saved. All the kid did was sneeze, but it was sign of life. And it was evidence of a miracle. You may think there's nothing miraculous about my life. I'm just an average Christian. Listen, if Jesus Christ saved you from sin in hell, you are a miracle of God. Don't ever minimize. What Christ has done in your life when he saved yours from sin and hell. So it's a very simple sign. Another factor of sneezing, it's nothing complicated or complex about sneezing. But another thing about it, it's involuntary. That child didn't lay there and say, all right, I've got to sneeze so they know I'm alive. Anybody here ever have to sneeze but you couldn't? And you try and make yourself, it's right there, you're on the phone, it's like Anybody anybody can I get a witness? You know what I'm talking about? What do you do? How do you make that thing happen? Look at a bright light, that's what I do. Look at a sun. Of course I have to wear glasses now from doing that, but uh You try and make yourself sneeze. A sneeze is involuntary. The child isn't there. Elisha wasn't on it. Sneeze, you can't sneeze. No. When God worked in the heart of that child, the sneezes just came out. Hey, I I have a hard time when someone claims to be saved and you gotta beat them over the head and beat them over the head and beat them over the head. to try and see any sign of spiritual life in them. Something's wrong with that. When I got saved, and I'm not saying I'm any kind of ideal example, but I'm just saying when I got saved, man, God began changing things involuntarily in my life. Suddenly, anybody know what I'm talking about? Suddenly things were different I didn't want to listen to rock and roll anymore. My dad wasn't twisted my arm and beating me over the head. It's just involuntary. I don't want that anymore. Nobody forced me to church. Call me 25 times Saturday night. You're gonna be there, right? You're gonna be there. I'm coming by. You better be there. You better be there. I just I didn't bother. I wanted to go to church. Christ changed me. And listen, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. It's not something we have to drum up, it's something God is doing in our life. changing us and developing us into something new. Now that's not to say we don't ever struggle it. It's not to say we don't have to make decisions. But it's something that happens that God does in us. And that's what this sneezing was. It happened involuntarily. Another thing I noticed on the sneezing, not only was it a simple sign of life, an involuntary sign of life, but I don't know how you feel about it, but sneezing to me is an unpleasant thing. I don't like when other people sneeze around me. Does anybody like that? Get in an elevator and they sneeze. Sometimes I stand in the back and shake hands. You know, every Sunday I stand there and shake hands. I am putting my life at risk. I hope you appreciate that. And every now and then, not very often, but every now and then somebody will be in line coming by, shake your hand. Thank you, thank you, God bless you. And somebody's up there about two people ahead, and they'll do this. Hey, Prager Got to see ya It's like You know what I do? I shake their hand. Then the next person in line, I shake their hand. Sneezing's not I don't know where I I Elisha was when that kid sneezed. I hope he wasn't on top of him. But it's not very pleasant when people sneeze. And you know, I noticed when God first starts working in a spiritually dead person's life, at first it's not always very pleasant. You know what happens? Conviction sets in. I don't know about you, but I don't like to be convicted. Huh? Some people don't come to church because they don't like to be convicted. It's a good thing. Sneezing's good. We need to do that. There's nothing pleasant about it. I remember before I got saved, those weeks leading up, those months leading up to the night I got saved, I was under such conviction. I was miserable to be around. You think I'm dead now? You should have seen been with me then. I was miserable to be around. There is nothing pleasant about when God first starts working in a heart. How many people here remember the moments before you trusted Christ? The conviction you were under, how terrible it fell? Anybody know? Can I get a witness at all? It's miserable. First indication that God is working in a life is often very unpleasant. There's a conviction of sin. Another thing that happens a lot of time is there's a loss of self-confidence. I mean you just hit the bottom and suddenly, man, you had it all together before, and all of a sudden you were on top of it, man. You were the man, you had the answers, and uh everything was cool But all of a sudden God starts working and man he starts knocking the pilings out from underneath and next thing you know you don't know whether you're coming or going. You don't know who you are or what you are. All you know is I can't do this without Christ. I need God in my life. And there's nothing pleasant about losing all of that. And so when God begins working in a heart, in a life, a lot of times initially it's very unpleasant. Until we finally get all that out and we trust Christ. So this kid sneezing, what's the deal with the kid sneezing? It's simply this. He's alive. God brought the child back to life. What a miracle. Elisha Didn't just declare the child. You didn't go in there, pray, climb on it, come out. Alright, child's fine. Everything's fine. I don't know. There was ample evidence that this child was alive. Undeniable proof. Yup, the kid's flesh is warm, he's sneezing, and he is up and about, his eyes are open. And what we want is more than simply professions. We want to see God working in people's lives. Am I right or wrong? Now listen, we're all for confrontation. We go out we had two folks this afternoon, professed faith in Christ. We're all for that. But I'll be honest with you, I want to see more than just a profession. I'd like to see God working in that person's life now. I'd like to hear them sneeze, so to speak. Amen? I'd like to see some spiritual warmth there. I'd like to see some spiritual eyes open. I'd like to see some evidence that God is working in that life. And to do that We must personally be involved, and we have to pray down the power of God. A sneezing child, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us Help us to be for real. God help us to invest our lives in others. God help us to seek you and have your power on our lives and ministries. And I pray we could see you do great things. In homes, in families, and hearts and lives, all across this land, all across our area here. We could see lives transformed. Spiritual sneezing. I wonder with our heads bound and with our eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight would say, Preacher, I need to be more personally involved in my witnessing. I need to get more involved in people's lives. I need to be more involved, personal involvement. Uh whether it's convenient or not, I need to be involved in winning people to Christ. Is there any like that by the