Uh uh wanna say I I understand what time it is and so I wanna respect that and uh we'll be out I guarantee it we will be out of here by ten o'clock. I guarantee it. But um a lot of nervous laughter on that. But I uh I just want to try and get to the point and um uh just share a thought this evening. Second Kings chapter four, if you would turn there. Little boy was emptying his pockets one evening, just all kinds of change. I mean uh a lot of money, change coming out of his pockets. His mother said, Where in the world did you get all that change? He said in Sunday school they have bowls of it there. And um Second Kings chapter four. Notice with me if you would verse twenty-five. Now I think we remember the story of the Shunammite lady uh cared for Elisha. Uh she built him a little prophet's chamber and in return he uh told her she would have a child, which she did. Uh the child grows a little bit as a young child and uh gets sick and dies, and we pick the story up in verse 25. And this woman, this Shunammite woman, the mother of this child, verse twenty-four, she saddled an ass and said to her servant, Drive and go forward, slack not thy riding for me, except I bid thee. So she went And came to the man of God to Mount Carmel, of course, that's Elisha. And it came to pass when the man of God saw her afar off He said to Gehazi his servant, behold, yonder is that Shunamite. Run now I pray thee to meet her and say to her, Is it well with thee? Is it well with thy husband? Is it well with the child? She answered, It is well. And when she came to the man of God to the hill, she caught him by the feet. But Gehazi came near to thrust her away. The man of God said, Let her alone. For her soul is vexed within her, and the Lord hath hid it from me and hath not told me. Then she said, Did I desire a son of my Lord? Did I not say, do not deceive me? Then he said to Gehazi, Gird up thy loins, take my staff in thy hand, and go thy way. Thou meet any man, salute him not. If any man salute thee, answer him not again, and lay my staff upon the face of the child. The mother of the child said, As the Lord liveth, as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And he arose and followed her, and Gehazi passed on before them, laid the staff upon the face of the child, but there was neither voice nor hearing. Wherefore he went again to meet him and told him, saying, The child is not awake. And when Elijah was come to the house, behold, the child was dead. and lay upon his bed. He went in therefore, and shut the door upon them twain, and prayed unto the Lord And he went up and lay upon the child, put his mouth upon the mouth, upon his mouth, his eyes upon his eyes, and his hands upon his hands And he stretched himself upon the child, and the flesh of the child waxed warm. Then he returned and walked in the house to and fro, and went up, and stretched himself upon him. And the child sneezed seven times. And the child opened his eyes. And he called Gehazi and said, Call this Shunammite. So he called her, and went and when she was coming to him, she said, he said, Take up thy son. Then she went in and fell at his feet, and bowed herself to the ground, and took up her son, and went out. We have a sneezing child here. Let's pray. And I want to just give a few thoughts to you quickly. Father, bless now our study of your word tonight. I pray, Lord, that you would please fill me with your spirit. I yield my will, present my body anew. And uh help me, Lord, to get to the point here. I pray you challenge us, and Lord, help us to learn from this here. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The child's dead. God miraculously gave this child to the Shunammite woman and her husband, and mysteriously God took the child's life away. We're not given any reason or explanation. God does things that we often do not understand. Nevertheless, the dear woman uh finds no help or understanding from her husband. She seeks out uh Elisha and looks for help. The first thing we pointed out last Sunday night was uh the response to this woman's sorrow. And if you remember we noted in verse number 27, when she came to the man of God, to the hill, she caught him by the feet. But what did Gehazi do? What Gehazi do. He thrust her out. He pushed her away. I mean he was he was adamant about this. And if you remember, we pointed out that he represents, at least in my mind a uh uh what I'm calling a cold orthodoxy. He was concerned that everything was right to the letter of the law with no compassion, no concern for the needs or heartaches of others. And listen We need to be right. Amen? We need to be right. We want to be orthodox, correct in what in our understanding. But we bought to be compassionate about it. And that we pointed out was uh represented in Elisha's response And when I called it compassionate fundamentalism, he recognized her broken heart, he recognized she was a woman with a real need, and uh he recognized his own limitations And so he tolerated some unorthodox behavior on her part, but he was uh concerned for her. And the lesson I take from that for all of us is this We need to give people some slack. We need to give them some room. Particularly you have new believers sometimes. They may not know the scriptures as we do. They may not have grown in the faith as we do. We need to work with them and give them some room and let them grow. And I remember years ago there's a fellow who trusted the Lord at church here and came out, him and his wife, and he had long hair and earrings. And uh he came and came and uh I never said anything directly about him, but we happen to work into our messages uh various passages uh in 1 Corinthians there where he says it's a shame for a man to have long hair. And we just mentioned that in passing. And uh one day he came to meet, had his hair cut. He says, you know, I never knew it, but the Bible says man's not supposed to have long hair So he got his hair cut. Now I could have the first time he came to the door said, You hippie, get out of here. Come back when your hair's cut. Hair's cuts. And uh uh would that have helped him? No, I'd have run them off. But we gave them some room and let them and so that was the illustration of that. Now I want us tonight very quickly is to notice the resolution of her problem In other words, how her problem is resolved. We had the response to her heartache. Now how it's resolved. The first thing I notice here in verse 29 and 30 is the inadequacy of convenience. That's the way I put it. Look at verse 29. The Bible says, let me get my place here. Then he, Elisha, said to Gehazi, gird up thy loins. Take my staff in thy hand and go thy way. Thou meet any man, salute him not. If any man salute thee, answer him not again. Lay my staff upon the face of the child. And the mother child said, As the Lord liveth, as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And he arose and followed her. What happens here? Elisha, no doubt, is a very busy man. He has the ear of kings, he's the man of God, he is the prophet of the hour. He uh has these prophet schools where he's teaching in And uh no doubt he had appointments and places to be. This woman catches him. It's an unscheduled appointment. She wants, she tells him about her child, the situation there, and uh so He's got places to be, so he says to Gaangzai, his assistant, here is my rock. You go back I think all you need is my rod. You lay it on the child, everything's going to be fine. That was more convenient for Elisha. Required less time, required less effort on his part. He didn't have to change his schedule. He could keep his appointments and still try and meet this person. I found that convenience Christianity has very little influence on our world. If our Christianity, if our service to the Lord is nothing more than what we can conveniently do. We're going to see very few souls saved. We're going to see very few lives changed And um uh I'm afraid we have gotten to the point in our Christianity where we have simply work it in if we have time. If it doesn't require too much effort, if it doesn't require changing my schedule, if there's not too much money involved, if there's not too much effort involved, then I will try and do what I can. But other than that I'm really not interested in uh doing a whole lot. Convenience Christianity is not going to affect our world very much. We need a type of Christianity that I call committed Christianity. Where we are sold out, whatever the price. I appreciate Brother Dave and Brother Jerry going on this trip. And uh I tell you, I gained some insight into what Jua Adams is facing, and I'm sure they did also the price that's going to have to be paid, the effort that needs to be put in. And thank God for men and women like Jilla and Heather Adams who are willing to set aside convenience and commit themselves to trying to reach a country for the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we need more of that. And I'll be very frank with you, and I'm talking to myself as much as anybody. We need more of that in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Well we are just committed. We got Bible time coming up. And I tell you, if all our effort into getting kids out and teaching them the Word of God and Trying to win them the Christ. If all it's going to be is what can we can conveniently do, our impact's going to be very minimal We're gonna have very little influence. But if we say, you know, I'm selling out for this thing, whatever it costs, whatever the price is, whatever's required, I'm willing to do it so that some boys and girls can be one to Christ, escape hell, so moms and dads can come to Christ and have a Christian home. And so this convenience uh uh the can the inadequacy of convenience Look at verse 31, if you would. So Gehazi does what Elisha says. He passed on before that. He lays the staff upon the face of the child, just like Elisha said. But there was neither voice nor hearing. Wherefore he went again to meet him and told him, the child is not awake. It didn't work, did it? Just doing what was convenient did not change a thing. The second thing I notice here in resolving her problem, doing what was convenient didn't solve the problem. Second of all, the necessity of personal involvement. Now, we have a child that is dead. We want to see that child come to life again. We want the child's life restored. Now, we tried what was convenient. I don't have to change my schedule. I don't have to rearrange things. I don't have to go out of the way. I'll just send Gehazi back. He can lay the rod off. That doesn't work. So Elisha realizes if this child's going to come back to life, he must be personally involved. He must personally go there. Uh, personal involvement. If this woman was going to be helped, Elisha must personally get involved. And what is true for this little child and this woman is true for you and I in soul winning, in missions, in discipleship in uh church building, in reaching our community. Hey, if we are going to see souls safe, you and I must get personally involved. Putting a sign out front saying visitors welcome is not going to impact the community. You know what we got to do? We got to get out into the neighborhoods We must knock on doors. We must meet people. We have to engage them in conversation. We have to do what we can to try and win their trust and their interest in who we are and what we represent. And we have to be involved in people's lives. I'm all for advertising. I try to put something in the paper regularly about our church, keep it before people's eyes, let them know we're here, and let them know what's going on. But Newspaper advertising is not going to reach a community for the gospel. We'll reach a community for the gospel when God's people are involved in the lives of other people. We've got to stop what we're doing. We've got to go and take a little time, a little effort, and go see them. Go to their house, talk to them, get personally involved. That's what Elisha had to do If we want to see God work in a supernatural way, we must make spiritual contact with people. How many folks here, you're saved to know it? Say amen. How many folks here are saved because another person showed interest in your spiritual concern? How many people were that? They they won you to the Lord. They showed you some attention. You know what that is? That's personal involvement. Now what they did for us, we had the responsibility to do for others. Right or wrong? Paul said, I'm a debtor. I'm a debtor. Stephen took a stand for Christ and died for it. And Paul saw that, that influenced Paul, and he came to Christ. And he says, now I'm a debtor. What was done for me, the involvement, the testimony that I saw personally in the life of Stephen. Now therefore I need to share that with others I need to be involved. How did Paul start all these churches? You know how? He went to the cities. He went to Corinth. He went to Ephesus. He went to Thessalonica. He went to Colossae. And he met the people and he talked to them and he engaged them in conversation and he invested their time as Corinth. He spent a year and a half there with those people, getting to know them, working with them Teaching them the word of God, explaining the gospel to them. We've got to be involved in the lives of people. And let me just throw this out to you as your pastor. It has to be more than just the pastor doing it. It needs to be the church people. Let me ask you a question. Who are you actively involved? Whose life are you actively involved in? In bringing them to the Lord Jesus Christ. Is there anybody? Is there anyone outside of yourself and your own family that you are investing yourself in to them to know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Anyone at all When is the last time you took the effort to go to somebody and say, here's a gospel track? I'd like to share this with you. Tell you how you can know for sure your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. When's the last time you ever went to visit someone's house for the express purpose of sharing Christ with them? When's the last time you've done anything outside of yourself? For others. There must be personal involvement. If we're going to reach Kazakhstan, we've got to get people to go to Kazakhstan. Amen? There has to be personal moment. There has to be somebody there. If we're gonna reach Oakland, if we're gonna reach Terra Halda, if we're gonna reach Kittsmill, if we're gonna reach McHenry or Grantsville or Friendsville. Somebody has to go there and engage people in the conversation about the Lord. Invest their lives in him So there was personal involvement. If this woman was going to be helped, Elisha had to go there and personally help her If we want to see God work, we must make spiritual contact with people. We must identify ourselves with others. We must invest ourselves in other people's lives. If we want to see souls saved There must be a greater personal involvement in their lives. I don't know about you, but my heart is burdened about how many people we see baptized. I think we ought to see a lot more people baptized than what we do. It's my feeling. And I'm just, you know, I'm part of the church family, and so I'm equally responsible. But you know, if we're going to see people not just trust make a profession of faith But actually follow the Lord in baptism, we've got to invest our lives into them. We've got to befriend them. We've got to take them in and make them feel like they're part of the family of God New believers, new folks that join the church. Listen, it can't just be a relationship between the individual and the pastor. There must be relationships established out among the church people. Am I right or wrong? The pastor is just one man. I can work with him. My wife and I work with him, but there has to be relationships set up. among the family of God also, so they feel like they're a part of something. They feel like they're part of this family here. And if you've got this attitude, if you think I'm going to talk to somebody like that, then you are not right with God. Amen. Well, I don't know what we're doing bringing these people in here. Well, what are these little kids running around here? My friend, you need to get right with God. If that's your attitude, somebody help me. Don't leave me up here by myself now. You completely miss the Spirit of Christ. You completely miss the whole intent and spirit and purpose of the Word of God. We are here not for ourselves. We are here to invest ourselves in the lives of others. Must be personal involvement. These little kids come in here, little bus kids. You know what I found out? They're naughty. Anybody notice that? Two little kids I love dearly, little Noah and Chloe. Anybody know Noah and Chloe? I love those kids, but they're naughty as can be sometimes. And uh I hope they're not listening on the internet. But anyway You know what they need? They need someone to love them. They need someone to care about them, invest themselves in them. Somebody that thinks they're worth something, something that thinks they're of value. No, Jesus didn't just die for your kids. He died for all the children in the world. And if their parents aren't going to teach them the things of God, then we have a responsibility too. Amen? So there must be personal involvement. We're going to see people saved, we're going to see them baptized, we're going to see them grow and go on for the Lord. We must be personally involved. There is a danger. I love Faith promise missions. I believe it is scriptural. I would not do it any other way. God has blessed it here at Mountain Lake. Faith promise. God has blessed it. But there is a danger in that, and I don't think it's major, but it's there. And that is this If we're not careful, we can get the idea. Because I'm putting my mission's money in to be sent to missionaries, therefore my obligation to be a witness has been fulfilled. Now, excuse the language for this, but that is spiritual prostitution. Huh? Just paying somebody else to do what my responsibility is. Simply buying the missionary service on my behalf. And that is wrong. Acts 1. 8 says, You shall receive power after the Holy Ghost come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses to me both in Jerusalem. And Judea and Samaria. You know what that means? That means I'm to support the missionaries with my finances, my prayers, my efforts, but I'm also to be a personal witness here in my Jerusalem. So there must be personal involvement. We need to be personally involved in the lives of people. I think that's why the devil fights these mission trips. Has anyone noticed in the last year and a half, two years we've been talking about Kazakhstan? Has anyone noticed the troubles that people in our church have had? Is anybody paying attention? You say, well, it's just coincidence, Brother Jerry is sick right now. I don't believe that for one minute. In fact, we were praying, my wife and I, and I mentioned from this pulpit the weeks leading up to the trip, we better saturate this thing in prayer. The devil's not going to take personal involvement in that country, lying down. I told Jerry as we were communicating back and forth from Kazakhstan and even last week he was saying about he wasn't feeling on all that. I said, Jerry, I really believe that there's demonic oppression involved in this Now I'm not don't I'm not going to seed on this thing. You understand what I'm saying, right? But I'm saying the devil doesn't take personal involvement lying down. You and I invest ourselves in a country or another person's life or in family's life life, devil doesn't take that fight and sitting down. You might as well expect there's a spiritual warfare. And I'm here to tell you, this spiritual warfare is real. I mean it is real. We may you may not give it much thought, and it may just be out there for you, but I'm telling you, it is real. And the devil doesn't take this line down. So there must be personal involvement. It is impossible to live for self and affect others for the Lord. It's impossible. If you're living for yourself, you have no influence on others for the Lord. There must be dying to self, there must be self-forgetting, self-denial, and there must be devotion to the Lord and to others if we're going to make a difference So Elisha finds this woman. She comes, a child. I didn't ask for a child. Why'd you do this to me? I'm busy. Lay it on him. The child should be fine. The woman says, Oh no. Oh no no no no no no You gave this because of you God gave this child to me you're coming back with me You are going to be personally involved in helping me with this dead child. And Elisha recognizes that. You're right. I need to be involved with this. And he goes back with the woman. I end it with this. We'll pick up here next week. Are you involved in anyone else's life spiritually? I like the little saying, I heard a preacher say it years ago. Edith's world was surrounded on four sides by Edith, Edith, Edith, and Edith. In other words, she was living for who? Her whole self, Edith. Her whole life was invested in herself. How pitiful. What a shallow, empty life to invest my life in myself. Let's determine. In the coming weeks, months, and years, we're going to invest our lives in some other folks. We've got a family I was looking, we've got a family that just trusted the Lord. One month ago, they were lost on their way to hell. Next week she's teaching in Bible time. Isn't that an exciting thing? I'm not trying to single that out, but I'm saying this. Let's invest our lives in people like that. Get to know them. Befriend them. Fight them over. Find them out at McDonald's or something. They want to live for God. They want to do right, but they can't just sit there by themselves. Somebody needs to sit with them. them. Somebody needs to be friendly, just like you have people you talk to and they need that. And there's scores of other families out there. I believe if we'd invest in them, we could see that. I believe we could fill these pews up If we would live, quit living for ourselves and start investing in the lives of others. Frey and Betty had that lady here this morning, a neighbor, inviting her out, trying to get her, is she riding with you guys? To church, bringing her to church. Isn't that great? That's what we're talking about. Father in heaven, bless us. Help us, Lord. As a church, help me, God. And all of us as individuals to invest ourselves in others. Not just be convenient, but just step out. Really try and influence and help others, young and old. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. God spoke to your heart this evening. Why don't you come to all and say, Here I am, Lord. Lord, take me and use me while the piano plays. Just find a place old-fashioned on and say, Lord, I just want my life to make a difference. I want my life to have an influence. Maybe the Lord's already laid someone on your heart. Their name is in your mind. You can see their face. And God's saying, I want.