Turn with me back to the book of Proverbs. Proverbs chapter twenty-three. If uh If you find me fiddling with my glasses during the service or during preaching, yesterday we were moving some furniture, mentioned in Sunday school. and I had to do all the work, none of the other fellas would do anything. And I smashed my glasses up against uh one some of the furniture and it has been out of whack ever since. And of course Saturday night the the um Eyeglasses place isn't open, so uh I feel like they're falling off my head. So just ignore the weird things I'm doing up here, just disregard them. Proverbs chapter 23, and if you would, I'd like for us to read together verse 26. I'm only going to look at the first half of the verse, but let's read together in unison Proverbs 23 and verse 26. Ready, read it with me. My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways. I've entitled this passage and this verse here, A Son's Gift to His Father. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you for the Word of God. I ask, dear Lord, that you would take the truths presented here in this passage. And I pray you'd apply them to our hearts and lives, whether we're a father, a mother, a child, whatever position we hold in life as an individual. I pray these truths, as I said, your Holy Spirit would apply them to our hearts and minds. Give us open hearts and minds, dear Lord. Help us not come to this with a closed mind or preconceived ideas. We pray you'd help us. We want to, I speak as a father, Lord, and I trust I speak on behalf of the fathers here. We want to be the fathers you intend for us to be, dear God. We want to be successful in this responsibility you've given us. So we ask for your help. Fill me with your spirit. I pray, dear Lord, I yield my will, present my body, and ask you to speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. In a Baptist church, as no doubt would be true, I trust in other churches, the Bible is our final authority. In every area, this is the final authority. We do not have, as an independent Baptist church, we do not have uh denominational hierarchy where uh we have somebody uh a CEO or a president or somebody that has authority uh over our church our authority is in this book right here Uh we do not have uh uh uh a pope or anything like that. And the even the authority that the pastor of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church has, even that authority is delegated to him by Lord Jesus Christ as expressed in this book right here. So the Word of God is our final authority. As you no doubt, most of if not all of us are aware, the Bible is made up of a number of various books. It's actually a library of books. We read a few moments ago from the book of Proverbs The book of Proverbs was penned by King Solomon. Particularly the majority of the book was penned by King Solomon to his son. You read through the book of Proverbs, you'll find a little phrase is repeated various times throughout the book, and it's in our verse here. He says, My son, my son, my son. Solomon, no doubt over a period of time, had written down these sayings, these proverbs, this wisdom. in order to help his son in life, to benefit his son. There are 31 chapters in the book of Proverbs. And as the title suggests, they are proverbs. They're little brief statements of tremendous wisdom. They include, as I just said, wisdom, wise sayings They include warnings. Some very grave warnings are given to Solomon's son in the book of Proverbs, warning him of consequences of certain actions or decisions He would may make. There are observations here. It's interesting, and they kind of catch my attention as I read through Proverbs. He'll make statements like, I observe from my window I saw a building with the fences broke down. He makes observations and he shares those observations with his son. There are promises In the book of Proverbs, tremendous promises throughout the book. So the book of Proverbs is an appropriate book to look at on Father's Day. As I said, pen by Solomon to his son to help his son in life. I want to take a moment at the beginning of the message, and I want to challenge particularly all the fathers here this morning. Not just the fathers, I would like to challenge the teenage boys, the single young men. I would like to challenge all of us, fathers, sons. To read from the book of Proverbs on a regular basis. In fact, I would like to challenge you very specifically. I would like to challenge all the men, regardless of age, in the next month, beginning on July, what's today? Today is June nineteenth. Beginning on June nineteenth or tomorrow june twentieth. For the next thirty-one days I want to challenge you to read a chapter from the book of Proverbs that corresponds to that day's date. For instance, tomorrow's June 20th, you would read Proverbs chapter 20. Now I want to challenge you there. That's not difficult. Doesn't take but a few moments to read down through there. And I believe with all my heart And if you would do that, it would help you spiritually. I believe at the end of 31 days of reading a chapter from the book of Proverbs, at the end of that time, You will be better off spiritually. I believe it will help you spiritually. Now you come back in 31 days and you say, Preacher, I did that. It didn't help me spiritually. I'll give your money back For what you're paying here. But I I seriously I believe that. I believe if we'll study the book of Proverbs, take these truths, apply them to our lives, I believe it will help us financially. I think we'll have a better grasp of what our money is, how to deal with it, how what God intends for it to be, and we'll be uh we will uh we'll be better off financially. I am not saying you'll be rich But I am saying we'll be better off financially. There's a world of difference between being rich and being better off financially. I suggest to you that if you will take my challenge, read a chapter from the book of Proverbs every day for at least one month, I believe you at least have the potential to be better off physically. You know the book of Proverbs, and this is kind of striking home with me because I'm really working on it, but the book of Proverbs talks about our eating habits. Do you know that? I believe we'll be better off physically. I believe we'd be better off mentally. So here's my challenge to fathers and teenage sons on Father's Day 2011. Determine in the next 31 days you're going to read a chapter from the book of Proverbs. By the way, ladies, you can get in on this too. It would help you too. But read a chapter from the book of Proverbs every day for 31 days, corresponding the chapter to that day's date. And I believe it'll be a blessing to you, I believe it'll be a help to you. And I believe I believe I'm confident you will not regret it. In fact, I have for the last many years I have tried very diligently to read a chapter of Proverbs a day, just over and over and over throughout the year. Read the book twelve times a year, and then each year as it goes by. Now, we come to Proverbs 23 and verse 26, our text this morning. Solomon is writing to his son. He's giving them advice, he's giving them warnings, he's making promises. And he says in verse 26, my son, give me thine heart Solomon is making a request from his son. He is asking for a gift from his son. I was reading yesterday, actually last evening, I was reading. Some of you are familiar with the name Bill Cosby. How come everybody laughs smiles when you say his name He wrote a book about fatherhood. I thought it was kind of interesting. He says fathers, mothers always get more and better gifts on Mother's Day than fathers get on Father's Day. And he said, the reason being is the women have a better plan than the fathers do. For Mother's Day, what they do is they go to the kids with a very specific list. They not only tell them what they want, but they tell them how to get it. They'll say, go to your father, ask him for twenty dollars, and buy me these things. And he said, thus the mothers always get nicer gifts than the fathers. I thought it was funnier than what how you guys responded, but Solomon is making requests from his son. At this point in time, Solomon is declared to be the wisest man on earth That wasn't a vote they took. It wasn't some sort of contest. God said that. In fact, later on, Jesus reinforced that. So at this point, when Proverbs chapter 23 and verse 26 is being penned, The man penning it, the man writing it to his son, is the wisest man on planet Earth. Now later on Solomon lost much of his wisdom. He made some stupid decisions, and he started testimony at the end of his life. But at this point in time, he's tremendously wise. So here we have Solomon, wisest man on planet Earth, penning a book to his son. He is making a request: son, give me thine heart. Now, I began the message by stating that this book is our final authority. There's something miraculous about this book. It is called, the term we use to describe the miraculous aspect of this book is called inspiration. This book is divinely inspired by God. Now what do we mean by that? We mean God has given this book to us As his very word. So that when we open the Bible, it is God speaking to us. It is God's word. So when I read Proverbs chapter 23 and verse 26, and I read where King Solomon wrote to his son: My son, give me thine heart. Through the miracle of inspiration, it is also God making request of man. It is God making requests to you and I, and God the Father saying to his creation, to mankind, give me thine heart. Now, what does God mean when he asks us to give him our heart? I'm just going to make a few statements. This is all by way of introduction, but just to kind of get our frame of mind. What does it mean to give God mine heart? Just a couple statements. It means that I believe God's word completely. If I am giving my heart to God, I must take this book as His Word and believe it to be His Word That would be involved in giving my heart to God. It would involve obeying God's instructions completely. I cannot simultaneously say, God has my heart. And at the same time, be disobeying his word. Both cannot be true. So if God says, give me your heart, and I give God my heart, it implies that I will obey his word if he has my heart And also, the most basic meaning or thing involved with this statement, give me a heart, it means to trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Sometimes we will talk, technically the terminology is not correct, but the idea is correct. We'll say to young people something, you give your heart to Jesus. Now in reality, getting saved is not giving my heart to Jesus, it's accepting the gift of eternal life through faith in Jesus Christ. That term is used sometimes. So when we talk about giving our heart to God, it means putting our trust in Him, putting our hope in Him, trusting Him as my personal Savior. Becoming His disciple as a result of that. Following Jesus Christ. All these are involved in this statement of giving your heart. Now, what I want to do is look at this verse, particularly this phrase in this verse, and just break it down. And the first thing I notice here, and I'd like for us to notice, is the love of the Father. The love of the Father. Look what it says again. You'll probably have this memorized by the time we go out of here, and that's a good thing. Look at what it says. My son, give me thine what? Heart. Give me thine heart. Obviously he's not talking about physical muscle in his body. The heart, as we study scripture, is referred to often as the source of our affections Did you ever see the little phrase people put it, I heart my schnauzer. Did you ever see that little bumper sticker? I think Chip has one on the back of his truck. I I heart you. Uh any b everybody know what anybody know what I'm talking about? Um how anybody anybody still out there? Hello So when God says, when the Bible says here, My son, give me thine heart, one thing we can say he's asking for from his son, he's asking for his what? His love, his affection. Give me your heart. Give me your love. Son, I want you to love me. Now, why would the father want his son to love him? I suggest to you, because the Father loves the Son dearly. It's a strange situation. The father asking something from the son. It's usually the other way around. At least I've been the father of two boys now for over 23 years. It was very rare occasions when it was me asking something from the boys. I found it's usually, hey dad, can you, can I, can you, can I get a witness? I thought when they grew up and moved out that ended. Good grief. It just gets worse. But here you have the father asking something from the son, because the father loves the son dearly. That's kind of strange. As I said, through the miracle of inspiration, we have God asking something from us. You normally think of us praying to God, right? We're coming to God and making requests. And by the way, we should do that. And this isn't in my notes, it wasn't part of it, but I thought it now I'm going to throw it in. Every daddy ought to be a praying daddy. Ought to pray for his families, wife, children. But here you have God praying to man, in a sense. Why in the world would God ask man for something? Why would God want our heart so bad? What is it about my heart? That would cause God to want my affection. What is so great about my love? That God Almighty would want my love. Fact of the matter is, there's nothing great about my heart. There's nothing exceptional about my love. In fact, if the truth were known, our love is pretty weak. Our love is pretty anemic. And the reason God wants us to love Him is not because we're so wonderful, and our love is just so exceptional and so pleasurable. No, God wants us to love Him. Why? Because He loves us so much. Love longs for love. Right? If I love someone, I want them to love me back. And God loves us intensely In fact, in John, the epistle to 1 John tells us we love him. Why? Because he first loved us. So the first thing I notice here in this passage is the love of the Father for the Son. He doesn't ask for riches, he doesn't ask for praise, he doesn't ask for things. He said, son, give me your heart. Just love me. I love you. Son, I want you to love me. And God looks down to mankind and he looks to the fathers and the mothers and the children, the teenagers, the senior citizens, the toddlers. He says, I love you more than you'll ever comprehend. I gave my own son So that you can have a relationship with me, so we can be one and you can love me. And I just want you to love me. Give me your heart. That is the essence of biblical Christianity. Sinners loving the Savior. The created man loving the Creator because he loves us so much When a father asks his son to love him, it is because he loves his sons. Fathers, I feel infinitely more comfortable Preaching to fathers than I do to mothers. And in doing so, I tend to challenge fathers in the message to fathers, and I do so more so for mothers But I want to challenge us as fathers. Let's determine to love our children. Now that sounds, it looks to me that would be unnecessary to say that. But the fact of the matter is, I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but the fact of the matter is, I'm afraid we have a lot of fathers who probably who, by all evidences, by all appearances Love their cars more than they love their kids. They'll put more time, they'll put more effort, they'll put more care, they'll put more maintenance Into keeping that car looking good and running good than they do on their child having any kind of life that God intends for them to have. Let's love our kids. Let's make sure we don't love our things more than we love our children, our jobs, our possessions, our sports. You know there's some daddies can tell you every stat on the baseball players, football players. They're draft year they were drafted and their age and their weight and all their records and all this can't hardly tell you when their kid was born That ain't right. They don't know how old their kid is. They don't know what he weighs. They don't know what his grades are. I don't know who his friends are. But boy, they can tell you about Troy Palomano. They don't know anything about it. They know how long his hair is. I think he needs a haircut, personally. And all God's people said. Some of them did anyway. Let's love our let's love our kids. Let's just love them. You know one of the best things father, you know one of the best things you can give your mother? One of the best things you can give fathers, you want to know one of the best things you can give your children? Love their mother. Love their mother. That's what they want. They want daddy to love mommy. Yes, they do. So first thing I notice here, my son, give me thine heart. There's just pathos in this verse. There's just an emotional longing. Sit up, girls. There you go. The Father loves the Son. The second thing I notice here in this passage. Is not just the love of the Father, but I notice a longing of the Father. Look with me at it again, would you? My son, give me thine heart This isn't, uh I got studying this and looking at this, this isn't just a cold statement. It's just a matter-of-fact, all right, give me your heart There's a longing behind this statement. There's uh almost an intensity here. Son, give me I got looking up used that word give me there and how it's used other portions of scripture. And sometimes it's translated to yield, other places in the Bible. To yield. It has the idea of giving up possession of. My son, give possession of your heart up to me. Yield your heart. Now, the heart, as we said, is the seat of our emotions. The heart is the source of the things we love and desire, the things we want and the things we don't want. It is our heart that determines that. Well, I like this type of whatever. It is my heart that makes that determination. It's the seat of affections. It's the seat of our desires And the Father is saying to the Son, and God is saying to us, I long for you to yield up your desires to me. I long for you to give up, surrender possession of the things you want and the dreams you have and the plans you have, surrender them up to me, yield them up to me, let me possess them. It's an act of surrender. It's an act of dedication, of yielding myself to the Lord This, as I got studying it, is a very forceful request. My son, give me thine heart. It's almost a demand It is something that God, something that Solomon in the immediate context feels very strongly about Son, I want to have a part in your plans that you make. I want to have a part in the decisions you make. I want to have a part in what direction your life is going And God in heaven looks down to you and I, and he feels very strongly about this. I want to help you make the decisions. I want to guide you in your life. I want to be a part of your dreams and your plans. I want to be able to give you direction It's the longing of God's heart. And it looks like to me it would be the longing of a father's heart That he is able to guide his children in the right way and to make the wise decisions and be able to help them make decisions that protect them from uh uh dreadful results And so the father's longing is the well-being of his child. Surely Surely, father is concerned for the well-being. Surely we as fathers are concerned for the well-being of our children. Ah well, I don't care You know, the Bible says a child left to himself brings shame to his mother. Just let him go. Now this Solomon longed for his son's heart to be a part to help him make right decisions. By the way, let me say a word to the sons. You're a dumb bunny if you don't listen to your daddy. Let me say that again. I like saying that. That felt good. You're a dumb bunny if you don't listen to your daddy. I'd have shouted, Amen, there. Son ought to listen to his daddy. So, why does God feel so strongly about this? And I got thinking about this. Here's another question. God's this is a forceful statement. My son, give me thine heart. I mean there is intensity behind this. There's a longing behind this. And the question comes up, why does uh here the question comes up, what good What do I have that could benefit God? What is there possibly anything that's in my heart that's a part of my heart that would make God want to have it so much? God is all powerful. Amen? God cannot be any more strong, cannot be any more powerful, cannot be any stronger than what he already is. He never has been stronger than he is now, never will be stronger than he is now. He cannot be stronger than he is now. He's all powerful. So how does me giving him my heart, my affection, my plans, that doesn't add to his power? In fact, the theological term for it, God is omnipotent. So, me giving him my heart, there's nothing I possibly have that could make him more powerful. Me not giving him my heart doesn't make him less powerful. Why would he want my heart? God is all knowing. God knows everything. Now that's a humbling thought. God knows every thought that's going through your mind and my mind right now. Or in some cases, God knows every dream that's going on in your mind and my mind. right now, but I'm sorry. Um so does me giving God my heart, giving God my affection, surrounding my life, is that going to make God smarter? No. Think about this. God never learns anything. Now not for the same reason you tell your kid. You don't learn a thing, do you? God never learns anything because he already knows everything. He knows everything about us. By the way, that little secret in the closet you think nobody in the world knows about, God does. I just read this morning in my devotions. Night is like day for him. Nothing hidden, nothing covered So me giving God my heart, me giving God my affection, surrendering my life and plans over to God, it's not going to make him smarter. It's not going to make him more powerful. God is all holy There's nothing I can give to God. There is nothing I can I have that makes God any purer than what he is. And withholding myself from God, withholding my heart from God, doesn't make God any less pure. Doesn't make him know less. Doesn't make him lose power. God is all glorious. There's nothing I have that I can give to God to make him more honorable or more glorious. Here's the point. God, in me giving my heart to God, in me giving my life and surrender and commitment and dreams and surrendering over to Him, letting His will be done in my life. He gains nothing, but I gain everything. I put it this way It is more blessed for us to give than it is for God to receive. Do you get that? In this exchange God, I give you my heart. I'm getting the better deal. I am the one that's gaining more than God is And by that I mean this. When God is in charge of my life, it is better for me than when I am in charge of my life. When God is guiding my decisions, when God is leading me in life, how to spend my money, who to associate with. uh uh who what job to work, what who I should marry or should not marry. When God is guiding these, when God is making these decisions, I'm the one better off, not God. It doesn't affect him one way or another. Fact of the matter is, God doesn't need us. He loves us. He wants us. Somebody illustrated this way, you've probably heard it. It's very obvious. But when you put your hand, you put your fist in a bucket of water. And when you pull it out, the hole that remains, that is about how important we are in the big grand scheme of things. You follow what I'm saying? We're not we're of no benefit to God. The benefit in giving our hearts and lives to God comes to us. Let me illustrate. The prodigal sun. How many folks familiar with the prodigal sun? Alright? Everybody doing alright out there? Everybody okay? Some of y'all look a little concerned. Uh prodigal son. The boy takes the inheritance, you know, he gets it from his daddy, takes off. What's he do with it? He invests it wisely, becomes much wealthier, comes back home and helps daddy, builds a mansion for daddy. Daddy retires and the boy takes care of him the rest of his life. Now that's another version. That's not the King James Version. What's the son do? He takes his daddy's living and he what's he do? He wasted on righteous living, blows it all. For here and now, all the boy can see is today. All the boy can see is me mine what I want right now. And you know how long that lasts? Not very long. It didn't for the prodigal son. It's not going to for you or me. So finally he's at the bottom. He's in the hog pit. You know the story. And he comes back home. Daddy's watching for him. We referenced this in a message recently. Daddy goes running out. Father, I've sinned against heaven, you know, I'm no longer worthy to be called your son. Hey, get the fatty cap, get the ring, bring the robe out. Here's my question. The boy came back, gave his heart to his daddy finally. Surrender to daddy, I'm yours. Make me a servant, whatever. I'm just yours. The boy gives his heart to his daddy. Who got the better deal? The boy giving the heart or the daddy getting it? The boy got the better deal He's not living in a hog pen anymore. He's not eating husks anymore. You know what? He's sleeping in a nice bed. He's got three good meals. He's got clothes on his back. What did Daddy get? More bills. Right or wrong? Another mouth of fiend. Heartache of wondering, is this boy going to do it again? Can I trust him? It's kind of interesting. Later in that story, the father says to the son that didn't leave, hey son, the farm's yours. Interesting. The boy that stayed got the farm. Boy that ran off forfeited it. So what I'm trying to say is this, when we give our hearts and lives to God, don't think you're doing God a favor. Don't think you're missing out on something. Don't say, well, if I give my life to God, if I If I surrender my plans and let God call the shocks of my life, boy, I'm going to miss out on so much. I'm not going to be able to stay in the hot pen anymore. I'm not going to be able to eat the husk anymore Uh brother Olette, we went to hear preach the other night a couple weeks ago, and he made a good point. I get tired of hearing these movie stars and football stars, uh these famous Christians telling how much they gave up for God. Boy, I could be a country and western singer if I wouldn't have gotten saved and going off to live for God, I could have really been famous. Oh, so instead you're only going to heaven. You gave up so much I could have been a multi-million dollar football player, but God called me to preach and I gave all that up for God. No, you know what you gave up for God? You gave up dying and going to hell. We're the ones that benefit in this deal. We're the ones that do go ahead. Hey! Go ahead. Make your own decisions. Go out there. Run your life the way you want to. Ignore God. Ignore His word. Pull your own shots. Let's see how that works out for you. I've been in this a pretty long time. I can take you to some homes of folks 15, 20 years ago, decided they weren't going to give their heart to God, that they knew better for their life, made their own decisions. I'd like to take you to their homes today, show you how that worked out for them. Broken homes, heartache, tears Father longs for us to give our hearts and lives to Him, not because He gains any benefit from it, but because He loves us so much. He wants what's best for us. Just like a daddy works forty, fifty, sixty hours a week, goes without things uh uh uh runs his body into the ground so he can provide for his kids and maybe get them a decent education and maybe make something out of their lives And he says, listen, just give me your heart. I want you to be successful. If your light is being blessed of God, then my heart is full. My desire as a father, and I I'm uh no doubt I'm like you. I wish I'd go back and do so many things differently. Can I get a witness? I wish I'd go back and do so many things differently. My desire is simply for my boys, is that they're simply what God intends for them to be. Don't you want your boys to be a preacher? I'd love it, but my concern is that they be what God wants them to be. be. What God wants them to be. That's when they're well off. If I know my boys are where God wants them to be, then my heart is full. And I Happy. And that's the way God is. He loves us. And when we are everything God wants us to be, then God knows we're in well-being and we're doing good. Or best place we can possibly be. God longs for that which is best for us. And then lastly, quickly, I notice the relinquishment of the heart. Now that's not the exact idea I had there The word I really want. But he says, give me thine heart. I wish we had time to deal with all these, but you know, there are a lot of voices out there crying for our hearts. There are a lot of voices out there in the world crying for our young people's hearts. You don't have to go far in the book of Proverbs and you find strong drink crying out for the hearts of young men. Strong drink. Proverbs 23, we don't have time. Let me just give you the verses. A little farther down the chapter, verse 29 through 35, he talks about what happens when a person gives their heart to strong drink, gives their heart to liquor, gives their heart to beer, gives their heart to alcoholic beverages, what it does to them. And there are voices in the world today crying out, not just to the children, but all ages, and one of those voices is strong drinks and come on, enjoy, indulge. Take part in this liquor. Go ahead, drink it up, get drunk, have a good time. It's party time. We give our heart to that. We let that liquor take over our thinking and our lives And I'm here to tell you there's not one family, there's not one marriage, there's not one home that has ever been helped by liquor. There's never one life been made happier because of liquor. Oh, you can go out for a couple hours, get crocked. And have a good time, and then live with the consequences for months and years sometimes. Don't tell me it's helped you. Give me your heart! Miller time! Give me your heart! Redneck days, rockin' and rollin', drinking and carrying on, give me your heart! Listen, I'm not in this for popularity, but I'm here to say this. I am adamantly opposed to our town using a city park to sell liquor and beer and rock and roll You can quote me on that and put it in a letter to the editor. That did not help our town. That felt good too. The voice of strong drink. Boy, here's another one. The voice of strange women. Verse 27 through 28 of this same chapter. Strange women. Chapter 2, verse 10 and 11, 16 through 19, chapter 5, verse 3 through 15, verse 20 through 21, ch Chapter six verse twenty-four through thirty-five, Chapter seven, the whole chapter Solomon is warning his son against the strange women out there that are calling for his heart. Lust! Passion. Sensuality. There is an epidemic across our land, around our world, and in our churches of perversion Pornography is destroying the very souls of our homes, the hearts of our fathers and our children You take a strange woman and you put her up against a strong man, a strange woman will win every time. So Proverbs 7 says Say, preacher, what do I do when there's all these temptations and the the computer and all these things and magazines and TV shows and it's all out there this perverse it's just everywhere and the flesh is just crying out for it and those and it's crying for my heart. What do I do? You do what Joseph did. You don't try and fight it. You run from it. You take a strongest man you can find, you find the strongest Christian man you can find, you put him up against the strongest strong woman, I'm telling you, the strong woman will win every or the strange strong woman, the strange woman will win every time Flee, youthful loss. Flee fornication. Nowhere in the Bible does it say engage in. Nowhere in the Bible does it say just stand up and try and endure it. You can't. Calling for our hearts. I'm at the point now where I'm, it seems like the majority, I hate to say this, on Father's Day. But it seems like the majority of men have been affected by this hideous crime, sin. Now here's the good news. We here's the good news. There is deliverance. You can't have victory. We can't have victory over this. We don't have to be eaten up by it. We don't have to have our marriages destroyed, and our relationship with other people and brothers and sisters of Christ don't have to be destroyed by it. There's power in the blood. The blood of Jesus Christ can cleanse us from all sin. It's not hopeless. It's not what windless. We can be pure, we can be holy, we can be daddies who our boys can look up to with respect and admiration because we keep our hearts and minds and lives pure Strong drinks, strange women. Sporting pleasures. Proverbs 21, 7. Sports become a God. Take over our hearts. Selfish riches. Money takes over our heart and becomes a God. God specializes in taking our failures and making something wonderful out of them So all kinds of voices out there. Give me your heart. Give me your heart. You're gonna go out these doors? That radio is gonna come on? All kinds of worldly music. Give me your heart. You go to the store, liquor, everything else. Give me your heart. Give me your heart. Tonight, 7 o'clock, church starts, television show, different things, sports, relaxation. Give me your heart. Give me your heart. Give me your heart. God says, give me your heart. Give me your heart. Let's give our heart to the Lord. There's a story of a father in Spain. His him and his son had an intense falling out. I mean it was bad and it happens. The son took off. Apparently an older older son still living in the house. Father gave it a little while and the boy didn't come back. In fact, a couple days went by. So he set out. He said, I've got to find my son. The days turn into weeks, and the weeks turn into months, and the boy didn't come home and the daddy couldn't find him It was nearly a year. The father thought, I'm going to buy a full page ad in the local newspaper I'm going to put an ad out for my son. And this is what the newspaper ad said. The boy's name was Paco, P-A-C-O. I think I'm saying that right. Peso. It's in Spain. He says, Dear Paco, meet me in front of this newspaper office at noon on Saturday. All is forgiven. I love you, your father. Big full page ad. Paco. Meet me in front of the newspaper office at noon on Saturday. I love you. It's all forgiven, your father. Finally, Saturday came around. Eight hundred Pecos showed up at that newspaper office looking for a daddy who forgave them and loved them. We live in a world where our hearts are hungry to be loved. We know we need to be forgiven. And Christ is the only one that has that for us. Now, us daddies need to emulate the Father's love to our children. But we need to give God our hearts. Give God our hearts. Father in heaven, bless this message this morning. I pray, dear Lord, that on this Father's Day that there would be good decisions made on our parts, not just as fathers, but mothers, children. That we would determine that our heart, our love is yielded over to you, dear God, that there would be decisions made this morning to give you our hearts. Let you Call the shots, lead us and direct us. We'll trust you and obey you. I wonder if there's some here this morning say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I've been born again. There's no doubt about it. You'd say, preacher, you know there's some areas of my life I've been calling the shots. There's some areas of my life where my heart has gotten out of the hands of God, so to speak. And you say, preacher, pray with me. I want God to have all of it. Every area. I need God to give me victory. I need God to lead me and direct me. I need God to help me. I need to give Him my heart. How many are like that this morning? Preacher, pray with me. God has spoken to my heart. There's some specific areas. God bless you. Hands all around. Many, many hands. There's some very specific areas. The Spirit of God is dealing with my heart in some areas that I've taken it in my hands. I've gotten out, my heart's gotten out of the hands of God, and I need to get it back to be where it ought to be. Maybe there's some this morning say, pray, Chair, you know, I'm saved, but I've never really surrendered my life to the Lord. I accepted the gift of eternal life. I know I'm saved, but I've never really lived for God like I should, and God's been dealing with my heart, and I need to take this seriously. Maybe you're a father You've never really given serious thought to your responsibilities, spiritual responsibilities to your family. And you'd say, preacher, this morning, I've got to take my Christian life, my spiritual relationship with God seriously. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me get things to be where they need to be, that things will be right. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I've got to take my Christian life, my spiritual life seriously. And I want God to be pleased with my life. How about it? Between you and God, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. Is there someone here this morning? Say, preacher, I don't know for sure. If I die now, I'd go to heaven. I've never been born again. I've never trusted Christ. You say, preacher, I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. You'd say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Pray for me that God will help me. Settle that. Any at all? Father, bless our invitation Number of hands raised. You know our hearts, dear God. Help us to let go, to yield them over to you, that your will be done. In Jesus' name.