Chapter three if you would turn there. James chapter three. I want to give you a few thoughts here. It's an unusual verse. Just every time they start singing it makes me smile. I appreciate them so much. And I enjoy their songs. I think about them singing, uh you haven't sung for a long time, uh, on the Jericho Road Just Jesus and me. I like that song. James chapter three, look at verse number one with me if you would. Just quickly, I'm going to read verse 1 and 2, and I want to give you three thoughts from this passage here this evening. The Bible says, My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same as a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body I've entitled The Message Tonight because verse number one really is a sober text for Bible teachers. Now, the target of the message in this text this evening is very narrow It's talking to folks that hold the position, I believe, of teaching the Word of God to others, whether it's an adult class type setting, or it's a children, or maybe it's out of a church setting, maybe wherever we presume. to take the Word of God and teach it to others. This verse gives us a very sober warning here. So let me pray real quickly and we'll look at what he's saying here. Father, I pray you bless now. It's been a good day. This evening's service has been a blessing to But Lord, we want to look in your word for a few moments, and we're asking you to speak to our hearts and challenge us. I thank you, Lord, as pastor, for every person in this ministry, in this church, that teaches the Word of God. And I pray you would help us to see the responsibility that comes with that, myself included, and that you would challenge us. And I ask this, Lord, and I ask, Lord, you'd fill me with your spirit And speak through me. In Jesus' name, Amen. So far in the book of James, if you're paying attention, verse chapter number one, we notice that we have to be patient in trials. He said, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. For when he has tried, it will receive the crown of light which the Lord has promised to them that love him. Then in uh chapter two, a extended portion of chapter, uh we were told that a believer must be must practice the truth, just saying, I believe. uh is no indication that I'm genuine a believer, but how I live, how I act, the works I perform, the behavior, my lifestyle is the indication, is the indicator that my faith is genuine. So I have to practice the truth. Now chapter three We're going to get into this, these first 13 verses of chapter 3. We're going to notice the power of the tongue. And he begins with an interesting warning, a very sober warning, as I said, to Bible teachers. Again, whether it's a mother teaching the word of God to their children or it's in a formal setting. On Tuesday, September 18th, 2001. Now think about the date. Tuesday, september eighteenth, two thousand one, a series of anthrax attacks uh were committed in the United States. How many people remember that? Remember those. I remember them very very clearly. Letters containing the deadly anthrax spores were sent to news outlets, news offices. um to two senators, I believe, uh in Washington. When it was all said and done, five people were killed by this poisonous attack. Seventeen others uh were seriously infected with the anthrax um spores. This, uh, we are told initiated the largest, most complex investigation in the history of law enforcement. And uh believe it or not, and I've never said this uh publicly before, but believe it or not, I actually got in into that to some degree. We had received a phone call one night while this was going on or shortly after, and somebody had called asking for Dr. Dennis Leatherman. And um I forget exactly how it played out, but apparently there was uh one of the scientists or somebody at Fort Dietrich, Maryland, where all this ended up coming from, uh their name was Dr. Dennis Leatherman. And so every Dennis Leatherman I know is a genius. And um so but But anyway, we got this call and we got talking and and Fort Dietrich and all this was going on and just something about it seemed funny. Remember Kathy? And so we call uh she had called and said, you know, we got this weird phone call And um somehow we got where they were monitoring us and everything and and uh I'd like to assure you I was cleared of any wrongdoings But this was the largest, and that's the truth, that really happened, but this is this was the largest, most complex investigation in law enforcement. A fellow by the name of Bruce Irving was charged. Uh he was uh uh they they suspected another fellow, then they cleared him and this fellow Bruce Irvings uh was highly suspected as being the culprit behind it. He was a scientist at Fort Dietrich. uh involved in this type of chemical warfare, whatever it was. Before they charged him, he committed suicide. After his death, they went ahead and made a a formal charge against him And um and the re the places that I studied, they said that the charge was very dubious. There was no direct evidence that he actually was the one that had uh committed these crimes. Anthrax. being mailed to people with the with the deliberate intention of harming and killing people. Now I use that illustration To s introduce this passage where he addresses folks who send not anthrax spores But folks that use what I'm calling verbal anthrax to hurt other people. People sometimes can and will use words. To hurt others. Now, it's one thing as a Christian and particularly as a pastor, it's one thing to confront somebody about sin that maybe is in their life to confront them in a biblical and spiritually mature manner But it's a whole nother story to lambast and hurt and cut people down with our tongue and with our words. And he gives a very strong, these 13 verses here are a very strong warning, a very strong statement about the power of our tongue. To hurt and even destroy other people. People use false teach false and deadly doctrine. And uh spread their verbal anthrax. They'll come to our doors and knock on our doors. And they'll go through communities, every mission field I've been on. I have found false teachers out knocking on doors, going home to home, teaching their false doctrine, a deadly doctrine of devils that if people believe and die in that faith, they end up eternally separated from God in hell. The power of the word to communicate verbal anthrax, doctrinal anthrax. People use verbal poison to poison their spouse, their child, their parents. And in the home, the tongue is used to cut and hurt the husband and wife, to cut and hurt the child. And the child can say things, use their tongue in such a way that cuts at their parents and hurts their parents. The tongue is used, this verbal anthrax is used by the tongue to teach dangerous and false doctrines Actually, the Bible gives some very strong warnings against false doctrine, false teaching. If you have your Bible here, if you would turn just real quickly over to 2 Peter, just a few pages towards the back of your Bible, 2 Peter. And chapter number two, and I wish we had a little more time, we could go spend a little more extended period on this passage, but uh 2 Peter chapter 2. Verse number one, it's just a few pages away from where we're at in James. He says, But there were false prophets also among the people. Now look how he describes them Even as there shall be false teachers among you, talking about among the church, who privily shall bring in damnable heresies. I call that doctrinal anthrax. Even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction, and many shall follow their pernicious ways By reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of. The truth is evil spoken of because of what they're teaching, what they're saying. And through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you, whose judgment now of a long time lingereth not? and their damnation slumbereth not. Now that's just one passage that we could go to of scores of passages. Where the Bible warns against the danger, the destruction of false teaching, of unscriptural teaching We won't turn there, but Matthew chapter 7 and verse number 15 gives another strong statement about the warning of false teachers. The first 13 verses of James, chapter number 3, deals with the power of the tongue, the danger of the tongue. Now here's the point of this whole passage. If I take these 13 verses, I want to summarize it down into one statement. This is the way I would state it. If I want to be the Christian God has saved me to be, if I'm going to be the Christian that God saved me to be, I must control my tongue. I cannot be the Christian God saved me to be if I cannot or will not control my tongue. And he goes to great length and he uses some very colorful and very strong language in this passage To emphasize the fact that our tongue must be brought under the control of the Holy Spirit. It is a dangerous, dangerous muscle How we use our tongues impacts every part of our lives. The control that we have over our tongues very much determines the quality of white life we live, or the lack of control that I have over my tongue, will very much impact uh my life. Now I thought it was interesting and I tried to tie this in, see exactly why this passage is placed where it is. I can't really give a real clear reason in my thinking, but would nevertheless He begins this passage with addressing those who teach or those who desire to teach the Word of God. And from there then he goes into the influence of the tongue and the power of the tongue. Now I have three thoughts I just want to give you real quick, and I've just got a few minutes. I promise you I'm going to give you them as quick as I can. Number one, I want us to see that he begins with a note of caution Look at verse number one of James chapter three. My brethren, he's talking to Christians. My brethren, be not many masters. Now that statement is a word of caution he's given out. The word masters there, you need to understand, is a Jewish title for a teacher. If you go back through the Gospels, you'll notice many times the Pharisees and others who weren't even believers, they would refer to the Lord Jesus Christ as Master. Now they weren't saying that, well, we're submitted to you as unto our God. We're submissive to you. You're the master, we're the servant. That's not what they were saying. These were un unbelievers. These were folks who, in many cases, hated Jesus Christ. But they would refer to him as master because that was a title that was given to teachers. And so when James says here, be not many masters, he said, He's addressing the the position of teaching, particularly teaching the Word of God. And he says, before you want to be Before you want to take upon you the privilege of teaching the Word of God, you need to stop and just be a little cautious here. Don't be so quick to jump in on that. As I said, the term masters has a Jew is a Jewish title for teacher. That term master implies this uh implies having great respect for that teacher. It would refer to them as master because it was a a position of respect. And they would use this title. It was a title of respect for the one that was the teacher. They are the master. It also referenced the great control or the great influence that a teacher had over those that would sit under them. I'm curious, how many folks here tonight as adults, you can look back on your school years And there is a teacher that stands out in your mind that had tremendous influence on you. Anybody here that right now you could name them. You could give their name a teacher that stands out in your mind. I'm thinking of my third-grade teacher, Mrs. Stewart She had a profound impact on my life as a child. She would read the Bible in public school in Harleysville Elementary School. She would open up the Bible and she made uh she made several statements to folks. She says, I know that This government tells us we can't do that, but I'm going to do it until they fire me. And she would read the Bible and she would pray to us. I remember that, it's third grade. Remember she was very stern, she was didn't know nonsense, but we knew she cared about us. And so they would refer, the Jews would refer to their teachers As master because they had tremendous influence. They had tremendous power over their lives in many ways Now, because of that, because a teacher, at least in this society at that point, was a position of great respect. It was a position to be considered a very powerful position A lot of people wanted to be masters. They wanted that title. They wanted people to look at them with respect and admiration. Are you listening, girls? They wanted the people to be influenced by their teaching, by them. And so they would seek to be masters. They would be quick to want to hold that position when in reality their motive was not to better the people under them. Their motive was not necessarily to help and improve the lives whom they were teaching. Rather, they wanted to have a position. I am a master. I have great influence and great power. And so the focus, the the burden, the motive was not upon the students who are going to be influenced and taught in their well-being, but rather it was what I get out of this, what this makes me. And James is cautioning them, and he's saying, listen, uh don't seek to be this, don't be so quick To jump in there and have this position and seek this title. If you would turn over, if you would, real quickly, to Ephesians chapter number four. And I like this passage. I need to go to it periodically to remember my responsibility as pastor of the church. And in Ephesians chapter 4, verse number 11, give you a moment to find it there, Ephesians chapter 4, and verse number 11. God, of course, is addressing through the Apostle Paul the church there at Ephesus and to us through the preservation of his word. In verse 11, it says, and he, God gave some, uh gave the churches, some apostles. Now the office of apostle is no longer an operation. That ended with the last apostle in the life of Christ. uh uh after the ministry of Christ. And so that's another subject. And he says, and he gave some prophets, and look at this, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers The position of a teacher, particularly in a church, is a gift from God. Every teacher in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that teaches the Word of God, whether it's down a little two and three year olds or it's up here in the adult class. The Bible says that teacher is a gift that God has given to the church. What a tremendous privilege that is But then he goes on and says what their objective is. Verse 2. Why did he give some pastors and teachers, evangelists, prophets, apostles? Why? For the perfecting of the saints. For the development or the maturity of the saints, for the work of the ministry, and for the edifying of the body of Christ God gives to the church people who are gifted at teaching for the purpose of developing the church, for advancing the ministry, if you would, to train workers and teach workers So they can serve God and we can fill what we preached on this morning, our mission statement. And so the purpose of a teacher, particularly a Bible teacher, is not to exalt the teacher. It's not for the teacher to hold some titled position. I am a teacher. You refer to me as master. No, no, no. That's not the purpose at all. The purpose to be a teacher is to give of myself as a teacher for the betterment, the understanding, the spiritual development of those who sit under me. And so he's cautioning. He's giving a word of caution. Listen, don't be many masters. Don't be so quick to take this title and take this position. Because you need to stop and consider your motives. Why do you want to teach the Word of God? Why do you do you want to impress people with your great scriptural knowledge? Do you want to impress people and have people, ooh, he has such great insight into scriptures. If that's your motive, he says, listen, back off, and that's going to tell us later Because what you say and the way you say it has a profound impact and can be devastating and hurt people. So he says, stop, be cautious, examine your motives. What are you doing? Why do you want to go Make sure you have God's direction on this. Make sure that God is the one that is putting you in this place and going forward. So there's a word of caution here. Second of all, very quickly, he continues on with a word of consideration. Look at verse 2 uh here in James. Come on back there. He says, for he says, my brethren, uh be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation, for in many things we offend all But if any man offend not in word, the same as a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body. That first phrase of verse 2, for in many things we offend all. Um uh how many people here somebody ever said anything or did something and it just kind of got you wrong? It just you know you hate to use the word but it offended you. Anybody here ever been that way? Somebody said or do something, it just hurt, just offended. Come on now I know it was more than five people, you know what he's saying here? We all do that. You and I have said and done things that hurt people too. So before we get on our high horse and want to jump all over that person offended, that's the is it just me or does that seem like that's the big thing today? Oh I'm offended by that. Well just because you're offended doesn't mean I'm wrong. And the fact of the matter is, the Bible says everybody doesn't says things sometimes that are offensive to people. Now we shouldn't try to, we shouldn't be arrogant or indifferent about it. We ought to be very, very careful and you know try not to be offensive. So he says, in many things we offend all. But then when he then he makes this statement: if any man offend not in word, if you can get by through your whole life and never offend anybody by anything you say That same man is a perfect man. And able to bridle the whole body. In other words, listen, if you can keep your tongue from saying and doing things that don't hurt people, then brother, you've got total control of everything. Because the tongue is the one that's the hardest to control. And so he gives this word of consideration. Wait a minute. You've got to stop and consider the power of the tongue, the power of words. You've got to stop and consider how important it is that we exercise self-control. You want to be a master? You want to be a teacher? Stop. Examine your motives. Don't be so quick. Think this through. There be not many masters. And consider this. The things that you and I say have a profound impact on those who hear us. In the classroom, in the home, among the body of Christ, the things we say, the words we say, that old tongue has a profound impact. On the people that we speak to. And he says, you need to stop and consider that. A teacher of God's word must be a disciplined Christian. Must be. Because what we say, and many times how we say it, has a profound impact on people. Oh, we might not see an initial reaction But those words are planted and they have an effect. I put this down and uh I put this down, a Bible teacher, and I put a list of things very quickly I want to get a Bible teacher ought to be saved and baptized. Would you agree with me? We want anybody teaching the Bible that doesn't know the Lord is Savior. I want teachers who come out and out. Yeah, I'm a believer. I follow the Lord in baptism. I'm not ashamed of Jesus Christ. So a Bible teacher ought to be saved and baptized. They ought to consider the fact that there requires some discipline here, there requires some character on their part. I put this down: a Bible teacher ought to be faithful to the services of their church. Amen? I mean it bother it would bother me if a student was more faithful to church than the teacher was. How many people that would bother you a little bit? Yeah. So they ought to be faithful to church. They ought to be saved and baptized. I put this down, a Bible teacher in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church or any church as far as I'm concerned, ought to live holy lives separated from the world and sin. Preacher, a teacher of the Word of God ought to stop and consider. Listen to things I say, and I need to be able to discipline myself. If I can't control my tongue, I'm going to have trouble in other areas. If I can't control that tongue. I'll be able to tow my whole life. I ought to have some character about me, ought to be some integrity about me, and uh a Bible teacher ought to be live a holy life and be separated from the world of sin I put this down, and uh a Bible teacher ought to be loyal to the church family. You want somebody teaching a Sunday school class then going out and trashing other people in the church? How many people think that would be healthy for a church, a Bible teacher, teach the Bible and then go out and trash the other people in the church? I don't think it'd be healthy. I want a Bible teacher to be loyal to the church family. If there's something you have an issue with, and we in a mature scriptural, spiritual way, we sit down, we deal with the issue. But we're not disloyal. A Bible teacher ought to be humble and teachable and submissive. And so you say, preacher, where'd you get that list? Oh, I just happened to get it from our teacher qualifications that every teacher has to sign at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And they're based on Bible principles. So he gives a word of caution. Be not many masters. Listen, stop and examine your motive. Why are you wanting to teach the Bible? What's your drive here? Second of all, just consider a few things. You know, you've got to be able to discipline. If you can't control the tongue, there has to be some character here in your part of your life. Then last of all, thirdly, I come back to verse number one for this last thought He gives a warning of condemnation. Now that's a strong word. Look at verse 1 again. My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we, the masters, the teachers Shall receive the greater condemnation. Woo! Now he's not saying you're condemned because you're a teacher Obviously, that's not what's being taught here. The word condemnation has this idea, and it's used throughout scripture this way. Has this idea. It has the idea of picking something up and examining it very, very closely and making a judgment on it. It's kind of like the idea if you go to uh if that's a county fair and they have a have a um Uh uh it's not a contest, but people bring in their peppers and their pumpkin and their uh ear corn and it's uh is it competition? Is that what you call it? What is it? Yeah, they're judging it. It's a show, a vegetable show, and they bring them in and oh this is the best pumpkin we've ever seen. Has perfect contours. The color is exquisite I just came up with that right there. That's pretty good. And they examine it very, very closely and they say, ah, this one is rejected. No good. Oh, this one meets all the criteria. That's the idea of the word condemnation there. Um In other words, he says, listen, if you want to be a teacher of the Word of God, check your motives out. Consider yourself, you know, it requires some discipline here. You've got to be able to control what you say and how you react to things. And understand. Now get this. This is what this is where the rub comes in. You're going to be held to a higher standard. You're going to be held to a higher level of accountability. Jesus continually and severely, intensely rebuked the Pharisees who took it upon themselves to be teachers of the law. Remember him referring to that? And they continually took upon themselves to be masters of the scriptures. But the problem was they did not live up to what they taught. In fact, one place he says, listen, he told the disciples that are following him, he goes, you do what they say, but don't you do what they do They're held to a higher standard. They're held to a I don't I don't I probably shouldn't use the word standard. They're held to a higher level of accountability. And that's a very sobering thought. The teacher of the Word of God is held to a higher level of accountability. Teaching God's word. Now I'm not trying to run anybody off from teaching. God knows we could use more teachers But I am saying this, we need to have the right approach and the right understanding and the right attitude about teaching the Word of God. I'm suggesting you teaching God's holy word, whom he says he is exalted higher than his own name, ought not to be taken flippantly. In fact, it is not a right that I have. I have the right to teach the word of God. No, no, no. That's the wrong approach. Teaching God's word is a privilege. And with that privilege comes tremendous responsibility. And he gives a very sober text, this is a very sober text for teachers. He says, don't you be many masters Because we receive the greater condemnation. We're held to a higher level of accountability when we presume to teach the Word of God. If I'm going to be a teacher of God's word, there ought to be much prayer, ought to saturate my ministry as a teacher. Amen? If I'm going to be a teacher of the Word of God, there ought to be much self-examination. I don't know. God search my heart, try me. I want to be right. I want to be pure. I want to be clean. I want to be a good representative. I want to be a good teacher of the Word of God, not just in the words I say, as powerful they are, but who and what I am. So, as a teacher of the Word of God, I ought to saturate my ministry of teaching with prayer. There ought to be great self-examination. And I put this down: a teacher should be the best learner in the room. I ought to be willing to let God teach me, God instruct me. You know who gets the most out of the messages I preach here? You know who gets the most out of the lessons I teach? Moi. You're looking at him. I'm telling you, the the chair in my office and the sofa in our living room has been an altar for me. So many times when I prepare a message and God speaks to my heart and God teaches me and it has to be God, I need you to change this. I need you to help me and deal with this before I can stand up and address others on this subject. See what I'm saying? And a teacher ought to saturate his ministry his or her ministry with prayer. They ought to be much self-examination, and they ought to be a learner, submissive. A lot of times folks want to serve God and they want to teach the Word of God, but they want to do it my way. We've had over the years we've had people, yeah, I want to teach, but I don't want to follow those requirements for teachers. To me, they're just most basic in the Christian life. There ought to be submission. There ought to be humility. There ought to be a learning there. As Christians, now this is a statement I've kind of tacked this on later after the message. As Christians, and Helen touched on this a little bit tonight in her testimonies. As Christians, our young people will face a growing hostility towards their faith that you and I are only now beginning to experience. You understand that? The hostility that we are seeing, that we are experiencing rising up, that you and I are, the next generation, that hostility is only going to grow. And what they need and what you and I need are teachers filled with the Spirit of God Committed to the Word of God and humbly communicating and teaching Who God is, what God's Word says, and what he expects from us as Christians, if we have any hope of standing against this hostility. Teachers never underestimate the importance or the tremendous privilege or the tremendous responsibility is to teach the Word of God. Now I would never try and scare somebody away from teaching the Word of God, but I would say this, as I mentioned a moment ago, we must take it very seriously. We cannot be flippant about it. Now what I would like for do like for us to do tonight, I addressed a very specific, this passage addressed a very specific target of people, teachers, of the Word of God. But what I would like for us tonight to do is I would like for us as a church to pray for our teachers. Now maybe you're a teacher, maybe you teach in Sunday school or children's church or some other area, master club, or on the buses you might teach lessons or whatever. Maybe you're a homeschool, your parent, obviously you're a teacher if you're a parent, whether you homeschool or not But I would like for our church members to pray earnestly that God would bless and empower and fill and develop our teachers that we can be effective. And teaching the Word of God. Now that's the imitation. When we play here in a moment, Jennifer, that's what the imitation will be. We're just going to pray tonight for our teachers. Sunday school, Bible teachers, Bible time teachers in the summer. Now maybe God's stirring your heart to get involved in teaching the Word of God. Maybe you say, God, I feel like God is calling me and leading this. I tell you, we have opportunities coming up. We've got a prison ministry coming up. Here and uh maybe get involved in that, teaching the Word of God in the prisons. Um possibility of public school, Brother Grant's working on developing. We're going to need workers and helpers there in teaching. And so the opportunities are there, and we want to take advantage of them, but we want to do it right. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our invitation tonight. We kind of unique. Well we thank God for our teachers and what a responsibility and what an accountability is there, myself and all the others. And I pray, Lord, you'd stir us as a church to understand what that role is that they have and we have. And we would saturate this ministry and this responsibility in prayer. And we as a congregation, as individual teachers, would be very humble before you. Looking to you dependent on you to fill us and use us to impact the coming generation and those who sit under us. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I never really thought about it, but I see what God's Word is saying, and I want to commit myself to be diligent in my prayers for the teachers here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. How many would join me in that saying, yeah, I never really thought about it, but I will. I will understand that I want to pray for you. God bless you. How about young people praying for the teachers here? Any young people say, preacher, I'm going to pray. I want to pray for our teachers and the God bless you. Thank you. Many young people Now maybe we want to find a place in order tonight, maybe just as a church, and and just really lift our teachers up before the Lord. And they're going through struggles and they've got issues they're dealing with in their own spiritual growth. And we need to lift our teachers up. Father, bless our invitation now I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads about, eyes are closed.