1 Peter chapter number 2 and uh look with me at verse number 4 and then as I said we're just gonna read the first part of verse number 5. The Bible says, to whom coming as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God and precious. Ye also, as lively stones, now look at this, are built up a spiritual house. A spiritual house. I want to speak this evening on that subject, the spiritual house. Let's pray together and uh let's ask the Lord to speak our hearts. And and sharing, so let's really give our attention to the Word of God. Now I know at home there and Different places. There's a lot of distractions. But uh let's ask the Lord to help us tonight. We need we need to hear from the Lord. We need God's spirit to stir us. So let's pray. Father, I ask now you'd bless our time in your word. I pray it would not just be filling another little uh hour on a Sunday night, but God, it would be a time when you uh really do a work in our heart that we grow spiritually. Help us, Lord, to make good decisions And uh Lord, we're asking. I've every time I'm praying in my own private prayer, I'm asking, Lord, turn this thing around. And uh we really want to get back. So we trust you, Lord. We're waiting on you But in the meantime, help us to grow, help us to go forward. Fill me with your spirit is my earnest prayer. As I yield my will, present my body a new Lord. Please speak through me and out to every single heart, every home. Challenge us, change us, convict us, encourage. And have your way your will done in our lives. In Jesus' name, Amen. We always say, I've said it for years, and uh we always say that the church is not a building We look at the walls, the ceiling, the roof, the building here. We always say this is not the church. The church is not a building. And that, of course, is true to some extent. But I got looking here and studying, particularly verse number 5 here in 1 Peter chapter 2, and notice what he says. He says, Ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house. I got looking up that word house, as you know, as I said this morning. I enjoy studying the words and their meanings and where they come from and all of that. And I got looking at this word house. He says, you're a spiritual house. And uh I found out the word house there is used to refer to any number of actual literal structures. Um any building of any sort uh would fall under the category of this word house here. It's used to uh refer to in in other portions In other writings and other contexts, that that word is used to refer to uh sometimes a great palace that a king lives in Uh sometimes it's used to refer to the tabernacle in the Old Testament as a house, a literal physical structure. Uh literal physical palace. Sometimes it's used to refer to just an old barn, or may we might call it a shed. We could use the term to describe our activity center that we're raising money for and and uh we're looking to build here, expand our ability to have activities and things and which by the way we've submitted to the town, pray for that. Uh that we'll they'll be positive. This thing can go forward. But the word house here is a structure, of a some sort of building. And so there is a sense in that the church is a building. Now not a physical building, not wood, steel, and and masonry and all of that. We understand that. You notice here he said it's what kind of house? What's the term he used here? It's a what It's a spiritual house, not a literal physical building. So the church isn't a building. physically, literally, but uh but it is a building, it is a house in a spiritual sense. Um that tells me that it is possible, it's possible to have great physical facilities. Have big fancy cathedrals and and uh ornate uh tapestry and have all this all kinds of wonderful physical facilities and great big budgets and all of that, and yet be a very poor, poor church spiritually Then again, it's possible for a church to not have much as far as physical possessions are concerned. Maybe just a storefront church, maybe just a meeting in someone's garage Uh, I know down in um on the mission field, I've been on mission fields where the church literally met in a garage somewhere. It's all they had But yet it was a strong, spiritual, active, vibrant body of believers. And so it was a spiritual house, though their physical buildings may not have been much. It is not the physical possessions that we have, but our spiritual well-being that God is mostly concerned about. And so, yes, there is a sense in that believers make up a building, a house, a spiritual house. Now, we noticed in verse number two of chapter two here that Peter compared believers to little baits, newborn babes. He says, as newborn babes. Um here in this text for tonight He compares. He says that believers are a spiritual house. In the last part of chapter 5, and Lord will, and we're going to look at that next Sunday night, he says believers are a holy priesthood. So he's using these different metaphors maybe to describe the characteristic of believers, what we are and what we make up. Now here he says that believers are a spiritual house. Now here's my I got two points tonight. Now don't get too excited. I've got seventy-five sub-points under each one. But I got two points tonight The first one is this. I want us to consider our placement into this house. You say, all right, the church, believers, are a spiritual house. How do you get into this? How do you how do I get to be a part of that building? How do I get to be a part of that spiritual structure that he's referring to here? Do I become part of the spiritual house by simply saying a prayer Is that what makes me a part of this spiritual house? Listen, I I'm all for the sinner's prayer. If you know me, I'm all for The Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. When I share the gospel this past Monday, I was able to sit down with a man and uh take my Bible and go through the gospel with him from the book of Romans And he bowed his head and he prayed with me to call on the Lord. Now, is simply saying a prayer, is that what puts me into those the spiritual house, the spiritual structure. No, a person can just lip words and can be completely meaningless. The Bible says in Romans chapter 10, with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. And so that we express our faith in Christ and our trust in Christ through wording a prayer sometimes, it is the attitude of my heart, is the can the trust in my heart. that uh saves my soul and puts me into this house. So simply saying a prayer doesn't make me part of this house, this spiritual house. Signing a card. Now people come forward and uh they trust Christ. We always have a little card valve, get some information from so we can follow up and help them in their faith. But just signing some card uh doesn't uh some churches that might make you a member of the church, but it doesn't uh the the church uh member of the church, quote unquote, that doesn't necessarily put you into the spiritual house of God. And so saying a prayer or signing a card, giving so much money Being baptized. These are not how I'm placed into this spiritual household, into this house of God. How do we do it? Well, verse number four tells us. Look there, he says, to whom coming. As unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God and precious He says, first of all, we're placed into this house of God, the spiritual house, by coming to Christ by coming to Christ. Notice he says there, to whom coming. Use that word whom. That's referring to a person. Listen, salvation, being born again, having eternal life, being placed into the house of hold of God, is through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Salvation is a relationship with a living being, with a risen Savior, Jesus Christ. It's having a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Take your Bible if you would, and notice what Paul says in 2 Timothy chapter number 2. 2 Timothy chapter 2, just a few pages over there. Turn over there now. Put your coffee down and turn your Bible. There you go. And um uh notice what it says. First, 2 Timothy chapter 1. Look with me at verse 12. This is a significant verse. I have this underlined in my in my Bible. Notice what it says, for the which cause I do suffer these things. Now look at this. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed. For I know, now there's certainty, Paul didn't, Paul had a no-so salvation. One hopes so, thinks so, maybe so. He said, I know, but look at the next word, for I know what Talk to me now. First, 2 Timothy 112. You got it? What's he say? For I know. Anybody see it there? Second Timothy chap Hoo! That's what I'm getting at. I'm telling you, we got a small crowd. They're a little dense tonight, but um uh we'll work on them. You pray for me. But uh notice what he says here. Uh nevertheless I'm not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed. He doesn't say I know what I believe. He doesn't say my salvation, my eternal life, my being a part of the house of God, the household of God. It isn't through just holding to some creed, some doctrinal statement. Now, having a right doctrinal statement is important. I gotta know what I believe. I gotta know what the Bible teaches. But salvation, being a part of the household of God, is not through simply holding a doctrinal statement It's believing in a person, it's my faith and trust in a living Savior, Jesus Christ. He's the Savior. I'm trusting Him as the living stone, a lively stone, risen from the dead. And so Peter is telling us here that the way we become a part of this spiritual house of God, not a physical being, not a physical structure, but a spiritual house. Is through coming to the Lord Jesus Christ. The moment I come to Christ for my salvation as my personal Savior I become a part of this spiritual house. I become a part of that spiritual structure that he's referring to. But come back here and notice also in verse number four To whom coming as unto a living stone. Now that's obvious reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a ton of scripture we go to. Sake of time. We're not going to Disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God and precious. This living stone is Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ risen from the dead, alive. We are coming to a living Savior. And when we trust Him as our Savior, His Spirit indwells us as believers And uh we become apart, we are placed into this spiritual house. Now, uh the world rejected them. Did you see that in verse 2, in verse 4, I'm sorry, to whom coming as a living stone, disallowed indeed of men. All the Jews rejected him. The world rejects him. But those who believe in him, he's very precious. And the chosen of God. It is our relationship with Jesus Christ. that connects us together as this spiritual house, just like the nails Hold the frame of a physical building together. And maybe if you have a metal frame building, the the bolts and uh that that hold that thing together and the mortar that holds the masonry together. It is our relationship with Jesus Christ that connects us together, that brings this house together. A living Savior. A living Savior. It's interesting. Come back to chapter 1, if you would. 1 Peter here. And just a reminder who he's writing to and where they're at. Look at verse 1. Peter. As an apostle of Jesus Christ to the strangers. Now these are believers. We already looked at that. Now look what he says: scattered throughout. Pontius Glacia, Cappadocia, Asia, Bithynia, five different provinces of Asia Minor But yet here he says that they are all connected into the spiritual house. They're scattered All these different regions, but nevertheless, there's still a connection. And that connection is through their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ Turn with me, if you would, to Acts, or I'm sorry, Matthew chapter number 16. Come back there, way back to the beginning of the New Testament. Matthew chapter 16. Jesus is speaking to his disciples. And he asked them in verse number 13, he asked them, um, who do men say that I am? Now he's he's not trying to get information. He's not He's not wondering, scratch his head, oh I wonder who men say I am. He knows exactly who men say he is. But he's trying to teach the disciples. He's trying to instruct them, and he's using this question method to do that. He says, Who do men say that I am? Well, they answered verse 14. Oh, some say you're John the Baptist, resurrected. Others say that you are Elias, Elijah. Others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. And then Jesus drives it home and he says, who do you say I am? That's what he's getting at. He says, who do you say that I am? And look how Peter answers. It's typical. Peter's the one that speaks up. And he says this. And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Notice what Jesus says. Jesus answered and said unto them, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjonah, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father, which is in heaven. And I say unto thee, thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Now notice he says, upon this rock, what's that rock he's talking about? What's that rock he's referring to? Of course the Catholic Church says it's Peter. They got big monuments to Peter all over and oh Peter, Peter, Peter. That's not what he's saying. I I believe when he says upon this rock, he's referring back To the confession that Peter made when he said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Of course, Jesus is the cornerstone. He's the rock of our foundation. But I think what the Lord is saying here, he's saying, listen, Peter, listen, disciples, it is the confession that I am the Christ, the Son of the living God. That is what brings salvation. That is what unites us together into this spiritual household. It is our faith in Christ as the Savior, as the Son of God. That connection we have with Christ brings a that relationship we have with Christ brings a connection one with another. How many people remember back a long time ago when you used to be able to travel Remember years a long time ago we could go places and sometimes we would go to faraway places like Virginia. And uh uh uh things like that. We go and travel. Do you ever have this happen to you? Go off on vacation somewhere, Florida, wherever You're off on vacation and maybe you're in a market somewhere, you're somewhere uh going, and you see somebody and you think this, I think they look like they might be Christians. Anybody you know what I'm talking about? You see them and you say, ah Huh. Huh? And so, I don't know what you do, I you kind of get near them a little bit. Just kind of hear, what are they talking about? And uh finally you get up the nerve and you say something, you say, uh, hey uh you guys Christians? Yeah, we're Christians, we're safe. Uh we were years ago, I like this story. It has nothing to do with the message, but I really like this story Years ago, uh if those in Oakland here, if you remember, there used to be the custard stand downtown. It uh there was a laundromat uh there and then they had the Hartmans over top, and they had the custard stand. They had great ice cream And they had a little wall there along the road you could sit on. And so one Sunday night after church it was summertime and uh we went down there and we got some ice cream, Kathy and I were sitting there, and this guy kept looking at us, kept looking at us. And he came over and he said, he said to Kathy, he said to both of us, he said, Are you all Christians? And we said, Yeah, we're Christians. And I'm the pastor. We weren't here very long at the time. I'm the new pastor up there at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And he goes, I knew it! He goes, I knew you were Christians because you dressed holy. Cathy, of course, very modest skirt and all on, and I of course was Very sharp and debonier looking. And he said, I knew it. There was something there that communicated the fact that we were Christians And uh after he left I told him I said he thinks you dress holy, he should see my socks. And um they're really holy But uh anyway, uh you ever out somewhere and um you see them and you say, Man, I wonder if they're Christian. You get talking, hey, they know the Lord. And see if this isn't true for you, I've had this happen so many times. It's like you've known them your whole life. You know what I'm talking about? It's like we're family And you get talking and you get fellowshiping. What is it that does that? What is it that brings that connection together, that brings that coherence into a house that holds it all together. That it's a relationship with Jesus Christ. They have a relationship with Jesus Christ. I have a relationship with Jesus Christ. I'm indwelt by the Spirit of Christ Therein dwelt with the Spirit of Christ, and there's that attraction, there's that cohesion, I think it's a word, that holds us together and makes us part of this house. It's our relationship with the living stone, the Jesus. The risen Son of God, very precious. Very precious, very precious. This world has its clubs. This world has societies and organizations, but I'm telling you they don't have something they don't have what Christians have They don't have that connection one with another and uh and that uh cohesion that we have together as a house uh as one another. Uh every aspect of the Christian life is built upon the Lord Jesus Christ. Every aspect, every relationship in the Christian world, in the Christian church is based upon and is the result and fruit of a relationship with Jesus Christ. Listen, if you don't have Jesus Christ, you don't have a church. If you don't have Jesus Christ, you don't have Christianity. If you don't have Jesus Christ, you don't have eternal life. This spiritual house, we enter into it. We're placed into it through coming to Christ. And then we're connected together, held together by a relationship with Jesus Christ. Let me quickly give you my second thought, and that's this. I want us to consider the purpose. For this spiritual house. Our placement in it is through trusting Christ, coming to Christ, and then we're connected through Christ. But our purpose in it, look with me if you would. Come back there to 1 Peter And look with me of the Lord at verse 5, and just a few statements at the beginning of verse 5. He says, ye also, now look how he describes the believers, as lively stones Or build up a spiritual household. Now, why does he say that? You are as lively stones. Why did he just say, oh, your stones part of the masonry? You're just a part of the building there and uh you know, you sit in your place, sit in your pew, or in this case sit on your sofa, and uh you just sit there and you're part of it. No, he doesn't say that. He doesn't say you're stones. He says you're what? What kind of stones? Talk to me. Lively stones. So I got looking at that. I thought, what does he mean by that? I looked up the word lively as I do. I found out it means this active stone. Vigorous, having influence, having a part. Not just sitting there stoic and inactive, but involved How do uh what's our purpose to be part of this spiritual house? Uh God places in it so that we'll be active in that house We have a role to play. Every part of the spiritual house has an active role. Every one of us is believers. Have a role to play in the spiritual house. We have a positive role. We have a unique role in this house's function, the purpose for that building, the purpose for the spiritual structure. Every one of us have a part in that. P uh um Paul in Corinthians uh used a little different metaphor, he referred to the church as a body, a physical body. He says not everybody's the eyeball and not everybody's the ear and Not everybody is the toe or the finger or uh you know he doesn't mention all those, but not everybody is the same member in the uh same organ in that body, and not everybody's the same part in the f in the structure of the spiritual house. We have different parts. We have different roles to play. We have different responsibilities within this spiritual house, but we all have an active part. And so God places people into When we trust Christ as Savior, we're placed into this, we become a part of this spiritual house, and God has a purpose for that so that we can be very, very active in it. Now, what is what are we to be active doing? Now look what he says Verse 5. Ye also, as lively stones, uh what look at these next two words, are what? Built up A spiritual household built up. I believe God uses the words he uses on purpose. God moved on Peter to write these words Built up because he had something he needed to communicate to us. He wanted us to understand. That word built up is the exact same word translated other places to edify It means this, to advance, to develop. He says, you and I are part of this spiritual house. We got saved. We're placed into this spiritual house through a relationship with Christ, relationship with each other. We make up the spiritual structure, this house, and we're to be active in that, involved, a part of it. Not just observers, not just spectators, but actively involved in that for the purpose of advancing that spiritual house God intends for this spiritual house, quote unquote, to be continually growing, continually expanding. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be a growing church. We ought to be building, developing, both spiritually, our walk with God, the strength of our faith, but also our influence and presence in this world. We try to do that, and we're doing the best we can now under the current circumstances. Not always going to be this way, but this is the way it is now. But we're trying. We have different things. I was thought about our youth ministry And a very active youth ministry from down uh kindergarten all the way up through the teens, trying to reach the young people. And even now we have so many workers, so faithful teachers are contacting the kids and sending lessons out and Being involved with them. Brother Matt's been very active and keeping connection with the teens and getting uh gifts to them. He sent all kinds of gifts out to the teens this week I didn't get one thing, but that team's got all kinds of stuff. And uh uh and we're trying to be proactive. We're building up Uh we're advancing it. We've got fingerprints. Of course we're we're kind of uh stalled on that right now, but Getting scriptures together, getting it out there into the world. Blankets for babies, the bus ministry, our worldwide faith promise missions, the web ministry, and you could name so many. God intends for us To build up this spiritual house, to advance it, and uh to make our presence in the world for the glory of God and for the For the uh communication of the gospel, he wants us to keep building that and edifying that and developing that Out west there it was years ago. I I I can't remember where it was. I want to say it was in Utah. I think we took a mission trip to Utah. I don't remember how I came across this, but there was a house out there And I saw a uh uh uh a news report on it one time years ago. There was a house out there that the family had owned it for decades. It was up in the mountains And uh for whatever reason, over the years they continually added to this house. They'd put an addition here and they'd uh add another floor there and there's a little I think if I remember correctly there was a tower went up on one of the side of the house and uh when you saw the pictures and they gave the little report on it it was this uh convoluted monstrosity That had all kinds of doors and and uh windows and sections and additions and and uh extensions up and out and all over and uh it became a very unique attraction Now I don't know that we want to be a confusing, uh, convoluted building like that, but when I thought of what Peter was saying here, I thought of that building. And I thought, you know, we ought to be always advancing. We ought to always be extending, reaching out. I was thinking a number of years ago, Brother Mark came and says, you know, God stir in my heart. Start master clubs. And you know what that was? That was building up an extension. Sandy came and said, Preacher, I've been praying about this blankets for babies. You know what that is? That's adding an extension. Uh preacher, what about this and this? And you know we'd like to do this, and we add that. And God expects you and I as members of the church, as part as as a material in this spiritual house, this spiritual structure, he expects us to be active and advancing, advancing, pressing forward, reaching more, farther ends of the world. And God will bless us. God leads us. I hope God stirs your heart. If you're a member of this church, you pray and ask God to use you. Ask God to show you. What's your role? in this church. And it's not just to keep a pew at 98. 6 degrees on Sunday morning, Sunday night. Now we want you to warm the pews. I hate cold pews. But it has to be more than that. It has to be active and involved and pressing forward and reaching others. And I pray you'll do that. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you'd use this. I know you challenged my heart We're Pastor Matt and I and many others, uh the leadership here, we're and many members are praying that somehow we can get open doors. And uh build an extension onto this spiritual house and and have a little more outreach, a more effective outreach here and there. The Lord, we want to grow spiritually. We don't be shallow, we'll spread thin and be shallow But we do want to build up the spiritual house as you've instructed us. Help us to do that. Convict us, Lord. Help us stay close with you. Help us to walk with you. Lord, if there's something in our lives that needs to be addressed, help us to address that as we go into this new week. Help us to start fresh and clean. And so, Lord, have your way and um and uh bless and help us. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen