Please, the book of Ezra. Ezra chapter 9. While you're turning there, Pastor, I want to thank you for allowing me to come It's always a privilege to be here. Uh I love being around your pastor. He's the same. Uh he just stays at it everywhere we go. He's always giving out tracts and trying to invite people to church, encourage them to come. And uh my prayer is that people get saved this week. And uh we've had in recent weeks we've had people saved. uh in every revival meeting and we had people saved outside uh of the church like out at the restaurant things like that And so I'm praying that God will give us some people this week and that we can lead to Christ. One of the greatest things you can ever do is take your Bible and show someone how to go to heaven. And uh I was in a Dairy Queen a few weeks ago in a reviv in a revival meeting, gave a young man a tract and he looked like he wasn't One boy was very open, oh thank you. The other boy I thought he was really just, you know, out in left field, wasn't really I'll take that. And uh we were sitting over there eating ice cream, he came over and said, Hey, could could I talk to you just for a minute? I'd like to talk to you about this. I've been thinking about this. And he got saved right there at the table And so you never know. Amen? We just need to be faithful to the Lord. Ezra chapter nine. I hope you have it. It's in the Old Testament. A little bit difficult to find. If you hit Uh Malati the Italian prophet, you've gone too far. Anyway, Ezra chapter nine. And uh I appreciate Chuck giving me greeting me with a groundhog this morning, a little stuffed animal groundhog, and that was a real uh a real blessing. Anyway, he reminded me of uh I was here years ago and Pastor took me out. We went groundhog hunting and I missed three groundhogs. One of them was a pretty easy shot. But I found out later Pastor had changed the settings on a scope. So I didn't know that. Uh it was way off. I'm sure there must have been something wrong. There's no way I could have missed that money. Uh and now I'm starting to sound like a Steelers fan, amen. I mean every time they lose. Oh it was the referee. I call them the Squealers every time they lose. But uh no, it was me. I missed it Dead to rights and uh I don't miss a lot like that, but I did that day. So uh I retired. The groundhogs are safe They're safe even if I do hunt for them. Amen. But uh they're safe. But I I have a little stuffed groundhog, and I know my dog Zoe will take great joy having that little toy to play with. Ezra chapter nine. Let's all stand together. I'm going to start reading in verse five. Ezra Chapter Nine And if you're a visitor, this is in the Old Testament. And thank you for being with us today. We'll try to help you and guide you through any verses you don't understand. Ezra chapter 9. Verse number five, not verse number five. And at the evening sacrifice I rose from my heaviness, and having rent my garment and my mantle. I fell upon my knees and spread out my hands unto the Lord my God. And I said, Oh my God, I am ashamed and blushed to lift up my face to thee, my God. For our iniquities are increased over our head. Our trespass is grown up unto the heavens. Since the days of our fathers have we been in a great trespass unto this day. For our iniquities have we, our kings and our priests, been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands to the sword, to captivity, to a spoil And to confusion of face as it is this day. And now, for a little space Grace hath been showed from the Lord our God to leave us a remnant to escape, to give us a nail in his holy place, that our God may lighten our eyes, give us a reviving in our bondage For we were bondmen. Yet our God hath not forsaken us in our bondage, but has extended mercy unto us in the sight of the kings of Persia to give us a reviving. To set up the house of our God, and to repair the desolations thereof, to give us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem. Our text is found in verse number 8, where Ezra is in prayer to God. And is reminding the Lord and his people and even himself. He says, and now For a little space, grace hath been showed from the Lord our God. A little space, grace hath been showed. From the Lord our God. I have a lot of questions as I travel, and folks ask me, where do I think we are? When it comes to eternity, when it comes to the world, many believe, and so do I, that we are in the last days. I believe Christ can come back any moment He can come back while I'm preaching today. And I'll preach on that at least one night this week about the second coming. of our Lord Jesus Christ and the rapture of the church. I believe he could come today. How many believe Christ could come this morning? And where are we? Why does God delay? What is happening in the Middle East as ancient Persia, which is the Islamic Republic of Iran? And Russia and Syria and the Middle Eastern countries that are named in Ezekiel 38 as they all line up for the great war that will come from the north. How close are we To the coming of the Lord. I'm not sure. I think it's very, very close. But where are we? We are living right now, I believe. In a small window of opportunity that God defines as a little space of grace. And I want to speak on the subject: a little space Of grace. If you're not saved this morning, God has allowed you to live this long, and He allows you to come to this service That you might hear the gospel one more time. Hear about the wonderful news that Christ paid the price for every one of your sins. And if you'll believe them, Him. And trust him. He will forgive you. He will give you eternal life. And he will give you actually a brand new start in life itself. Somebody could say amen right about now. And he can give you a life change. And I'm going to speak for a little while on the subject of space of grace. Father, help us, we pray. May the Word of God have free course. Thank you for what you will do. We give you the praise and the glory together for that which you will accomplish. If there's one here under the sound of my voice, or one listening by uh live stream with radio I pray in the name of Jesus that today would be the day of salvation in their life. Thank you for what you will do. We give you the praise. In Jesus' name we pray. Everyone said together You may be seated. Thank you for standing for so long. Our text is a great account that occurs in the life of a man whose name was Ezra. If you study You will know, first of all, the book of Ezra, there are seven chapters in this book before his name is even mentioned He was among those who'd been carried off to Babylon. In fact, Ezra may have even been born in Chaldea, an ancient Babylon. And he is a priest of God who has learned the Word of God. If you know the Bible, you know that now the southern kingdom of Ju of uh Judah And the city of Jerusalem is being restored. They've been carried off to ancient Babylon for now over 70 years. And according to Jeremiah the prophet, Cyrus the king would make a decree somewhere. Around 538 B. C. , he made a decree to rebuild the city, to rebuild the temple, and so two men especially named Zerubbabel and Jeshua came back to the city of Jerusalem. rebuilt the temple over a number of years, and now God's people are coming back from captivity out back to the city of Jerusalem, exactly like God says In the middle of all that, uh two kings after Cyrus, uh uh a man named Artaxerxes, one of the Persian kings that came to the city of Babylon, he issues a decree and he gives a command For Ezra, who lives in Babylon, to go back to the city of Jerusalem. His command was to reinstate the priesthood The temple is already built, Nehemiah's building the walls, but now the king wants worship brought back in, he wants thanksgiving and praise brought back to the temple of God He wants animal sacrifice reinstated. He not only sends Ezra back to the temple, but he gives them a large offering of silver and gold for the journey, and he gives them a an open account of up to one hundred talents of silver, the equivalent of millions of dollars to go back there, set up the priesthood, set up worship, to reinstate worship in the house of God. Ezra comes back to the city of Jerusalem. We don't know much about him. There are three important things about his life that I would say are very much noteworthy. If you study it out, first of all, the Bible said he was a ready scribe in the law of Moses in chapter seven and verse six. In other words, Ezra knew the word of God. He knew what God had to say to his people. Secondly, he was the hand of the Lord his God. was upon him. Chapter 7 and verse 6. And two or three other verses as well. And chapter 8, verse 18, God says about Ezra, the hand of the Lord his God was upon him. I know your pastor more than money, more than things, more than uh possessions. I know his great desire is that God uh would keep his good hand upon his light. You ought to pray regularly that God would keep his hand upon your pastor's pastor's light. Say amen to that. And and that as he continues to serve his ministry here and to raise his cat, that God may keep his hand upon Pastor Latherman in a great way. But anyway, uh that the Lord would see uh what uh just literally superintend your pastor. So he was a ready scribe. The hand of the Lord his God was upon him. And then Ezra, number three, had prepared his heart To seek the law of the Lord and to do it. I mean, and to teach uh in Israel statutes and judge and judgments. I mean, a prepared man. God had a man over in Babylon, hundreds of miles away, a great journey of several months away just to come back. And God had him ready. He was going to come in. He was going to offer up sacrifice for the people of God. He was going to institute and teach the priesthood and show them how to worship God. And it was all happening according to Scripture and the fulfilled prophecy that God said would happen some hundreds of years earlier. Now uh as they're uh they're about it. They've already had a Passover. Everything is going great. Ezra is Ezra's ready for the task assigned to him. But men come to him in chapter 9 and verse 1 And the princes came, and they say, The people of the land and the pr of Israel and the priests and the Levites have not separated themselves from the people of the lands. This is a clear violation of Hebrew law. It was especially a violation of Levitical law. These Levite priests were to be separated unto God. They were to keep their life separated unto God. They violated it because they married the sons and daughters of the land. They took wives of the heathen, of the people around them. And because of that God was grieved about it. What's so bad about such a thing? Well I can tell you this, um wives have a great influence over the heart of a man. You say, mind doesn't listen to me. You might be surprised how much your what your husband does listen to you. And I've had men tell me, well I'm the head of the home. And I said, well I'm glad you're the head of the home, but your wife is the neck, brother, and she turns it wherever it's going. Say amen to that. And so understand that a wife has great influence And God knew that if he would allow these people uh to marry the these uh we people of the land and take idolatry on and sin on and take to themselves These pagan people, they would turn their hearts away from God. If you don't believe that, ask Solomon. Solomon was the wisest man in the world. Yet that man unwisely had a thousand women in his life, wives and concubines, and eventually they turned his heart away from God. He was wise, but he didn't have any common sense Amen. I mean, and uh by the way, if I do this, it means I want you to say amen. I guess I could do one of these. He was wise, but he didn't have any common sense. So uh he didn't know what he was doing. And I'm saying that By the grace of God, uh this man Ezra is grieved. He hears that they not only are taking these wives, but verse one God said in chapter nine that they were doing according uh to the abomination uh according to their abominations, and he names all these lands. He was they were doing Horrible things. They were worshiping idols. They were giving themselves over. The abomination of the heathen were things that people do today that are awful things, men with men Women and women. They were doing these awful atrocities in the eyes of the living God. Now God is grieved about it, and Ezra gets before the Lord, and he begins to confess their sin. He is crying out to God in our text. He spreads his hand toward heaven at the time of the evening sacrifice, and he begins to cry out and say, uh he arose from his heaviness, fell on his knees, and spread out his hands. unto the Lord his God. And verse six, he says, O my God, I'm ashamed and blush to lift up my face to thee, my God, for our iniquities are increased over our head He said, we have sinned against God. I do like the fact that Ezra is not saying they have sinned. You have sinned. Ezra considers himself part of the problem. He considers himself to be complicit in this sin against God. And he says, we Have sinned and our iniquities. How many of you believe this? Every one of us all have sinned And come short of the glory of God. When we start pointing fingers at other people, we always have to remember that there's three pointing straight back at us. And we start saying, you're this and you're that, you're the other. We've got to be careful with that. Do I have an amen? And we gotta be careful uh lest we become critical on the sins of others. He involves himself He becomes personally involved and he prays and he says our iniquities have reached unto God And he said in verse number seven, Since the days of our fathers have we been a great trespass unto this day. He's speaking of the captivity. They've been living in Babylon. They have been displaced from the city. of Jerusalem. And he said, our kings and priests have been delivered under the hand of the kings of a land to the sword, captivity, to a spoil, and a confusion of face as it is this day And then he says in verse 8, and now for a little space grace hath been showed From the Lord our God. He said, in spite of all this, God has still been gracious, God has still been kind God has given us, never mind, a second chance. I hear pre people say he's the God of the second chance. I mean say I passed that second chance way long ago How about we're in the some of us are into the thousand category. Over and over. We do dumb things and we we sin and we say wrong things or think wrong things and man we just make bad decisions and yet God continues to give us grace. He continues to give us mercy. He does not give us what we ought what we uh deserve. He gives us what we need. And that is the goodness and forgiveness and the grace of God. So he cries out, this is now for a little space grace has been shown from the Lord our God. He said, God has brought us back again. This space of grace was several things. First of all, it was a space of return. It was a space for them to come back to God. It was a time frame where they're allowed as a remnant of people displaced in Babylon and they are coming back to the city of Jerusalem once again. And the uh temple is already being rebuilt right before their very eyes. He said, to leave us a remnant to escape. And this is a space of Return. Secondly, it was a space of relief. He said to lighten our eyes. To give us a nail in this holy place that our God may lighten our eyes. What does that mean? They've been looking at the ground, they've been looking at the floor They've been ashamed of themselves, they've been under a heavy burden, and now God is allowing them to look up a little bit and start being able to be lifted in their spirit. How many ever been All right, just uh at least mildly depressed. Have you ever been a little bit depressed? I have. I I used to say, I'm too blessed to be depressed, amen. I'm too wired to be tired. And then I got very sick back in oh seven, took medication that put me into a full blown real life depression. I don't make jokes about depressed people anymore. I don't tell people to get over it anymore. I don't try to give them all the prescriptions for depression. All I can tell you is this uh it's an awful cloud that you're under And when God lifts it, there's nothing like it. Amen to that? For our eyes to be lightened again, to be able to look up again and say, God is going to get me through. And he said that he would lighten our eyes. There was a space of relief Jesus said in Matthew eleven twenty-eight, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. That's the verse I found in the Bible When I got saved and I I looked at that and God just uh it was like a thunderbolt off the page and said, God, uh, you just come to me And give your life to me, and I trust in Christ as my Savior, and my life has never been the same. So there's a space of return A space of relief they received at this window, this space of grace, it means a space of, if you will, of release. He said in verse 3 We were bondmen. Or verse number nine. For we were bondmen, yet our God hath not forsaken us in our bondage. They were living under slavery. They were living As bond servants to the people of Chaldea, and now they've been set free. And you remember when you were a bondservant to sin God said in Ephesians chapter two, You have the quickened who are dead in trespasses and sins. I remember those old New Year's revol resolutions. I used to call 'em revolutions, but anyway, uh New Year's resolution this year, I'm gonna quit drinking, I'm gonna do quit doing all this, I'm not gonna cuss anymore, I'm gonna do this and that and the other. Man, it wasn't even uh it wasn't even one o'clock in the morning. I sinned that already And uh I'd always start off New Year's Eve. I've never done anything wrong. It's 12 o'clock. It's a brand new day. Man, within two days I'd blown every bit of it. Say amen to that. I'm gonna go on a diet. How many of you going on a diet? Monday I mean it's always Monday, and I man, I'm gonna do this and that. And uh and but he said no longer a slave, no longer bound. No longer living in habits and sins that you can't get over. You've been set free by the grace of God. It was a space of release. And yes, it was a space of Revival. Two different times he mentions that he gives them this reviving. He said that our God may lighten our eyes. Verse 8 And give us a little reviving in our bondage. Verse 9, we were bondmen. And then he says that he has extended mercy. unto us in the sight of the kings of Persia to give us a reviving. And here's what the revival was going to do when they had revival. It wasn't so they could all grin and feel good Some people think revival is uh we all get together and now we're revived and we hold hands and sing kumbaya and everybody smiles and has a warm and fuzzy feeling. I'm all for good feelings, but I'm saying to you that Uh revival's a whole lot more than that. He said we're going to have revival so that we can repair the house of God and that we can set up the house of our God And to give us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem. He said, we're getting revived so we can restore the kingdom of God and build his glory and build his uh house once again. That's what revival is all about. God to get stirred up again back to thanking God, back to praising God, back to giving God the glory. Say amen. How many of you are saved today because God saved you? I had a uh a man, I led him to Christ, and he was all excited, came to church, and one of the men, and I I said, Hey, uh, tell him what happened to you. And he said, Well he said I said, Tell 'em what happened to you. Uh go ahead, David. And uh David said, Well, um the pastor saved me on Friday. I said, Oh, if the pastor saves you, you're really in trouble, amen. I mean, I didn't save you, I know what he meant. I led him to Christ. And he just said, The pastor saved me on Friday. I said, No, no, I didn't save you. Let's go back over that again. I showed you about the one who can save you. It's the Lord Jesus And it's not all about having a personality contest. It's not all about having a glory show. It's all about lifting up Jesus and lifting up his great name. That's why they had revival to build the house of God. And he called it This revival, he called it a space of grace. Now, every one of us here this morning that are saved, you know what happened in your life? There was a time When God gave you a space of grace. There was a time when you finally looked to the cross and trusted Christ as your Savior. Now, how many of you are saved today and glad of it? Can I see your hand It all right, let's try to let's try that again. How many are saved and glad of it? Good. You can say that one person said Amen. I mean Raise your hand if you're saved and glad of it. There you go. And let the redeemer say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy. We ought to be the happiest people on planet Earth. I'm not talking about always having a cheesy grin and one of these TV evangelists, hello neighbors, amen. I'm not talking about a big old fake smile. We all we have our burdens, we have heartaches, but I'm talking about the fact At some point in life, we ought to come up for some air and realize how good God has been to us and how gracious He has been and that God gave us Grace of grace. Titus two eleven, God said, For the grace of God that bringeth salvation have appeared to all man, teaching us that Denying ungodliness and worldly lust. We should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. You see what happened? That grace Appeared, and when I saw the grace of God, I finally, for the first time, had the sense to trust him. I ran from him Some of you ran from him. I refuse to get saved for years. I thought, if I ever get saved, God will take all my fun away and be miserable. Just like all the other Christians I had met along the way, but I realized I needed the Lord, and God allowed me to look to Jesus and get saved. And because of that, uh I was given that little space of grace Wonder if I'd have said no for the last time. Wonder if I'd have finally said that's enough. God said his spirit will not always strive with man. I wonder if I'd have finally said that's enough I'm tired. He said, he that hardeneth his heart shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. And so God made it very clear. Now, on Wednesday morning June 6th, 2024, Wednesday morning, I woke up to a brand new reality. My wife woke me up at about two in the morning. We were going to stay up and watch the election results, and I I had good intention, but I did just like most men do, especially if you're watching Hallmark with your wife I fell asleep. Amen. Uh and by the way I can tell you the outcome, I can watch it for five minutes, tell you everything that's gonna happen, and go right to bed. Amen to that Same actor, same script, same. I mean, come on, give us a break. What about just one thing that doesn't go exactly the same way? But I fell asleep. And Susan somehow stayed awake. She woke me up about 2. 30 in the morning. Honey, you're not going to believe it. I said, what? They've already called the election Are you kidding me right now? I thought it would just drag on for months and they'd have all kinds of fights and no. Uh Donald Trump landslided and he won I said, I can't believe that. You may have problems with Donald Trump. I have some issues with Donald Trump. I really wish we had a president. I didn't have to help tell my children to get out of the room the little ones to get out of the room before he speaks, because you know he's going to use profanity. That's not acceptable. Do I have an amen to this? I don't accept some of his things that he does But wait, look at the alternative. We would have gone right into a socialist state. At least we've re prolonged the inevitable for a little while, and this other person that was going to supposedly win by a landslide Thank God that that didn't happen. I just started laughing. I started rejoicing. I started praising God. The Bible says when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice But when the wicked beareth rule the people mourn. So uh just knowing not only that that he got in, more importantly his cabinet and some of the people of his appointees. Uh we have some good people coming in that take the place of these tree huggers and strange people and unusual people who came from I don't know where. Listen, we had Supreme Court justices and people in the highest offers office of the land who couldn't tell the difference between a man and a woman. I cannot definitively say well the difference between a man and a woman Do you know there are chickens and hogs that are near here that are smarter than them? Old hog, he knows a sow when he sees one. Uh a rooster, he knows a chicken going across the little you can he sees a little hen walking by, he knows, here comes a hen. At least he's smart enough to know the difference. These people in office, they don't even Yes. We lived for four years with a uh a president who didn't even know where he was going and looking around. I'm over here, honey. Oh, you got an ice cream? Okay, great. And uh Ben he he didn't know what day it was And I'm not trying to be ugly. Really, I'm just telling you we were in a mess. We were on the brink of a socialist state We were on the brink of moral collapse in America. Psalm 9, verse 17, the wicked shall be turning to hell, and all the nations that forget God. We were changing everything we know to be decent and right and good and moral. We were changing the truth of God into a lie. We were on the brink of national failure. And we went from a bunch of vagabonds To some pretty good men and women that are in office at this point. I'm glad that our Israeli ambassador is a is a Baptist preacher, Mike Huckabee. I'm glad he's over there. I'm glad Marco Rubio is our Secretary of State. I'm glad Pete Hageseth is our Secretary of War. And I like that name. And we're going to defend ourselves. No, if you mess with America, you are in trouble. That ought to be a clear, strong message. That is the greatest deterrent for war. Say amen. And so uh we went from this rabble, this strange and unusual crowd of people to people at least have a moral compass. They may not be Christians, but at least they love America. At least they would die most of them for this flag. At least they'd be willing to go into combat and die for this nation. At least they love America. We were on the brink of great trouble. Now, after 249 years of blessing. God has given our nation, our society. He's given your family. He's given me and my family. He's given us a little space. of the grace of God. We're not out of the woods. We're not home free. Proverbs 1434, the Bible says righteousness exalteth the nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. We have murdered 60 million babies ruthlessly, snatched them out of the only safe haven on planet Earth, and that's the mama's womb, and taken them out and and And s flushed them down the the garbage train, uh garbage disposal. Listen carefully. If you went through that atrocity, someone talked you into that Whatever reason as a young person, God knows about it, he knows all about it, he he hated it when you did it, but God loves you And he wants to restore your life. He doesn't want you to live as a guilty, wicked, uh ungodly person full of guilt the rest of your days. He wants to save you and give you a new start. He loves you, still loves you. But wait a minute We gave up a whole generation of babies. We threw them away, just like the people of Israel did with Molech and the Asherah outside of the p of the city of Jerusalem and the the kingdom of Judah. They would offer their babies in in heathen sacrifice. They had a little idol called Molech who had outstretched hands, and they would lay the babies into those arms in a place called uh the valley of Enam. It was called the Valley of Burning. They would burn the babies and they would sound something called the Tohet The topet was the drumming of uh beating of drums loudly so that no one could hear the baby's scream as they offered them up in heathen and pagan sacrifice. That's what Judah did. That's why they'd been in captivity. That's why they were carried off. to a pagan land for over seventy years. That's where America has been heading in the last twenty and thirty years. And the drumbeat that we have. It's the rock and roll music. It's the entertainment industry industry. It's having fun. It's doing things. It's making money. It's prosperity. It is noise keeping us From getting to the place where we get broken before God. And all the while, you know what God has done? He's given us and this society and this nation. He's given us a little space of grace. The rapture is getting ready to come. When the rapture occurs, the catching up of the of the the churches uh of the Lord Jesus Christ, our church, my the church I attend, the church in Granite Baptist Church, this church, every person who's saved by the grace of God Who knows Christ will suddenly be caught up uh in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. That's not a pipe dream, that's really going to happen. Christ is going to come and after that event There's going to come the worst time the world has ever seen, the time of Jacob's trouble, the tribulation time. It'll be a time you never want to go through. I hear false teachers say we're going through the first half of the tribulation period. That's not so bad. Oh really? It's not too bad? One fourth of humanity dies in the first half. of the tribulation period uh from war. Many will die with famine and plague and be deceived. And if you study the first three and a half years of the tribulation, you don't want to be there. But I've got good news. God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by the Lord Jesus Christ. We're going to heaven. And I think it's going to happen soon. And the proverbial lid's going to blow off of this world, and Antichrist will come into power, and we are very, very close. To the coming of the Lord. But God has given us a little space of grace. Pastor, I'm glad to tell you, I've been in churches, you know, to the last several years since I left the pastorate I've been in some churches that are growing. Churches are growing. I hear this a lot. Well, people aren't getting saved anymore. That's because you're not giving out the gospel anymore. That's because you're not going soul winning anymore. Amen. It's because you're not believing God for anything. It's an amazing correlation when people give out tracks and get stirred up and have a radio broadcast and have a presence in a society. What an amazing thing people get saved. Amen? People are still getting saved. Churches are still growing. God is working in lives. God is moving. Missionaries are being supported. Even doors in D. C. are opening back up in the Capitol building and Bible studies. Churches are being planted. all over America and the world. You know why? For a little time, for a little time, we have a space of grace. Now I'm going to preach just a few more minutes. Do you have five minutes left? How many have five minutes? Do I hear ten? All right, great. So I'll hurry, but You know that really ever since Calvary, ever since the cross, we have been in a space of grace. We've been in a time where Christ came into this world. He was full of grace and truth. John 1. 14. He was filled with the spirit of grace, and we've been given the spirit of grace according to Hebrews 10, verse 29. 1 Peter 5:10, our God is known and named as the God of all grace. So he has all the grace this world will ever need, and we are in this space. Of the grace of God. I had people tell me, man, we won the election. The economy's getting better. Yeah, that's right. And it will. I believe that. But wait a minute. Wait a minute. The economy's not getting better So we can have more vacations and obtain more stuff. Do I have an amen? The economy is getting better, so the church has continued to get the word of God out. Pastor told us in Sunday school that uh you're up to over 90,000 uh gospels uh are romans and I think gospels of John are Romans. Ninety thousand uh already sent out. Sending me sending this ten thousand out this week. He's hoping that a hundred thousand by the end of the year and I believe you will. So God has been good to be able to do that during this age and this time and this space of grace. We're not in this space of grace so we can have more uh fellowships, dinners, have fun, uh get more stuff, uh and God's all for that. He he gives us all things richly to enjoy. I don't think there's anything wrong with uh doing some hunting or fishing or whatever you like to do and uh shopping, whatever your big thing is, uh ladies, your favorite deal. Uh there's nothing wrong with all that Long as it's we ignored out of obsess, but I'm saying overall we should have a heart and a desire and a passion to get the gospel out to the uttermost part of the earth To get the Word of God out of here, you might be sending Romans to people who will find those and read them during the tribulation period. I have no doubt some of those will be used for that. You might be giving out tracts that people will stick them in their pocket or in their top drawer of their dresser and never read them until after the rapture of the church We might be looking at the generation that's coming directly into judgment. Now, the only downside, the only downside of a space of grace. Is that it doesn't last forever. Amen? It closes. The window eventually closes. The door shuts And that space gives up. This is why Paul Paul wrote to the churches and said in Romans 13 that knowing the time Then now it is high time to awake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than when we believe. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness. You know what he was saying? He said we need to wake up. That stayed out in the RV in a windstorm last night And there's a couple times I thought, I'm out of here. We're going. Where are you, Zoe? We're going out of here. I'm going to heaven. I don't know where you're going to go. But anyway, little little rascal of a dog. But I mean I'm I'm out of here And uh I said, I think we're gonna go. And there was a couple of times I thought, this thing's gonna get blown away. There was a wind that came through those trees behind the church. I mean just It sounded like a freight train coming. I thought, I think that's what a tornado sounds like. And I'm out. And that didn't occur. But it woke me up numerous times and I had my alarm set early this morning. And When my alarm went off, I don't I usually wake up automatically, but when my alarm went off at 5 o'clock, I did something I don't usually do. I looked over at my alarm and my phone has a you know an alarm on there, and I looked over at that phone. I did something I don't often do. I reached over and I touched a little button What does that button say? Snooze. Tell me you love that snooze button. I mean that front that alarm goes off. I don't know, maybe you have a little heart plane because you're an angelic creature, but I don't know. But uh maybe you have a little soft music, mine's a little noise and it kinda opens up and I just I hit the button. I said, oh, sleep ten more minutes. Ten minutes later, I said, well, one more time. I hit the button. I hit the snooze. And I can say this to you. You know what I think the church is doing? I think churches are snoozing. One of these days, well we'll get ready next year, next revival, next time. Maybe some of you have never been saved. You keep hitting snooze And you keep getting confronted with the gospel. You say, well, that was good, maybe next month, maybe next year, I'm going to get saved Christmas Day. I'll get saved another time. I think now it is high time to wake out of wake out of sleep. Is waking out of sleep easy? Now, I I'm a light sleeper. I get up. I jump out of bed. My wife will say, honey, because you're Yeah, she'll see you just jump out of bed. I said, I can't help myself. I like it. I get up and say, come on, honey, she doesn't jump right out of bed. How many of you are How many are sleepers? Could I see you you sleep. Could I see your hand? We have a daughter who could sleep through she could sleep through an entire war. I mean she just go to sleep. Loves it. Gotta wake her up. Other people you're jump right out. We're all different. But I can say this to you. As painful as it is for some, it's time to wake up. It's time our space of grace is coming to a close. I had more points, but I'm going to close up here. This little space is open, but it's not for long. God said in 2 Corinthians 6, 1 and 2, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. And right now he's saying to us, we need to wake up. We need to get stirred up. If you're not saved, why don't you make Christ your Savior today? Why don't you settle it? Put your faith and trust in him. I said, preacher, I'm not ready. Forget all that. Get ready. Get saved, get right. There's nothing in your life that's worth dying and going to hell for. There's nothing in your life that's dying and miss worth dying and missing the rapture of the church. You see the Bible says, as it appointed unto men once to die. And after this the judgment. And to stand there instead of on your own, excuse before God, uncovered, and God look into your heart and say, Depart from me, I never knew you, ye that work iniquity. Go to the dev to the lake of fire where the places where the devil and his angels is weeping and wailing. And not that. Instead, you want to hear these words, come Thou good and faithful servant. Enter thou into the presence of thy Lord. Come in, because Christ paid the price for your sin. And you said yes. Now is the acceptable time. I was preaching as a young man just starting out, just a kid. I was starting to preach some and my dad and I got a business together. I'd wrecked my whole childhood with sin and gone way out on the deep end of life. God saved me. When I was twenty-one years old, my dad and I, I said, let's start a business together. I've been living in this construction world that's ungodly. Let's have a business, and we did. We read the Bible every morning together and prayed for our business. It was just wonderful. God put us back together. I'd broken my parents' hearts with sin and with just dishonoring them And God restored us. We had a man who would come into our store every, about once a week, and he'd come in every week, and he was an older gentleman. His name was Mr. Liu. My dad knew him for years. And I witnessed to him one day. I said, Mr. Lou, why don't you trust Christ as your Savior? He said, I'm not ready for all that stuff. He said, I I'm good. I have the sacraments. I have to go to the Mass and I do this and that. I don't need that I said, Mr. Lou, and I showed him what the Bible said about salvation. He didn't get saved. He came in another week, and I started, he said, don't talk to me about that anymore. I kept praying for him. Finally he came in one day, and I believe it was a Tuesday morning or afternoon, excuse me, and he came in with some materials that we had purchased from his company. And he came in and I said, Mr. Lou, I don't know why, but I'm really concerned about you. I want you to get saved, Mr. Lou. And I actually started to cry, a tear ran down my cheek. I said, Jesus paid the price for every one of your sins, and all you need to do is to accept him and trust him and believe on him. He said, I'm not ready for that. I said, please could I just go through the plan of salvation with you? And I did the best I could as quickly as I could. Finally said, I have to go. I said, Mr. Lou You don't understand. You're here today and gone tomorrow. He said, Well you're a young man. I was only in my thirties now or or in our twenties, maybe approaching thirty. We started the business when I was twenty-one And he says, You're a young man. And he said, I'll tell you what I know. You don't know this. Here's what I know. You're not here gone and gone today, gone tomorrow. You're here and gone, here today and gone today. He said, you might I have tomorrow. He said, that's what I know. I said, Mr. Lou, please. He said, no, I'm I'm fine He left and drove down to his house not far from our little shop that we maintained, walked into his home, walked up to the refrigerator and put his hand on the door. At that moment he clutched his chest fell down, and they say that he died probably before he ever hit the floor. He had a massive heart attack and died right on the spot. I don't know if Mr. Liu got saved. From our shop to his home. I don't know if he pulled the car over and trusted Christ as a Savior. I pray that he did. But he taught me something that day. We are here today and gone today. I've shook the hand of people, said, see you next week, and they were gone that evening I visited people in the hospital and they said they're they're doing okay, they're going to come out, gonna be out in a few more days, and they passed that day into eternity. Are you ready to meet God? Are you ready to trust Christ as your Savior? You see, that space of grace is open to you this morning. And by the grace of God, would you avail yourselves and trust Him and believe on Him who paid the price for every sin? Let's bow our heads, please, our hearts together in prayer. I would that I could pour into your heart and show you a beautiful picture. Of how much God loves you, wants you to be saved, and the incredible plan that He has for your life. It's amazing. But you must trust in Him And there are people in this room that invited you, and people that you're watching by livestream, they're praying for you. And if you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, you know you need to do that today. You want that space of grace. You want it to be In your life, you want to trust Him. Nobody's looking. The preacher, I'm not sure that I'm saved, but I want to settle it today. Not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. Please pray for me. Could I do that, please? All around the room. You've never trusted Christ. All around the room. If you're on live stream, you could put a note there or just put a thumbs up right now. We'll look at the time I want Christ as my Savior. All around the room. Nobody's looking. Not sure that you're saved, but you want to trust him as your Savior. Could I see your hand? There are others here that say I'm not saved, but I would like you to pray for me. I'm not going to confront you, I won't buttonhole you in the foyer, I promise. Not sure that you're saved, but you would like prayer this morning. Could I see your hand? Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Not sure that you're saved. But you'd like prayer. God loves you. He wants to save you today, if you let him. Others here would say, I know that I'm saved. I know I'm a Christian. But I want God to use this space of grace in my life to get maximum glory. Perhaps you know some people that are lost and you're going to win them to Christ. You're going to get them before it's eternally too late. You're going to reach out to them. Perhaps you have some children or siblings or loved ones that are lost. You just want to pray for them that God would save them. He loves them. He wants to save them. To pray for my wayward ones and kids that are saved, but they're they're not not in the right place. Just to pray for folks today. How many of you know some people like that? I'd like to see her hands, please, all around the room. Our time is gone, but I'm going to ask for our sister to play quietly. And I'd like for some of us just to come to this altar and kneel and pray.