If you would, read that along with me. We'll read this thing in unison and uh we'll have a word of prayer then. Uh let me get my mic turned on Alright, I think we're good. Verse 9, Jonah chapter 2. Ready? Read it with me. Here we go. But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving. I will pay that that I have vowed. Salvation is of the Lord. Where is Jonah at when he's making this statement that we just read together? Where is his location? He's in the belly of a whale. And in the belly of the whale, he says, I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving. I don't know about you, but I wonder how many of us, the last thing we'd think about if we're stuck in the belly of the whale, is expressing gratitude. Thanksgiving. So this is my thought. A strange place for Thanksgiving. Let's pray together. Father, I ask your blessing now as we look at Jonah's experience here and his attitude. And I pray that you would challenge us and help us in this matter of thanksgiving and gratitude at this time of year. We kind of highlight that. But I pray it would be, maybe you'd use some thoughts from your word, some truths from the word of God that would challenge us. And uh we could be uh uh uh 24-7, 365 days a year That our lives would be characterized by gratitude. Lord, I need your help with that. I yield my will to you and present my body. And I ask with all my heart, do you fill me with your Holy Spirit? And speak our hearts, challenge us, change us, Lord, change our thinking. That we'd be in tune with you and your word, your will, and we'd be a light shining in this dark world. Please bless, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. A couple of weeks ago, oh a week or two ago, it might have been three recently. I was reading through Jonah in my daily devotions. I just read through the four chapters. It's not very long. And I was thinking, Jonah, this is one of the most remarkable events, perhaps in all of history, that a man gets swallowed by a whale. How many people like me are captivated by that thought? A man is swallowed by a whale. Now, I think most of us, if not all of us, are at least somewhat familiar with the story of Jonah. By the way, it's not just a story, it's an actual historical event. It's not just some Bible story we tell. It's a historical event, just like the cross, anything else in the Bible. But Jonah is a prophet of God. Up to this point, all we know of Jonah, he's been very faithful to the Lord. He's been faithful to the Lord. He served God as a prophet, declaring God's message where God would instruct him to He's mentioned one time earlier in the Bible in 2 Kings. So we don't know a whole lot about his history other than we make the assumption he's been faithful to the Lord. We know he was a prophet. Well God God addresses Jonah and instructs him that he is to go to a foreign country, to a city in a foreign country is to go to the Ninevites. And there he is to declare and deliver this message of God that in 40 days God is going to judge these people. Now the Ninevehites were very, very wicked people, very violent, uh um uh sadistic in a lot of ways, pagan, perverse I mean they were they were uh it was a terrible terrible immoral society violent society and um so God wants Jonah to go there and declare the message that and warn them that judgment is coming. I think Jonah, my uh take on Jonah, it's uh it's kind of a missions manual. It's the record of a missionary called to go to a foreign field, to a specific city with a very specific message and deliver it to those people. And isn't that what missions is? God calling people to go to a foreign land, a specific area. and declare the gospel. So Jonah gets this call, and as we're familiar, he uh Jonah takes uh things in his own hands and he decides he is not going to do what God has instructed him to do And so rather than heading to Jonah, he turns, he heads the other way. He gets a boat, he goes out, and he's sailing off the Java. As he is fleeing God's call in God's presence, God begins, God gets active. And God begins to intervene in Jonah's decision to flee from the Lord, to flee from God's call, to uh its rebellion is what it is against God. And God intervenes, and he sends a storm. And those hardened sailors and the shipmen that are on there that Jonah is is traveling with, uh, they never saw anything like it. They're convinced they're going to die, they're doomed, they've done everything they know to do. This is a horrific storm, they're going down. And they begin praying to their gods. Of course, there's no effect. Finally, they get Jonah and they say, Well, you know, they ask him, Why aren't you praying? And he says, Listen, this is my fault. I'm fleeing from the presence of the Lord. God is intervening. The only hope there is for you guys to survive is to throw me overboard. This is my fault. God is doing this because of my disobedience. And he was right So the sellers there, you know, they're apparently decent guys. We don't want to throw this guy over, he's going to die. He's dead if we throw him overboard. So they rode, did everything they could, finally And they had no other choice, and they did what Jonah said. They threw them over. As soon as they did, the storm calmed. Well, God had prepared a fish, a whale. That whale comes up and swallows Jonah whole. And for three days and three nights, Jonah is in the belly of this whale. This chapter 2 takes place. Finally, Jonah comes to his senses. He gets things right down there in that belly of the whale. And he prays this prayer. And the whale. vomits him out and he's alive. Cleans himself up, we assume, and uh he goes to Nineveh and he declares the message and the whole The whole city turns to the Lord, repents, and turns to the Lord. God shows him mercy. Then of course Jonah gets bent out of shape again. But uh It's captivating that a man would be swallowed by a whale and spend three days and three nights in the belly of a whale and survive. Some uh the our liberal neighbors, they would say, oh, that's just a story, good grief, there's no way that could happen That's impossible. You know, there's a lot of things that people say is impossible that happen nonetheless. I did a little reading this week and um I found out there have been many situations throughout history where people survived impossible circumstances. In fact, there's a record in the early eighteen hundreds of a man I believe he was out of Wales, and I have his name somewhere I don't have in front of me Uh but he was um he was out, they were uh uh hunting whale and uh he had fallen overboard. They said they had harpooned a whale and And uh the newspaper records at the time, they were going out on the smaller boats to to recover the whale and bring it in and harvest it and somehow they had gotten dumped over and another whale came up and swallowed them and apparently according to the newspaper accounts of the time This fella had been swallowed and spent a day or two or three in the belly of a whale. They found the whale several days later dead and cut him open and lo and behold the guy was in there and still alive and somehow survived. Now, that's incredible. And people agree with me. That's incredible. So things happen That we would think that's impossible for that to ever happen, yet nevertheless they do. I was reading about a fella, what was his name? Jose Salvador. He was, this was back several decades ago, but uh he was out, a storm hit his boat, I think it was out in the Pacific Ocean, and knocked the motor out, and everything was going, and he survived for 14 months drifting Out on the Pacific Ocean, just living off of rainwater, raw fish that he could catch and uh survive. And they found him and they said, This is impossible. How can you be alive? But he was. I read another interesting story. If you don't get anything out of this service this morning, you'll get some interesting stories. I read about a gal named Vesna Vol uh Vesna Volovic. She was Serbian. She was in 1972, she was a flight attendant on a Serbian airline. In January, and I don't know what the circumstances were, in January of 1972 Vesna was serving uh the folks on this plane flying. They were 33,000 feet in the air, and for some reason, I don't know the details, the plane exploded And Vesna Volovic fell thirty-three thousand three hundred and thirty feet to the ground. They said there is no way this girl could possibly survive falling that far. But she did. She spent a some little time in the hospital, got up, they said the first thing she did, she got out of the hospital bed and smoked a cigarette. And people say that's impossible. That could never happen. I'm telling you, the idea that a man could be swallowed by a whale and spend three days and three nights in a and survive to us may seem impossible, but I'm telling you, some things that seem impossible do happen nonetheless. Now let me throw another factor in here. The will and the power of God. And you factor in the power of God to keep a man alive, then there's no doubt. We have no problems. With this biblical account of Jonah being swallowed by a whale and surviving three days and three nights in the belly of that whale, being vomited out, and then going on and fulfilling God's will. So as far as I'm concerned, um as far as I'm concerned, our liberal friends can just stick a stock in it. You know? This happened, this is true. That wasn't a bad thing, was it, that I just said? Was that okay? Okay, good. I just said it What an amazing thing. And I'm reading this, and uh, you know, I probably read this 50, 60 times in my life And I'm going through this again, and I'm just thinking, this is just a phenomenal thing. And I noticed two things this time reading through. God's Word's amazing book. You read it and read it and read it. And you always see things. God teaches you stuff. One thing I noticed, and not this isn't what the message is about this morning, but one thing I did notice And that is this. The hardest part about winning souls isn't getting sinners to trust Christ. The hardest part about soul winning is getting Christians to go to the sinners and give the message of the gospel to them. Once Jonah showed up and delivered the message, the city repented and turned to the Lord. The tough part of this whole endeavor wasn't getting the Nineveh to repent from the sins That they responded to the word of the power of the word of God. The toughest part was getting Jonah to go over there and tell them they needed to do that And I found in my ministry and even with my own self, getting an old lost sinner to see that they're a sinner and turn and trust Christ isn't always the toughest part. Usually the toughest part is getting the Christian to go talk to them and share the gospel with them. Now that's a message, that's a for another message sometime. The second thing I noticed is what I want us to look at now this morning And that is this. Gratitude is a key factor in being and staying in fellowship with God. Did you catch that? Gratitude is a key factor in getting in fellowship with God as a believer, getting my heart in tune with God and then keeping it in tune with God is having this attitude and this spirit of gratefulness and thanksgiving. Jonah up to this chapter two, he's fleeing from God. He is, and uh we you can't whitewash it in any way, shape, or form. And I think Jonah was for the most part a good man. some very admirable characteristics of him. But in this situation, in this circumstance, Jonah is in effect raising his fist in rebellion against God. I will not do what you've instructed me to do. And God, being the good and faithful Father that He is, doesn't let Jonah get away with that. And God intervenes, sends the storm, and now he's in the whale. So up to this point, Jonah has been out of fellowship with God. Up to this point, Jonah has been out of the will of God. And God is working. God is chastening. God is working here. And now Jonah's his frame of mind is changing. You spend three days, three nights in the belly whale, your frame of mind will change, trust me His frame of mind is changing. He has a whole different attitude about this. And he's getting back in tune. We'll see here in a moment. He's getting back in tune with God. And one of the key issues Is this matter of gratitude, expressing thanksgiving? I believe chapter 2 of Jonah is one of the most significant prayers in all of Scripture And there's several significant prayers in Scripture. There's no doubt about it. This is the most significant prayer in all of Jonah's life. This is a powerful, powerful prayer he's making, and it's very, very important. This prayer gives us an insight, a window into what's going on in Jonah's heart and mind. while he's down inside uh the belly of the swale. Uh verses 3 and then verse 5 and 6, uh we just want to uh review this prayer here, kind of look at it real quick He rehearses his situation to God. Notice verse number three. He says, For thou hast cast me into the deep in the midst of the seas, the floods compass me about. Now picture him in this belly of this whale making these statements. All thy billows and thy waves pass over me. He's down under the ocean. These waves, he's inside this fish swimming around Verse 5. The waters compassed me about, even into the soul, even to the soul. The depths closed me round about. Look at this. The weeds were wrapped about my head. I don't know what all the this whale ate, but apparently he ate seaweeds. Now, this is where my imagination kind of kicks in. picture down inside the belly of what did anybody ever hear do any you ever see these little uh children's books crayon books coloring books and they'll have a picture of Jonah and the whale and uh they'll have Jonah inside this whale and he'll have a campfire and he's sitting there Go on a you see that or I saw one the uh this week I was studying and there's one he's leaning up against the ribs like this, kinda taking a nap, waiting for uh uh I'm telling you that's not the way it was I like to go fishing, I love to go fishing. I don't usually eat, I usually let 'em go. Uh but every now and then I'll keep a trout or a catfish or something and clean that thing and what I like to do is what if it's early in the f in my time on fishing, I I cut the stomach open and see what they're eating. I thought I'd share with you right before lunch. And sometimes there'll be a crawfish in there, some minnows, or some bugs, or some yuck, you can't even figure out what it is. Now take that and enlarge that a hundred times. And then stick a guy in there. And he's wrapped in seaweed. There's half digested uh herrings and bluefish and he's in there wrapped all around maybe some eels that are sw still swimming around. Who knows? In other words, this is not a ple how many people are picturing this in your mind right now? How many people are going to have nightmares And he says, the weeds are wrapped around my head. So he's assessing this situation. He says, um I went down, verse 6, to the bottoms of the mountains, the earth with her bars. I would guess that might be the ribs of the fish, maybe, was about me forever Yet thou hast brought up my life from corruption, O Lord my God. So he's in his prayer, he's assessing his situation of God. He's saying, God, this is where I'm at. Um it reminds me a little bit of the prodigal son when he had fled from his father. And he's living in a far country and Uh and God intervenes and he loses he spends all his money, wastes all his money, and he ends up in the hog pen And he begins to make the statements: here I am, and I'm eating the hus that the pigs are eating, and my father's servants have home place to stay and food to eat. And he assesses the situation. What's happening here for Jonah is he's coming to his senses. He's realizing what his decisions have cost him and what the consequences are of his living in rebellion against God. And he says, here I am. So he reassesses his situation. Verse 4 we come back to, and I notice here he's expressing submission to God. Look at verse 4. Then I said, I am cast out of thy sight. Look, yet I will look again for thy holy temple That's an interesting phrase. He uses it again later on in his prayer. And it's used in the Bible sometimes as an expression of returning to the Lord. It's used sometimes as a expression of repentance. I'm wrong. I was doing wrong. I was wrong to disobey you, God. I was wrong. to go against your will. I was wrong to rebel and take things in my own hands and decide what I'm going to do with my life. Lord, I'm returning and I'm looking to your temple. I'm submitting myself, I'm repenting of my decision, and I'm returning to the Lord. No more running from God. No more resisting God's will. Coming home, Lord. Coming home. And then the last part of verse 6 and verse 7, he's acknowledging the fact that this is God's chastisement. Look at the last part of verse 6. Thou hast brought up my life from corruption, O Lord my God. When my soul feigned within me, I remembered the Lord, and my prayer came in unto thee, into thine holy temple. I think he's recognizing and acknowledging the fact that God has intervened in his rebellion. God is chastening him. Do we understand what chastisement is as it's taught in the Bible? Chastisement is God's correction of a wayward child. Sometimes we think of chastisement as punishment. Chastisement is not punishment. Chastisement is correction. Um we used to use the term, how many people here know what this term means? I was taken to the woodshed. Yeah. We never had a woodshed, but mom had some wooden spoons. I'll tell you what, that gets your attention. And Jonah is saying Lord, you're chastening me. You're correcting me. I was wrong. I was out of line. I was I was rebelling against you. But you've intervened and God is chastening him. Wow, sometimes child God's chastisement's pretty severe. In fact, you go to Hebrews chapter 12, and Paul uses there in Hebrews, he uses the term scourging along with chastisement. God knows what it takes to get our attention. God knows what it takes to break our will and turn us and get us back in tune and in a place where he can bless us and use us again. Chastisement. Let me say this. Jonah in the belly of this whale, it was the chastisement of God, but it was an act of love on the part of God. The worst thing that could have ever happened to Jonah was for him to get away with this scheme. Was for him to get away. An entire city, now this is speculation, but it's a very real possibility, an entire city would have died and gone to hell. Plus Jonah would have lost the blessing. Jonah would have lost the blessing of being used of God and having God's favor on his life. And so, God, in love, when you and I stray, when you and I are prone to wander from the will of God, and we our hearts get hard sometimes, and we uh in in a sense raise our fist to God and say, No, God God lovingly comes in and begins to chasten us and correct us and turn us and get our attention and melt that heart of stone. And make us submissive. How many people here know what I'm talking about? Anybody here been saved long enough? You know what I'm talking about? Sure. It's not a pleasant experience, but I'm telling you, it is the love of God that does not let us go on our way. I remember when the boys were smaller, one son in particular. Now they both, I don't think uh either of them got chastened any more than the other. They both got it all the time. But um One time uh one of the boys uh had done some I don't remember what it was and we had a little process we went through and sent him to his room and I said, I'll be back there. I came back and sat down and uh you know, I made sure he knew what he did wrong. We said, you know what you did wrong? I mean he's balling. The worst part I think was waiting for dad to show up And so I come back there and he's I said, you know, you know what you did wrong? Yes, what did you do wrong? He told me And I said, you know, we love you and we can't let you get away with that, and so there's going to have to be some uh board of education applied to the seat of learning here And uh and so we went through the process. And so what we did afterward, we'd always pray, and then I'd always hold the boys. We'd just hold them and and And we'd hold sometimes I'd end up crying with him or whatever. And afterward I was holding uh uh it was Daniel I was holding him tight and he's crying and finally wiped his tears, he looked at me, and he said, Daddy, this is the best part. Afterward hugging and holding and loving on each other. This is the best part And I tell you, my experience in knowing the Lord is God can be pretty intense, severe, serious about chastening us. But I tell you, when it's all said and done, and my heart's right with God And I'm in tune with the Lord, I tell you, that's the best part. To know that I have God's blessing, I'm in God's will. That's where Jonah is. He's recognizing God's chastening and God's doing all this is taking place in the belly of a whale. Then in verse number 8, I notice he acknowledged his own responsibility. Look at verse 8. They that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy. Who do you think he's referring to there? Referring to himself. I uh I I fooled myself, this lying badity. I thought I could run from the presence of God. I thought I could do this and get away with it. I thought it would be just fine to do things the way I want to do it, to do what I think I want to do And just ignore and disregard what God's told me to do. He said, that's lying vanities. That doesn't work. That doesn't work. So he's accepting responsibility for his own actions. I tell you what, it would do us a heap of good to stop blaming other people for our stupid decisions and accept responsibility for it, amen or not. I messed up. I was stupid. I said that. I did this. And that's what he's saying. I'm telling you, Jonah, Jonah is getting right with God. Jonah's whole attitude is changing. And then we come to verse number nine. And here we have a powerful, powerful expression in the belly of a whale. Of gratitude and thanksgiving. God did what was necessary to get Jonah's attention to change his whole frame of mind and get back in tune with God's call and God's will for his life. And Jonah ends with this great expression of gratitude. But, verse 9, I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of what? Thanksgiving. I will pay that that I have vowed. Salvation is of the Lord. What a what a tremendous statement coming out of the belly of a whale. I know I I I get looking at this. And I think that when Jonah's heart got right with God, when he got in tune with the Lord, his circumstances were no longer an issue. Whether he was standing on the side of the of the shore of the ocean or on a mountaintop, or if he's in the belly of the whale, all of that is no longer an issue because his heart's in tune with God, and now he has the favor and blessings. and and uh uh of God and that hard heart and that self-will is gone and he and God are in fellowship and it doesn't matter if he's in the belly of a whale or if he's up on the shore He's rejoicing in the Lord. I put in the margin of my Bible, this is the only time in the book of Jonah that Jonah actually sounds happy. The only time in the whole book where it sounds like he's happy. And it's in the belly of a whale. Why? Not because of the location of his body, but because of the condition of his heart There are so many people trying to look for happiness and peace and fulfillment in their circumstances, and you will never find it in circumstances It is peace and fulfillment and joy, genuine joy, is only found in a proper relationship with my God and Creator through the Lord Jesus Christ. And for one time, in the belly of the whale, Jonah is genuinely happy. Jonah has peace. Now later on he falls back in his old ways, and man, he's frustrated and he's angry. First chapter 1, he's frustrated, he's running from God, his heart's hard. But down for three days and three nights in the belly of a whale, he's right with God. And he has the blessings and peace of God. In 19, in November of 2009, one of the morning news shows, I guess they have different ones. I don't never see them, I don't know. But uh it's called the Today Show, I think And they had a young mother on there they were interviewing. I was reading this this week. And this young mother had been in a plane crash. And she had been horribly disfigured in the crash. She had had numerous surgeries, still had many to go. She lived in constant, intense pain. And they had the mother and her family there, and they were telling she was telling her experience and what she went through and what how she was dealing with it. And the one of the um uh uh news people, what do you call 'em? Um the pr the reporter or the interviewer, the anchor is they're talking and this woman and they're they're going back and forth and the little girl, one of her little girl was sitting there and and the news person, uh the interviewer, just kind of leaned around and said to the little girl, and he said, Sweetheart How has this whole event impacted you and your home? And the little girl, just innocently, without thinking, said this, well mommy's a whole lot nicer now than she was before. And the whole place went silent. And the point was this, this horrific experience, what this mother went through, changed her. And made her a nicer person, made her a better person. And the little girl noticed that. Jonah's time in the belly of the whale was good for him. It helped him. It made him a happier person. It got him in tune with God. And I can't help but think that I'm talking to some folk this morning. You're frustrated. Nothing ever seems to be right. And you're mad half the time And gripe and complain, and nothing's good enough, and nothing is right. And maybe it's not your circumstance that needs to be changed. Maybe it's the frame of mind. Maybe it's your relationship with God that needs to be addressed. Jonah's in the belly of a whale. And he's expressing gratitude. He's thanking God. I'll sacrifice the voice of thanksgiving. Salvation is of the Lord. What a tremendous statement. Sometimes God has to turn our world upside down. Sometimes that's the best thing in the world for us. Sometimes being swallowed by the whale is the best thing that could possibly happen to a person. To get our attention. To get us in tune with God, bring that peace, that joy that only God can give into our heart and life Here's three thoughts real quick and we'll be done. Number one, I put this down. Thanksgiving is possible in any and all circumstances of life. Let me say that again. Thanksgiving is possible in any and all circumstances in life. Let me amend that statement. Let me put it this way: from God's perspective, thanksgiving is expected. From God's people by God in every and all circumstances of life. Listen to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 8. Listen to this. In everything give thanks. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Did you hear that? In everything, in a whale's belly. Give thanks, for this is the will of God for you in Christ Jesus. It's the will of God. Listen again to Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 20. This is God's word. Giving thanks always For all things unto God, the Father, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. One of the great characteristics of a strong, mature faith in God is the ability to genuinely be grateful in all circumstances. Characteristic of mature Strong faith in God is the ability to be thankful and grateful regardless of the circumstances. It is infantile, it is immature. To gripe and complain and whine and murmur when God's been so good to us. God's been so good to us I tell you, I heard of somebody gave a speech, I don't remember who it was, some politician or somebody who was on the public. They made this statement. They said, I was born with a gold I was born with a silver spoon in my mouth. Anybody ever hear that phrase? Generally it means, oh, you got everything made. Your parents are rich, uh, you got all made He said, I was born with a silver spoon in my mouth. I was born in the United States of America. Hey, do you understand what a privilege that is? How good God's been to us? I tell you, God expects his people regardless of the circumstances Regardless of the situation we're in, he expects us to be grateful to him for all he's done for us, how good he's been to us I go down to Dominican Public preach for Steve Sidler. He's going to be with us next week. He's been a faithful missionary down there for many years. And we get out visiting and we get in some homes and the poverty there is just nobody here understands it unless you've been somewhere like that. The poverty is unbelievable. Living in little little tin rooms down in St. Lucia this June. We were down with Brother Bartley And then I come back home. And I have people that live in half a million dollar home. To drive a $30,000, $40,000 car that has heated seats and then eat three huge meals a day. And they gripe and complain about how bad it is, how tough it is, how unhappy they are. And I think, God have mercy on us God have mercy on us. I tell you, I get down to those towns. We had service there down in St. Lucia and View Fort was the town. And just, again, I can't describe the poverty. And folks gathered around. And I'm telling you, we laughed and sang and rejoiced in God. Some of the happiest people I've ever met in my life. You know why? Because their gratitude and their joy and their happiness is not based on their circumstance or what their possessions are. Their joy and their happiness was based on their relationship with their God and Creator. They were in tune with God and God blessed them. Am I making sense? So it is possible to be grateful in any and all circumstances of life It's possible to be grateful in the belly of a whale, in chastisement, when God's chasing. Maybe I'm here, maybe when I'm preaching on chastisement Maybe there's some folks God's dealing with your heart. You're convicted and you say, I know God's chastening me. I know God's working on my heart. God's dealing with some areas of my life that are not right, that ought not to be there, some things I'm engaged in, some things I'm doing. Some things I'm putting into my body, I know it's not right. God's chastening you. You know it's possible to rejoice and give thanks that God is chastening you. Thank you, Lord, for not leaving me alone. Thank you, Lord, for dealing with this. Thank you, Lord, for loving me enough to try and get me back on the right track. You follow what I'm saying? And in all circumstances, if God's chasing me again, thank God, thank you, Lord, don't give up, don't quit until I'm right. It's possible to be grateful in times of tests and trials. We're studying 1 Peter on Sunday nights. And Peter is addressing, 1 and 2 Peter is addressed to believers who are being severely persecuted Some are losing their lives, they're being run out of their homes, their families are rejecting them for no other reason than their faith in Christ. And yet he says they have joy unspeakable, full of glory. And this whole world can turn against you and I, and yet we are still, it's possible to still be grateful and still be happy and rejoice in the Lord. Times of chastisement, in times of tests and trials, in times of persecution and injustice. I thought of Paul and Silas in a Philippian jail in stocks, unbelievable circumstances and situations. For no other reason than they shared Jesus Christ with other people. And at midnight they prayed and sang praises to the Lord and rejoiced in the Lord Yeah, it's possible. What I'm saying is this, hey, you can be thankful and happy and have the joy of the Lord Regardless of what your circumstances are, regardless of what your situation is. I don't know why that's doing that, Jimmy So, number one, I put this: it's possible in any and all circumstances of life to be grateful, to rejoice in the Lord. Say, how do I do that? Well, number one, I put this down. Look above your circumstances. Look above your circumstances. This is all temporal. This is all down. Look above. Look to the Lord. Did you notice Uh Jonah, his focus, his heart and mind is on the Lord God. That's where his focus is. I will turn to thy temple. What I need to do is get my eyes off my circumstance to look to the Lord. John R. Rice, great preacher, years gone by. Uh he was after he had preached one night, people were talking to him, they were lined up coming up, talking to him, and An old preacher friend came up and John O'Rice said to him, says, How are you doing? And the old preacher said, Well, all right, under the circumstances. And John Arce said, Well, what are you doing under there? Look above your circumstances. Look beyond your circumstances. See what God is doing in your life. See how God can use this to change your life and bring you out of it. I tell folks they're going through a hard time. I tell them this. It's not always going to be this way. God will bring you through it. And when you come out, you're going to be better. If you'll trust him, let him have his way. Your faith will be stronger. Your walk with God will be stronger. Look beyond it. Look what God is trying to do, what God is trying to accomplish. And then look within your heart. See what God's doing to use your circumstance, your difficulty, to change your heart and life. And in the midst of all of it You can express gratitude. I'm sure there's folks here who feel the same way. There's some things I've gone through in my life. I would never, ever, ever want to go through them again But looking back, I sure am glad that I went through it for what it did for me and how it affected me and helped me. Anybody know what I'm talking about? See, I would never want to go through that again But man, what God did in my heart and life going through that shore has been good. Sure has been a blessing So number one, it's possible in any and all circumstances to be grateful. Thanksgiving, number two, is profitable in all circumstances of life. Look at this. Would you uh everybody hanging in there with me? Everybody doing alright? Look at verse 9 with me. But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving. I will pay that that I vowed. Salvation is of the Lord. Look at verse 10. And the Lord spake unto the fish, and it what? You didn't want to say that word, did you? It vomited out Jonah upon the dry land. I got looking at that. You know what I noticed? It wasn't until Jonah expressed gratitude that the fish vomited him out. Did you notice that? At the first part, he's assessing his situation. Oh, I got myself in a mess. Fish didn't vomit him out. Then he says, I'll turn to the temple. I'm submitting to you, Lord. I repent from my rebellion. I'm going to let you have your way. Fish didn't vomit him out. He says, uh, he says there, uh, God, you're you're in love chasing me. This is you doing. I got myself in this mess, but you didn't leave me, and uh you're chasing me. Fish didn't vomit him out And then he says, Lord, thank you. Thank you for what you're doing. The fish vomits him out. Now I don't know if a fish is make thanksgiving makes a fish sick or what, but um When he said, Lord, thank you, Lord thank you, thank you for what you're doing in my life, thank you for what you're doing, thank you for not leaving me alone. Then God says, then God poked the fish in the belly. And Jonah pops out. And it says on dry land. That's interesting. What I'm trying to say is this. When we learn to be grateful, it's good for us. It's good for us. I found that thankful people are generally happier than unthankful people. Anybody notice that? Say, duh. Um I found that grateful people tend to worry less. About stuff. Oh, what are you going to do? I don't know, but Lord's sure being good to me, I'm sure it'll be fine. An ungrateful person, I don't know, this is terrible. Nothing ever works right. I just lose all the time. That is not the words of a grateful person. Grateful person says, you know, God sure, I don't know, but something the Lord will work something out of it. God's in control. I'm just going to trust Him. I found that grateful people get this one. Grateful people tend to have more loyal friends than ungrateful people. Who would you rather be around? Somebody that gripes and murmurs and complains all the time, or somebody that is thankful and grateful and rejoicing? Which one would you choose? Yeah. I'd I'd r I'd rather be I don't want to be around somebody that's just nothing's right and uh I was when we were in college we took our bus kids, we had Uh literally eighteen hundred kids rode our sun the sunny school buses to church every Sunday. Imagine that I mean they're everywhere and these are inner city kids, they're rough. And um so we would take them on outings. We'd take them up in the mountains and have a camp out or not a camp out, a cookout, and uh we'd hike and stuff and And we'd just try to spend time with them, try and be an influence. And one time it had poured rain and we were going and uh we it uh and we hiked, uh the rain had stopped, but everything was soaking wet. And uh I'm trying to start a fire, a little campfire, because we're gonna roach hot dogs. And I just had some matches and you know, and so I'm and And it's a hard time. And there's this guy, one of the college students, is standing over me. He went like this. You'll never do it. You'll never get that started. It ain't gonna happen We ain't having no lunch today. These kids are going to be mad. And uh their parents will get mad at us because we told them and just uh finally I said, Would you please go away By the way, I did get the fire started. Some gasoline and a later, but um Grateful people tend to have more loyal friends to them. They're more pleasant to be around. I found that grateful people are more effective witness. All I'm doing is griping and complaining about everything, murmuring all the time. I don't think that lost person is going to be too much interested in a God that treats me that bad. You know what I'm saying? Well what kind of God do you have? Nothing's right. All you ever do is you say all you ever do is lose? Oh, it's just terrible. Everything's terrible. Everything's terrible. Why would I want what you have? I found the person that's grateful and can see God's hand in everything and is able to rejust. Doesn't mean I enjoy everything, but in everything I'm I'm grateful to God for his love for me, his care for me, his working in my life. The unsaved sees that attitude. And I say, man, he has something nothing in this world produces. So grateful people tend to be more effective witnesses. And I found this in the ministry, grateful people tend to be more faithful. More faithful to church, more faithful to the Lord, more faithful in their walk with God, more consistent. They're grateful. They're grateful. Maybe the quickest way out of a negative circumstance is to start being grateful for God's grace in your life Jonah didn't get vomited out of that fish until he expressed gratitude. And when his attitude changed and he developed an attitude of gratitude. Pops out of the fish. And his whole circumstance has changed. Maybe, maybe there's a lesson there. And let me end with this. Thankfulness is to be proclaimed. In all circumstances of life. First of all, it's possible. Two, it's profitable. It's good for me. It develops me. And thirdly, it's to be proclaimed. In other words, Don't just be grateful. Express that gratitude. If you're in the belly of a whale, express out, I'm going to, I'm grateful to God. If it's in a Philippian jail, sing and praise the Lord out loud, and the prisoners heard them. Maybe it's on the night before a crucifixion when Jesus has the disciples gathered around, and the Bible says very distinctly, He gave thanks. And then when they left the upper room and they're headed up to the Garden of Gethsemane, as they're heading up there, the Bible says they sang a hymn. They sang a hymn. Bible scholars suggest that they sang Psalm 118. This is the day. This is the day that the Lord hath made. We will rejoice. Imagine that. Singing that going up. It's Jesus about to be crucified In all circumstances, attitude of joy and rejoicing. He didn't enjoy the cross, he endured the cross. But in the midst of that, he rejoiced. He proclaimed it out loud. And people around heard it I put it this way, we must express gratitude with our lips. Psalms 100, we don't have time. I wish we did. Read Psalms 100. Says we're to sing it out. Shout it out. Sing it. Rejoice ye, you're in heart. Rejoice. How's it go? Rejoice, give thanks and sing. Man, I love that song. What would happen if all of us here would just go through the week singing, Rejoice, give praise and sing? Wouldn't that be something? What if all of us we go to the store and we're shopping and boy they got they got chicken legs on sale 20% off praise the Lord Say people think we're nuts. That's alright. They think that anyway. Express it Say, well, well, I'm just thankful in my heart. And not only express it, but exemplify it. And by that I mean this. Live for God. Out of a grateful heart. Oh, God's been so good to me. You say, man, your life's fallen apart. Your your spouse left you. You lost your job. You know, all this, everything's falling apart, and here you are. Yeah, but God saved my soul from sin and hell, and one of these days I'm going to be in his presence. God's been good to me. He takes care of me. He gives me peace in the midst of the storm. He takes care of me. God's been good to me. God's good to me. And exemplify it. Romans chapter 12, verse 1 says, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, how can a save people, by the mercies of God. That you present your bodies a living sacrifice. You know what he's saying? Because of all the mercy that God has shown you, because of how good God has been to you. Aren't you just go ahead and give your whole life to him? Live for him. Serve him. Follow his instructions. Let him lead you and use you And let your life exemplify a person that is grateful to God, serving, serving, serving. We don't serve God out of obligation. Christian service is not a service of obligation or some sort of duty. Now it is our duty, but that's not our motive. Our motive for serving and witnessing and getting up and running buses and singing in a choir and staying up late working people and running kids all over and conferences and and uh uh teaching and visiting. Oh what's our motive? It's because God's been so good to us. He's been so merciful to me. I just want to live for him and serve him. Amen? What a strange place to be thankful In the belly of a whale. I'm telling you, if we know the Lord is Savior and we're in tune with him, we can be grateful in any and all circumstances. It doesn't matter if seaweed's wrapped around our head or if there's a crown on our head, we can rejoice in the Lord How did this plane wreck affect your home? Oh, a whole lot nicer. I'm so grateful. God is done. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to decide, just decide here and now, regardless of what our circumstances are And we're just going to learn to be grateful. We're going to be grateful to you in our words, in our actions, our attitude. We're just going to do it. We're going to confess. Our murmuring, our complaining is sin. Griping is sin. We're going to repent from that. We're going to turn from that. We're going to live for you. We're going to love you, Lord. We're going to rejoice and be grateful. I wonder with our heads bowed, how many that this morning, how many with that know the Lord is Savior, saved, you know you are, and you'd say, Preacher, I really need to work on this matter of gratitude. Our tendency is to be negative, no doubt. You say, I I don't want to be that way. I want to I want to learn what Jonah learned. And to learn to, if I have to, sacrifice Thanksgiving. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I need this. I need this in my life to be learn to be grateful. Just and express it and live it. How about it? Any others? A lot of hands raised. Any others? Now, some of us need to confess the sin of griping and murmuring, complaining. We need to. It's very real. We need to confess it, forsake that, repent from that. Maybe there's some here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven. I'm saved. I go to heaven. You might be a good person, maybe a church member. But that doesn't save a soul. That doesn't give eternal life. Only trusting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. You can come this morning and say, thank you, Lord, for giving me another opportunity to get saved, get this right, and then take that opportunity. Settled. Is there any this morning? Say, Preacher, I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. I need that settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I get that settled. How about it? Any Now, Father, bless our invitation. A lot of hands raised. You're dealing with our hearts. I know you dealt with my heart. And help us, Lord, not to just brush it off, but to respond and maybe an old order, humble ourselves. Just pray and seek your face and make that decision. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing our invitation hymn. And how about it? A lot of hands