Second Thessalonians chapter 2. Now we beseech you, uh brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, that by our gathering together unto him That you be not soon shaken in mind or be troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter as from us is that the that the day of Christ is at hand. There'd been some false teaching in Thessalon uh Thessalonica and uh uh Paul is trying to straighten some of the this false teaching out. That's That's uh that's what's going on here. In verse three it says, uh let no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come except there come a falling away first, and that that men of sin be revealed the son of perdition. who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God or that is worshipped, so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God Remember you not that when I was yet with you I told you these things? And now you know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work, only he who now leteth will let until he be taken out of the way. And then shall that wicked be revealed Whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. Even him who after uh I'm sorry, even him whose coming is after the working of Satan, with all power and signs and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish because they received not the love of the truth that they might be saved. And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion that they should believe a lie, that they uh all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. Ms. Frey Our Heavenly Father, we bow before you now as unbelievable as we know how. Realizing that if anything is to be accomplished, you must be involved in the whole process. And so I pray, Lord, that you'd uh uh cleanse my heart of anything that might hinder this service. You'd fill me with the Holy Spirit and and use me uh uh to bring honor to you. I pray for those who are sitting out there uh getting ready to listen to a message I pray, Lord, that they they have a a willing heart, a willing heart to uh to let you be the the ruler of their life. So I ask your blessings now on this service and what is to follow, we ask your uh hand to be upon it, and we thank you for it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. There are several things in the in these uh uh in these verses that uh we would uh want to uh point out but but uh there's not enough time for all that. But I I noticed what uh one of the things in here it has to do with with the devil Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan with all s of power and signs and lying wonders, with all deceivableness And it says, For this cause God shall send them a strong delusion that they should believe a lie. God is not the only one that's sending a strong illusion and and and this portion of scripture is dealing with the uh he's talking about the the rapture of the church and and uh uh the fact that uh God is going to uh send us a strong delusion. Uh uh You'll have to give me uh give me space, I guess. Uh We know the devil is a is a liar. He was a liar from the very beginning and he he is uh real good at that stuff now. Matter of fact, he's uh uh he's one that today is sending out strong delusions. In the scriptures here it talks about the uh about God sending a strong delusion. But uh The scriptures talks about Jesus or the Satan with his uh his different uh uh devices that he uses with these snares and these traps and uh we have to realize that we're fighting against a supernatural being that that uh has uh uh a lot uh has greater abilities and is smarter than what we are. And uh the only hope that we have is to put ourselves under the the leadership of the Holy Spirit and let him fight our battles for us. I noticed that uh uh in the scriptures that the devil has many names. Well that's pretty much like uh any criminal, isn't it? Because they always have the aliases, you know. Well he has some too, the devil and Satan, deceiver of the world, uh the great dragon, uh the old serpent over in the book of Revelation, the accus accuser of the brethren, Apollyon, Abadon Uh there's you know he has a bunch of Yelsey Bob. So he's uh he presents himself in different ways to different people depending on what he wants to accomplish in their particular life So the falling away in this in uh this particular story it mentions up there in uh uh uh that day shall not come except there come a falling away first. We're I believe I believe that right now I believe that we're in uh in the uh We're just about ready to to have the rapture take place. Uh you know, don't you know, I don't have a date or anything like that. I just believe that uh th that we'll all always be looking for the Lord to come back. And uh uh I know that uh uh Satan during this time is going to do his best to destroy the church And preacher is teaching on this the Baptist distinctives. And uh Lord knows we we need to know what we believe concerning the uh God's church, don't we? Because it's something that that uh a lot of people don't. Uh most people uh they have a kind of a humdrum uh belief system about the about the church that that uh could include just about every church. And that's what they try to do is to be all inclusive. But uh in this uh uh in the delusions that Satan is is doing now uh to the cr to the Christians and to the the church in general. Uh first of all he's uh uh uh He's sending the delusion that you can have success without sacrifice. Now I know that doesn't sound too exciting, but but the truth of the matter is that uh we are living in a society now where sacrifice is almost non-existent. Because uh most people are uh they don't want to sacrifice anything. Uh but I I I f find the scriptures that uh that God is expecting Christians to be sacrificial. Sacrificial in their giving, sacrificial in in their their livelihood and their their uh uh uh the way they live uh within the church And uh but Satan's uh delusion is that that you can have success without sacrifice Uh it's tragic today, but we see it in uh in our politics, we see it in so many different areas where the uh uh where people are not willing to sacrifice anything uh in in order to be successful. But the truth is the only way that you can be successful in any area of your life, whether it's in the Christian uh life or whether it's uh in business or whatever, there there is a necessity of uh these this thing we call sacrifice, willing to go above and beyond uh the call Uh that individual who uh wants to start a business. He doesn't come in at uh eight in the morning and at five clock out Uh that's the guy that uh is going to be there uh an hour or two early, get his uh day lined out so that these his people that comes in, he'll have something for them to do, something to be uh producing And uh then he's the last one to leave, probably a couple hours later on. Because sacrifice, uh, if you're going to be successful, is important We uh uh s sinning without suffering is another uh another thing. Uh If all you have to do I guess would be to talk to uh David, um King David or uh some of the others that have fallen in this trap of of sin and uh realize that uh there is always a price to pay. when you sin against God. Sin without suffering is is uh a non existent. Our hospitals are full of people who have gone that route. And I'm not implying that everyone in the hospital, you know, has uh is there because of sin, uh unless you want to go back to the original sin. And uh and jails. Uh these are all testimony to the fact that that uh you cannot sin without suffering. There's going to be a payday in those things. Um I look at the uh different people in the Bible that uh has gone through uh similar things. I see the rich man in Luke Luke si Luke sixteen that died and went to hell. His whole life was was uh spent on himself and and finally uh he paid the price The uh another another uh delusion is that that you uh cannot have salvation without surrender. Now Religious profession um Um no it's just not coming through for me. Okay, um Uh that's I know what you're doing. You're praying for me. And I need this right now. Delusions that you can have salvation without sacrifice. There we go. Titus one fifteen uh people uh You cannot have you cannot have salvation without without a total surrender. The Bible says that whosoever shall call upon the name uh a Lord shall be saved. It can takes an it takes the uh God looks at your at your heart and he expects you to yield your will to his in order to have salvation. Total surrender. Uh I I've seen uh young people who have uh come forward With uh chewing gum in their mouth and not not really concerned about and I'm not throwing off on young people, they're precious But I've seen people who have come to the altars with uh an attitude of just uh well I'm going to go through the motions here 'cause there's people who are y you know, getting on me and I want to just get that out of the road. And so they come and make a profession, but it's not from the heart. It's not a matter of a surrender surrender of the heart And so you cannot have s salvation without a total surrender. And then you can't uh you can't have service without the Holy Spirit. You know When a person is born again by the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit comes to take up their abode and take up his abode in their heart. And uh The uh the important thing uh to understand is that without the Spirit of God, there cannot be any service to God. The uh uh Uh, We need God's power in our life in order to have a successful ministry or a successful life as a Christian. I look in John chapter 15. And in John chapter fifteen, uh we have the story of the of the vine and the branches. And uh He says here, I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman, and every branch in me that bears not fruit he taketh away. Every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Now ye that are clean through the word have I uh which I have spoken unto you Abide in me and I in you, and as a branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine and the v uh the in the vine, uh no more can ye except you abide in me. And so the scripture is is plain that To serve God, uh back over in the book of uh uh of Amos, there's a course of scripture there that uh gives gives you the idea of what God thinks of people who try to serve God without the Spirit of God You see, there's a lot of people without that have never trusted Christ as their Savior that uh think that as long as they doing they're doing good or uh that that's that's suff uh sufficient to satisfy God But here's what God thinks about that, for the nation of Israel had backslid on God. But what they were doing was going through the the the normal days uh rituals And so they were still uh acting like they were serving God. But here's what God thinks about it. I'm reading verse twenty-one of the book of Amos in chapter five, and he says, uh I hate. Those are pretty strong words. I hate. I despise your feast days. And I will not smell your solemn assemblies. And though you offer me burnt offerings and your your meat offerings, I will not accept them, and neither will I regard the uh peace offerings of your fat beasts. And he says, take a take thou away from uh from me the noise of thy songs For I will not hear the melody of thy vials. But let judgment run down as waters and righteousness as a mighty stream. Here's a here's a a people who thought they could they could uh sneak went over on God, so to speak, and they were going through all the motions, but the truth of the matter is they were not serving God and all it did was anger God And uh it cost them dearly because they were they because of it. So you cannot uh serve God without the Holy Spirit uh you're here today and you you know Christ is your Savior. Understand that uh serving God uh Requires the Spirit of God to do the work of God You as an individual, oh you may uh you know, you may have talent, you know, you can maybe uh like me, I I've always You know, I s started out when I was just a little guy doing all these chalk or not chalk run, but paintings. And as I got older I started doing more more of this stuff. But the truth of the matter is that no matter how good I would be, without God's hand upon it, without the Spirit of God working in it, it means absolutely nothing. And so it's important for us to keep that thought in mind. And then the the final thought is you can't love without showing it. There's uh uh There are some scriptures I guess we could go to and and that would you know would back that all up, but uh I'm not going to go through those. But the important thing is simply this Love demands action. If you love me, keep my commandments. It's just a you know a simple thing. God expects us if we if we're going to to love him and say we love him and and uh then he expects something as a result to show forth that love. And I'm trusting that uh this week that uh we'll get a better hang of of uh the thoughts that I'm trying to get across and we'll see God do something here in spite of me. It and tonight we'll be doing this this final uh this uh first chalk drawing. Heavenly Father, we ask you Lord to to uh Take whatever feeble effort was made forth here this evening, this morning. And uh I pray, Lord, that you would uh speak to that heart. There may be someone here that needs to needs to know you as their personal Savior, I pray they might come and and uh realize that it without you that they're nothing. So I pray that you'd uh work in the hearts of each individual here in Jesus' name. Same, they miss