First six verses here. Now we're going to jump over to verse number twelve. First six verses and then verse number twelve. We're studying the life of David. He is still recovering from uh from his sin and the consequences. He's still dealing with a fallout here. But uh uh and so we want to look at this. Look at verse 1 of 2 Samuel 15. And it came to pass after this that Absalom prepared him chariots and horses And fifty men to run before him. And Absalom rose up early and stood beside the way of the gate. And it was so that when any man that had a controversy came to the king for judgment, then Absalom called unto him and said, Of what city art thou? And he said, Thy servant is of one of the tribes of Israel. And Absalom said unto him, See, the matters are good and right, but there is no man deputed of the king to hear thee. And Absalom said, moreover, oh, that I were made king in the land, that every man hath any suit or cause might come unto me, I would do him justice. And it was so that when any man came nigh to him to do him obedience, he put forth his hand and took him and kissed them. And on this matter did Absalom to all Israel that came to the king for judgment. Now look at this last statement. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. Now, I want us to skip over to verse 12. We're not going to look at all this tonight, but we're going to get started. Verse 12, and Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David's counselor. So he's sending for David's counselor from his city, even in Gilo, while he offered sacrifices, and the conspiracy was strong. For the people increase continually with Absalom. What's Absalom doing here? What's he doing? Yeah, he's trying to undercut the king. He's winning people over to himself. And it says there in verse 12 that the conspiracy to overthrow David was strong. So we're going to look at this. We're not going to get all of it tonight, but we're going to get started. So let's pray together and ask the Lord to teach us something from this passage. Father in heaven. We come to you tonight and we think of David as we're studying his life. We're trying to learn lessons from what you've recorded for us in your word, Lord. I pray that your Holy Spirit would help us, would open our eyes to see what's happening and how it applies to us, what we can learn. I ask, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord, and that you would be able to speak through me to each of our hearts. Lord, on my end, Father, I want to be fully yielded to you that I can be a vessel you can speak through. And then on all of our ends, I pray you'd help us to have open hearts and minds to what you have to say. So fill me again, I ask, Lord, with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will, present my body anew, and pray that you'd have your way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now we've been stud we're studying David, and for about two months now, we focused on this horrific sin. And now we're on the back side of it. It's been dealt with. It's been confronted. He's acknowledged it. He's confessed. He's forsaken. And again, I want to emphasize the fact, as thoroughly as a person can confess and repent of sin, David has done that. He has set a precedent for you and I. He has set a pattern, example. For how you and I confess and forsake and repent of sin. And as we pointed out, the last couple weeks, God forgave him, but nevertheless, there are consequences. There's fallout to use a more modern term. And so David is dealing with that and he's going to the rest of his life. However Having said all of that, I want to put a caution out here, and I think it's important for us to understand this. There's going to be a danger, there is a danger in wanting to blame David. For the decisions and the actions that his children are taking. Now, David's actions influenced his children. But David is not responsible for the decisions his children are making. Absalom, Amnon, we'll see some of the other boys. They're going to make decisions and they're taking actions. And who is responsible for Absalom's actions and decisions? Who's responsible? Absalom is. Now Daddy's actions influenced Absalom, no doubt about it. But Absalom is responsible for his actions. David certainly had an influence on his children. There's no doubt about it. Every father does, either deliberately or indirectly. David had an influence on his sons, but David is not responsible for the decisions and the actions of his son. I want to establish that right up front. There's a tendency, there's a real danger. Here's the thing: there's a real danger, temptation to want to blame our parents for our falls. And our failures and our shortcomings. I hear it all the time. Well, I was raised this way, or my parents did that, or my daddy didn't do this. Now, I will not dispute for one minute that our parents' actions influence us, and our parents' actions can make things a little bit easier. They can facilitate making good decisions or they can make it more difficult to make good decisions, but the bottom line is I'm responsible for my decisions. And so David is not responsible for his children's actions, though he did have tremendous influence. Bad kids can and sometimes do come out of good homes. And I've seen that. Um and good kids can and sometimes do come out of bad homes. Um and so we need to understand that as we study Absalom here, excuse me And we look at the decisions he makes and the actions he takes, we need to remember Absalom's responsible for his decisions, his actions. Would you take your Bible with me? I want to go to a New Testament here, real quick, the book of Romans. And I want to emphasize this here because of what we've been saying the last several weeks. We've been saying, you know, evil is rising up in David's home because of his actions. And that is true. He influenced his home in such a way that facilitated his sons doing not good things. Nevertheless, they are responsible for their actions. Romans chapter 14, if you would. Turn there with me. Romans chapter 14. I want us to look at about three verses, beginning in verse number 10. Now I have these underscored in my Bible because I think they're pretty significant statements made here. Romans 14, verse 10. Look what it says. Why dost thou judge thy brother? By the way, that's a pretty good question. Why dost thou set it not, thy brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. How many people believe that's true? Yeah, if we're saved, we're going to all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Now look what he says. Verse 11, for it is written, If I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, every knee shall tongue shall confess to God, then look at verse 12. This is what I'm wanting to get to. So then every one of us shall give an account. Now I want you to watch the words here very carefully. Pay attention. So then every one of us shall give an account of himself to God Absalom is going to give an account, well, I'm sure he has by now, but Absalom is going to give an account of himself to God. Listen, it will never hold up before the judgment of God, and whatever judgment you are, it's never going to hold up when I point to someone else and say, they are responsible for my decision. They are responsible for my actions. They are responsible for my behavior. That will never hold up before our God. So Absalom is responsible for his actions, and David is responsible for his actions. I cannot control the actions of others. Absalom was born into this home. He had no choice. Absalom had no control over David's decision to do what he did. I cannot control the actions of others, but I can control how I respond to it. And that's what we're going to study about Assam, how he responded to something that he really, at the bottom line, he had no control over. I can't, I have no choice in what home I'm raised in. I'm talking to some folks, you're raised in a good home. Loving mother and father, godly, humble, walk with God. Others were not raised in that home. We have no choice in that. But we do have a choice to how do I respond to the circumstances God has placed me in? How do I respond? To a home that God has allowed me to be born in. I cannot control the world into which I'm born. Um, you know, you watch the news and you listen to the media, and uh you know it gets scary. You know, you think, what in the world, where where are we headed? What what's what's the end result of all this? Where what's gonna happen? I don't know, but I know God does. I have no control over that, but I can control how I respond to the world situation that God has allowed me to live in. Everybody follow what I'm saying? I mean, I can cower in fear, I can walk around worry, I can be obsessed with what's going on, or I can choose to trust God and look above it. And be a witness and be a testimony and be like uh Esther was born for such a time as this. And God has a plan and God has a purpose for me now in this World situation. See, I can choose how I respond to it. I can choose the attitude I have, but I can't choose the circumstances I've I'm born into I cannot change my past. How many people here, if you could, you would change things in your past, anybody? How about every one of them? I've said this often over the years, but I've had people, I've heard uh years ago, I've had one person in particular kept saying, if I go back, I won't change a thing, and I always thought to myself, well, they didn't learn a thing. Anybody here ever say this? Man, if I could go back, if I can know what I know now and go back to when I was twenty. We'd be millionaires because we know what to invest in. But um But we can't do that. I can't change my past. It is what it is. But I can choose how I respond. to the past and the consequences that I'm living in good or bad. And so I really want to emphasize this as we look at this, and I might have should have done this a little earlier on in our study of David's Fallout from his sin. He influenced his family, no doubt, about it, and God recognizes that, but he's not responsible for the boy's decisions. Now, David, as we come back to 2 Samuel 15, David is in a difficult period of his life. He's facing, as I've been saying, he's facing the continued fallout of his sins. Ongoing, in fact, it's going to be the rest of his life. He is having to deal with the corrupt actions of his boys. Now we didn't spend much time on it, and we're not going to, but Amnon rapes his sister. So David's having to deal with that emotional effect that that would have on him and the family recorded in chapter 13, verse 1 through 22. If you would come back there, I do want to point something out here as far as David is concerned. Amnon uh tricks his sister into the coming in the bedroom. He rapes her, then he throws her out And uh just a terrible thing. But look with me, if you would, at verse number 21 of chapter 13. David finds out about what Amnon did. Well, look at verse 20. And Absalom, her brother, said to her, This is Tamar, the victim, hath Amnon, thy brother, been with thee? But hold now thy peace, my sister. He's thy brother. Regard not this thing. What's he saying? He's saying, listen, he did this. Don't worry about it. I think Absalom was saying, I'll take care of this. So Tamar, the end of verse 20, so Tamar remained desolate in her brother Absalom's house. So Absalom takes her in. And uh he says, I'll take care of this. I'll I'll I'll take care of this, Tamar. But look at verse 21, is what I want to zero in on. But when King David heard of all these things, what did he do? He got angry. And as far as we know, as far as the biblical record is concerned That's all he did. He just got angry. In fact, he got very angry. But that's it. I can find no record of where David brings Kamar, his daughter, and brings her under his arms and comforts her and tries to help her. I'd encourage her and deal with this devastating blow to her life. And I see no effort. If it did, it's outside of biblical record. I see no effort on David's part Where he tries to comfort his daughter after she's been treated so horrendously. I see no effort on David's part to confront Amnon. I'm sure we all have our ideas of what we would do if my son did that to my daughter. David got angry, he got very angry, but that's all he got. It was just angry It's interesting. There's no confrontation. As far as we can tell, there's no confrontation of Anon. There's no stepping in and addressing this and dealing with Anon's actions On David's part. However, if you would contrast that, now go back in time a little bit and try to remember. Remember when Nabal, anybody remember Nabal? Wife Abigail is a fool. His name means a fool. Anybody remember that event? Remember when Nabal mistreated David's servants? And would not provide food for them, and would not provide provisions for them after all they did for Nabal. Did David confront that and try and deal with that situation? Yes, he came down, he's going to kill Nabal. Of course, Abigail intervenes and gets a little more reasoning behind. But here's the thing I found interesting. Nabal mistreated some of David's servants, didn't do them right. And David is, man, he's going to deal with it, he's going to confront it, he's coming down there, we're making this right. But David's son Race David's daughter, nor he does just get mad. What's the difference between two? Something in between there must have happened that changed David's thinking. Anybody know? David committed adultery with that sheep. I'm not prepared to say he raped her, but pretty close. I think this is lovely. I think David's own actions hindered him intimidated him, his own sin, kept him from confronting the sin of his stuff. I don't know. I know I'm speculating a good bit here. But I find it interesting, the only statement we have in Scripture about David's reaction to what Amnon did to Tamar is he was very wroth. Never come no record of him comforting her, bringing her in. In fact, Tamar got treated, this is maybe a little harsh, but she got treated like trash. No confrontation of Amnon. In fact, I find no correction on David's part of any of his the direction his family's going in. So David's in a dark time here. He's dealing with the aftermath. Amnon abuses his sister. And then, if we read on, and again, we didn't spend a lot of time on this, but then his other son, Absalom, kills his son Amnon in revenge for what he did to Tamar. And then in chapter thirteen, verse thirty-eight, Absalom flees the area. Now he's killed Amnon, David's son. Absalom, David's son, kills Amnon, David's son, and he gets out of there. He leaves Dodge. And he goes over to a place called Gersham, Gesher, verse 38 there in chapter 33. It says, and the soul King David longed to go forth. Verse 38. So Absalom fled and went to Gesher and was there three years. So his family's a mess. This is a mess. Absalom flees the area. It's about 140 miles from Jerusalem. Absalom's out of there. Now they don't have cars or high-speed trains or anything, so that's a good distance. David and Absalom are now out of fellowship. In fact, Joab steps in. I'm kind of summarizing this. Joab steps in And he wants to get absolutely reconciled to David. Team steps in and makes these attempts at reconciliation. Absalom, through Joab's intervention, ends up coming back to Jerusalem. But he's there for two years, and David ignores Absalom for two years. So now five years has gone by. David is ignoring his son. Then, if you would, and I'm trying to build up to something here, come to the last verse of chapter 14. How many people agree with me? So far pretty unpleasant. Chapter 33, or verse 33 of chapter 14. So finally Joab came to the king and told him, Absalom's in town, you've been two years, you haven't even seen him, you haven't talked to him. David's obviously out of shorts with his son Absalom for killing his other son Amnon. So Joab came to the king and told him that Absalom's in town for two years. And when he had called for Absalom, he came into the king and bowed himself on his face to the ground before the king, and the king kissed Absalom. My opinion, my question is, was that a sincere display of affection on David's part? Personally, I think uh I think it was superficial. I don't think David has any intention. Has no desire whatsoever to re-establish a relationship with his son, my opinion. And so that's the setting for chapter number 15. That's the shedding for this conspiracy. I suspect that Absalom's anger Over Amnon's actions, mistreatment of Tamar, Absalom's anger at Amnon, and his frustration with his father's inaction Has turned Absalom's heart bitter. To me, as I study Absalom, he is a bitter, angry man. His heart is turned against his king. His heart is turned against his father. He's frustrated with David's inaction, as I said. He's angry, obviously, over his brother he killed. If you would, take your Bible and turn with me again to the New Testament, to the book of Hebrews. And I'd like for you to notice, if you would, verse number chapter number twelve and verse number thirteen. Now again, who's responsible for Absalom's actions? Absalom is. Who's responsible for Absalom's attitude? Add from this. Now his father gave him butter to be this way. His father's actions facilitated this. But Absalom doesn't have to be this way. Absalom doesn't have to have this attitude. He doesn't have to be behaving this way. It's his choice. Look with him if you would at Hebrews chapter 12 and verse number 13. And make straight paths for your feet. Another way of saying that is do right. Do what's right. Make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way. But let it rather be healed. So Absalom's not letting it be healed. Verse 14: Follow peace with who? All men. Would that include David in Absalom's case? Yes. Follow peace with all men and holiness without which no man Shall see the Lord. Looking diligently, lest any man fail the grace of God. Look at this. Lest any root of bitterness Springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. It's pretty common. This root of bitterness is a common thing. Many people deal with this. Lest there be any, verse 16, lest there be any fornicator or profane person, as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. For you know how that afterward When he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. Esau was bitter, and it affected his actions and it affected his attitude. I put this down. Bitterness is very corrosive. Absalom is a bitter man. The more I study this, the more I see it. And his bitterness is corroding away at any wisdom he had. I put this down. Bitterness will corrode my wisdom. Bitterness will corrupt my rationality. And Absalom is acting irrational. He is not acting wise. He's turning against his father. He's turning against his king. He's undermining the authority of his nation. So now let's come back, if you would. Come back to 2 Samuel. That was all the setting things up. So if all this history, now we understand why Absalom, I think. In my mind anyway, I have a grasp a bit of why Absalom is doing what he's doing. Angry, he's frustrated, he's allowed bitterness to get a hold of him And now he's plotting this overthrow of his father. Notice in chapter 15, verse 1 through 6, we read here, and that's my first point, that's all we're going to get to tonight. Is Absalom's plot to overthrow David. And that's the first six verses here. Absalom hatches this plot where he's going to undermine David, Israel's trust in David. He's going to get them to not trust David. Why do you think Absalom would want Israel to not trust his father David? Because he doesn't trust his father David So Absalom hatches this plot. He wants all of Israel to not trust David, to have no confidence in him, and he's going to undermine all of that. Now I notice Four things he does here to accomplish that goal. This is his plot to overthrow David, get everybody not to trust him. The first thing I notice in verse 1 and 2, he positions himself strategically. Look at verse 1. And it came to pass after this that Absalom prepared him, look at this, chariots and horses, and fifty men to run before him. I don't know if that you, but that sounds like a parade to me. He's got all this army, these chariots, and these horsemen, and got all these 50 guys. I mean, this this is quite an entourage he's put together here And then verse 2, and Absalom rose up early and stood beside the way of the gate. So he comes marching up to the way of the gate here. He's got all these chariots, all these men, no doubt armed. He's riding in the chariot. And he positions himself beside the way of the gate. Now that's a significant statement The way of the gate was like a plaza area where people would come into the city, and it was a place where they would do business one with another One businessman from another city would show up and sort of do business with some and they would meet by the way of the gate. They needed this plaza here at this at the specified gate. And they do very significant business. They would do business that would affect the economy of Jerusalem in the nation. Who's a place where they would have meetings? They're going to discuss social issues of people of influence People and musicians, they would discuss influence. If you remember, anybody remember Locke? It said he sat in the gate. Lot held a position of influence in Sodom. Lot held a position of perhaps authority in Sodom. So this is a significant place he's positioning himself. He is going to influence and interact with the movers and shakers of Israel's day of his day. So he's being very strategic here. He's not just going to some street or whatever. He's picking this place out on purpose. And notice what he does. He's drawing attention to himself. He gets all these chariots. He gets all these horses and all these men. He puts on this big show. And everybody sees uh uh Absalom coming and everybody is, whoa, what in the world? And he sets himself up here. He's drawing attention to himself And he's developing an appearance as if he is really somebody significant. Question, what position does Absalom hold in David's administration? Darrow. He has no authority other than he's the king's son. He has no positions. He's not head of nothing. Actually, that's a double negative. He is head of nothing. And yet he's putting on this shadow. And he positions himself very strategically, draws all this attention to himself. He appears as if he's somebody very, very significant. And he puts on this image as someone who has authority. By the way, those are all three danger signs when somebody's trying to cause trouble. And all the attention is about themselves. They want everybody see them, and when everybody thinks that I'm really something and I'm really significant And they're trying to draw attention and exalt themselves in the eyes of others. It's exactly what David's doing. I've mentioned this often over the years, but I was in a church once One of the fellows in the church had a little issue about a decision the pastor made, which was totally insignificant And on a Sunday morning between Sunday school and church in a lobby that's bigger than ours, another third bigger than ours probably And the place is filled up, people are coming in, there's people over going squeezing through each other. And this guy hits run in his mouth. And he says, everybody hears him. He says, well, I just want you to know I'm the best Christian in this church. What was he doing? He's drawing attention to himself. He's trying to convince everybody that he was someone significant, that somehow he uh was better than everyone else. I heard that, you've heard me say this, but when I heard him say that, I knew immediately he was the worst Christian in that church. And that's what Absalom's doing. I'm somebody. Look at my horses. Look at my chariots. Look at all these men. Look where I'm at. He's drawing attention to himself. He's trying to undercut David's authority. So he positions himself strategically. Number two He publicly criticizes the king. Look at verse 3. And Absalom said unto him Well, verse 2, somebody comes by, calls him aside. Where are you from? What's going on? Then look at verse 3. And Absalom said unto him, See, thy matters are good and right. Oh, that's important. You are right. But there is no man deputed of the king to hear thee. If you're going to put it and paraphrase that, what's David saying to this guy? Yeah, thinking about listen. We don't care about you. You don't care, yes, man. That's serious stuff. Your goat ran away and nobody brought it back? That's serious stuff. You don't care about that. So he starts publicly criticizing the king. No one in David's administration cares about you. If there was a problem with the king's administration, if there was a problem with how the king was handling things, who would you go to to talk about that? The king! Not some guy setting himself up on the gate. And David's drawing him aside, drawing him aside. Dr. Lee Robertson made this statement. I heard him say it numerous times in the preacher boyfriend He would say this any fool can criticize. He says take no character, take no intelligence It takes no spiritual maturity. Any fool can criticize. And out of them sitting there, anybody can say, oh yeah, they don't care about you. A critic has no concern for the well-being of others. A critic's total concern is their own advancement. So we have to be careful. I put this down. Don't allow yourself to be impressed by people who criticize. Anyone can do that. It's the easiest thing in the world. I, we were talking before, we were talking to some of the little kids about uh sisters picking on their brothers and being mean to them And then the boy reacts and uh gets in a fight and the boy gets in trouble when the sister started it. Now I'm I'm telling you, I can testify to that right now. And so we're joking to say, well, maybe you'll be a boxer someday, you know, growing up from that. I like boxing. I enjoy it. But you know what? There's always these guys that write articles and they stick on the outside of the boxing ring and they watch and they tell you everything that boxer did wrong And if you'll study these guys writing their criticism of the boxer, you know what I found out? Not one of them has been inside that ring boxing themselves Anybody can criticize. Anybody can find fault. And so Absalom's sitting here doing the easiest thing in the world, sitting around complaining and criticizing what David, what he's wanting people to think David is and is not doing right and what he is doing wrong So I put down don't allow my s I must not allow myself to be impressed by people who criticize Someone said, I don't know where I got this, but I heard this years ago. I jotted it down somewhere, but I think it's good advice. It says this: be careful about accepting criticism from someone you would not seek advice from. If that's not a person I would go to for advice, then I'm not going to accept criticism from them either Now, if it's somebody I respect and know and I would go to for advice, and they have some something you know they can help me with, hey, I'm all for it. But these people are not coming to David for advice. They're going to the king, and he's undercutting. Criticism does not make a person smarter. Criticism does not make a person better than the one being criticized. All they are is a critic. That's all Absalom was. So he positions himself very strategically. He begins to publicly criticize the king And then number three, I notice in verse number four, he promotes himself personally. Look at verse number three. Absalom said, moreover, oh that, what's the next word? I, I underlined that in my Bible. Oh, that I were made judge in the land, and that every man which had any suit or cause might come unto Me and I would do him justice. I think it's interesting what he's saying here. He doesn't say this. He's betraying himself here. He doesn't say this, you know, that David is that nobody up there cares about you. Oh, you know, if there was somebody that really cared about you that was up there and they would help you. That'd be one thing. That's not what us going to say. He say, well, I'm your guy. He's campaigning He's cam here's here's the thing. He's campaigning for a position nobody's voting on He's trying to undermine the authority of the king. He's revealing his true focus here. His true focus is not the well-being of the citizens of Israel. His true focus is not the well-being of the nation, but his true focus is the exaltation of himself. Oh, if I was in there. Well, you're not, David. God didn't anoint you. God anointed, or you're not Absalom. God didn't anoint you. God anointed David. So number one, he uh positions himself very strategically, he publicly criticizes the king, he promotes himself personally, and I'll end with this. He has a superficial concern for others. Look at verse 5. And it was so that when any man came nigh unto him, Absalom, To do him obedience or show him respect and come up and say, hey, you know, I respect you. He put forth his hand and took him and kissed him And on this manner, this superficial compassion for people, and on this manner did Absalom to all of Israel that came to the king for judgment. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. So they come up to him and he's saying, oh, you know, they don't care. David and his guys, they don't care about you. You know, if I was in there, man, I'd take care of you, man. I'd make sure you got what you deserve. I'd make sure you were, you know, you were taken care of. They say, oh, thank you, David. And they'd show obeisance to him. They would show respect. And David said, hey, give me your hand. I'm for you, man. I'm telling you, it's below you. I put this down. Not every handshake is friendly, and not every kiss is loving Expressions of compassion are often tools of dishonest people to advance their own agenda. Now the classic illustration of that, and it's true at all levels of society You have some young man, unscrupulous young man that's dishonest with no character, and all he's thinking about is himself. And he'll put on a show how much he loves that dear guy. And oh, he just put on the doll. He doesn't love her. He loves himself. She's got something he wants. Brother, he'll put on all, say all the right words, and he'll express all the terms of endearment. win her over, not because he loves her or cares about her, because she has something he wants. What David is doing to Israel is what Adnan did to Tamar. Triggering. He's fooling them. He's using them to get what he wants out. There's really no different than his brother that he hates so deeply. I read uh I read about a Haitian preacher. He was preaching and in his sermon he was trying to illustrate a point. He told his congregation about a fellow that lived out in the in the backcountry of Haiti. Had a little wood frame hut house that he lived in. The guy was going to move Tony was going to sell his wood frame hut and had X number of dollars he was asking for for that house Another fellow came along and really wanted what that building he was selling, that little hut house that he was selling, but he couldn't afford What the owner was asking. So they negotiated and negotiated, and finally the owner said, Alright, tell you what, I'll sell it to you for half of what I'm asking But I'm going to remain the owner of a nail that is stuck over the front door. Whole thing is yours, but that nail in that board is mine. The buyer thought, all right, I don't have a problem with that. You can have that nail hanging there. So he bought it without agreement. Nail is the first owner's nail. That's his. I can't touch it, leave me with it. Time went by and the original owner wanted to buy it back. The second owner would not sell it to him. that nail. So he went out and got a dog. He took the dog and he hanged it up on that nail. Let it hang there. It's his nail. He can do what he wants. The owner couldn't do a thing about it. Anybody want to guess in that hot hot Haitian climate What happened to that dog hanging there after about a day or so? Yuck! I mean stink to high heaven. And he left it there long enough where finally the first owner said, You can have this place back. Because he couldn't do anything to take it down because he didn't own the nail there. You know what Absalom is doing? Absalom's hanging a dead dog up over David's house And he's getting everybody, he's making David stink in the nostrils of everybody in Israel. And you know what? That's exactly what the devil does for you and I. He'll get some sin. He'll get some failure. He'll get some dead dog. Man, that's all we can see. We'll get better at people and we'll get and uh we'll uh all we can see is everything negative and everything stinks about it when in reality it's a dead dog hanging on our door I don't know if I'm saying what I mean to say here, but what I'm trying to say is this. We have to be very, very careful about letting bitterness creep into our hearts and lives. And letting the things that we have no control over, making sure I respond to them in a proper way, a Christian way, a biblical way, and not The way Absalom did. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from this. And I pray, dear Lord, that you would Lead us and direct us in things we cannot change to respond in a proper way, not in the flesh, not the way the world does But the way the filling of the Holy Spirit teaches us to respond. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder if there's some here this evening who would say, Preacher, There's some things in my life I know I can't change, and I've been beating against it, I've been fighting it, I've been can I've been trying to do everything I can to change what I can't change. And what I really need to do is change my attitude and my approach to it and the decisions I make. Is there any like this? Anybody at all say, preacher, that's uh that's wrong there. I'm guilty of the same thing I need to stop and look and say, wait a minute, I can't change this. I need to change my approach. I need to change my attitude. I can't change other people. Absalom could not change his dad. He couldn't change his past And he responded terribly. So we're going to continue to see. Father, I ask you to bless now our invitation. Help us to trust you. And let you lead us in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I don't know how God may have spoken to your heart tonight, but as the piano plays.