2 Samuel chapter 15, I want to begin reading in verse number 7. Last week we looked at verses 1 through 6. Next week, I want to pick up in verse 7. And before we read it, I just want to reiterate here some statements that I began the message last week with. And that is this. We have to be real careful. We know what all David did. We know we're talking about the fallout from his sin. And uh he's dealt with it, he's confessed it, but nevertheless the consequence, we've been talking about that. But we have to be very, very careful, again That we don't blame David for the actions of we don't hold David responsible for the actions of his children. Though he influenced them and he may have enabled them to make wrong decisions and do foolish things, ultimately, according to Romans 14, they are responsible for their own actions. So when we're studying Absalom's rebellion against David here, I want us to remember Absalom is responsible for his actions. Now, as a parent, you and I can conduct ourselves in such a way that we can help our children and nurture them in the fear of the Lord and the things of God to live for them and get and fulfill God's will for their life. Or we can conduct ourselves in such a way we make it a little more difficult for them. But ultimately, whether they live for God or not, whether they obey God or not, ultimately it's their responsibility. And so I just want to restate that here this evening, that as we're looking at Absalom, he is responsible for the actions he's taken here. And um I wanted to keep that in mind. David's going through all these things. Absalom is now uh plotting this conspiracy. We looked last week and uh we'll review briefly, but let me pick up here in verse 7. 2 Samuel 15, verse 7. And it came to pass, after forty years, that Absalom said unto the king, I pray thee, let me go and pay my vow, which I vowed unto the Lord in Hebron. For thy servant vowed a vow while I abode at Gesher in Syria, saying, If the Lord shall bring me again indeed to Jerusalem, then will I serve the Lord. The king said unto him, Go in peace. So he arose and went to Hebron. But Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying As soon as ye hear the sound of the trumpet, then ye shall say, Absalom reigneth in Hebron. And with Absalom went two hundred men out of Jerusalem that were called. And they went in their simplicity, and they knew not anything. And Absalom sent for Ahithophel. The Gileonite, David's counselor from his city, even from Gilo, while he offered sacrifices. Now here's where I got the title of the message, is this next statement. And the conspiracy was strong. Absalom's conspiracy against his father, the king, was strong. For the people increase continually with Absalom. Let's pray together, and we'll briefly review what we looked at last week and look at some new stuff tonight. Father in heaven, we ask now you'd bless our study of your word. Help us to learn from the actions of these men so many years ago, but you've recorded for us in your word. And so I'm confident there are lessons here for us to learn. There's examples to follow. There's sins to avoid. And so I ask, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And God, I yield my will and present my body anew, that you would speak through me to us and teach us. Holy Spirit, as author of the scriptures, teach us how this applies to our lives. And so again, have your way. Open our hearts and minds. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We looked last week, and my first point last week was Absalom's plot to overthrow his father, King David. And we noted there, if you would, just briefly I'll review, verse one and two, he positioned himself very strategically. Look at verse 1. It came to pass after this that Absalom prepared him chariots and horses, fifty men to run before him. And Absalom rose up early and stood beside the way of the gate. So he positions himself very strategically here where business takes place. Negotiations take place here at this gate is uh kind of like a plaza. Uh no doubt ambassadors from other countries would come and they would negotiate their trade deals or whatever. So it was a very strategic place where he positioned himself, and we noted that he publicly criticized the king Once he's set up here and he's interacting with these people that are coming and going, businessmen and politicians and shakers and movers in Israel. He begins speaking out against his father, and he begins to criticize him. If you remember, I made this statement and I hold to it. Any fool can criticize. Doesn't take any intelligence. Doesn't take any character. It doesn't take any moral character. Anybody can just find fault and throw accusations out And so there's really nothing impressive about Absalom criticizing the king. In fact, I put this down. I don't know if I made this statement last week, but we must not allow ourselves to be impressed by critics. Sometimes we think, man, that guy, you know, he's really taking it to him, sticking it to the man. Well anybody can throw uh uh accusations out anybody can criticize. And so he begins to publicly criticize the king And then if you remember, we looked at verse 4, and he promotes himself personally. Boy, if I, me, I, boy, I'd really take care of you. I'd help you out. I'd do, they're not doing it, I'll take care of you And he's promoting himself. And the interesting thing is, he's not promoting the well-being of the country or even the people he's talking to. He's promoting himself. And then last of all we note in verse 5 and 6 he has this superficial concern. And he's he's hugging them and kissing them and showing all this affection to these people. And um and uh it was r it was uh it was uh superficial at best. And I ended last week with the statement, not every handshake is friendly. And not every kiss is loving. And so we have to be very, very careful. So Absalom establishes this plot. And he's set up and he's running his mouth. He's putting on this show. And now we come to verse number seven. And my second thought is this: Absalom's plan is now put into action. He's got all the pieces in place. He's got all his plot is all laid out there. Now he's stepping out and he's putting action to it. He's making his move. You know, it's one thing to plan up things in your head. It's another thing to act on it. Anybody here ever get in a situation you're thinking, oh boy, I could do this, that, and the other But you never acted on it and you're glad you didn't. Now I don't know. This maybe I shouldn't say this is maybe my uh my sinful past, but sometimes I'll be in a grocery store or something and say, boy, you could steal that there very easily. You know, boy, you could rob this bank. It'd be cake. Anybody could rob this bank Now none of y'all ever think that way, I'm sure, but sometimes that goes through my mind. I'll think, huh. But I don't act. How many people are glad I don't act on those thoughts there? Yeah. Praise the Lord Well Absalom's acting on it. He's put everything in place. He's got it all set up. And now he goes forward with his plan. He's acting on his plot. I have three thoughts tonight. Number one, I want us to notice the timing. Of Absalom's action. The timing of it. Look at verse number 7, the first part. Notice it says, and it came to pass after what? Forty years. It says after 40 years. Now, I'm looking at this here It does 40 years go by from when Absalom begins to, his plot, and he's setting himself up here and he's interacting with these people. 40 years later, then he initiates his plan? I don't think so. So what does he mean by a 40 years goes by? What does the Bible mean? There's three possible answers to that question. The simplistic answer is, well, it's a scribal error. If you get your commentaries out, Or you listen to some preachers or something, they're going to say, well, obviously that's not 40 years going by that he's plotting this, and then he takes his action. He'd be a very old man. David would be elderly And so the answer, the simplistic answer is, well, it's a scribal error. It's not supposed to be 40 years. It's supposed to be four years. Somebody copied it down wrong in the past. Now, I say that's a simplistic answer because it requires no thinking on the part of the person, and it assumes that there are what? Errors in the Bible. Now that anytime you come across and we see something where it looks like it's a contradiction or it looks like that can't be right. We need to stop and think a little bit. There may be more information about what's here than what you and I have And I guarantee you, we are not in any position to make judgment as to whether what the Bible says is right or wrong. And especially some preacher that's got four years of Bible college is now going to sit back and say, oh, well, that's an error there. And so the simplistic answer to that 40-year statement there is, well, it's just a mistake. There's a second answer, and I put it this way, the scriptural suggestion The scriptural suggestion. Now, pretty much the answer that you come up with as you study it It suggests that it's Pabra probably referring back to when David was anointed king as a young boy. When Samuel came, remember Samuel came, anointed him as king, 40 years from that point to where we're at now. Now that is a suggestion. The Bible doesn't say that. In fact, we can't get the years out exactly by the information we're given. We can't nail that down. It's probably close. That's probably not a bad suggestion as to what is meant by 40 years there. The sincere answer, so the simplistic answer is, oh, it's a mistake. The scriptural suggestion, if you study the Bible, is probably, possibly, when David was anointed king. The sincere answer is this: we don't know We're not told. We don't know what the event is or what the date is that they're going back to to get 40 years up to this point. We just don't know But I do know this. It's not a mistake. And whatever we may come up with, as I said before, we don't have enough information to be able to determine whether this is a mistake or not I do know that the Bible is God's word. I do know that God makes no mistakes. And so I'm going to act and I'm going to decide on that premise That the Bible is without error. Now, another word about it being a mistake and being four years. Four years, it could have been four years that Absalom was plotting this overthrow. Now that would be very realistic. There's nothing absurd about suggesting it was four years he was interacting till finally he took his action. That could very well be. But again, it's not a mistake in translation. It's not a mistake in a scribal error. And the reason I want to say that, another reason I want to say that is this. The scribes weren't stupid. These aren't some bumbling idiots just copying the Bible down. These are highly trained men, these are very intelligent men, and they were taking what they were doing incredibly serious. In fact They consider recording scripture and copying, making copies of it to be an intensely sacred duty on their part. Even to the point where it's been suggested that when they wrote the name of God, they would toss that pen away or that writing instrument and get a new one to go in to write God's name Now, I don't know about you, but that sounds to me like they're taking it awfully seriously. And you'll never in a million years convince me that they didn't go back and proof their writing And these are being written. People are writing or reading these. Priests in the temple are reading these. If this was an error, I'm telling you, they would have caught it immediately if it was a scribal error. So again, I suggest to you that's a simplistic answer. And to be honest with you, when I hear read some commentator, commentary or some preacher suggests just off the cuff, well that's an error My respect for their scholarly and their my respect for their their studying falls greatly. So it's not just a script describial error. Is that what you did I cover what you were going to say? Absolutely. So forty years, what is the timing? Four years? Possibly. We're not told. It says forty I'd say probably goes back to the anointing of David as king, which is significant because that is exactly what Absalom is seeking. What took place about 40 years before. So we have the timing here. Now, next thing I want us to notice is his tactics. He's carrying out his plan. He's been plotting this, plotting this, plotting this, got everything in place. He's winning these people over. He says, Alright, it's time to act. So notice his tactics. Look at the second part of verse 7. Came to pass after 40 years that Absalom said unto the king, all right, he's making his move. Here's his tactic I pray thee, now this is daddy. I pray thee, let me go and pay my vow, which I have vowed unto the Lord in Hebron. For thy servant vowed a vow while I abode in Cheshire and Syria, saying, If the Lord shall bring me again indeed to Jerusalem, then I will serve the king. And the king said unto him, Go in peace. So he arose and went to Hebron. Question, is there any sincerity in anything he's saying there at all? No. He is he is uh uh he is of that's my first thought under this is he's using deception. to initiate his plan. And by the way, things start happening fast now. When he approaches the king And he says, oh, when I was up in Syria, uh I made this vow that uh uh then I need to I need to fulfill that vow in Hebron Because I want to serve the Lord so bad. The last thing in Absalom's mind is serving the Lord. He's serving Absalom. And so he uses deception with his father. Now there's a couple problems here that stand out to me a little bit Absalom was exiled. Remember when he fled from his father after he had killed Amnon? And he went to Syria. Syria is north of Jerusalem. He says that he made a vow in Hebron while he was in exile. Hebron is south of Jerusalem. Now, depending on what he meant by this, at first I read and I thought, wait a minute, if he was up in Syria, how is he making a vow in Hebron? And if that was the case, if he made a mistake in telling his lie to his father and didn't think that through, David didn't catch it. Syria's north, Hebron's south. And so he uses deception. He convinces his father that he really wants to serve God. He really wants to fulfill this vow he made. And he wants to uh uh um uh go down to Hebrew. Now the question comes up in my mind David, he deceives his father in order to relocate. Now, bear with me here. He wants to relocate from Jerusalem to Hebron. Now, why would he want to do that? Why would he set up shop here and he wants to and he wants to go down to Hebron? I have five suggestions. Now what do we know about Hebron? Why would he want to go there? I think I have four suggestions why he wants to go. He asks his father, if I can go down to Hebron. Number one, I think it wants to give him a little bit of space to move so that he can operate. If he's in Jerusalem and he's ready to get this army together for a a military coup, if he's in Jerusalem, he's right under the eyeballs of his daddy. He's in probably the most loyal city in all of Israel, the most loyal city to David you can find. And so it's going to be very, very difficult for Absalom to put this thing together and get it into action there sitting under the shadow of the palace of the king. So he wants to get down to Hebron. He wants to get away. It says it's a day's journey. Now I did a little research, and a day's journey in biblical times would have been probably about 25 miles away. So about from here to northern high school. He wants to get out of Jerusalem. He wants some distance. So he wants a little room to operate. He wants a little freedom to operate and not be right under David's eye I believe. There's another reason I think he's going to Hebron. Does anybody remember what happened in Hebron when David, when Saul died? And David set up camp in Hebron. Does anybody remember our study? What happened there? One of the tribes of Israel. Came to David. Does anybody remember what they did? Judah, I believe it was, came to David. This is quiz time tonight. That is where Judah came and they anointed David king. In Hebron. They were the first tribe to do it. Remember? The other eleven tribes under uh old uh uh what's his name? Anyway, they're following Saul's son, and uh Judah comes and says, David, we recognize you as king. Now Samuel anointed him as a young man. Now, here in Hebrew, and after Saul is dead, David sets up camp. They come to them and say, we recognize you as king. We recognize God anointed you. We want to anoint you also. Now Do you think that might have some significance in the mind of Absalom that he's setting up shop? He's setting up headquarters at the very place that David was initially anointed by a tribe of Israel to be king. I think so. I think there's some symbolic significance in that. And maybe in doing that, it would be where the next king is going to be anointed. This is where my father was anointed. This is where I expect They're going to rally behind me and they'll do the same thing for me. So one, I think he goes down there because he wants a little room to operate. By the way, you have to watch out I I worry when folks start removing themselves from the people of God, when a Christian starts isolating themselves and they want to get out from the people of God. Sometimes, uh sometimes when we're wanting to live in sin, sometimes when we're wanting we're when we're out of the will of God and we're okay with that We're uncomfortable around the people of God. Can I get a witness there? Sure. We've probably all been there to some extent. And so he's removing himself. He's under the eye of David. He's under the eye of those loyal to David. So he needs to get away from that. This is where David was anointed, so there's some significance to that. Maybe that will uh reinforce his uh his attempts here. I think I put a third reason down The Hebronites, now this is total speculation, but if you remember, David set up shop in Hebron initially. And then he moved, when the rest of the tribes of Israel came around and committed their loyalty to David, he moved the capital of Israel from Hebron to where? To Jerusalem. Now, this is speculation. I'm wondering if the Hebronites aren't stinging over that a little bit. Wait a minute, we were the cap at all. And he took it from here. You know, we were the center of all this. Now I don't know that that's the case. But maybe Absalom's thinking, you know, I get back there. They were the capital at some point. I know this about Absalom. He's going to play people. He's going to play people for his advantage. And if he can find anything where somebody is disgruntled, if he can find anything where somebody is unhappy with the king, brother, he is going to use that to his advantage. And so, number three, it might be because the Hebronites may have been a little stinging or a little upset about the capital being moved away, and they might say, come on, Absalom. We want you. And there's a fourth thing I'm wondering, fourth reason. This is where Absalom was born. He's a homeboy. He's one of them. And you know, there's something about a community When one of their own accomplishes something or achieves something, and you know what they do? They put up signs. So-and-so, the athlete was born here. And uh so and so the politician was born here. We went a couple years, several years ago, our son was living in Texas, we took a two-week vacation and we just Headed out down the road, headed to Texas. We gave ourselves a week to get down there. We drive along if we want to stop and spend a night somewhere. We did if we want to see something. We're going through Arkansas And we saw this big sign, and I forget the city. Some of you all tell me here in a minute, but it said a big sign, the hometown of President Bill Clinton. What city is that? Little Rock. We're going through, I couldn't remember. We're going through Little Rock. A big sign. We said um, huh, and they had a sign there. See the house he grew up in And so we thought, well, let's do that. So we pulled off. I mean they had stuff all over the place. Bill Clinton, Bill Clinton, Bill Clinton. And we saw the house he grew up in I spray painted Trump 2020 on it. And um no I didn't. I wanted to, but I didn't. But um Anyway, they were so proud of their boy that grew up here, and they want everybody know. I'm wondering if that he isn't counting on a little bit of that mentality with Hebron This is where I was born. I'm one of you guys. And maybe he counted on them to rally around behind them. So you have his his uh timing. And then you have his tactics here. One is he uses deception. He deceives his father. He says, I'm going to go make some vows. He ain't making no vows. The second tactic he uses is he uses defamation. Now let me explain what I mean by that. What does it mean if you defame somebody? Anyone want to take a shot? You're gonna slander them? Bring them down? You're gonna what's it? You're gonna make accusations? It has the idea, it's any statement that is made or used to injure someone's character. Or it is a statement that is used, or statements that are used or made to undermine the trust of somebody, to defame them. You say, where in the world do you get that? I get that from verse 10. Look here. It says, but Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel. Now I got looking up that word spies. And it's used in the Bible a number of places that it means spies, exactly what we think of, some CIA undercover agent implanted in Moscow and they're spying on the Russians and getting information back to America and all that. But it also has a different and there's also another aspect to the word spies And interesting enough, this word here, spies, is also the same word is used in Psalm 15, verse 3, where it is backbiters. Backbiters. And I thought, well, that's interesting. David is sending these men out He sends these quote-unquote spies out throughout all of Israel. You know what I think they were doing? I think he gave them uh uh uh what to say and he sent them out and they started talking down David just like David was at the gate In the earlier in the chapter when people came by, I think he is getting them to undercut the nation's trust in David. He is getting them to undermine the uh uh nation's uh confidence in David's leadership. And so he is defaming David here I found that when someone doesn't have an a legit when someone doesn't have a legitimate objective, they start to call the opposition names. Did anybody ever notice that? If someone doesn't have a good argument and they really can't make their case, they'll say, oh yeah, well, you're a dummy. Anybody ever notice that? And do you notice in our public discourse anymore, it almost always degenerates down to calling the other party an ugly name? Even on the news things, even in the talk shows and stuff, I don't even I haven't for years watched that garbage because it just ends up calling it, oh well, you're a racist. Oh yeah, well you're a white supremacist Oh yeah, well you're this. Oh yeah, well you're that. And there's no substance to their argument, and there's no defense of their position. And I think that's exactly where Absalom was, uh David was uh now he messed up and he put that possibility there where people would listen. But he's out there just trashing David, and now he's recruited a host of people and he's sending them out, and they're just trashing them. They're defaming David And he's winning this nation over. In fact, if you would, look down there at the end of verse 12. Notice what it says. The conspiracy was strong. Listen. For the people increase continually with Absalom. What's causing that? I think this team of people he's put out. And they're running the king down. They're running the king down. They're running the king down. Whenever someone resorts to name-calling and slander, you better double-check because it's a good sign that their argument doesn't hold water. And that their case, their uh issue is illegitimate. And I've seen it when people start, yeah, well, you know, uh he's just this and he's that and he isn't this They never really address the issue, they just try to get you not to trust them. So one, he uses deceit. He's deceptive. Two, his tactic is defamation. And last of all, I want us to notice his team. He puts a team together. Look at verse 11. And Absalom went, and with Absalom went 200 men out of Jerusalem that were called. That's pretty significant. There's 200 men going with him. When he's leaving Jerusalem, he's going down to Hebron. He gets these 200 men. Now they're called, it says. These are people he's chosen. Hey, I'd like to, I'm going down and pay a vow. Would you come with me? Hey, I got a I made a vow when I was up in Syria. I made a vow. I'm going down to Hebron. Would you? And he gets 200 men together with him Now notice what it says about these men. Look at here. Beth Absalom went 200 men out of Jerusalem that were called, he chose them, and they went in their what? Simplicity and knew and they knew not anything Now, I put two, I noticed two things here about this team that he's putting together. This first group, I'm calling them innocence. In verse number 11, there's simplicity. It means simply means this. They're innocent, they're upright, they're just They have integrity. In fact, one of the words of the word simplicity behind it is integrity. These are people with integrity. These are people that are no doubt loyal to David, but they don't know what Absalom's up to. And he convinces them to come along with him, not knowing that they are allying themselves against their king. They're simple. They don't know anything. These are men of integrity. I believe they were highly respected. I believe they were highly trusted. But they were unaware of Absalom's plans. They didn't know what he was up to. And where is he getting them to go? He gets these 200 men, he chooses them, hand picks them, highly respected, highly trusted, and he says, Hey, I want you guys to go with me, I'm going to pay a vow. And he's getting them out of where? Out of Jerusalem. He's getting them away from David's stronghold. And when he makes his move, David has 200 less people there that would have been loyal to him. See his tactics here? He's getting a team of innocents. He's removing some of the strength of David's defense that he's going to have. They're not there to make the case in defense of David. I'm telling you, Absalom's not stupid. Not everybody that is deceitful is dumb. And we have to be very, very careful. Did you know that our enemy, Satan, is pretty smart? And he knows a lot he knows more than you and I do in a lot of things. And he has been practicing on bringing people down for a long, long time. And Absalom's pretty slick. He knows what he's doing. He's pulling people away from the king, God's anointed king. These are people most likely loyal to David, but they're ignorant, and I don't mean that in a bad sense. It's just they're not aware of what he's up to. Now looking back, hindsight, of course, is 2020. Looking back, we could say, you know, they probably should have checked this out a little bit more before they went into it. Anybody ever get caught up in something and later on you say, boy, I wish I'd have asked more questions. I wish I'd have thought this through a little bit more, for I went running off with this guy. And when somebody comes to you and starts trashing other people, when somebody comes to you and starts running down and defaming, slandering other people. Better be very, very careful about latching on to somebody like that. And um these guys Simply, they didn't know, and they got sucked into it, and they're drawn out of Jerusalem, weakening David's defense. I put this down. Dishonest people will use good people to advance their own agenda. They'll use deception. They'll use slick words. They'll even use Christianity. To advance their agenda. Don't make it sound so good. Oh, I'm just wanting to serve God. I'm just wanting to please the Lord. Or just wanting to do right. And yet they suck people into their own agenda. Paul warned the church at Corinth, he said, Be careful that within the church there will be ministers of light. That will deceive, they'll look right, they'll talk right, man. And they're drawing people away from the things of God, drawing people away from that which is right. You have to be very, very careful. That's exactly what Absalom is doing. And these guys fell for it. So his team, first of all, are the innocents. And I'll end with this, verse number 12. He also gets an advisor Now in verse number 12, Absalom hits the jackpot. It says there in verse 12, and Absalom sent for Ahithophel. The Gillanite. Now we're going to learn more about him a little later. He plays a role in all of this. David's counselor. From his city, even from Diloh, while he offered sacrifices. So David sends, now we don't know what he tells Ahithophel We don't know what kind of argument he makes to Ahithophel. We don't know what kind of case he lays out to this advisor to David. But Ahithophel is a very, very high-level advisor to King David. I mean, he is there. He's the inner circle. He's one of David's men. He is one of David's advisors. And Absalom gets him. And I wish, I wish, I mean God in his wisdom gives us what he does and doesn't give us what he doesn't. But it sure would be fascinating to me to hear the argument that Absalom presented to Ahithophel to get him to ally himself with Absalom against David. And so, whatever the case is, he got David's advisor. Why he would side with Absalom, I do not know. Take your Bible. I want to show you what David thought of Ahithophel. Turn to Psalm chapter 49. I'm sorry, 41. What did David now this David writes this at a later date after the can after the rebellion Blows up. David is writing back. And look at verse number nine of Psalm 41. David says this, yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted It's referring, no doubt, to Heathhophel, his advisor. I trusted your advice. You were my friend. Look what he says: which did eat of my bread hath lifted up his heel against me. Man, one of the closest men in his administration to him, one of the most trusted men, has turned against him. Turn over to Psalm 55, if you would, just a few pages over. He references, I believe, Ahithophel again. Verse number 12 of Psalm 55. Notice what he says. For it was not an enemy that reproached me, then I could have borne it. Neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself against me. Then I would have hid myself from him. But it was thou, a man mine equal, my what? Guide, advisor, my guide, my acquaintance. We took sweet what? Counsel together And walked into the house of God in company. David said, I trusted you. Man, you advised me. We discussed issues together. We made plans together We laid out strategy for military campaigns and the economy of the people and the spiritual needs of the people of Israel. We worked together And you raised your heel up against me. And you turned against me. I tell you, one of the most painful things is when somebody close to you turns against you, right or wrong. David is in a hot seat now. Absalom has his slanderers, his spies all out through the country, undermining their trust and confidence in David. He's uh pulled out of the city of Jerusalem 200 leading men, influential men, and has got them 25 miles away, which in that time frame was significant distance. And now he's got David's advisor. Would you agree with me? The conspiracy is strong against David. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to learn from this. Help us to be very, very careful in seeking our own will and trying to advance our own agenda. Like Absalom did, and using people and being dishonest and manipulating and plotting. Help us to die to all of that. Help us to trust you and let you lead in our lives. Let you use us for your glory. Lord, help us to be very careful about unscrupulous people around us that would seek to use us. And lead us astray. Help us stay close to you, keep our eyes on you, keep our heart tender and stay on your word. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher. I know sometimes I can get a little manipulative, and sometimes I try and work my way, and I know that. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I learned to just put things in God's hands. And let him work that out and just trust him. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? I know. Sometimes I will I try and yeah, we're probably all more guilty of that than we like to admit. So some say, preacher, you know, I get sucked into things sometimes. I don't really think it through first, and I just run with it. And you'd say, preacher, help me to be more vigilant. You'd say, preacher, pray that God would help me to be more vigilant. Be more aware and watch out. Not be skeptical of everything, but just be cautious. Any like that? By the uplifted hand, sure. We have a real enemy. And he wants to take us out. Father, please bless our invitation now. Have your way, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.