James chapter one, we're continuing our study through the book of James. And we're going to look at the last verse in this Oh, it's four or five verse section here. Pretty sobering subject actually. And I'm not that uh I'm don't like any certain passage of scripture, but I'm looking forward to moving on And uh looking at the next section we have, as I said, this is pretty br uh sobering. I think I'm a little bit strong, Dave, if you'll kinda Strong haired a fellow a patient went into the doctor and doc told the doctor, said, Doctor, I've broken my arm in two places and the doctor said, Well quit going to those places. And so that was good advice for that My b both my jokes bombed today, this morning and tonight. The morning was good when we're golfing. Uh I'm going to begin reading in verse 13. I'm going to read down through verse 16. And when we get to verse 16, I would like for us to read that passage together in unison when we get to verse 16. Verse 13 says, Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Then, when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Now, verse 16, let's read it together. Do not err, my beloved brethren. I want to speak tonight on this stern warning given to us in verse number 16. Let's pray together. Father, I ask your blessing now as we look into your word. We're grateful for a good building that we can meet in We're grateful for the that we're dry and out of the storm. We do pray for safety, Lord, as the storm takes place in our community. I just pray you'd just protect this area. Lord, as we look into your word, I ask that you would open our hearts and minds to what you have for us. I pray, Lord, with all my heart, I ask, God, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit again I pray that it would be you speaking through me. Desire that every time we speak behind this pulpit, we want it to be you. So, O Lord, I present my body anew. I yield my will to yours And I pray you'd have your way and help us, we ask. In Jesus' name, amen. Verse 16 is the kind of the concluding statement of the previous verses that I just read. It is a very stern warning concerning temptation and giving into temptation, which leads to sin, and sin which ultimately actually the terminology is gives birth to death. And if you'll remember, we were taught here that God does not tempt us. We can never blame God or try and push off on God the responsibility for us being tempted. God does not tempt us. But we are tempted when our desires of our own heart, the temptation initiates with the desires in our heart and life. Whether they're good or bad, they might not necessarily be a wrong desire. But that desire is given or put in proximity, if you will, to opportunity to fulfill the desire in an illegitimate way. Thus I am tempted. I am tempted to fulfill this desire in a way that is outside of the will of God. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust. That word lust is not a bad word in and of itself, his own desires. thrown away of his own desires and enticed. So there's the opportunity, here's the desire, there's the opportunity, temptation takes place. And for various reasons, it's various degrees of intensity. I give in to that temptation and I take advantage of the opportunity to fulfill the desire outside of the will of God, and sin is conceived And is brought forth. Every man is tempted, he's drawn away his own lust, and when lust hath conceived, when the opportunity and desire come together, lust at sin is born. And sin when it's finished. Bringeth forth death. So that's been the lesson God has been teaching us in this passage, leading up to now. Then he brings it all to a head in verse number 16, and he says this very sternly: do not err my beloved brethren. And what he's saying here, I believe, is do not take this teaching, these instructions, this information I just gave you, do not take that lightly Don't mess up on this. Do not err. Don't be mistaken as to how serious and important this teaching is. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Now the word err there is an interesting word. It simply means this it means to be led astray, or to um uh to be led away from that which is right. Or to wander, in a sense, out of the will of God. It's a little bit different than the verses before. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away. It's a little different word. That draw there is a is a drawing out. Where this do not err is kind of a wandering, just kind of wandering away, getting out of the will of God If you would, take your Bible with me, and I want to illustrate what this verse means in Matthew chapter 18. If you would. Now stay, keep your place there in Acts. Come back to Matthew chapter 18 And here Jesus is giving an illustration, and he uses a word that is the exact same word as the word error, do not err, in verse number 16 of James. Matthew 18 and verse number 12. Verse 11 he says, For the Son of Man is come to save that which was lost. Now look what he says. Now, how think ye? If a man have a hundred sheep, and one of them be what? Gone astray. That phrase going astray is the exact same word as the word in verse 16. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Same word. Now get the picture here. Here's a man, he has a hundred sheep And he's caring for them, he's taking care of them, and one of them goes astray. Now I don't know how you picture that that in your mind. But I see them kind of making their way over the meadow and the hillside and maybe he's leading them to s beside still waters or he's taking them up to lie down in green pastures. I don't know what the Shepherd is doing here, but he's got this hundred sheep. That's a handful of sheep still, isn't it? A hundred sheep trying to lead them around, I would imagine. And they're going along, and one of them goes astray. Now this is the way I picture my mind. They're going up on the hillside and what in the back, off on the side, it's not in the middle, it's not right up by the shepherd. He's kind of hanging back, staying on the fringes, and uh as they're going, he just kinda is not paying attention, and he just wanders off, and the next thing you know, the um herd not the herd, the um flock of sheep Has gone up over the hill and gone on and then that little look that other little sheep's out there all by itself and it's lost That's the idea. Look what he says. He says, Uh, how think ye a man have a hundred sheep and one of them be gone astray? Doth he not leave the ninety and nine and goeth into the mountains and seeketh that which is Gone astray, there it is. And if so be that he find it, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth more of that sheep than of the ninety-and-nine which went not astray, that did not err. So when James tells us in chapter 1 and verse number 16, he says, Do not err, my beloved brethren, he's using that same terminology, and he's saying, Listen, don't let yourself just wander away. From the will of God. Don't let yourself just wander into some situation where you're going to have temptation and you're going to be uh give in to sin and sin's going to produce death. Don't let that happen. This implies this idea of going astray or erring, to me, that implies a gradual process. I think very seldom does a Christian just all of a sudden dive into sin out of the blue. There has been a process in place. There has been a little bit of wandering here and a little bit more and a little bit more and a little bit more. Very seldom somebody something blows up and also a Christian's is uh messed up and he's in in horrendous sin or whatever There's probably been a process where some things have been neglected, some things have been let go, some things have been let slide, and they just wandered and wandered and they got farther from the shepherd and they got on the edge of the flock. Then they got a little bit farther, and there's a little more distance between them and the shepherd and the flock, and then a little bit more, and suddenly there's more and more opportunities to fulfill desires in a way that's outside of the will of God And next thing you know, they're completely ruined. So he says, do not err, my beloved brand. This is a very serious thing. Listen, do not do this. Do not let that happen. Then I like at the end of the verse, he puts in there, my beloved brethren. This is not a harsh statement by our Savior. God is not being harsh to us. Do not err. My beloved brethren. That phrase, beloved brethren, is a term of endearment. It's an expression of compassion. God does not want us to give into temptation, which gives birth to sin, which leads to death, is always a bad thing. Sin is always a bad thing. And God does not want that to happen to us. Do not err, my beloved brethren. He loves us. Sometimes we get the idea, eh, God just doesn't want me to have fun. God, just I you know, I like to do this and I want that, and I want to do this, and I want to experience that, and I want to have this And God says no to this and no to that and and uh God just doesn't want No no no listen when God tells us, when God warns us about something, it's because He loves us Hebrews chapter twelve and verse number uh six, he says, whom the l he for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. The word chasten, we had the idea of giving a whooping or spanking or whatever. The word chasten simply means to correct. The people whom God loves, He wants them, He wants to correct them, He wants to keep them in His will, because getting out of the will of God, giving into temptation, getting involved in sin is such a horrendous thing. My beloved brethren. Do not err in this. Take this seriously. You've got to understand how important this is. Now I got looking at this here in James. Every man's tempted, drawing away his own lust, and ties him when lust can see, bring it forth sin, similar is finished, bringing forth death, do not err, my beloved brethren. I think this whole section is a form of chastisement You say, wait a minute. God's not. No, I call it, I put this down. I view this as preventive chastisement. God is correcting something before it messes up. You've probably done that with your kids. How many folks here have had kids? If you ever see them heading, uh doing something, you say, better quick that, you're gonna get yourself in trouble. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? You are going to get your you keep that up, you are going to get yourself in trouble, Jasmine That's what happens when you sit right there where I'm looking. You get picked on. See what I'm saying? And that's I think that's what God's doing here. He's saying, listen, put these things in place. You need to understand these stages of sin and what all is above. and how it plays out so that you can avoid that. Do not err. I love you too much. I do not want this to happen to you. This is a stern but compassionate warning that is rooted in the love of God for us. So I want to give you some thoughts here on verse 16. Short little verse, but a couple things that I want to present. Number one, encourage you to jot these down, maybe. Number one, we are prone to wander. We're just prone to do that. It is part of our nature to just kind of wander off. I like that song: Prone to Wander, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. Then the song the songwriter goes on and says, Take my heart, O Lord, and seal it. Seal it for thy courts of love. You know what he was saying? He says, I know there is a tendency within me to get out of the will of God. There is a tendency for me to to err, to wander away, to go astray and get myself in situations where I'm vulnerable, to get myself in situations where I could mess up and uh can and have uh sin be conceived and then when it's finished bringeth for death. I know I have a tendency to do that. Lord, take my heart and seal it. We have a tendency to wander. Tendency to get out of the will of God. We have how many folks here are saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. Isn't that a good thing? I'm glad I'm saved. I still, I tell you, this trip back home stirred my heart a little bit. I I still don't get over the fact that Jesus Christ has saved me from sin in hell. I was back there this week, this is a little aside. I was back there uh Friday and Saturday, and I thought, I wonder where I would live if God didn't save me. Then I thought, I wonder if I'd still be alive if God hadn't saved me. Who would I be married to? What would my life be like? Would I have children? What would it be like? And I tell you, I got I was staying at my mom's place and I and I had my own room and I got back there. I got my knees and I said, Thank you, Lord, for saving my soul. Thank you, Lord, for making me whole Those of us that are saved, we have three powerful forces working against us. Three powerful, powerful forces that are working to get us out of the will of God, working to destroy our lives. We must understand this Number one, we have the world working against us. World out there, society, does not want you and I living for God. They are not operating to make us better Christians or get us closer to God. In fact, the world is the exact opposite. The world Wants to entice us away from God. I put it this way: the world is seeking to draw us out of the will of God I'm telling you, sometimes those colored lights that the world has out there can become attractive and can draw us away from the things of God. Sometimes the pleasures of the world and the activities of the world, even in themselves, in and of themselves, may not be wrong. But boy, they'll just try to draw us away from God. I was encouraged today. My hardest pastor was encouraged today when I heard some of our church members say, you know, we went on vacation and we made sure we were in church when we were on vacation. And I say, Amen. You get out there, you get away from church, you get out, enjoy the uh the innocent things of the world. And boy, that can just draw us away from God. And it doesn't take long to mess up. Am I right or wrong? So we've got the world drawing us, trying to entice us, trying to draw us away. But not only that, we have the devil. We must never forget our the devil is a very real being. He is a very active spiritual entity on planet earth and he is walking about seeking whom he may devour. And we need to understand, I've got the world trying to draw me away, get me to air, to go wander astray I've got the devil trying to push me out of the will of God, get me away from what is right and good and true. I've got the world, I got the devil, and I've got the worst of the three. It's my own sinful nature. That's the one I hate the most. That's the one I tell I want to tell you, I I just decided this afternoon that tonight I'm going to tell you who the person is that gives me the hardest time at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church causes the most distress and frustrates me and irritates me the most in not linking to Pen Baptist Church. How many people want to know who that is? You're looking y'all point at me. You're right. The person in this church that I'm most disappointed with is Dennis Leatherman. You know what I found out? I've got a sinful nature. And my sinful nature, get this. My sinful nature is an ally of the world and the devil. My own sinful nature is in cahoots. With the world and the devil. My sinful nature is attracted to the things of the world, and my sinful nature is enticed by the allurements of the devil. And Paul said, I've got to die daily. And Paul said, I've got to crucify myself. I crucified with Christ. I need to reckon myself to be dead. Why? Because Paul said I have a sinful nature, and I end up doing things that I don't want to do, and I end up not doing things that I do want to do, that I know are right. Oh, wretched man that I am, in me that is my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing. So God gives us a very stern warning. Listen, don't mess up. Do not err, my beloved brethren. We have a tendency to we live in a sinful world. We've got a powerful spiritual And we got a sinful nature. We have a tendency to get away from God. We have a tendency to fail the Lord. We have a tendency to give in to temptation. He says, you need to understand that. We need to understand this. Do not err on this. So mankind is prone to wonder. Number two, I wrote this down. But we can be steadfast in the will of God. We have a tendency to do that. World flesh and the devil pushes us out of the will of God into temptation and give in to that. But we can be steadfast. I got thinking about this. God wouldn't warn us, do not err, my beloved brethren, if it wasn't possible for me to not err. Does that make sense? Obviously, I can avoid giving in to that temptation. I can avoid this whole scenario, all these stages of sin. I can avoid all of that. It's possible if I don't err I can be faithful to the Lord. Hey, we can have victory over sin. We can resist the devil. We can be separate from the world. We can die to self. We don't have to give in to this. We can have victory. So number one, we said we're prone to wander. Number two, we can have victory. All through scripture, we have examples. Of men of God who were victorious and did not err, and we have examples of men of God who were not victorious and did err. We have examples of men that trusted God, resisted the devil, said fled from temptation. They have sterling testimonies. And we have examples in Scripture of men and women who did not resist the devil, did not flee temptation, and they have horrendous testimonies. I thought about Samson. What a tragic story the story of Samson is If you read your Bible carefully, I believe I'm correct on this. The Bible says the Spirit of God came upon Samson, says that about him more than any other person in the Old Testament. And he messed up bad. He just gave in here. Legitimate desire, illegitimate opportunity, boom, he'd give in to it. Then again, then again, then again And he dies a tragic death, I believe, long before God was finished with him. Now God used him in his death. God can take, turn, work things out, you know, but what a tragic example. What a terrible testimony I thought about Aiken. As far as we know, Aiken was a good man. We looked at him last week. Everything about him, we have no reason, I think, but man, opportunity, and desire, and he gave in, and his life ends with a tragic example. I thought about David. Man alive. And I tell you, I admire David. But David messed up. Bad. Dead. Several times. We have examples in Scripture of people who did not Take heed to this morning, who erred. But we also have examples in scripture of men and women who did take heed to this morning that did not err. Man, I like Joseph. What a man of God! What a testimony of stability and consistency and steadfastness And man, the desires were there, no doubt. He's a young man. And the opportunities were forced upon him, and he said, No. He didn't err on this matter. He understood how serious this was. And when Potiphar's wife comes on him, he says, How can I do this wickedness and sin against God? He understood this whole concept. God's admonition, do not err on this. He took that seriously. He says, no. Joseph's a good man. You know who's another good man? Daniel. What a man of God Daniel was. Here he could have given in, he's in a far country, he's outnumbered by others around, he could have basically done whatever he wanted, he could have given in to whatever desire he wanted to, but he purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself. He took this warning. I will not err. I will not wander out of God's will. I will not stray away. I'm going to stay true. I'm going to be in my place. I'm going to do what's right. And what a testimony. To the point he's thrown in a lion's den, fully anticipating being eaten alive. And he would not err. I don't know about you, I'd rather be Daniel than Samson. I'd rather be Joseph than Achan. And so we can be steadfast. We can please God with our life. We can't live lives of character and integrity and victory. We don't have to stray. We don't have to err. So, number one, I said this: Mankind is prone to wander. All of us, we're prone to do that. We have that nature in us, that bent in us, to do wrong. But we don't have to. God says, do not err, fully knowing and understanding that we can do right. And number three, I put this down. Avoiding error, error. Requires diligence. Listen, do not err, my beloved brethren. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Saying, you take this seriously. You listen very, very carefully. What I've just told you here. You take this seriously. You do not take this lightly. This is extremely important. And if you're going to not err, if you're going to avoid wandering away, getting out of the will of God, giving into temptations, sin, and death, then you've got to put a little effort into that. It doesn't just happen. It requires effort. We cannot be negligent in our spiritual life and think everything is going to turn out okay. Can I be real frank and real can I be real uh practical with us here? I cannot neglect God's word and God's house and my walk with God and think everything's going to be okay. I cannot do that I cannot be laxadaisical in my spiritual responsibilities and in my spiritual relationship with the Lord. It requires diligence, it requires effort, it requires character. Listen to some verses along these lines. 1 Thessalonians 5, 6. Let us watch and be sober. Titus 2. 2. He says, old man, he tells the old man. There's a few old men around here. God tells the old man, be sober. In Titus 2. 4, he tells the young women, be sober. Then he goes down verse 6, he tells the young men, be sober. Let us watch and be sober. Old men, be sober. Young ladies, be sober. Young men, be sober. Titus 2, uh 1 Peter 4:7. But the end of all things is at hand, be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. You know what he's saying? We need to take our spiritual walk seriously Turn with me if you would. I want to end with this passage. First Peter chapter five and verse eight. Everybody doing all right out there? Everybody okay? Sort of. Come over to first Peter five, eight. Most of us are familiar with this verse, many of us. I'm telling you, this is a good verse to underscore in your Bible. This is an even better verse to hide in your heart. 1 Peter 5. 8, listen what it says. 1 Peter 5. 8. Are you there? Look at this. Be sober, be vigilant. Do you agree with me those two statements? Sounds like he's saying take this seriously. Sounds like he's saying better put some attention to this, give some attention to this, you better work at this. Be sober, be vigilant. Why? Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Now I take away from that passage that if I'm careless in my Christian life, if I'm negligent in my Christian life, I am going to mess up. Right or wrong? Anybody else see that in there? The word sober means this, to think clearly. Now think about this. God says, do not err, my beloved brethren. You give in to that temptation, you get involved in that, you go that direction. It's bad news. You've got a devil out there like a roaring lion seeking who he can tear apart, devour Now you need to be sober. Now that word sober means you need to think clearly about your life and what you're doing. You need to think these things through. You know what I found out? When people sin, do something stupid, it generally is because they didn't really think it through. Where is this leading to? Right? Anybody here ever hear somebody make this statement? What was I thinking? Anybody ever hear that? Anybody ever say that statement? What in the world? You did something stupid. You know what we're saying? I didn't stop and think this thing through. I didn't I didn't think about where this is leading to, what this is going to ultimately end up with. He says when he says be sober, he's saying, listen, stop and think this through a little bit. A drunk doesn't think things through. In fact, he doesn't think. Be sober. The word sober means be circumspect or be very, very careful. It has the idea of being guarded, being prudent. Hey, that word prudent is a good word. The world mocks the idea of a person being prudent. Oh, she's such a prude. Hear that? Oh, they're such a prude. Listen, the Bible says it's a good thing to be prudent. It means I think things through. I'm very careful about what I do and I don't do And God says, don't err, my beloved brethren. You've got to put some effort into this. You've got to be sober. The word vigilant here in 1 Peter means to be on a constant watch. To be con vigilant, very vigilant, constant watching, watching, watching, careful, watching out in the back, on the side, just constantly watching. It has the idea of being on red alert. I got looking up some stuff. I don't know this. I'm not a military. Some of you guys, this is very obvious to you, but I didn't know this. But I got looking up DEF CON 1. That sounds cool. DEF CON 1 sounds like a video game. You know what DEF CON 1 is? I got to look it up. DEF CON 1 is the highest state of military readiness. If we are under attack or something and they have different levels, the way I understand there's different levels of DEF CON and DEF CON 1 is the most intense level, the highest state of readiness, you are armed and ready for battle That's the idea of the word vigilant. I thought it was interesting. DEF CON 1, according to this one article I was reading, is primarily to get to that status, it's pretty primarily the president who makes that call that says, all right, we are going, are putting our military on DEF CON 1. I read 1 Peter 1 5 8. 1 Peter 5. 8. And it's our president, God, Jesus Christ, is telling us, be vigilant. Watch out. We are behind enemy territory. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Do not err, my beloved brethren. All right, preacher. All right, I don't want to err. I don't want to mess up What do I do? How do I be on guard? How do I do this? Let me give you some suggestions real quick. Number one, establish some standards and convictions for your life. I want to keep myself as far away from the opportunity to fulfill a legitimate desire illegitimately. I want to keep that temptation, those opportunities, to an absolute minimum. And I want to put, so to speak, walls up about my life so that I can avoid those opportunities. I can avoid those temptations. I can keep them at bay. And I'll be honest with you, in my thinking, my thinking is the less temptations I face, the less I got to deal with. Does that make sense? And so by establishing standards and convictions, standards of behavior, some things I will do, some things I won't do. Some places I'm going to be at, some places I'm not going to go to. Some things I will allow myself to indulge in, some things I will not. Why? And by the way, I need to have Bible standards, Bible convictions, to keep those temptations at bay. So number one, I put down standards and convictions. How do I not err? How do I keep myself from giving in and messing up? Number two, I put this down. Standards and convictions. Number two, scripture reading, study, and memorization. I'm telling you, one of the best defenses we have against temptation is this book right here. I was youth pastor, I used to tell the young people in Indianapolis, most of our kids went to public school there in Indianapolis, they're a disaster, the schools. I used to tell the kids, I said, you want to live for God in school, you want to avoid, I said, get you a big black King James Bible, put it on the top of all your books and you lay it on your desk and you put it in your uh locker right there where everybody can see it and I tell you what they're not going to come around trying to ask you to smoke dope They're not going to come around trying to get you to go to some beer party. Now they may make fun of you a little bit, they might give you a hard time, but I'll tell you what, I'd rather have the world displeased with me and Jesus pleased with me than give into the world and destroy my life. And so what I need is this book, and I need to read it, I need to study it, I need to get into it. Can I give a little suggestion to some of the families here? A strong suggestion. I believe it's a good idea to have family devotions. It is a good idea. It will help you. It will help your family. It will help your children if on a daily basis you get the family together, get the Bible out, and read some verses together. God will use that. They used to call it, the old timers called it, family altar. Family altar. And so that's another thing we can do to not err. I put this down: supplication and prayers Spending time in prayer, Jesus says, watch and pray that ye enter not into temptation. Prayer is a powerful force against being tempted I put down sustained fellowship with the body of Christ. In other words, go to church. It will help us. Listen, the purpose of the church is not to get huge numbers. The purpose of the church is so that we can get together in fellowship with each other. and encourage each other and help each other live in victory. And just being around other Christians is good for me. Just being around other Christians that are trying to live for the Lord and trying to uh and love the same Jesus I love, just being around them helps me. And so being faithful to church helps us to not err. And I put this down: submission and service to the Lord. Just submitting myself to say, Lord, whatever you want me to do. God, I want to serve you. I'm telling you, there are more opportunities around here to do something for God than you can shake a stick at. We've got we've got fair, we've got bus routes, we've got choir. I mean you just name it There is something we can do for God. Listen, if we stay busy for Jesus, we don't have time for the devil Amen? Just stay busy for Jesus. Get something to do. Get involved and serve God, and you'll find that you can live in victory Most precious relationship I have is my relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. I cannot take that lightly. The most precious relationship I have is with Jesus Christ. And I don't want anything or anyone to come between me and my relationship with Jesus Christ. That's the most precious thing. If I don't have that, I don't have nothing. Amen. Most important issue in my life is fulfilling God's will. And your life also. is fulfilling God's will. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Do not err. He finishes up this very sober passage. It's not very pleasant. But he finishes up with a very stern warning. Listen, don't mess up on this. Take this seriously. Don't just blow this off. This is very serious. I heard this back when I was in Bible college in Chapel, and many of you have heard it many, many times, but it is a profound statement. Sin will take you farther than you want to go. It will cost you more than you want to pay. And it will keep you longer than you want to stay. And that is what God is telling us. Don't mess up. It is not worth it. I was reading this week, a preacher was in uh had mentioned uh in a message that he I guess he knew of a girl. I think he was first I think he knew this first hand, I b the way I understood it Young girl saved up her money and she always heard about the great time that the college students had at spring break down in Florida and down along the Gulf. And as a Christian girl, she just always was enamored by that, and it was a temptation to go and give in and just enjoy the fun and the sun and have a great time. And so she saved up her money. And against the wishes of her preacher and her parents and her friends, she said, For once in my life, I'm going to go and I'm going to have a good time. Desire, be accepted, enjoy it, have fun. There's nothing wrong with that in and of itself. Opportunity, go to spring break, live it up. Drop the standards, leave the rules, just have a time. The preacher said she saved up her money and she went. The first day, wherever it was she went, the first day she showed up at that beach, she met a fella. They got talking, kind of hit it off a little bit. She told him, I'm down here, have a good time. He goes, so am I And he talked her into move spending the week in the motel with him so they could save money. So she agreed to it. She goes, I'm just going to do what I want to do for a change. Unloaded her car. I got the motel room together. After about three, four days, the preacher said, she got up in the morning and he was gone And there was a little box there, wrapped up, little gift. And she goes, what in the world? I mean, if stuff was gone, he was gone. She opened a box and inside the box was a little note. It said, Welcome to the world of AIDS. The guy she dropped her rules for, the guy she dropped her standards for was eat up with AIDS. And she slept with him one, two, three nights. She came back, got tested, and lo and behold, she had AIDS Do not err, my beloved brethren. Better take this seriously. Now that's an extreme situation. But I'm telling you, the principle is the same. Temptation, desire. Desire opportunity is the temptation. I give in, I fulfill that desire, that legitimate opportunity, temptations conceived, brings forth tempt. Sin. And sin, when it's done, bringeth forth death. Nothing good ever comes out of sin. And the Lord finishes up this section before he goes on about every good gift and perfect gift from above. And boy, next sections are just, man, this is wonderful. But he injects this in here and he says, listen, don't mess up on this. Do not mess up on this. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Let's pray. Father.