Peter chapter three verse ten. The Bible says, But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat The earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burned up. He says, the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. Let's pray. And uh I'll just give you a few thoughts here as quick as I can. Father, uh, we're grateful for a good day. And uh just the special emphasis today has been a blessing to me, and I trust to the church body I ask now, as we finish out today in your word and looking at this future event that you are revealed to us here in this passage, fill me with your Spirit, Lord. And I pray you would guide my words here as I try and just simplify a few thoughts. I pray you drive it home to our hearts. This matter of the day of the Lord coming like a thief in the night. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Last time we preached on this two weeks ago, we were in verse number nine. We were talking about the long suffering of God or the patience of God. And I just want to leave a statement with you, and maybe if you don't get anything out of anything else out of tonight's message, I hope you'll get this statement And you might want to jot it down. It's it's encouraged me, it's helped me. Uh but in verse number nine it says uh the Says the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some man count slackness, but is long suffering thusward, not willing that any should perish. We pointed out if you remember That the reason the Lord's delayed his coming, at least on our time frame, has delayed his coming. He's not delayed it on his side. He's right on schedule. But the reason he's delayed it is so that more people can be saved. So that more people can come to repentance. Because once he comes back. You know, there's a there's a drastic change in the setup, in the situation. And uh so his delay. So here's the quote I want to give you tonight, uh just to start off and then I'll share a few things But here it is, this is what spoke to my heart. The delays of the Lord are always for the good of mankind. How many people here have been asking the Lord, you've been looking the Lord to do something, and maybe it's very heavy on your heart, it's very Very serious to you. It's a very urgent issue in your heart, and you're looking to the Lord to help you and the Lord to intervene. And it hasn't happened yet. And yeah, and you tend to get discouraged with that. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Get a witness? Just wait and pray and pray and pray and you think, I want to remind you, according to verse number nine, God's delay is because he has a reason that is ultimately for our good. Now he delays his return so that more people can be saved And I think applying that same principle to other areas of life, sometimes he delays answering a prayer because there's lessons we need to learn. Because our faith needs to develop a little bit more. And God is perfect in his wisdom and he never fails in his timing. And God has it down. I don't know about you, and I hate to admit this. I wish it wasn't true, but I catch myself worrying about stuff. Can I get a witness? Anybody there? And I worry about things. And um sometimes Kathy will rebuke me a little bit, you know, why don't you trust God? And uh and I I do and I want to, but sometimes it doesn't work and I don't think. And it just encouraged me to realize that when God holds off, when God delays something He doesn't do work on my time frame. It's not because he's negligent. It's not because he's unkind. He has a plan. He has a purpose. There's a reason. And we just trust him. Amen? Isn't that good? Then he goes on in verse number 10. And he tells us that though he's patient, and he is long-suffering, he's very, very patient, that patience has a limit You know, he's patient with this world. He's given opportunity, but God's patience has a limit. In Genesis, he says, My spirit shall not always strive with man And he says, there comes a point, there comes a time when God says, all right, enough is enough. And he intervenes. And that's what verse 10 is about. Verse 10 is a transition period. Peter is addressing, of course, under the inspiration of God, but he's addressing this transition From the time and the the the uh the world that we are living in now, it's a transition to a world And circumstances, situation that mankind has never experienced in all of our history. He's addressing the day of the Lord. And he says it's going to come like a thief in the night. And what he describes here, and we're going to look at this probably over several messages, but What he describes here is an event that takes place over an extended period of time that is nothing Like this world has ever experienced before. The day of the Lord. And he says it comes as a thief in the night. That phrase, day of the Lord, is mentioned four times in the New Testament. In 1 Corinthians 5. 5, Paul writing to the church at Corinth mentions the day of the Lord. And I wanted to go to these verses, but I'll just give them to you. 2 Corinthians 1. 14. Again, he mentions the day of the Lord. 1 Thessalonians 5:2, he mentions the day of the Lord. And he says in 1 Thessalonians 5. 2, he says it comes like a thief in the night. Just repeating what Peter says here. Same identical statement almost The day of the Lord. Then of course we have it here in 2 Peter 3. 10. What is the day of the Lord? Four times mentioned in the New Testament, it's referenced multiple times in the Old Testament The day of the Lord, that day is not a literal 24-hour period of time. The day of the Lord. He's not talking about Twelve midnight till 12 midnight the next day. He's not talking about 24-hour period of time. The day of the Lord is a is a future period of time And the day of the Lord, and we're going to see this as we work our way through here, the day of the Lord begins with the rapture of the church The next event on God's calendar. Now there's events in the Old Testament that are past that were referred to as the day of the Lord. Those were different. It's not what Peter's talking about. He's talking about a future event And it begins with the rapture of the church, the next event on God's calendar. The rapture of the church could happen tonight, might be tomorrow, it might be next month, it might be next year, it might be a hundred years from now. We don't know But that rapture, that caught up, that will begin this period of time referred to as the day of the Lord So it begins, the day of the Lord begins with the rapture of the church at any moment. We don't know when that'll be. And the day of the Lord ends with the total annihilation And destruction of the heaven and earth as we know it now. And Peter addresses that, Isaiah addresses that, the Revelation addresses that Begins with a rapture, it ends with heaven and earth being melting away and uh uh and uh and and being totally destroyed, annihilated. uh at the heaven and earth that we know now. The entire it ends with the entire universe And all that we're learning about the universe through these new telescopes and stuff, the immensity of it, the magnitude of this place, and God says all of that is going to be totally annihilated And a new heaven, new earth will be established. And so that's what Peter is addressing. The day of the Lord is that time frame. The time when the entire universe is going to be shaken to its core, the entire galaxies shaken. To decore and uh completely transform into a new heaven, new earth. Now I'm going to give you my three points here as quickly as I can. If you knew how many pages of notes I just covered right there, you would be like, woo Number one, the certainty of the day of the Lord. Look there at verse 10. But the day of the Lord, what's the next two words? Will come. It will come. Just mark this down. When God says something will come, you mark it down. It's a coming. It's on its way It will come. That little phrase will come is used 27 times in the New Testament. Never is that phrase used with a sense of uncertainty It's always dogmatic. It's always certain. It's always with assurance. The day of the Lord will come. When God says something's going to happen, again, you mark it down, it's going to happen When God says something's coming, you mark it down. It's on its way. It's on its way. The certainty of the day of the Lord. Now, it may not happen on my schedule, as we mentioned I'd be honest with you, I thought the Lord had come back. I thought the rapture would happen by now. But He's not working on my schedule at all. It may not be the way I anticipated I try to study the Bible diligently and I read of men that are smarter than me. I try and discern uh scriptural teaching and What the Bible says about future events, but you know, it's a very real possibility this thing might not play out exactly as the way we anticipated You know, there may be some issues here that uh God may do. Anybody here ever pray that God would answer your prayer and you kind of had it figured out how he was going to do it? And then when it actually happened, it wasn't anything like what I thought he was going to do I got a prayer I'm praying now, and I've kind of got it all figured out in my head. Alright, this is how God's going to do it. And so we've got to allow for the possibility, you know, we may there may be some things involved here that might happen not the way necessarily we anticipate it, but mark it down, it will happen The day of the Lord is will happen. And we have some things we're very confident of, we're very, very clear in Scripture how this is going to play out. And there's no question about it. The Bible is very clear. The world as we know it will come to an end. Mark it down. And by the way, it will not be man blowing up the world with atomic bombs. It's going to be God's way. God's going to do it. Man's not going to do that. I think man thinks too highly of himself. We think we can control weather. We think we can do this and that and the other. I'm here to tell you, God's in control of all of that We're not nearly as influential as we think we are. Number one, the certainty. Number two, the suddenness of the day of the Lord. And this is where I got my title from. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. Come, that word come means to arrive, show up. The suddenness of it, like a thief in the night. Now again, that phrase, the day of the Lord, is actually an extended period of time. Again, it's from the rapture until the destruction of the heaven and earth as we know it now. Complete annihilation, evaporation of the entire universe, everything. New heaven, new earth established. If I m according to my calculations, that is, it has to be at minimum 1,007-year period of time. Seven year tribulation, one thousand year millennial reign of Christ, and then the uh judgment of the heaven and earth, and the heaven and earth destroyed new heaven, new earth. So it has to be a minimum of a hundred one thousand seven years. So it says, the day of the Lord cometh as a thief in the night. Though it's an extended period of time, that word cometh means it shows up all of a sudden. In other words, we don't just wander in to this day of the Lord. Did you ever, I had a dream last night. Did you ever have a dream that was so real? That when you woke up, you had to stop and think a little bit. Any anybody know what I'm talking about? I dream I won't uh it's kind of weird. But um I had a dream I was in Las Vegas being interviewed by David Letterman. I dunno I don't even watch that stuff. I don't know wha how it got in osmosis somehow And um and Kathy picked me up and I came down, we ended up good buddies and I come down, Kathy picked me up and then I woke up. It was three o'clock in the morning. I woke up And I thought, how did I get in my bed? Anyone know what I'm talking about? I think that's kind of the way the day of the Lord is just going to be, boom, what in the world? We're caught up out of here. 2 Corinthians 15, 52, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye. At the last trump, the trump shall sound, that in Christ shall be raised, uh incorruptible, and we shall be changed. In a moment, in a moment, in a moment. That day of the Lord's going to start. I mean, it is going to be sudden. No time to prepare. In fact, the time to prepare is right now. No warning. We don't get a notice. Our phone rings. What? Announcement, special public service announcements. The rapture is taking place tonight, 10 o'clock. Oh, good night. I better get ready. Doesn't happen that way, does it? Boom. It's like a thief showing up in the night. Jesus said in Matthew 24, he said, if the watchman of the house had known what hour the thief was coming in He wouldn't have let him get away with it. That's my paraphrase. He wouldn't have let it he'd have been waiting on him with double barrel shotgun when he got through the door But this point was, this day the Lord's going to show up, and we don't know when, and then when it happens, it's going to be instantaneously, the twinkling of an eye. And so uh we need to be ready, like a thief in the night, sudden, unexpected. Uh we got the church, uh oh it's been ten, twelve years or more ago, we got broke into a few times. Anybody remember we it was And we figured out a pattern, it was several times. We figured out a pattern, it was Sunday nights. They were breaking in. They realized we took offerings, so they were anticipating money being here on Sunday nights. So Tom and I, Tom Sharon and I We decided we're going to get these guys. So after everybody's gone, we turn the lights off and we sat back in the fellowship hall back here waiting for these guys to show up. We sat there. We sat there. Ten o'clock, eleven o'clock, twelve o'clock, waiting for these guys to show up, and then we heard a little sound. Little pulled our guns out He was inside the wall between the kitchen and the oh there was something. It was a mouse. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom! No, we didn't shoot it We waited until about one o'clock and we said, Philly, we went home. We knew when it was going to happen. We were ready. If we known But here's the thing, we don't know when that's going to happen. So we've got to be ready at all times. Ready at all times. And then last of all, the soberness of the day of the Lord. It's a thief. It comes like a thief in the night. There's nothing positive about a thief breaking into your home. We have folks in our church that have their homes broken into. And maybe there's some here. But you feel defiled, don't you? S somebody has gotten in your home and gone through your things. And you and you feel it's unsettling. It it's not a pleasant thing. You take somebody break it in your home, you take very seriously. Am I right or wrong? And I tell you, the day of the Lord, beginning with the rapture and all that takes place, nothing in the history of humanity has been like what those in in all of our history has been like what those hundred and seven one thousand seven years ago. Nothing. Compares to it. And so we need to take it very, very seriously. I wanted to go to Isaiah chapter 13 verse 9 describes this day as a this period of time as a time of terror Particularly tribulation period. Time of God's wrath. Joel chapter two and one through two and verse thirty one. Zephaniah Little Old Testament prophetic book talks about the the seriousness of this coming day of the Lord. Listen, I like to joke around. But God's coming judgment on this world is not something to joke about. It's not something to horse around. And our Christian life and our soul salvation is not something to play games with. And our testimony and our witness to this world is not something we should play games with. We ought to be very, very serious about being a good testimony. And being a clear witness to how people can be saved. Because when that day shows up, it's going to be horrific. It's going to be horrific. I told this before, but it fits in here a good bit. I think it illustrates what Peter's saying. I worked at the meat pack and plant uh Um uh I was saved there when I was nineteen. I worked from age sixteen to twenty at this meat packing plant, rough craft. I've I've described it before. I got saved and that summer of my salvation, the summer of 79, the church I was at had a prophecy conference. Now those were big back in the day. Some of you older folks remember Charlie, they had prophecy conferences there at Lancaster, I know they did. And I never saw or heard anything like it. The guy had a multimedia presentation, which in 1979 means uh remember the old slides? Shh shh it was bad what it was And um I sat there, a new Christian, a couple months old in the Lord, just dumbfounded. The rapture. And then he went into great detail of the tribulation period and he tried to illustrate it. Talked about the Antichrist, the judgment seat of Christ, and the Married Supper of the Lamb. The abomination of desolation takes place three and a half years into the tribulation period there in the rebuilt temple in Jerusalem. I mean, he went into detail. And uh the wrath of vials of God poured out on this earth. I'm telling you, I never heard anything like it. And it was straight from the Bible. This is truth. This is going to happen. And the return of Christ, the battle of Armageddon, the millennial reign of Christ, the judgment seat, the great white throne, the new heaven. And he described, I was captivated. And I'd go in the meat, that was in the Eden's uh, and I'd go in the meat plant uh packing plant in the next day and I'd tell them, gosh, you won't believe this. Listen to what the Bible says And I told him about the rapture. And I said, man, caught up out of here. In a moment, if you're not saved, you're left behind, and you never had a chance, and you uh if you had a chance to be saved, you'll never have another chance again. You're doomed, you're lost You're under the Antichrist, you're going to take the mark of the beast. And these guys are like, yeah, whatever, yeah. And all week long I just poured my heart. I couldn't believe what I was amazing For the first time in four years I worked there, that next Monday morning of the following week, I did something I never did in all the four years I worked there. I overslept I never. I I never missed the day. Four years, perfect attention. I never missed the day at work. I never was late. That morning, that following week I overslept. Now think about this. I've been telling them all week long about the rapture. I'm going to be out of here. Boom! You're gonna be left behind. You're gonna be lost Forever you're doomed under the wrath of God and the Antichrist. And so I woke up good at night, threw my clothes on, went flying to work. I came in there about a half hour forty-five minutes late. We started cutting at six in the morning. I got there about six thirty quarter seven. I come flying out on the floor, we called it, where we did uh all the cutting Came over there and Jimmy, he was real tall, Jimmy looked over and he went, Oh. I mean he he was so relieved. And he came over and he said, Leatherman, you're here I said, yeah, I'm sorry, I'm late. He says, is man alive, you scared me to death. He says, I thought that rapture thing happened and I was left behind. You know, I tried witnessing to him when I was just a couple months old. I could have probably done a better job at verbalizing what I felt, what I knew, and I wasn't able to lead him to the Lord. But I'm telling you, The impact, when he for that moment realized the reality of what the Bible was saying. It stirred him. It disturb it disturbed him. And it bothered him. And what I'm saying, you and I ought to take this just as real as what he took it when I wasn't there in my spot on that morning he thought the rapture took place. You follow what I'm trying to say? This ought to be real to us. This ought to be serious because it is And that day of the Lord's coming. It's going to come like a thief in the night. No time, no announcements, no preparation time. The preparation time is now. Now, if you're listening to me, you're here, or you're online, you're listening to me, and you're not saved, you don't have the assurance of sins forgiven on your way to heaven, most important thing in your life tonight is get your salvation settled So we don't know when that's coming, and when it does, brother, it's too late. Now, those of us that know the Lord, we ought to take living for the Lord, living our Christian life very, very seriously. Don't don't let Christian don't let Christianity be a game. Don't let it be a little hobby I do on the side Man, like we said this morning in Romans 12, I beseech you therefore, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. Because the Lord is coming back. This is real, and we need to be a witness to this world. How many folks know some folks? How many of us here know some folks that need to be saved? Anyone know somebody It is vitally important that we have a testimony to them. We do all we can to win them to Christ, right or wrong. We got to get missionaries around the world. Missionaries around the world. We've got to do everything we can. Get missionaries out around the world. Let's pray. Father, I ask now you'd stir us. Lord, we love our church and everyone that makes has a part. God, we we're just so grateful But now help us take seriously this matter of living for you and serving you. And we pray, God, you'd use us. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I'm going to pray. Two things I'm going to ask the invitation. One How many folks are going to pray for our church that God blesses us and uses us and keeps us in line with where we need to be? Anyone like that, you want to pray earnestly And maybe tonight on I Love My Church Sunday, just at an altar, just praying, God keep this thing going, God protect us, God keep us going forward. Now here's the other one. How many would say, preacher, I need to take a little more seriously my witness in these days as that day of the Lord is approaching? I need to be a little more earnest, a little more serious about it. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Let's ask the Holy Spirit to help us. Father, bless now our invitation in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.