Acts chapter number ten. Acts chapter number ten this morning. And uh you know, uh when we travel and everything, we get to hear a lot of great preaching Uh not done by me, by the preachers within the churches that we go to. We get to hear a lot of preaching, especially around the Fourth of July. Patriotic services, I love 'em. God and country services, I love 'em. I just don't get to do 'em that much. And so I'm going to give you just a message, just a preview of independence, amen, this morning, since it's coming up on the fourth. I don't want to steal any thunder from you, Pastor, uh, for next Sunday or whenever he may be preaching, maybe Wednesday night. that maybe we're not uh uh crossing uh streams here or anything, but I want us to look at what a true patriot is a true patriot uh this morning. I uh before we get started though, I got to give you a word of encouragement. With everything that has happened this year, I have clung to these verses of scripture And uh I believe the uh the Word of God is going to stand when everything else crumbles around us. The word of God will stand. Uh first Chronicles chapter number twenty-nine, if you want to jot it down First Chronicles chapter number twenty-nine verses eleven and twelve says, Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power And the glory, and the victory, and the majesty, for all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come of thee, and thou reignest over all, and in thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great and to give strength unto all We need strength today. We need to he's going to give us strength if we'll just ask for it. A. W. Tozer made a quote. He lived a long time before me, back in the 1800s, I guess. A. W. Tozer had a quote. He said, while it looks like things are out of control. So behind the scenes is a God who has not surrendered his authority. He is still in control. He is going to reign above all. None of this is taking him by surprise. It's going in on the in the world or in our country today. It's not taking him by surprise. He's not wringing his hands and sweating and saying, I didn't know that was going to happen He knows it all, and he's in control. He just wants some faithful people to look up to him and stand in these dark days. Uh when no one else is standing. But I want us to look at a true patriot this morning, Acts chapter number ten, verses one and two. The Bible says there was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius A centurion of the band called the Italian band, a devout man and one that feared God with all his house. Which gave much alms to the people and prayed to God always. We talked a lot about prayer this morning. The men are going to get together on July the 4th and pray Uh we need to pray. Families need to pray. We need a revival of prayer in our country today. But we need the that effectual fervent prayer to go up before a thrice holy God And we need to beg him for forgiveness for the sins of this land and ask him uh that uh seek him and turn from our wicked ways, and then he said he gave us a promise He said he'd forgive us of our sins. He'd hear our prayer, forgive us of our sins, and heal our land. We need healing. Amen. Let's pray Our precious Heavenly Father, we come to you in Jesus' name, that name that's above every name. And Father, we ask for just a little time this morning that you just uh uh Uh just rin the heavens, Lord, and come down and meet with us here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Father, we need you. Then there'd be somebody here this morning uh that has never received Jesus Christ as their Savior. Lord, I pray that you do that work even now, that you'd be working in that heart while the service goes on and that they wouldn't tarry, they wouldn't wait For an order because they come and make things right with you, as we're going to see in this message this morning. Father, I pray that your will be done in the service and in our lives Help us to not only hear your word, but to live your word and to be doers of your word, for we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. As we look at this right here, I think about patriotism. I think about the word patriot. Now I'm going to give you a Latin meaning for the word patriot. I don't know why I preach it. So now in the Latin. Y'all ain't going to remember that when you leave, but I'm going to do it for filler. Amen. The word actually comes from the Latin word patria meaning one's native country, from Pater, meaning father, your your homeland, your father's country. Now I'm an American My family came over here. My ancestors came over here from Germany. I'm not a German American. I'm an American. Amen. I was born here. I'm not putting anything with it. I am an American. Amen. A person But a patriot is a person who loves his country and zealously supports and defends it and its interest. It also means devoted to the welfare of one's country, the passion which aims to serve one's country, either in defending it from invasion. or protecting its rights and maintaining its laws and institutions in vigor and purity. It's the characteristic of a good Citizen. That's what a patriot is. And many people will build, or you'll be able to raise your hand this morning, say, I am an apatri I am a patriot of the United States of America. Now right here we're we're finding some things in verses 1 and 2 of Acts chapter number 10. I believe this Cornelius was a patriot As we look at it, it says there was a certain man of Caesarea. Caesarea was a place, it was a fort, it was a fortified place uh that uh Herod the Great built in honor of Augustus Caesar. So we'll get the name Caesarea. And then the Bible goes on and tells us Uh for a fact that there was a certain man there called Cornelius. His name means the being of the sun Uh uh, you know, I can't imagine him being a soldier, him being a centurion, he's over a ba he's in a band called the Italian band, and his mama's named him Sunbeam. Sunbean Maybe she went to him when his little you know babies are cute and everything, she says, Good morning, sunshine. Maybe that's where it comes from. I don't know. But his name's Cornelius and he's a certain man. This ain't a made-up story. This is a record in God's word that there was a certain man named Cornelius. So he is from that place. He's a centurion, so he is a Roman. He's a Gentile. He's not a Jew. So the Bible tells us he is a centurion. He is a captain over a hundred soldiers Uh you had to be a pretty good soldier. You had to be good in combat to be given the charge of a hundred men. So Cornelius was one such man as that. This record goes on to say of the band called the Italian band. I think Brother Lou Rossi said he was from that band. But anyway, he came from a band called the Italian Band. A band is made up of three hundred to four hundred soldiers Uh so he's over he's the captain over a hundred men. He's a centurion uh of a bigger amount of people, three to four hundred soldiers. Uh and it was the Italian band, Rome, Italy, Romans, uh, all this, they are Gentiles. He's a he's faithful to his country. I'm sure he was probably one of the best captains that Rome had. Soldiers wanted to be in his platoon. Amen. It it could be probably compared to SEAL team six or the Army Rangers or Or or something like that. People wanted to be in that band. And they were some of them, a hundred of them, were under Cornelius. He wasn't just a good captain, he was also a good man, that we see in verse number two He said he's a devout man and one that feared God with all his house, which gave much alms to the people and prayed to God always So he wasn't just a soldier. He wasn't just uh military-minded, he was God-minded. Uh he feared God. He knew that there was a creator in heaven that spoke everything into existence, and that he was in control of everything, and he just had just a little part here on earth, being over a hundred soldiers. He was a devout man, devoted to God, to his house, but out of a heart for the pe he had a heart for his people. He helped meet others' needs as well and prayed to God always, the Bible says. I believe he had so much zeal at home and in his home life and with for his family and God, he had just as much zeal for that as he did in his military career and for his country. He was a patriot. This made Cor Cornelius a great patriot, but he probably got, you know, I can imagine when he was a senior in high school, he probably got best all around. One that made all the other guys sick. Because he was always doing right. He was always thinking of somebody else and everything, but but he was a patriot He loved his country, and he loved God. He loved his family. In John chapter number three, he had everything that he could have, but he lacked one thing. Now, scholars, Bible scholars, some of them will go against this, but in John chapter number 3, Jesus tells Nicodemus, you must be born again. I don't see in that first part where Cornelius is saved. Now, some scholars will say, well, he was saved because he feared God and he prayed to him always. Let me give you some other scripture with that. I believe he needed to be saved. I believe he was searching. But Peter gave an account in chapter number eleven when he was recounting it to the people. As the angel came to Corneas and spoke to him, he said in verse number 14, But Peter said, Not so, um let's see, I think oh 11. Chapter number eleven and verse number fourteen. He says, Who shall tell thee words? The angel that he was talking about Peter was giving this account. It says, Who shall tell thee words whereby thou and all thy house shall be saved? Shall be saved. He wasn't saved. He needed salvation. He had everything. He feared God. He prayed to God, but he was not saved. The angel told him, He said, Send for this man, and he'll show you how you can be saved. Say, well, that's confusing. He prayed, and we know that God doesn't hear the prayer if we regard iniquity in our hearts. As Christians, he will not hear. We've got to be pure before him to pray For God to hear and answer our prayers. And we've been taught from a child that the first prayer that God hears is that of the sinner's prayer. Praying and asking the Lord to save them But here's this man. He's prayed. You say, well, what did he pray? Well the Bible tells us to pray without ceasing. We're to pray without seeing it. He said he prayed always in this verse of scripture here. He was praying according to the knowledge that he had at that time. He saw other people, he saw other Christians, he saw a great movement after the day of Pentecost, people being saved, and the Lord adding to the house daily such as should be saved I think he took knowledge of that and and uh he feared God and he prayed. He said, I want what they have. I believe he prayed that he might know peace in his heart. I believe that might be one thing he prayed. I believe that he prayed that he would have some kind of assurance from God. I believe that he prayed that he might have hope. You know, we see those at funeral services and different places, those mourning as those that have no hope. We have a hope. Our hope is in Jesus Christ, looking for that blessed hope, and glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. We have that hope. I believe Cornelius was so close, he was looking for it, he was praying for it But it was just all three of these things, the peace, assurance, and hope were just out of his reach, until he heard the word of God preached by Peter. There's people that are praying to God looking for answers that aren't saved. You've heard of the story, the missionary story, where there was a pygmy in Africa, uh pygmy village, and some of them sleep up in the trees and And uh this one pygmy climbed up in a tree and looked up in the night sky and saw the universe, saw the stars and everything. He said, I want to know who put them there Uh that I believe that there was somebody, uh some superior being that formed all this and he he he prayed he was asking to know truth And God over in America was working in a missionary's life and getting him the training that he needed and the linguistics and everything he needed so he could go over to Africa He God was already working in the midst, and that missionary went over there and showed him how he could be saved, told him about the God that did create the universe, told him about the God that did put the stars up in the up in the uh sky and the millions and billions and trillions of stars up there and he telleth the number of the stars and and knoweth them all by their name That missionary told him that he received Jesus Christ as his Savior. He was looking. He needed it. This scripture touches my heart, Romans chapter number 10, and verses number 13 and following. The Bible says, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? Cornish knew there was a God. He was looking for a God, he just didn't have the Word of God yet How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed, and how shall they believe in him in whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? The angel said, sin, uh Cornelius said, your words have come, your prayers have come up before God as a memorial call for Peter. Uh call, send men for Peter and bring him over here, and he'll tell you how. And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach except they be sent? And it is written as it is written, how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings of good things But they have not all obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah saith the Lord, who hath believed our report, so then faith cometh by hearing. And hearing by the Word of God. If somebody's going to get saved today, it's going to be by the Word of God. God chose the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. So it's the Word of God, whether if it's preaching on a Bible tract that somebody received, looks at it, reads it, gets under conviction, trusts Christ their Savior, or whether if they're able to be in a church service like this morning and hear the gospel preached. It takes the Word of God. Then Acts chapter number ten, we'll look on just a little bit farther in verse 34. Uh Peter has been summoned. He comes with them and he comes into Cornelius' house, and Cornelius has got the whole crowd there. He's got his whole family and everybody that he could get to come. They've come in there to hear the word of God preach Verse thirty four it says, Then Peter opened his mouth and said, Of the truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons. He's saying, I'm here, I know this is a Gentile house I've always gone to the Jews, but God has showed me not to call anything common. Verse 35 says, But in every nation he that feareth him and worketh righteousness is accepted with him. The word which God sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ, He is Lord of all. That word I say, you know, which was published throughout all Judea and began from Galilee after the baptism which John preached. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power, who went about doing good and healing all them that were oppressed of the devil, for God was with him And we are witnesses, verse 39, we are witnesses of all uh things which he did both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem uh whom they slew and hanged on a tree. We're getting into the gospel real heavy right here. They slew him and hanged him on a tree Him God raised up the third day and showed him openly, not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen before God, even to us who did eat and drink and uh with him after he rose from the dead We can believe this record is pure because uh and it is true because these witnesses have given an eyewitness account written here in the book of Acts Verse forty two says, And he commanded us to preach unto the people and to testify that it is he which has ordained was ordained of God to be the judge of quick and dead To him give all the prophets witness that through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remissions uh remission of sins. While Peter yet spoke these words, the Holy Ghost fell on all them which heard the word While he gave the gospel. That's what preachers are told to give an account of. We are to give the gospel, tell people about the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That's the good news that Jesus died For our sins, to wash our sins away. He tasted death for every man. He bore our sorrows on the cross of Calvary. And He gave His life's blood for us. and died, was buried three days in the heart of the earth, taking captivity captive. Amen. And rose on the third day from the dead and ascended in heaven. Showed himself to many, the Bible says. Notice, just as he preached the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, right then the Holy Spirit did his work and the whole crowd got saved. I can imagine knowing Peter, he had a whole theological message. put together that he was getting ready to preach because it says while he was yet speaking, he was still preaching. But the gospel, the Holy Spirit rides on the gospel. Amen. And just as soon as he preached the gospel Uh, even though uh Peter was still preaching, he was done preaching. Amen. He was through right there because he gave the gospel It says in verse 44, while Peter yet spake these words, the Holy Ghost fell on all them that heard the word. Cornelius was the first Gentile to join a New Testament church. Tells us that he was added to the church there in the scriptures. As a good soldier as Cornelius was, he needed salvation. As good a family man as he was, he needed salvation. As much as he feared God, he needed salvation. That's one thing that's wrong with America as we witness to people these days there's no fear of God anymore. No fear of God. They they Say, well, I I've got my life to live, I'll get saved before I die. Everybody don't get a deathbed. Everybody don't get a second chance Everybody people need to get saved whenever the Holy Spirit's dealing with them He got saved, and I believe that's what made him a great patriot. I think about the Patriots. That began this country, that were in this country in the beginning. I think about, I think they call him Johan. His name is John Peter Muhlenberg of the Black Robe Regiment We were getting ready to go into Revolutionary War and and he was a preacher preaching the gospel and he was wearing a black robe and as he took the robe off after he finished his message Uh he he would had uh on his uh uniform, his military uniform and his weapon on his side. And then over it said over a hundred of his congregates, the men followed him out the door and joined the cause so that we can have a free country today, that we can enjoy, that we can sit on pews. They try to tr to shut the church down We had to have a lawsuit in North Carolina just so we could open our churches back up. We need to not take for granted. I think it's a wake-up call for Christians not to take things for granted anymore I think about Patrick Henry. I think about all these patriots that began. Hey, this nation was not born out of revolution. This nation was rose out of the gospel of Jesus Christ. This nation was formed because of revival, because people wanted the freedom to worship God and not just any God, the God of Jesus Christ. The gospel, the death, burial, and resurrection. That's why America was here. That's why America has been great. But as one patriot said, that came and visited from another country He said America is great because America is good because he saw the churches. He said if America ever ceases to be good, it'll cease to be great. The churches that impressed him. Say, well, that's old fashioned. I like old fashioned. Jeremiah 6. 16 says, Thus saith the Lord, Stand ye in the ways and see, and ask for the old paths. Where is the good way? And walk therein, and he shall find rest in your souls. Everybody's wanting something new Everybody's wanting the latest technology. And it is, I understand it's a way to get the gospel around the world, but there's a whole lot of bad in it too. if people uh get on it from the wrong standpoint. Amen. Uh but I like the old paths. I don't want to come in and and bring a tablet up here and find my scripture. I want to hold the Word of God in my hand I I love uh to sing out of a hymn book, old brother um out there in uh California, not Paul Chapel, but um Jack Treiber. Yeah, I heard him preaching on FBN one day and and he said, I want to hold a a hymn book. He said, the the putting it up on the screen is fine for those of Kansas and now we can't hold a hymn book because We got a socially distance. We can't get the germs spreading. It's keeping people safe and everything. But he said, I like to hold a handbook. Just like we were holding the page and reading Uh singing the songs this morning, looking at that. Uh I like the old paths, Amen Next week we're going to be at the Southeast Old Threshers Reunion setting up, telling people about FBN radio, if we don't get shut down. We got they got the insurance last week and said they could go forward, so we're gonna see what happens. This is a special year, just like twenty-one years of FBN radio, this marks fifty years of the Southeast Old Thresher steam engine. show. But you know, those steam engines at one time that was new technology. We look back at that and say, whoa, those are ancient. It it's neat to get to see And uh Brown Laughlin, the one that ran the threshold and owns it and everything, he died back in September and didn't get to see the fiftieth year, but they're gonna have his family, we owe a debt to them, they're gonna keep the old things going and everything But as much as we talk about the old past there, at one time that was new. I'm going to preach in an old church, Lord willing, that was built many, many, many years ago Uh it di it had a potbelly stove in it and we opened the windows to let I think they got air conditioning in because they do winds there now, but I don't turn it on. I'm gonna open the windows so people outside can hear And it just is old old paths in that church. And although the the the altar of it's scarred and there's uh uh worn places on the altar where people grabbed a hold of the altar and prayed and cried out to God and got victory on the altar and they're saying as old as we think that is at one time that church was new It was new built. We s that church is right beside a radio museum. There's radios, you know, we we got them in little things like this now and put earbuds in our ears. Back then there was a cabinet This big and this big and they've got a whole building full of them. It's radio museum. We're set up with FBN right out front. It's sort of ironic. But uh we're set up out front of that, but at one time there was a brand new price tag on every one of those radios But the gospel. The gospel's nothing new. The gospel is the old paths. The gospel was from beginning At one time, all those other things were new, but the gospel of Jesus Christ was put in motion before the world ever was. Yahweh already had a plan before Adam and Eve was ever on this earth, before they ever walked. Revelation chapter number 13 I want to read a uh well I've got a road here. I'll just read it. Revelation thirteen eight uh is talking about the Antichrist right there in that scripture but a and then Jesus in the verse but it says, And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him being the Antichrist, whose names are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the beginning of the f uh from the foundation of the world. From the foundation He was just as good as dead, uh uh crucified before the foundation of the world, before God, before Jesus Christ spoke everything into existence. It was already set in motion uh then. Ephesians chapter number one. See here we go. Ephesians chapter number one And verse number four, the Bible says, according as he has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. Before the foundation of the world, he knew us. Now I'm not a Calvinist. I believe God gives us a free will, gives everyone a free will. But God is He knows who will be saved or He wouldn't be God Uh but he gives every person a free will to receive him or to reject him. I can't explain it, but that's the way it is. You know, I I hear people talk about Calvinism, hyper-Calvinism, and all these things. You know, anytime God puts uh anytime man puts a tag or somebody else's name on something, you better watch it. We better keep our eyes on Jesus Christ. We better keep our eyes on His gospel. Romans 1:16, I used it in Sunday school this morning. It says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to e to the Jew first and also to the Greek. Not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. I can give the gospel, but I can't save anybody. But the gospel is the power Of God unto salvation through Jesus Christ. It's His gospel. It's what He did. He lived. Salvation's not a thing. Salvation is a man. It's Jesus Christ. 1 Corinthians 9, verse 16 says, For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of. For necessity is laid upon me, yea, woe is unto me if I preach not the gospel. Yeah, I have nothing to glory on. I can't save anybody, but I've got to preach the gospel. I've got to give it out. I want to see people say. It excites me when somebody walks an old rationale and puts their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. You can see how the Holy Spirit is tugging on their heart and and bringing conviction to them. You know, I I preached at my mom's funeral. I said there's three times that we're in the delivery room. The first time is when we're born Uh whenever we come into this world that we're in the delivery room. And then there's that time where we get born again. Amen. As Nicodemus Uh uh they come down. It's just like a delivery room. You're seeing God move and make a new creature out of them, and and they trust Christ for salvation. And then there's that last delivery room where God delivers that sick person. from the bondage of their pain and and everything in their body and releases them and takes them into his arms into heaven. Woe is unto me if I preach not the gospel. To be a true patriot, you must love your country. You want to keep it pure. You want to build it. You don't want to tear it down and burn it to the ground. You want to build it. You want to protect it. Be a model citizen. Fear God, seek him, but most importantly, receive his gospel. Gospel means good news. It's the good news that we don't have to die and pay for our own sins in an awful place called hell. The good news is that Jesus Christ paid that price for us and that we can go to heaven But while we're here, he can relieve that sin off of our backs, and we can live a victorious Christian life right here on earth. To be a true patriot, you must love your country, keep it pure, build it, don't tear it down, protect it, be a model citizen, fear God, seek Him, but most importantly, receive His gospel. He did it all for you. He did it for me. I've heard many preachers say, you know, if if I'd have been the only one on earth Jesus would have still come and died for me on the cross of Calvary so I could have sweet communion, fellowship, and a relationship with God The Creator. He desires that. There might be somebody sitting here this morning, and God is tugging at your heart through the power of His Holy Spirit and saying, Hey, you've never trusted Christ. Uh you've tried to be a good person, just being a church member. You might uh be here and saying, Well, I've been baptized, I've got my baptismal certificate. None of those things will get you into heaven. Those are things you do after you get saved in obedience to God. Identifying with his death, burial, and resurrection. But you could be like I was for twenty-six years of my life, sitting on a church pew thinking that if I don't kill anybody, if I don't steal anything from anybody. If I don't do this, if I don't do that, I'll be good enough to get into heaven. Oh no, the Bible Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me If that's you this morning, the altar's open. If the Lord's dealing with your heart, don't put it off. Behold, now is the day of salvation. Now is the day he can take that sin that's so scarlet red and make it white as snow this morning if you but receive him And then to the rest of you that are saved here this morning, all the patriots that are in this place, we've got another country that we're patriots of. Abraham looked for a country with foundations whose builder and maker was God. Jesus said, let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in me, believe also in God. Oh, you believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also That's another country. We got dual citizenship right now, but I like that other citizenship better than the one I have even here, and I love America. Are you going to that other country one of these days? A lot of people seeing it. My mom's up there. She's in that great cloud of witnesses. Being able to look over and see Jesus Christ, seeing the mansion that Jesus has prepared for, walking on that street of gold transparent glass. Are you ready? We're living in uncertain days. I if I was lost this morning, I would not go out those doors before I made things right with God and asked the Lord Jesus Christ to come into my heart, forgive me of my sins and save me. Before it's too late. All heads bowed and all eyes closed this morning Are you a true Patriot Christian? There may be someone here this morning saying, preacher, you were talking to me. It wasn't me talking to you. It was the Holy Spirit of God speaking to your heart. Preacher, I don't know that if I died right now that I'd go to heaven, but I sure would like to know, hey, the altar's open, you can come down with it, take the word of God and show you how you can But if you don't want to come because of everything that's going on right now, just get with one of the preachers before you leave here today. Is there anybody like that? I just want to pray for you. I'm not going to embarrass you in any way But if there's anybody saying, Preacher, I don't know that if I died right now, if I close my eyes in death, that I would wake up in heaven. So anybody like that, real quickly, what raise your hand. Anybody, anywhere in the service See, I've tried to be a good person. I'm tired of running. I don't have peace in my heart. I don't have that hope. Anybody like it in the in the service this morning? Might be a Christian here this morning saying, I I I know I'm saved, I know I'm going to heaven, but I've gotten away from God. I I've just made some mistakes, made some bad decisions in my life. Well, uh just call it for what it is, it's sin. And just ask the Lord to forgive you. And then get back up in sweet communion with your Heavenly Father and be a patriot of his country and this one. Anybody the Lord spoke to your heart? Amen. See that hand? Just pick them up, put them back down. Amen.