Second Corinthians chapter number four. Tonight's message is a doctrinal sermon. Now tomorrow morning, God willing In the morning service, I want to preach an expository message from Psalm 101 that I entitled, Bring Your Bible to the Ballot Box. That seemed like a sermon we need right now in America. But tonight's a doctrinal sermon, and I titled it A Vision of the Lost. 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 1. Therefore, seeing. Okay, we've got to see it. Got to get a vision. Therefore, seeing we You and I, we, we Christians, have this ministry. As we have received mercy, we faint not, but have renounced. Oh Lord, please have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the Word of God deceitfully. But by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. And here's our text verse. But if Our gospel be hid. It is hid to them that are lost. Oh, a vision of the lost. Our gospel hidden to the lost folk of the world. Let's have some opening thoughts. Let's think. Let's think a little bit about lost people. How do lost people think? Folks that are not saved, how do they think? Well, it's different than a Christian. It's different. For example, you'll hear some lost people make this statement. I've had lost people say this to me. Well, Mr. Fox, that's your truth, but my truth, uh no. There's not your truth and my truth. There is truth. It's not my truth, your truth. Truth does not vary. No, there's just truth. But you hear lost people talking like that. You hear lost people saying there are no absolutes I was on a plane one time and a fellow with uh big credentials and very learned in many ways. He declared a lot of scientific things, and finally he's on the the uh aisle, I'm by the window, and he finally said, There are no absolutes. He was intimidating everybody around him, and I finally got sick of that I said, sir, I have a question. I raised the little window on the shade the shade on the window. I said, I got a question, sir. Is this plane flying? Well he backed himself into a corner, you know. He said, I don't know. I said, buddy, I got news for you. This plane's flying. There are absolutes There are absolutes. This is the absolute word of God. Jesus Christ is the absolute only way to heaven through Jesus. There are absolutes. But lost people try to sometimes tell you there are no absolutes Then lost people think that there's different standards. There's a standard for you, but there's a different standard for me. No uh As a man thinketh in his heart, that's how you hear him speaking. What about behavior of lost people? Lying? Should Christians lie? No. We should have a 100% honesty policy. You lie 1% of the time, you're a liar. Hundred percent honesty, but lost people lying, that's of their father the devil. And a lot of lost people just flat out lie. And all these special names for lying. Well, there's a little mendacity. Mendacity, which means untruthfulness. Well, there's a little perfidy Little subterfuge. Well, I may have prevaricated. How about what my mother-in-law calls it? Bald face lying. Yeah. Yeah, those other ones you hadn't heard before. Because they're fancy names for lying. Pride. Oh, so many lost folk just eaten up with pride. God resisteth the proud, but giveth gracious to the humble Greed. Remember the scripture? The lost man is going to build bigger barns. Yeah. Selfishness. Seekest thou great things for thyself, seek them not. That's what the preacher Jeremiah said. I read it this morning. Oh, a crooked and perverse generation. The heart of man is desperately wicked, the Bible declares. The lost are blind, it says in this passage. Look at verse 4, in whom look at verse 4, in whom the God of this world hath blinded. The minds of them which believe not. Oh, may God stir our hearts tonight for lost people. Let me tell you, we were in West Virginia yesterday. I thought back 42 years ago. 42 years ago, I was 15 years old. And I heard a West Virginia preacher pray before he preached. It's B. R. Lakin. Before he prayed, he said, Oh Lord, please put a love in my heart. For everyone for whom Jesus died. Young people, I wish you'd write that down. I wish you'd start praying that. I wish all of us start praying that. Oh Lord, please put a love in my heart for everyone for whom Jesus died. When lost people are ugly to you, mean to you, vicious even, don't retaliate like the sermon talked about yesterday. No. Pray for them. Intercede. Try to win them to Christ. Last March I got to give my testimony in the White House, in Vice President Pence's office. And uh that was quite a thrill, you know. I was in there and beforehand I'm drinking water out of a little plastic cup said the office of the vice president of the United States of America. I'm drinking that cup I took that cup home with me, man I showed it to my wife, I said, Look here. I slept with it beside me that night. I have no idea where that thing is now. But I got to tell sixty White House workers last March how I received Christ as an eight-year-old boy. As I walked out of the White House, some Cantankerous lawyer had gotten my cell phone and began to harangue me because of what I'd just done. I didn't retaliate. His name is Tony. I began to correspond with him, trying to win him. This past January I was in Montana preaching I was driving to church in Montana in January, and I got a message from Tony. Never had his message ever started this way. He said, Brother Fox, you never call me Brother Fox. Never. Brother Fox, my friend is dying. Will you pray? Still trying to win Tony to Christ. Look, lost people just need a Christian to just keep trying to win them to Christ, friends. I want us to get a vision for lost right now. Number one, a sinner is lost right now in this world. Point number one, a sinner is lost right now in this world We always think uh where you often think about they're lost in the future. No, they're lost right now, right this moment. John 3. 17, we know John 3. 16. Here's John 3. 17. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world. But that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not Is condemned already because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. 1 John 5:12. He that hath the Son hath life And he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. How bad is it to be lost right now? Well The lost are shut out from prayer with God. I hear lost people saying, Oh, I'm praying. God has not obligated himself to answer the prayer of lost people. The only prayer of lost people God has obligated himself to is when that lost sinner says, Lord, would you save me? Now God's merciful. He allows the rain to come on the just and the unjust. But lost politicians, lost people in the community said, I'm praying God has not obligated Himself to answer their prayers. Now, God does hear the prayers of Christians. Hallelujah. Prayer is for the Christian. Amen. What about all the resources of heaven? All those manifold resources of heaven, are they at the disposal of lost people? No, sir. It's Christians who have access to the resource of heaven. Well, how about all the comforts? All the comforts during this pandemic thing. My cousin died over there in the hospital, 70 years old Couldn't be with him. He had a liver problem. It wasn't COVID. He had a liver problem. Couldn't be there with him. But he and I worked together as boys. And Johnny was a pretty rough guy. It was out about completely out of control. But I remember in our 20s when Johnny got right with God. And Johnny at his business, he never, after he got right with God, Johnny never printed business cards ever again for his business that he didn't put the gospel on the back side. Because God changed him, man. Now, when Johnny passed away, I knew where he was. He was with the Lord. Great comfort for Christians. But lost people The comfort of heaven, God's peace. It's forfeited with lost folk They're on tranquilizers and booze and say somehow trying to cope with life. Not like a Christian A Christian who has the good Holy Spirit, got the word, got the assurance of salvation. And then what about fellowship? Fellowship with God. The world does not understand our fellowship with God. Lost people don't comprehend. It's a total mystery. And us getting together, Sunday school, morning service, evening service, choir practice, Monday night, Tuesday morning, Tuesday night The world is like, that doesn't make any sense. It doesn't to them. Because the mystery of fellowship among God's people, they don't comprehend it. Huh, I don't know why they just keep going to church. No, they don't know why. Man, what a fellowship, what a joy, divine, leaning on the everlasting arms. Ha ha ha ha. Amen But you see, lost folk, they don't have fellowship with God's people. And then remember what the Bible says, that God is angry with the wicked every day. My dad's eighty-five years old. I can remember when I was a little boy. Remember one time when as a little boy, we all came to the supper table. My mom had made supper. I went in there to eat and our family all gathered around and uh I made a bad decision I decided I'd sass my mama. My dad was for from what you call the old school. He was not impressed. And um I incurred the wrath of my dead. Rightfully so I would hate to disappoint my dad today. He's the best Christian man I know. He's a common, ordinary man. He can barely stand now. He loves God with all of his heart. I really wouldn't want to disappoint my dad, much less have him angry with me. How bad is it to have God angry with you? A lost sinner is lost right now in the world. Right now, number two, a sinner is lost in death. A sinner is lost in death. Romans 6 23, the wages of sin is death And next to Jesus of this passage right here, 2 Corinthians, you find that Paul's talking about trials and troubles and that particular time period, and he talks about death coming to Christians, children of God. He speaks about it. He speaks about death being triumphant for Christians. It's a glorious hour. It's precious for a Christian to go home. But those that are lost It's agony, it's judgment, it's darkness, it's eternal death It's hopeless. No hope. Is death a respecter of people? No. Save people are dying. But a lot of lost people are dying every single day. That's why we've got to get these gospel tracts out. That's why in every direction we've just got to keep finding ways to get the gospel out. Broadcasting, FM, uh our uh FBN radio station. Every way, every way we can think. Young people just keep finding ways to get the gospel out. All of us. Amen. Because lost people, they're lost in death. How different it is for a lost man to die versus a saved man. Number three. A sinner is lost at the great white throne judgment. Oh, the great white throne judgment. Let me read it to you. If you're listening, say amen. Let me read it to you. Revelation chapter twenty. And I saw a great, great white throne. And him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were opened, and another book was opened. Which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it. And death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them And they were judged every man according to their works, and death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. And then the Holy Scripture says, and whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Now quickly turn to 2 Thessalonians. 2 Thessalonians The Church of Thessalonica was a wonderful church. It was a model church. Second Thessalonians. Chapter one talks about God's retributive judgment. Look at this, Second Thessalonians chapter one And verses 8 and 9. There's so many happy passages in the Bible, but this is very sober. Please look. 2 Thessalonians 1, verse 8. In Flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall be punished With everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. I remember early in my ministry a funeral for a lost man. The man had died as a lost man. Every man dies either as a saved man or a lost man. Either as a child of God or a child of the devil. He died as a child of the devil. His wife was lost. And she was standing beside the casket. And I remember. She's standing right here, and her arm kept going up as she made this statement. I'm so glad of the justice of God. I'm so glad of the justice of God. Ma'am, you don't know what you're talking about. Because of the justice of God, this man, this husband of yours, is in hell. And he's going to be in hell forever. How ignorant. I hear people say, I hear people out in the world say to each other, I wish you'd go to hell. I can't bring myself to say that. Whoever it is in the world that's been the meanest, most wicked to me, I couldn't tell them that. I don't want anybody in this world to go to hell. Why are we having this sword conference? Well, lots of reasons. We have a good time. We like singing. We like glorifying. We like worshiping our Lord. But one reason we have this is we're trying to keep people out of hell. Oh Lord Are you getting a vision of the lost? I hope so. Number one, a sinner is lost right now in this world. Number two, a sinner is lost in death. Number three, a sinner is lost at the great white throne judgment. Number four A sinner is lost in torment forever. It's eternal. Let me read this to you. Listen. It came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried. And in hell, he lift up his eyes, being in torment, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom They cried and said, Father, Abraham, have mercy on me and send Lazarus. That he may dip the tip of his finger in water and crawl my tongue, for I am to omit it in this flame But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivest thy good things, and likewise last with evil things. But now he is comforted, and thou art tormented. And beside all this, between us and you there's a great gulf fixed. They which would pass from hence to you cannot, neither can they pass to us, that they would come from thence. Jesus called it torment Well I'll just have a party in hell, Brother Fox. No, you won't. You don't understand hell. Is there memory in hell? Yeah. Are there senses in hell? Yes. How long does it last? Forever. I'm glad there's a point five to this sermon. Number five, no sinner needs to remain lost. No sinner needs to remain lost. Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost. Jesus died for the lost. Jesus loves the lost. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Oh yes. Oh. I walked into Nancy Pelosi's office about three years ago. I went there to pray with her. I've gone to almost everybody in Congress. I go three to five times a year, but I remember distinctly As I walked into her office, it seemed like God spoke right to my heart and said, Byron, you remember my son died for her. It's God's will for her to get saved. It's God's will for everyone to be saved. Don't hate these people. Pray for them. Now I stand against everything they do that's wrong. But I'll tell you, they need to be born again. God's not willing that any should perish, but all should come to repentance. God has provided a way of salvation. So let's have some conclusions. Conclusion number one, we need to have compassion for the lost. I mean a real heart of love for the lost. Let's have that our daily prayer. Oh Lord, please put a love in my heart for everyone for whom Jesus died. And I saw these young people write that down. Pray it. Pray it. Jesus loves the lost. Remember the lady at the well? Talking about prevarication, she tried it with the Lord. I have no husband. That's prevarication because you've had five husbands. Jesus said so. He knew it. No need to prevaricate with the Lord. You know that woman got saved that day. And boy, the first thing she does is become a soul winner. She went back there to her people and said, Hey, you've got to see this man! And she's starting pointing folks at Jesus right away. That's what saved people need to do. Just keep pointing folks to Jesus. You want to be successful? Just keep pointing folks to Jesus. I wrote a track recently, earlier this year. Because of this incident. I I was running through the airport. I was in um I landed in Atlanta, not far from you. Landing in Atlanta. I'm flying down to C. T. Townsend's place. So I land there and stop jogging through the place, got a mask on, all that sort of stuff, and here's a young lady, 25-ish years old, and tears just dripping out of her eyes I said, oh, what can I do to help you? Well, she couldn't find her gate. She couldn't figure out what gate to go to. I said, oh, let's find out. Let me let me have to say I said, woo. Your plane leaves in 35 minutes. We've got to find this fast. I got a helper. I said, oh I know where your gate is. Come with me We're walking, I said, gotta walk faster, come on. We're gonna get left. Tears still streaming. I said, young lady, there's nothing to be worried about I say, God's still on the throne today. And she said to me, she says, God doesn't care for me. I said, young lady, I'm here to tell you God does care. I said, the reason I stopped to help you is because I'm a servant of God. That's the reason I stopped. And I'm here to tell you, God loves you. In the Bible, you never find one time where it's recorded that Jesus laughed. I believe he's the most joyful person ever to be on the earth. It's never recorded that he laughed. It's never recorded that he even smiled. It's recorded three times that he wept. You know why? Because he cares. All the lost folk in Oakland, Maryland, all of them down there in Georgia, my state of Virginia, West Virginia, wherever you're from, Jesus loves them all. Would you bow your heads? Let's have a little time of prayer right now. Let me ask you. Who is it That you're interceding for on a daily basis for their salvation. I've got a prayer list. Should every Christian have a prayer list? Yes. And on my, I've got 17 currently. People that I'm praying for on a daily basis for their salvation. One's out in Nebraska, his name is Wayne. I don't know why, but God just put his him right on my heart. And through the years, I've been able to take several off, numbers of people off. Won't you come to the altars, those that want to, and intercede for some lost people right now? Yeah, come on. Come on. Just get up and come pray We believe in intercessory prayer. Let's dedicate ourselves to being soul winners. Let's get a real vision for the lost. Oh Lord, who's going to win the lost? It's going to be God's people. The atheists are not trying to win lost people to Jesus. The people of the devil are not trying to win them. Who are you interceding for? Then let me ask this question. Is there anyone in this room that you yourself, you're lost? And you want to be found tonight. You want to be saved. Is there anyone like that tonight? Is there anyone in this room who said, Brother Fox, I want to be saved? How do I get saved? Well, number one, repent of your sin. Jesus said, Except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. Then the Bible says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Call on the Lord. Lord, save me. There's never been anyone who's called on the Lord and said, Lord, would you save me? There's never been one that's called on the Lord that God said, I won't save you. No, he always says yes. I'll save you. I'll save you. I've seen God save people. I've seen God save bartenders. I've seen God save the bouncer. There's no one God can't save The throne of heaven is occupied, and there never will be a sinner that God can't redeem. Our pastor is coming to continue the invitation as he sees fit. You just mind the Lord.