Now, last message of the week, and so let's really ask the Lord to speak our hearts. I look back and it's hard to believe that I've preached over a hundred messages here, huh? Makes me feel old. Even though I'm only thirty-nive. Still not flying, is it? Well I've had a great time here. Always have a good time here, one of my favorite churches to come to. I mean that. And uh I I appreciate the kindness and the hospitality that you've extended to me. And uh we'll continue to pray for this meeting. Uh we we pray for ya we pray for you on a regular basis anyway. But uh we always pray for the meetings after the meetings that uh that the uh the the the uh the the messages and the decisions will bear fruit. And of course that's what the week is all about, amen. And so I hope I hope when you go home tonight, maybe tonight or in the quietness of of tomorrow, that uh you'll think of the decisions that you made this week. And then uh write down what you're going to do as a result of those decisions. And then follow through on that. If you don't do that, you're going to be remaking that decision six months from now. And uh let me just put a little reminder here. I don't know who I'm talking to, but a little reminder again, you know, if uh you know i i if if you raised your hand the other night and say, you know what, I I I I want to be a so this is so important, if I want to be a soul winner. Don't make excuses. Don't postpone. Go back there and get one of those little New Testaments. Amen? Get one of them. And uh You know, Jerry said if you don't have the money he'll pay for it. No, he didn't say that. But uh get one and uh you know pay the pastor or let the pastor know you're gonna you'll pay him or whatever and uh but uh it is just so important. That when you have that opportunity to do it, go ahead and do it. And because if you don't, you'll keep on making excuses and then they'll fall by the wayside. But again, I've had a great time And uh I just I'm just praying that uh you'll see some great fruit that remains as a result of the week that we've had. Well, if you have your Bibles, turn over to Genesis chapter 25. Genesis chapter 25 I'm going to try and wrap everything up that we preached on this week tonight. Amen? And that'll only take about four or five hours. I'm only kidding visitors. I th I think we've been getting out of here a pretty good time. I've only had one person complain about you. Only one person the whole week walked out and said, You went a little bit long tonight. I don't care. Genesis chapter twenty seven, verse twenty five. And the boys grew, and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field, and Jacob was a plain man. Dwelling in tents. And Isaac loved Esau because he did eat of his venison. But Rebekah loved Jacob. And Jacob saw potties, and Esau came from the field, and he was faint. And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red pottage, for I am faint. Therefore was his name called Edom And Jacob said, Show me this day thy birthright. And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die. What profit shall the birthright do to me? And Jacob sweat said, Swear to me this day, and he swear unto him, and he sold his birthright unto Jacob. Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils, and he did eat and drink. And rose up and went his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright. I'm going to bring you a message entitled tonight, A Wasted Life. A Wasted Life. Let's pray. Father. As we try and uh wrap everything up tonight, Lord, I pray that uh all of us Right now would examine our lives and where we're at spiritually. Lord, if there's somebody here tonight and they're not saved, They don't know where they're gonna spend forever. Help them to understand the night. They don't have to go to hell. They can go to heaven simply by asking Jesus in their heart as their Savior. It's that easy. And then, Lord, for those of us who have trusted Christ, Lord, I pray that tonight's message might be an emphasis. On the importance of making our life count for God once again. Lord, give us a good service, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I believe Esau, when we read about Esau, I believe Esau is a man that had much, much potential to God, but he wasted it. I believe what we see here is a man who, when he got to the end of his life This is sad. He got to the end of his life. He looked back on his life, and he only saw nothing. A life that was absolutely wasted as far as serving God. Now, we might say something like this: Well, Brother Barnes, how sad, how tragic For a person to live their life, am I not right, to live their life, and then at the end of their life look back on their life and see absolutely nothing spiritually accomplished in that life. Yeah, it is sad. But can I suggest something tonight? I believe tonight that's the story of many a Christian tonight. We live our short lives. And folks, can I say it again? Life is short. Come on, old people. Huh? Man, it's short. We we live our sixty, seventy, if we're lucky, eighty years And if we're not careful, we can get to the end of our life, look back, and see a wasted spiritual life. Now, here's the question How does this happen? You know, I by and la by and large, I don't think a lot of people waste their lives spiritually on purpose. I don't I I I think a lot of people have good intentions. And so, how does this happen? In the lives of so many people that we waste the spiritual opportunities that we have to serve God. I believe, as we look at this passage that I just read. We can see four. Don't get nervous here. I won't be long on these four. If you've been here all week, you know we've gotten out in pretty good time. But I believe as we look at this passage, we can see four. I mean Great, great spiritual lessons from Esau on how you and me, how we tonight can avoid wasting our lives. Would you like to get to four? You're gonna get him anyway, just do this, you know, just make me feel better. Amen? What's the first lesson? Take a look at verse twenty-nine. Notice this little phrase. And he was what? Faint. Did you get that? Let me say it again. And we'll explain this. And he was faint. Here's the first lesson: go by what you know and not what you feel. You know what I thought was a little bit interesting? Before I got up and preached tonight. Your pastor already got a head start in the service. He didn't know what I was preaching. But you remember tonight when your preacher got up and he said, What is your authority for how you live? Remember that? I thought, oh my, he's going to preach my sermon. Now, look, listen, let me ask you something tonight. Be honest. What is your authority for how you live? Well, we got two people that are living according to the rest of you. What are you? Come on. What is your authority for how you live? The Bible. He said, come on, preacher, why, you know, we know that. Why I'll tell you why I'm parking there. Because someday, at the judgment seat of Christ. You're not going to have an excuse. Someday, someday, if you're not living, if your authority isn't the word of God, someday if the judgment seat of Christ, God's going to point you back to that night. And he's going to say, Do you remember when that preacher got up and he made you say the Bible? Now listen, either you're telling the truth or you're lying. Folks, listen to me. If you're here tonight and you're saved, Your authority for living your life and making every decision in your life ought to be the Bible. And so, according to listen to me, according to that, you need to go according to what you No! And not what you feel. Now let me ask you a question. Did Esau know the importance? Did he know the importance of the birthright? Absolutely. Genesis chapter 27, verse 34. Here it is. And when Esau heard the words of his father. He cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry and said unto his father, he knew he lost the birthright. Unto his father, bless me, even me also, O my Father. See, let me tell you something. He knew the importance of the word. You see, the point is this. You're here tonight and you're sitting here and you're saved. Listen to me, you know how to live. You know how to live. You know, listen tonight as you see, you know right from wrong. You know that someday if you're saved You have a judgment seat of Christ that you have to face and answer to Jesus. Now, by the way, let me just say this. If you're here tonight and you're not saved, you don't have a judgment seat of Christ. You've got a great white throne judgment. The great white throne judgment someday is where unsaved people are going to stand to hear the words of condemnation that are going to send them to hell forever. And friend, listen to me, it doesn't have to be. You, according to the word of God, you can get saved tonight. Know you're on your way to heaven, and you can avoid going to hell forever But the Bible, if you're saved, the Bible ought to be the authority for every area of your life. But you know what we do? Be honest here. So many of us, so many of us, we do exactly what Esau did. I know, preacher, I know. I know God wants me to serve him. I know, I know God wants me to make this decision I know that God has commanded me to be a soul winner. God has commanded me to have a ministry. God has commanded me to join a good local church and serve and be faithful. I know that And you know what? I will, I will someday, when I feel like it, when I get ready. And here's what happens. Before you know it, before you know it, five, ten, fifteen, twenty, thirty years goes by like that. And all of a sudden you wake up one day and you're faced with the fact, I have wasted my life Let me tell you something, folks. So often, so often, because of our flesh nature. The wrong decision looks better than the right decision. Did you get that? And you better understand that. Because of our flesh nature, The wrong decision so often looks better than the right decision. When God called me into evangelism, I was I was fifty years old. You don't have to say it that way, Jerry. Mmm. Mm. Now that's what I said. When God called me in it, I went, mmm. Now you know why? Because I had security. I have security. And now all of a sudden I am launching out by faith, I'm scared to death. We didn't have the finances. But wait a minute, I absolutely now listen to me. Feelings-wise, was I scared to death. Oh man. But according to God listen, I absolutely knew that God wanted me to do this. We went into evangelism. My wife can back this up. We went into evangelism, still didn't have any meetings. And one night. About three weeks into evangelism, that's not very long. You're still running scared. You're still questioning I get a phone call from what we might call a megachurch. Y'all know what I'm talking about? This is a biggie. If I name the church, you'd know it. A big church. It was the chairman of the first his first name was uh um Can't remember his first name anymore. Terrible, isn't it? Bob. Frank. Joe. Whatever. But I knew him. And uh we talked a little bit, and he said, Brother Barron, he said, the reason I call you is he said uh the pastor Asked me to call you and offer you the position of the senior associate in this church. He said, before you say anything. He says starting salary. Now listen to me, this was years ago. He says starting salary, $70,000. He said, You get a new car. You get a housing allowance. You get a gym membership. You get this, you get that, you get this. And I'm thinking, all that And I'm not making a penny. Now, remember what we're saying? Go by what you know and not what you feel. Now, I'm gonna tell you something. On the phone that night, I'm gonna tell you something. I had a real good feeling right about them. Huh? You know what I'm thinking? He's talking, he's talking. I mean, he's doing me a cell job. And I'm thinking, you know what? I I I can I could take this. I can still be serving God. I'm still in full-time service. Man, I'm going to be in a big, important church. But wait a minute, was it the wrong move? Yeah, you know why? Because if I had made that move, I would have been moving on feelings instead of absolutely moving on what I knew God wanted me. Listen to me, I absolutely knew God wanted me to go into evangelism. It didn't matter what I felt. I had better do what I know. See, you know what feeling says? You know what you know what your feeling says? The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence. But you know what the other side of the fence is? AstroTurf You know what? Let me tell you something, it was it was really tempting. But if I had made that move based on feelings, based on emotions, think about this. I would have missed out on everything over these years that God had for me. Go by what you know, the word of God, and not how you feel. God promised Israel the promised land. They knew that. They had already seen God's great power. What happened? They felt They felt as if they couldn't do it. And look at the price they paid. A terrible, horrible price. Because they went by what they felt and not what they hey Eve. Eve knew she should not have taken a bite out of the fruit of the tree. But here, listen, she felt There's no real harm in taking one little, just one little bite of this fruit. Yeah. And look at where we're at tonight. David knew, he knew, when he looked out and he saw Bathsheba, he knew that he should not have continued looking. He knew that he should not have called Bathsheba over. But he felt that he was the exception of the rule. And look at how badly David messed up his life. Well, preacher, I still think that I still think, yeah, you go ahead and you go ahead and think that way. I'm gonna tell you what you're gonna do. You're gonna waste your life. You're gonna waste your life. One of the best decisions, one of the best decisions you could ever make in your life, if not the best decision you could ever make, is to say this. You know what? By the grace of God, I am going to do what God wants. That's what I know. I'm gonna live my life according to the Bible. You'll never go wrong. You'll never make a bad move. If I had a dollar for every time I felt something, if I had a dollar for every time I thought something I was wrong, I'd be a multimillionaire. I am much much better off going by what I know, the Bible. And I'll never go wrong. Number one, go by what you know and not what you feel. Here's the second great lesson. It's found in verse 31. Verse 31. Notice this. And Jacob said, Sell me, what's the next two words? One more time, real quick. This day shell me this day thy birthright Here's the second great, I mean great lesson here. Take the long view and not the short view. Do you know where Esau made his big mistake? He had to have something now. I've got to have it now I can't wait. And in doing that He forgot what was most valuable. The birthright. He lived for the day and forgot about tomorrow. By the way, can I just say this? You take a you take a you take a little kid. Take take one of these. I I'm not gonna do it because we don't have the time, but see these little kids way back here? See all these little kids? And that young lady with them, the real young lady sitting in the middle right there. Yeah, right there. That real young lady. What are you you are you are you their sister? I just made her day, didn't I? But listen, you take all them little kids, I I'd almost guarantee you this If I walked up to them and I said this, I will give you a six-pack of Reese's peanut butter cuffs tonight. Or if you wait till the first of May, I'll give you a case. Ninety-nine times out of a hundred, what are they gonna say? Yeah, some of you ladies will say the yeah, chocolate now, huh? 99 times out of a hundred, the kid will say, man, I don't want to wait. I want what I can see. I want the peanut butter cup. Forget about the case of 500. I want the six now. Now we say this, stupid kid. You like that, don't you? How many of us do the same thing? Oh me. Huh How many do we have sitting here tonight that are living for the here and now? I want to satisfy myself today. Forget about tomorrow. And I've got to have this, I've got to have that, I've got to have a bigger house, I've got to have a nicer car. Hey, and by the way, listen to me, listen to me, get this. There's nothing wrong with having a nice house Nothing wrong with having a nice car. Nothing wrong with having a back again. Nothing wrong. But so often that we make those things our God. And so we get this attitude, man, I gotta have this, I gotta have, and we forget some. There is a tomorrow. And so often, when that tomorrow comes, with the tomorrow comes much heartache. And much sorrow and much regret. I was in Georgetown, Texas Preach in a meeting. Just like I do here, I stand by the door. Say goodnight to everybody. Or goodbye. Get out of here. Whatever. I was standing by the door, and this man walked by, shook his hand, said, uh, have a good evening. And he looked at me, here's what he I'll never forget, he looked at me, he says, I wish you to never come. I'm thinking, uh oh. I said, excuse me. He says, I wish you'd have never come this week. I said I mean I'm a nice guy. I said, why? He said, Preacher. He said forty years ago God called me to be an evangelist. And I said no. I told God that I wanted to make a little bit more money. That's what he told me. He said, I told God That I wanted to enjoy life a little bit more. He said 40 years ago. And he said, here I am, my early seventies, and I've wasted my life. And he said, preacher, every time, here what he said. He said, every time you get up behind the pulpit and preach as an evangelist, you remind me, you remind me. Of what I could have been. And I I'd give anything in the world to turn back the clock. And say yes to God instead of no. Can I remind you of something, folks? You can't turn back the clock. Somebody one time said that life is like money. You can spend it any way you want, but you only get to spend it one time. And so you better make sure it counts. Hey, I'm going to tell you something. Listen to me. Get this. We've already said this a couple, I'm going to say it again though. Repetition I think is good. Do you believe you're going to die? Come on. If you don't believe that, you're not facing reality. If you believe that someday you're gonna die, think about this Someday, someday on your deathbed. When you're laying on your deathbed, are you going to be thinking about all the money you made? Are you going to be thinking about all the things you are you going to be thinking about that? I don't think so. Do you know what I think a lot of Christians are going to be thinking about as they lay on their deathbed getting ready to slip out into eternity? You know what I think they're going to be? They're going to be thinking this. In some some form of words. Sure wish I'd have taken a long view. Sure wish I I hadn't lived just for today. And now here I am, I'm on my deathbed, and I have nothing to show for it. Friend, listen to me. I beg of you, take the long view. Not the short. You will never regret taking the long view. We come into this world with nothing. When you were born, you came into this world as naked as a jaybird. Amen. And when you go out, you're also going out as naked as a jaybird. You're going out with nothing. 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 6. Paul says that I mean this is one of my favorite verses. Paul says this From now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Now get this Have you ever stopped to think of how few Christians could ever say this? You say, preacher? How could Paul make a statement like I'll tell you how you can make a statement like that because Paul took the long view and not the short view. Go by what you know and not what you feel. Second principle. Take the Wrong view. And these are easy to remember, aren't they? And not the shirt view. Here's the third one. Verse 32. Verse 32. And Esau said, Watch this, and Esau said, Be home Behold, I am at the point to die Are you ready? Don't exaggerate. Face reality. Esau. No, you're not. Esau, you're not gonna die. Now, wait a minute. Before you go Pharisaical on me. We all exaggerate. I didn't get one amen out of that. I'm so hungry I could eat a horse. By the time you got here, I've been waiting forever for you. We all exaggerate. You ever wonder though? You ever wonder why we do exaggerate? I'll tell you why we exaggerate. It gives an excuse for the flesh. So we don't have to face reality. We don't have to we we we exaggerate so we don't have to face our problems. We exaggerate so we don't have to make a decision. I'm going to tell you, listen to this. Exaggeration in the spiritual realm will destroy your life. Here's what we do. Well, preacher. Preacher, I just don't have time to serve God I mean, I mean, I mean, preacher, I can't live in church. You know anybody that lives in church? Come on. You come on Sunday, you come on Wednesday a couple times a year. Do you have am I not right? I can't let what is that? That's exaggerate. You know why you exaggerate on stuff like that? So you don't have to face reality for skipping church. That's why we say stuff like that. Well, I can't afford to tithe. I can't afford to take a ministry. Let me tell you something, folks. When you lie to yourself, and that's what you're doing, when you lie to yourself by exaggerating, you hurt only yourself. That's it. And maybe those closest to you. God told Israel, go up and possess the promised land. I'll give it to you. Now, what did Israel know? They knew that God wanted them to be, they knew that God was going to give them the am I right? Here's what they did. Watch, here's what they said. Deuteronomy chapter 1, verse 28. Whither shall we go up? You see, you've got to read your Bible how people talk. Whither, how, whither shall we go up? Our brethren have discouraged our hearts saying The people is greater and taller than we. The cities are great and walled up to heaven. Wow. Was that true? No. What were they doing? Exaggerating. Why? So they didn't have to obey God and face reality. Oh preacher, I I can't be a soul winner. I I can't talk. Oh yes you can Check your cell phone how many minutes you talk on that cell phone every month. Well well preacher, I I man, I I just I just can't You know, Sunday, Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday, man, preacher, i it's just so hard to no let me tell you what that is. That is you exaggerating to make yourself an excuse for being lazy and carnal. Hey, don't get mad. I'm just telling it like it is. And so often, so often, it is hard to face reality. But in the end, listen, I preach on this Sunday night, but in the end, listen to me, who's responsible for your life? Who's responsible for how you live your life? Yeah, you. You. And someday, listen to me, someday we can't blame others We can't blame circumstances. In the end, if you waste your life, it's your own fault. Hey, I'll say it again. Do you actually, do you, if you're saved, if you're saved. Do you actually think, do you actually believe someday at the judgment seat of Christ, God is going to accept your excuses, your exaggerations for not being a soul winner and letting people go to hell? For not being what you ought to be, for not serving God and heaven. You actually think God's going to take those excuses? I don't think so. You see, listen to me, folks. When we do battle, when we do battle, and this is what it is, when we do battle against the flesh, it is always easier to exaggerate than face reality. And if you allow exaggerations to r to and excuses to rule your life, you'll waste your life. Number one, go by what you know and not what you feel. Number two, take the long view and not the short view. Number three, don't exaggerate. Face reality. Here's the last one. The last part of verse 22, 32. The last part of verse 32. Take a look at that. Listen, I hope, listen. Hope this is not just a sermon. I hope you're making this personal. Verse thirty-two. Esau says this, and what profit shall this birthright do to me? Here's the last lesson. Seek the counsel of others before you answer your own questions. Stay with me on this. Seek the counsel of others before you answer your own questions. Who is Esau asking this question of? Himself. What good, here's what he's saying: what good is this birthright going to do me if I die? Now I'm going to give you tonight I'm going to give you a good lesson in Life 101. If you argue with yourself, you're going to lose every time. Only listen to me, only a fool argues with himself. Hey, you ever going to diet? Come on. Something you need to. I'm not looking. I'm not looking. They're gonna die? Listen, watch us. Should I or shouldn't I? Eat this last, this last lonely piece of soft, moist Creamy, rich, decadent, sinful chocolate cake. Should I? You're gonna lose. Come on, Evan, come on, you're gonna lose. Huh? We wake up. This is how it works. We wake up on Sunday morning. And it's raining. Oh yeah, I'm going there. Now I'm gonna go there doubly. We wake up on Sunday morning. It's raining. Should I or not should I skip Sunday school? I mean, it's raining out And if I venture outside the doors of my house this morning, I'm going to get wet. And I'll probably ruin my clothes. And there's probably a good chance that I'll catch malaria. And I'll end up down here in the hospital and I i i I'll probably die and so it it's just better if I just skip Sunday school this morning. Hey, you're gonna lose every time. Let me ask you something. I know I'm preaching to the choir, but listen, are there not people, are there not people that could have been at the meetings this week? What happened? I'll tell you what happened. They lost the argument with themselves. I know I should have been out Monday night or two, but you know, man, I was just tired. I I you know I I just you know and I've heard it all before. So so why should I go? Should I uh you're gonna lose. You're gonna lose I'll tell you what I do. Whenever I have any made I I don't I always seek the counsel of other preachers. And you know what I tell them? I want you to be brutally honest and brutally blunt with me. I'll tell you what else I do. All the time I go to my wife and I say, honey This is what I'm thinking. What do you think? Now I'm gonna tell you something. I don't have I don't have to ask her to be brutal. She she's brutal handle. What do you think? Are you nuts? Do you even have a brain? So I suppose you don't I I think it's the stupidest idea you ever had. You know, in a in a in a submissive way she says that. Folks listen. That is why it is so important. You know I'm exaggerating on that, don't you? Listen, that's why it's so important. Hey, argue with you, you're gonna lose. And man, if you have some major, you better seek the counsel of somebody that's spiritual Proverbs chapter 11, verse 14, where no counsel is, the people fall. But in the multitude of counselors, there is safety. Proverbs chapter 15, verse 22. Without counsel, purposes are disappointed. But in the multitude of counselors, they are established. Proverbs chapter 20, verse 18. Every purpose, every purpose is established by counsel. And with good advice make war. God's word has a lot to say about getting good godly counsel. Listen, I'm done. I'm done. But get this. I can't answer for you. I'm 66. I know I don't look that old. Thank you. And amen would be comforting. I'm sixty-six. I am on the downside of life. I am. I'm gonna tell you something. Do you know what I want? Someday I want to look back, look back on my entire life. And I want to see God using me. I want to know that I was in the will of God as much as I could be. I want to see souls saved. I want to see people influenced. I want to see the blessings of God. I want to see that all my life. How about you? Don't just say, listen, this better be real. How about you? You see, if you don't, if you don't have that goal, you are going to live a wasted life. Go by what you know. What do you know? Right here ought to be your final authority. Right there. What God tells you, you know, you do, you'll never go wrong. Never go wrong. If you go on feelings, you're going to mess up. Let the Bible be your roadmap. Let the Bible be the compass in your life. Go by what you know, not what you feel. Take the long view, not the short view. You know what the devil wants you to do? The devil wants you to take the candy bar today. You all understand what I'm saying now, don't you? He wants you to forget- Listen, the devil wants you to forget that there's a tomorrow. At the end of your life, what are you going to have spiritually? Trash or treasure? If you're saved, what are you going to have? Don't exaggerate. Face reality. Listen, folks, quit making excuses. I know it's hard to face your I know that. But if you go through life exaggerating, if you go through life making excuses, you're gonna be a failure. Seek the counsel of others before you answer your own questions. You know why? Because you're always going to lose if you if you a if you ask yourself questions. Go see the preacher. Talk to somebody that you know is spiritual. And lend great weight to the counsel and the advice that they give to you. Let's bow our heads and close your eyes, every head bowed, every eye closed. A wasted life. Every single, every single man, woman, and young person in here tonight. Listen. You're the one that decides. You're the one that makes the difference as to whether you waste your life or you make your life count for God. It's up to you. Very simple, general question tonight. Not going to be specific, not going to embarrass you. How you're living your life is none of my business. Between you and God, really. But here's the question. I'm wondering how many we have here tonight that would say, preacher, as you preach this message, is a great reminder on the Christian life. Brother Barns. I don't want to waste my life. Someday, just like you said, someday, when I get if God allows me to live to be 60 or 70 or 80, someday when I look back on my life. I want to see blessings. I want to see souls saved. I want to see people that I have influenced spiritually. I don't want to waste my life. I want to make it count. Would you pray for me that I would not waste my life for God? Would you slip your hands up tonight? Just slip them up all over the other. Thank you. Just thank you. Amen. Many, many, many, many hands. Thank you. Lots of hands. Anybody else? Hey, listen, this is the last night. You know what that means? This is the last opportunity that maybe some of you have to allow the Holy Spirit to deal with your heart. Don't make excuses. In other words, don't exaggerate. Don't say, well, I'll make the decision next week. No, you're taking the short view. Take the long view. I'm going to make that decision tonight. I'm tired of messing around, tired of fooling around, tired of making excuses. I need to do something with my life spiritually. God dealt with me about that tonight, preacher. Pray for me. Anybody else real quick? Just slip it up, put it back down, I'll pray for you. Anybody else real quick? Had many, many hands raised the first time. But is there anybody else? Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else Let me ask one other question. Maybe, I don't know, but maybe tonight we have somebody here and you're not saved. Friend, Hebrews 927 uh says it's appointed to men once to die, but after this the judgment. You see, you already know this. You're gonna die. And it might be a lot sooner than what you think. For all you know, for all you know, if you're here tonight and and you don't know where you're gonna spend forever, for all you know this might be your last night on the face of the earth. But you better understand something. The very second you die, I mean the very millisecond you die, it is already decided where you're going to spend forever. There's no stop-offs, there's no second chances, and there's only two places you can spend forever: heaven or hell. That's it. And God's word, remember what I said? God's word This is how you know this. God's word says in order to go to heaven, you've got to be born again. You've got to be saved. In John 3:7, Jesus said to Nicodemus, You must, you must be born again. In other words, you must be saved. Why? Because you're a sinner. And because we sin, we deserve to go to hell. But can I remind you again? God didn't make hell for you. God doesn't want you to go to hell. God wants you to go to heaven. If you walk out of here tonight and you die in a car wreck on your way home and you go to hell, you have nobody to blame but yourself. You know why? Because you took the short view and not the long view. Do you know what the long view ought to be? Here's the long view. If you're not saved, here's the long view. Hell's forever. Hell's forever. Friend, I'm saved. You know what that means? That means I'm going to heaven. As long as I'm in heaven, you'll be in hell. That ought to scare you to death if you're not saved. Here's my question. And I won't embarrass you. I won't embarrass you. But I'm wondering if we have anybody here tonight. I'd just like to pray for you. I wonder if you have anybody here tonight to say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I can't point to a time and a place where I bowed my head and asked Jesus in my heart as my Savior. If I walk out of here tonight and I did die in that car wreck on my way home, I don't know if I go to heaven. I don't know if I go to hell, but I do know this. I don't want to go to that horrible place called hell forever. I want to go to heaven forever, and I do worry about that Brother Barons, would you also tonight, in addition to these many others, would you also tonight just remember me in prayer too Would you just slip your hand up? Just slip it up, put it right back down. Just slip it up, put it right back down. I won't embarrass you. I promise you. I will not embarrass you. I'll acknowledge you and pray for you Preacher, I'm concerned about where I'm going to spend forever. Would you just remember me in prayer? Just slip it up, put it right back down. Anybody at all? Now's the time to do it. Come on, now's the time to do it. Don't exaggerate it. Don't make excuses. Take the long view. I want to spend forever in heaven. I don't want to spend forever in hell. Preacher, pray for me. Anybody at all? Anyone at all? Father, thank you for the time that we've had here this evening, the many, many hands that we've had raised this last night of the revival meeting of good people indicating that they don't want to waste their lives for God. They want to make it count. And so, Lord, I pray tonight that as we walk out of here We would not forget what God has dealt with us about. That we would purpose in our heart as we walk out of here tonight, we would purpose in our heart. Tonight's the night I'm going to make my life count for God for the rest of my life. Help us to do that. Which in Jesus' name we pray, with heads bowed, eyes closed, let's stand.