All right. The rules. Let me just make a opening statement here. Not that I'm in a debate or anything, but an opening statement. No, I didn't get my deal. Okay. I saw my wife going. That means it's on, right? Got me now. All right, I see head shaking in the back. Okay, let's uh uh go to the rules now for for the week. Uh most of you are already familiar with them, but uh just for the sake of the Those who are not familiar with it. As the pastors already said, we give these chalk drawings out on Friday night to the people who brought the most visitors. So we do first of all we have to turn What a visitor is. Now let me say this. A visitor is anyone who's not been in a previous service during the Revival Week. The only exception to that will be this morning. If you brought visitors this morning, we're going to allow you We're glad that you brought them and we're glad that they're here, and so we'll allow that uh to take place so you can when the pastor takes account why you can uh let him know. You're gonna do that tonight? Uh they're just gonna remember. Okay. Uh and that so here's the here's the uh change And this was, I think we did this last year, and it worked out real good. If you get somebody here that has never been to this church at all, has never been here. Uh is that the way the way it is? Thank you. We allow you to count them for for five. If they've never been to this church before. And uh uh what that does is is it gives you an opportunity to get people who have are uh are unsaved and and unchurched. Uh give you We found that uh it seemed like a lot of times when you just had the the old count the way we used to do it, why uh people just invited their friends from other churches So uh by doing this while we're hopel hoping that the uh uh this will get some uns Saved and and some unchurched people into the services. Uh you cannot give your visitors away. And uh I know that uh uh my grandma and grandpa's enjoy giving to their grandkids, but you can't do that. Uh I don't mind for families working together, mom and dad and the children that are living under that same roof. And if you if grandma and grandpa are living there with you, of course include them in the family. You can do that and work together for a chalk front if you like. Let's see, once a visitor comes, they cannot be uh counted again, but they then once they come are eligible to do their own inviting and try to bring uh uh visitors and win one of the chalk drawings and we've had that happen in many many of the church services that we have uh where Visitors came in and they saw the chalk drunk and said, Hey, I'd like to get one to work and and took one of the chalk chalk drunks home on Friday night. So uh that That could be an incentive for them. Uh let me see. Uh you must invite off of the church property. You can't wait till they walk through the door, you know, and say, Will you be my visitor today? You can't do that. If you want to flag them Down out here in the road, that's okay, but on church property you can't invite them, okay? Uh let's see. We do have a a way to break ties on Friday night, and and we've done that that's so many times here and we've usually gotten really good good uh attendance on Friday night when we have the big fight because we just draw a circle, put 'em in there and let 'em fight it out, you know, and that's the way we that's it. really good that way and and uh it also gets people in shape physically they you know work out and uh so that they can uh you know be the one that comes out on top Alright. Does that cover everything that you can think of? Messed it up pretty good? Okay. Alright. Let's take our Bibles now and and uh let me turn these lights off. Up here. There is plastic here that uh it's not w not hot, but I'll turn it off anyway. That way all the lights on me. I've enjoyed being up here for the past uh three or four weeks, whatever it's been. Uh we've been doing the the deer hunting thing and and uh Just d they're just I see 'em almost every time I go out, except last night didn't see any at all. Uh but I just can't seem to to get that uh get one close enough. Uh but uh I want to take a shot at. So uh anyway you might uh might pray. I'm not planning on going out this week, but I still got some corn out up in the field, so I might have to go up there and Check the corn once in a while. Well d don't you do that? Check the corn, yeah. Alright, take your Bible and turn me to John chapter four, if you would please. John chapter four This is a story that uh I like to revisit every once in a while and and uh I trust that uh it'll perhaps speak to our John chapter 4, we're going to start reading in in uh uh verse 1, and uh we'll read uh several verses. I'm gonna allow you to uh to remain seated Aha, I got you, didn't you? I almost ready to get up. I can see that. The Word of God says in John chapter four and verse one When therefore the Lord knew uh how the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, though Jesus himself baptized not but his disciples. Then cometh he to a city of Samaria which is called Sikar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. Now Jacob's well was there, and Jesus therefore being wearied from his journey And he set thus on the well. And it was about the sixth hour. And there cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water, and Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. And for his disciples were Going away into the city to buy meat. And then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. And Jesus answered, and he said unto him unto her, If thou knowest the gift of God, and who it is that saith unto thee, give me to drink And a woman saith unto him, Sir, uh thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. From whence uh then hast thou Thou that living water? Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle? Our Heavenly Father, we bowed before your throne this morning to ask for your help and your power and we yield ourselves the best we know how. We ask you, Lord, to speak to our hearts. And especially Lord, that one who has come today and perhaps they're thirsting. They have a thirst Thirst all their own, a deep uh down and uh in an empty soul. There's a thirst that uh desires to ch desires change, desires something uh different than what they're going through right now. I pray that they might have that thirst quenched as we preach the word of God. May the Spirit of God do a work in that individual's heart. We pray, Lord, that uh You would speak to us and help us as we preach in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. I'd like for us this morning just to to take look at these uh at these verses and uh uh I want us to look at two different things about uh about these verses. First of all, I want us to look And I want us to look secondly at a waiting savior. Those are two things that I see in here that that's important for us to grasp today. I want us to go back two thousand years and I want us to uh uh visit with Jesus this well that's called Jacob's well. Jacob's well as I understand it was a a well that's uh perhaps nine or ten feet in diameter and and was over a hundred feet deep from what I can get uh what I uh read. And uh it's well known by all the Jews. Everyone knew of Jacob's well since it was uh their ancestors that dug it and so forth. And Jesus has just walked about twenty miles. The Bible tells us that it was the the sixth hour. So that's a that's a new time for us because their day started at six o'clock in the morning. And so uh he's been walking all this time and he's walked uh some twenty miles from where he had been and uh he comes in the heat of the day and at the at the noon hour. I can see uh uh perhaps there's a a light breeze blowing and and there's uh probably some sweat on his forehead and perhaps he's dusty and thirsty. And he's Sits down the edge of the well and he waits. He waits. He waits. He waits for a meeting. A predestined meeting. A meeting of uh Between uh him and an individual who who has a need. And perhaps at this moment as she's uh trudging towards that that well in the middle of the day, which is a unusual time of the day to gather water But then she was a woman of ill repute and she was not too uh uh well liked by the socialites and by the people uh uh in the area. And so she came at a time when nobody else No one else would be there, no one to hassle her, no one to uh to uh uh uh uh condemn her or make her feel bad. And so as she uh as coming to the well, Jesus is sitting there. And he's weary. You know, we don't think much about God being weary, do we? But you know, the scripture, there's verses in the in the Bible here that tells us us that that uh that that there's uh there's times when God gets weary with us. You ever thought about that? Uh weary gets tired of us. Uh well Is that a good way to put it? He uh he feels a burden for us. And there's a weariness. Let's go to a couple verses of scripture that perhaps will uh help explain what I'm trying to get across. Uh one of them is found in in uh chapter in uh the book of Amos in chapter two in Verse thirteen. It says, Behold, I am pressed under you as a cart is pressed that is full of sheaves. That's an unusual verse, isn't it? And this is God speaking here. And he says, I am, behold, I am pressed under you as a cart is pressed that is full of sheaves. I see the I see a cart. In my mind I picture things. And I see a cart there and I see a uh it's a two wheel cart. All right. And it has a Tongue hanging out there, two wheels, but the wheels are I mean they're bent. They're like this because uh uh the load is so heavy. It's just uh With the these sheaves. And God is using this as an expression of how he feels about the nation of Israel. These are his people that he's talking to here. And he says, I'm pressed under you You are you're a you have become a a stress in my life. You have wearied me. You're weary, if I can take that word, you weary me. We don't think about God being weary, but but it's obvious that there are other verses. Let me read this It's found over in Isaiah chapter 43. If you'll turn with me to that book, Isaiah 43. We're looking at verse twenty four now. Isaiah 43, verse 24 says, Thou hast brought me no sweet cane with money, and neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy sacrifice. sacrifices, but thou hast made me to serve with thy sins, and thou hast wearied me with thine iniquity. So we know one thing that wearies God is is our sin. Now he's speaking to the nation of Israel, and I understand this is Old Testament, but these are his people. These are his chosen people. If you're here today and you're a believer, if you've trusted Christ as you your personal Savior. And the Holy Spirit lives within, but your life is not is not in running parallel with God's will for your life If you're not on that path that God has laid out for you as a Christian. And listen, every one of us have that. Every one of us has a particular We're all on this narrow way that goes to heaven. When we trusted Christ, that was settled. But each one of us has a path that He wants us to uh tread on. Each one of us has a direction. Each one of us has a purpose. There is if we could ever grasp the the the wonderful truth That the God of heaven, the one that created the heavens and the earth, has a has a particular plan and purpose for our individual lives. So we can just grasp that truth. Then we'd start looking for that particular purpose in life and try to start making our direction in that direction, knowing his purpose is one of the most important, knowing the will of God. And it can be known. That's the thing. He wants us to know what his will is. But our ascend, whenever we whenever we we cross the line, begin to go in our own direction, and take our own path and say, well Lord, I tell you, I think I'll I think I'll just sort of slip over this way a little bit and enjoy this uh this uh uh car carnal living or this worldly living or this the way I want to do it, if I just want to do it my way, whenever we step across that line, that brings a weariness to the heart of God. He says in Isaiah 43 verse 24, he says, Thou hast brought me no sweet cane. with money. Neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy sacrifices, but thou hast made me to serve with thy sins, and thou hast wearied me with thine iniquity. The first thing he mentioned there was the sweet candle Which uh when you when you do some research on you find that that's calamus and uh it's not something we're familiar with, but it was very expensive and used in the anointing. oils. And so it's a picture of the Holy Spirit. And keep in mind now we're talking to the Christian now. And he says, you don't bring me the calamus. That sweet oil that is used in the anointing, the Spirit of God, you don't bring that to me in the sacrifices. You see, God expects each one of us who know Christ as our Savior not to be just a Christian. Not just a Christian. He wants us to be a spirit-filled Christian. He wants the whole Holy Spirit to have not just to indwell us, but to have control of us, to fill us, and to use us for His honor and glory. And when we live our life apart from that fullness, then we we bring a weariness to his soul He says, you you didn't bring me the sweet cane, the calamus, the that is used for the for the anointing oils. And he says, then he says in in uh uh on down there, he says in And neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy sacrifices. You know, the fat of the sacrifice means that that sacrifice was in prime condition. You know when they were to bring their sacrifices to the altar uh for an atonement for sin, or whatever the the the reason they came for. Uh they were not to just uh pick out, you know, spot the well there's one over there that's kind of sickly looking and and uh uh yeah, it looks like he might have a broken leg or something something or anyway he's hurt. We'll use that for the sacrifice. Oh no. No. They it it had to be set apart for a couple of days in order to get uh to make sure It had to be in perfect health. It had to it had not lean and skinny because it hadn't didn't you know wasn't living right, it was sickly or s something like that, but fat and healthy, that's the sacrifice that God wants you to bring to it. He wants you to be to bring the sacrifice of uh of a healthy life to him. Not just uh uh you know get you know we have a tendency just to give God the leftovers in life, don't we You know, if I have enough if I have enough money I'll tithe, but if I don't, why, you know, I'll just slip a dollar in the offering plate and and go on with it And we we have a tendency to shortchange God in our in our Christian life. The same way. We don't just give him the best. we have. We don't really try to live the best, but we just uh live a life that is uh that we can just get by with The fat of the sacrifice. He said, You didn't bring me any of that either. Only the lean, poorly animals, only what was demanded, the very minimum. Minimum. And then the third thing I noticed in that verse was that it says, and you've made me, but thou hast made me to serve Serve with thy sins. Thou hast wearied me with thine iniquities. You know, I I I fear that Christians today too often live their life so careless that they make God a pardoner Of that careless living. Here it says he makes it pretty plain, thou hast made me to serve with thy sins Some of the things that you're involved with, some of the things that you listen to, some of the things that you do, some of the places you go, some of the uh language you use, you make God a partner of that because the Spirit of God lives within you. Another thing that wearies God is our formality You see, when when we when our Christianity becomes a form, isn't that one of the things we're we're uh warned of in uh 2 Timothy chapter chapter three and verse five says having a form of godliness but denying the power thereof he says from such turn away he warns us of people who who just have a form of godliness. There's no there's no uh no heart to it. It's just a form. They go through the motions, they carry their Bible. They They have a smile on their face, they say the right things and act the right way. They find their place in the pew and that as soon as it's over, they're gone, and they don't see 'em again until maybe the next uh Easter or Christmas or whatever it is that we you know, a formality. We've made made our Christianity where it's just it's not it's not spirit led or spirit fed, it's not Not it's the fullness of the spirit, it's just a formality that we go through. And it wearies God. It vexes his spirit And we get this way not only in our daily Christian living, just living out the form, but uh in our prayer life. We have a tendency to to just to go through the prayer and you know it just it becomes a form. And and we're warned against that in the scriptures where in Matthew chapter six and verse seven it says It says use not vain repetition repetition as the heathen do. I can think of of some groups that uh they just keep saying the same thing over and over and over to some some kind of a prayer And God warns us against that. It's just a vain repetition that means nothing to God, and it wearies him when we do this. And it's so easy, I mean, for those who of us who know Christ to allow our prayer life, our devotions, and our living for Him to just become a form. A form that wearies God. Our rebellion and our frivolous complaining can weary God. I'm looking in Malachi chapter Chapter two and verse seventeen, where it says this ye have wearied the Lord with your words. Yet ye say, Wherein have we wearied him? And when you say Say, every one that doeth evil is good and in the sight of the Lord, and he delighteth in them. Or where is the God of judgment? When we question God, and when we we call uh evil Good. Uh you say, well, do we do that? Well, I think in the society we live in today, uh I'd say yes. We as a nation have come to the place where we call evil good and good evil. And it doesn't make sense and it blows my mind some of the things that we come up with. But somehow or another we have uh we've uh made made that the s the standard in our country. The Lord must must at times look down on us and and uh shake his head As we ignore his spirit and we disobey his word and we head off down our own pathway, he must just shake his head and wonder about some of us. Are you wearying the Lord in in the way you're living your life? Is it causing him to be pressed under a car? The second thing is uh is this waiting savior. Jesus came and he sat down in the well, the Bible says that for he was weary. And then it says that he was there They're waiting. And there's the thing that I I I think about when I when I think of that the term waiting, I always think of all the verses, and there's some like 150 some different verses that have the the word waiter waiting uh uh in them and throughout the whole Bible. And uh every one of those verses or or the the vast majority of them uh have to do with us waiting on him. They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength All those verses, and there's so many of them in the in the book of Psalms, but they all are talking about you and I waiting on the Lord. Did you ever stop to think? Here we have God, the Son of God, waiting on a woman, on an individual. Go back in the in the book of uh let me see in Isaiah chapter thirty, if you will. I like this. There's something about something about God waiting. That touches my heart. Notice this verse in verse 18, where it says this. And therefore will the Lord wait. Isn't that great? I mean think about it. I mean just don't let just don't read the words and just let them sort of and then they're gone again. But think about that that just that much of the verse Think about it. As I read again, therefore will the Lord wait. Therefore will the Lord wait. Now he's going to explain what he's waiting on and why he's waiting here in just a second. But I just want you to think about this. Can you imagine can you imagine the uh CO of a of a big organization And uh he uh he has set a meeting up between his top staffers at uh ten o'clock and at ten o'clock all of them but one is in their place And the CEO CEO of this great company is standing there and he's thinking, where is this guy? Who does he think he is? That's making me wait. But I see here where it says that God, God is waiting. God is waiting is waiting. The God of the universe, one who created everything, he's waiting. His he's waiting on on us? Wow. Well Let's just read the verse now. And therefore will the Lord wait, that he may be gracious unto you. And therefore will he be exalted, that he may have mercy upon you, for the Lord is a God God of judgment. Blessed are all they that wait on him or wait for him. He says here that that that he may be gracious. God doesn't have to wait. It is only through his grace that He He desires to have us. The fact that He's long suffering and not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance speaks of his graciousness and his mercy that he extends towards us. Jesus is sitting on the well. What's he doing? He's resting? Yeah, that's true. He's resting from the physical uh uh exertion that he's made for the the past six hours. But he's doing something waiting, just waiting. And what's he waiting for? He's waiting for someone who has come that he knows he's going to cross paths with that has a thirst. It's not a physical thirst, even though that's part of it, but it is a spiritual thirst that he senses, that he knows that he's going to meet here at this well and that he's going to uh meet the need of the spiritual thirst. He's waiting for that spiritually thirsty and the sin weary to come to the well. You may be here today and maybe that maybe you're one of those that's thirsty. You have a spiritual thirst, a thirst that is is driving you. To do something. I want you to know you have a gracious Savior that's waiting for you. He's waiting for you Please note he did not send this woman away. When the woman came, he knew exactly who she was and everything about her. And we began to have a dialogue with her. Why uh uh he he tells her what she what she really is. And she knows it down in her heart. She's already been been uh convicted, I think But I noticed one thing, Jesus did not send her away and say, Well if you'll just you know get your life straightened up and uh that's what a Pharisee would do. We have a time to look down our nose of people who are unsaved and expect them to, you know, to be something that they're not. When all we have to do is remember where we came from. If we did that, we'd we'd know that there's no hope within ourselves. And there's no hope for this woman to go and change what she was was an impossibility. But she knew that there was something missing down deep. And that something missing was something that Jesus could provide for. Some will some will come to the well for various reasons. Sometimes the circumstances of life bring people to the well. They realize that uh their life is not going the way it ought to go and and that it's uh uh it's going to be uh uh downhill Hill from that point on. All kind of uh complications uh in relationships, husbands and wives that are uh having problems in in the home. Sometimes it's uh the teenagers are causing the problems. Sometimes it it's just uh uh things that that and those things are causing such a a uh consternation if I can use that word, that uh that it drives them to find a well of water. And Jesus is waiting. He's waiting for you today. If you're here today without Christ, he's waiting. He's waiting at the well. And he the thing about the this well of water that he provides, it's a well of water that springs up into every Everlasting life. And I like the way that uh way he describes it there. It's springing up. Speaks to me of of uh joy and happiness and and uh and a rejoicing. And that's the only way that you'll ever be happy in this in this life is a is uh if you have partaken of the the world Well that comes uh from the very heart of God. Everything that God uh has in store for you is good. It starts with salvation and then It it uh continues on through the Christian life, giving you the grace and the wisdom and the knowledge to uh to live for him Now the question is, are you thirsty? The Bible tells us over there in the book of Matthew, it says that uh Let me see what that was. It says, Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. If you're a person here that has a hunger and thirst after righteousness, the promise is that you you'll be filled. And the way that that is uh takes place is when you come to Jesus Christ and allow him to come into your heart and change your life Perhaps you're a Christian. And somehow or another you've got off of this path. And you realize that you've become a weariness to God. And you want to get back on it. He's long suffering, and he's gracious, and he's waiting, and he wants you to do something about it. Not just uh continue down that same road. So whether you're here today without Christ, he's waiting on you, or you're a Christian who is strayed away. From the st the the the uh uh the narrow way. He's waiting for you too. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you will uh take this message Speak to our hearts. And I pray that that person who may be here without Christ might see their need of receiving Christ and come and be born into the family. Lord, we do not want to weary you with our sin and with our formality and all the things that uh can drag us away from you. From your perfect will. So help us, Lord, just to be uh aware of what they are and to get them straightened out. Help us, Lord, to to clean the promises of 1 John 1 9 and confirm Confess our sins and trust you to forgive and cleanse and put us back on the right path. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's all stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.