Chapter 3, I'd like for all of us to read together, if you would, uh verse 12, 13, and 14 is going to be our text Primary text this morning. Proverbs, or Proverb, not Proverbs, Colossians chapter 3, and verse 12, 13, and 14. But you read that along with me altogether. Put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercies, kindness, Humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one another, and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any Even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye, and above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness Now if you would notice in verse number 8 he says put off. Put off. Verse number 9, he says, put off. Verse number ten, and have put on. Verse number twelve, put on. Verse number fourteen, put on. I circled all those Little phrases, put off, put off, put off, put on, put on, put on. I circled them. And what I want to speak about this morning from this passage, I've entitled the message, A Well-Dressed Christian. A well-dressed Christian. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God and the impact it has had upon so many of our lives. Lord, you've changed us, you've transformed us by the renewing of our minds by your word And so I ask today, again, Lord, in this hour, that you would speak to us from your word. I yield my will to you again. I present my body anew at this time And with all my heart I pray and ask you fill me with your spirit, and you challenge us and help us to be well-dressed Christians For your glory, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Twenty-seven years ago, yesterday, September nineteenth, nineteen ninety-three I preached my first sermon as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church 27 years ago. It was yesterday morning, September 19th. 1993. My very first sermon I preached as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church was this. Ye must be born again from John chapter 3 And um uh I I did that on purpose. I preached on purpose because I wanted at that point and still to this day, we want to make sure the message going out from this pulpit, primary message going out from this pulpit in this church. is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That men need to be saved, that uh people need to be born again through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And all these 27 years, uh, with God's help, we have tried to stay focused on that message. of getting out and uh uh pointing people to the Lord Jesus Christ and uh preaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ God's help, we preached it on the streets, house to house, through this community and surrounding communities. We preached it over the radio. We put it in the newspapers, the gospel, how to be saved And uh we try to stay on point on this matter. Folks uh need to be saved. Preacher, why you say, Preacher, why is that such an issue? Why such a big deal about the gospel? I'll tell you why, because heaven is real and hell is real. And when a person dies, listen, the Bible is very clear. When a person dies, they spend eternity either in hell, eventually the lake of fire, or in heaven with the Lord. One of those two places. There's no other options. Hey, there is no purgatory. There's no reincarnation. That's all figments of man's imagination And Jesus emphasized in John chapter 3 to Nicodemus. He said, Nicodemus, he was a very rich man. He was a very religious man. He said to him, Nicodemus, you must be born again. And uh and that's been the message all these years. And let me just uh say this, on this uh, for me today would be an anniversary Let me say this. Anybody under the sound of my voice here in this service or online, if you do not have the assurance of your salvation, if all you have is a hope-so, think-so, maybe I'm saved, maybe I'm going to heaven That is not going to cut it. You have got to get that matter settled. It is too important to play with my eternal destiny. The Bible says we can know or are saved. The Bible says we can be saved and know it and have that matter settled that we don't have to worry about it. And so that's been our message. All these many years, you must be born again. You need to be saved. People need to be saved. Salvation is the primary message of the Bible. It's the most important issue in life. And by the way, the only way a person is saved is the Bible way. And that's by grace, through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. I had a let I got a letter from a lady years ago. She said uh from a different uh church, different denomination, she wrote and says, Pastor Letterman, you Baptists think you're the only ones that can save anybody. My response is: we can't save anybody, we can't save ourselves. Only Jesus can save somebody from sin in hell. Only Jesus can forgive sins. Only Jesus can give eternal life. And so this church can't give you eternal life. The Baptistry can't give you eternal life. Church membership can't give eternal life. Only Jesus can Amen? That's our message. That's our message all these years. And with God's grace, by God's grace and with his help, that will continue to be a message going out from Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. So salvation is the primary message of the Bible. It's the most important issue in life. Now, once we get salvation settled, Once we know of trusted Christ, they got that settled for me, May seventh, nineteen seventy nine, for you, some other time, uh trust But once we get that matter settled, we know we've trusted Christ, we know our sins are forgiven, then we are to grow in grace. Then we're to grow and develop as a Christian. We are to commit ourselves to the discipleship and be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. God saves us not just to escape hell and go to heaven, but he saves us to be his disciples here on this life, to live for him and serve him. And so once we're saved, then begins our spiritual growth and our development. And that's where our text comes in, Colossians chapter 3. And uh we read here in our scripture reading, verse 8, we started down on through there. And uh this passage, Paul, under the inspiration of God, is addressing The believers past. Did you see that? He says verse 8 there. He says, but now ye also put off all these things. Does this is from your past? This is back before you were saved. These characteristics anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy Communicate filthy communication out of your mouth. Lie not one to another. He says, seeing that you have put off the old man with his deeds. That's us before we were saved. That's us before we came to Christ I'm telling you right now, if you would have known uh if you'd have known Dennis Leatherman before he got saved, you would not have liked him. I don't like them. I knew them pretty well. I didn't like them. But when God saves someone, he changes them. Changes their very nature. They become a new creature. And Paul is saying, now that you've been saved, now that you've trusted Christ as Savior, there are some things that ought not to be true about your life You know, did you know that there are some things ought not to be true about a Christian? There are some things Christians ought not to do. And he lists them here. He says, You put off the old man with his deeds, and have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge, after the image of him that created him. He's talking about salvation. You got saved. And he comes down to verse 12 and he says, Put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved. And he gives a list of things that we are to put on here. As I said, there are some things Believers are not to do, and there are some things believers should do, not to be saved and not to stay saved, but because we're saved. There ought to be certain ways, certain things true about the believers. And he uses here, and this is where I get the title of my message, he uses here a metaphor or a figure of speech of changing clothes. Look at verse 8. I highlighted this, I mentioned this here a moment or two ago. Verse 8. But now ye also put off Verse nine, uh lie not once another sing it, put off the old man, and have put on. Uh those are phrases that mean literally The phrase itself means to take off a garment. Now, I'm going to do some of you guys are going to get very, very jealous here in a minute. But this is the idea. He says, take off the old man. This is literally what he's talking about. You take that thing off. I told you you guys would be jealous when you saw this. Put off. It means to remove that garment. Put it off. Then he says, put on. The new man. This is what he's saying. You pick it up and you put it on, just like this. That's what it means. That's what it means. He's using the symbolism of taking off a garment and putting on a garment. Now, he's not talking about physical clothes. He's not talking about a physical wardrobe or garments. Now, does the Bible ever address how a Christian should physically dress? Yes. In fact, I used uh years ago when I first came, I used to preach on it a whole lot more than I do now. Maybe I should preach on it more But the Bible does talk about how a Christian should dress. I tell you, if a preacher wants to get people mad at him pretty quick, start teaching what the Bible says about how Christians should and shouldn't dress. But the Bible does address how Christians should dress. Now, I don't want to preach on this, but the fact of the matter is how we dress communicates a message How many people knew that? How I dress communicates a message. It's interesting, and this is not the message this morning. I just want to get this off my chest. But uh this isn't the message this morning. But if you would study, if you would read Proverbs chapter 7 very, very carefully, uh Solomon is writing under the inspiration of God to his son. And he mentioned, he said he looked out his window, out of the casement of his house, and he saw a simple man standing out on the street corner at night. And there met him a woman And this was a woman of ill report. And to summarize what he says, this woman endeavors to seduce this young man to come home to her house and sleep with her that night. And it says that she goes on and with her much fair speech, she enticed him. And the Bible makes an interesting statement. I don't have the reference, and I really don't want to spent a lot of time on this, but it makes an interesting statement. It says she had the attire of a harlot. The clothing, the dress, the garments of a harlot. Now as I studied that, I don't think the gal was actually a harlot. We understand what a harlot is, that she was a married woman. She references her husband, the goodman of the house, is gone. But she dressed, here's the thing, she dressed in such a way that it communicated that she was a certain type of woman. Our dress, how we dress, communicates a message. It says a lot about ourselves. What does the Bible say about how a Christian should dress? And again, this isn't a message. I just want to throw this out there. But I think there's uh three things very, very quickly. First of all, I think a Christian ought to dress in a way that is appropriate for that gender. Now we hear a lot about this today, just perversion, uh sick uh perversion today. The Bible says in Proverbs chapter 22, I'll just summarize, I I believe this is what I believe the Bible teaches. I believe a man ought to dress like a man, a woman ought to dress like a woman. I just uh we could go on that and I could preach on that. Maybe I should more than I do But uh the Bible says uh I'm the Bible is clear that we ought to dress appropriate for our gender. Uh 1 Timothy chapter number 2 tells us that we ought to dress modestly And people agree with me. We live in an immodest world. Good heavens. And the Bible says we ought to dress modestly and cover our nakedness. By the way, God's definition of nakedness And man's definition of nakedness are two very different things. According to God's concern, you can have some clothes on and still be naked as far as God's concern. And so we ought to dress modestly. We ought to dress appropriate for our gender. And then I believe we ought to dress, the Bible teaches we ought to dress respectfully and appropriate for the occasion. This past week, our president, Brian and I were talking, our president signed a very significant peace agreement, helped broker a peace deal between Israel and two Arab nations. Listen You and I need to understand that is profoundly significant in this matter of prophecy and God's plan. This is a huge week in that matter there, and apparently there's others coming along. And how many people would agree if the president would show up at a meeting like that in sweatpants and a t-shirt and flip-flops, how many people would say that would be inappropriate for something like that Sure. You know what? And again, I don't mean to get off of this, but Christians could have a few lessons on learning how to dress appropriately. Respectfully and and in an appropriate way. Man alive. Did you ever look at um I'm spending more time on this than I want to, but do you ever See pictures, old time and baseball games back in the 1920s and 30s, Babe Roots. You ever see those old pictures? Do you ever see how they're dressed? Man, the men have suits and and uh ties on and the ladies are dressed to kill and uh man just and uh we've come a long way from that now, my word And so I I don't know if you got anything out of it, but I feel better after that. So But I I just think it's important. I think it's important. I think the Bible addresses that. Now I said all that to say this. That's not what Paul's talking about here. He's not talking about our physical garments, our physical dress. He's talking about spiritual garments It's about our attitudes as a Christian. He's describing a well-dressed Christian as far as our attitudes and our spirit, our demeanor is concerned, what we put on. So I want us to get into this. In verse number 12, the first thing I want to notice here is the decision of the well-dressed Christian. The decision of the well-dressed Christian. Maybe ladies go through this a little bit more than men, although I do a little bit. Uh do you ever get up in the morning and you stand in front of your uh clothes closet there or your uh your wardrobe and you look at and you say, All right I gotta decide what I'm gonna wear today. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And uh I don't know how it goes for you. I gotta be careful in this, but um Uh in some houses I hear that uh the lady will get it and she'll get this dress and this top and that skirt and this shoes will match that purse and And they'll do all that and they'll get all dressed and then they look in the mirror. Nope, they change their mind and go back and get another one and go through that about I've heard that that happens sometimes. And trying to decide what am I going to wear that day. And I do it a little bit. I'll just kind of say, oh yeah, that's good, that's good, whatever. But there's a decision to be made. Look at how he words it here He says, put on, therefore. Now that little phrase put on is what we would refer to as an imperative statement. In other words, it's an instruction that is given to us. It is a command that God has given to you and I as believers, those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior He says to us, put on. It's an instruction. It's imperative. It's a command. It is a statement that demands an action or a decision. Come up to verse 8, we notice. Put off. Now, God is speaking to you and I through his word as believers. This is addressed to folks that are saved and know it. And he says, now there are some things you've got to decide. I'm telling you, put this off and put this on. Now I can decide whether I'm going to follow God's instruction or not. I can decide whether I'm going to obey his instructions or not. But I've got to make a decision. Decision making is key to the Christian life. Decision making. If you see a victorious Christian, you see somebody, a good, strong, victorious Christian, walking with the Lord, living a victorious Christian life, you know something about them, they're making right decisions. They're making right decisions. Decision making is key to the Christian life. Joshua chapter 24 and verse number 15. Joshua told the children of Israel, he said this. Choose you this day whom you will serve. Choose you this day. Make a decision. Are you going to live for God or are you going to live for the world? You're going to follow the God's instructions or are you going to lean on your own understanding? You're going to trust the Lord? What are you going to do? You've got to decide. I tell you what's killing a lot of our Christians is you just don't decide. We just do whatever. We don't make a decision. Whatever, however I happen to feel, whatever happens to be going on, whatever circumstances dictate And God is saying here, listen, you've got to decide. You've got to decide. In uh Genesis chapter 13, verse 11, the Bible says about Lot Abraham gave an option. He could go choose Sodom and Gomorrah, the plains of Jordan, or he could choose the other direction. And the Bible says in Genesis chapter 13, 11, Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan. I tell you, that one decision changed Lot's life. Cost him dearly. Cost him dearly. He made a foolish decision and chose the way of the world In Psalms chapter 119 and verse 30, the psalmist says, I have chosen the way of truth. I have chosen the way of truth. Listen, you and I are what we are because of the decisions we make. We got to make a decision. What kind of Christian do you want to be? What kind of Christian life do you want to live What kind of person do you want to be? We have to decide. We have to decide what that is. We as Christians have got to learn to Make wise decisions. I like that simple little song we used to teach the bus kids and we sing it in here sometimes. I have Decided to follow Jesus. I have decided. Do you know salvation boils down in a lot of ways to a decision? whether I'm going to accept the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior or not. May 7, 1979, 10. 30 at night, I had a decision to make Either I was going to humble myself and call on the Lord and trust Him as my Savior, or I was going to go on the way I was, and I'm telling you right now I'm convinced if I had decided to reject Christ that night, I would probably be dead in the grave a long time by this point. There's no doubt in my mind. It was at that point. And so decision making. Put on, he says, make a decision. We have got to learn to make wise decisions. I believe we've got to teach our children to make wise decisions We have got to help our child. A child left to himself bringeth his mother to shave. We need to spend time and help them, be wise and That's why I'm so grateful for the children's ministries here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, helping the children know what God expects from us, know what God says to us, and then helping them Learn to make wise and good decisions. And that needs to take place in the home. Decision making. Choose you this day whom you will serve. There was an interesting in the Gospels. There was a time in John chapter 6. I was just reading the other night. Jesus was teaching and speaking and a multitude of disciples And he made some very hard statements. And the Bible says that many of them no longer walked with him. They turned and left. The Bible says Jesus turned to his 12 disciples and he made this, he asked them this question, will ye also go away? You know what he was doing? He said, you guys decide. What are you going to decide? Are you going to stick with me? Are you going to stay faithful? Are you going to follow me? Or are you walking away? Or are you turning away? He was pressing them to make a decision. I believe it's important whenever the Bible's preached. If you'll notice, whenever the Bible's preached, we give an imitation. I think that's so important. I think churches are making a mistake When they do away with the invitations after a message, why? So we can decide whether we're going to respond to what was taught and what was preached or not. Decision making is so important. We must decide. So if I'm going to be a well-dressed Christian, if I'm going to be the Christian God intends for me to be, that God instructs for me to be, I've got to decide that's what I'm going to do. Um, you know I found out uh people go to church Sunday mornings because they decide to get up and go to church. Amen. Now the kids not so much. Mom and dad make them sometimes. But uh you and I, we decide, alright, decide. Anybody here ever get up in the morning and you think, I really don't feel like going to church And uh God, I'd like to sleep in. And uh anybody here ever uh yeah, five people, you bunch of liars. And um But you have a little character and you say this, nope, I'm deciding, I'm going to church today. And you go, and lo and behold, it's a blessing. You walk out and say, Oh, I'm glad I went to church today. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know what that is? Decision. I'm deciding. And we need to do that in our Christian lives. Make this. I can decide I get up in the morning. I'm going to read my Bible. Just make that decision. Uh, I've got up there. And what he's saying here is, get up in the morning, all right, I decide what I'm going to wear today. Not physical, it's not what he's talking about. But what am I going to put on as a Christian? What kind of person am I going to be today? What kind of attitude am I going to have today? Here's our problem, and I'm guilty of this. We let circumstances and other people dictate to us what our attitude is. You have no control over it. Uh anyb any parents here ever say to your kids, you better adjust that attitude or I will You've got to decide what kind of attitude. And that's true for you and I as Christians. Sometimes I'm grouchy, sometimes I'm blue. My disposition depends on you We gotta learn to take control. We've got to learn to decide what kind of Christian am I going to be? Am I going to be a worldly, grouchy, bad attitude, mad, angry, bitter Or am I going to be uh the right kind of Christian? It's a decision. He puts out a wardrobe here. He puts out and he says, these these garments here, put them off. Don't put those on. Don't wear that type of garment Here, put these on, these garments here. So there has to be a decision made. Then real quickly, before we look at the garments, I notice a description of the well-dressed Christian. First of all, the decision. I've got to decide what I'm going to wear that day, spiritually speaking. And then the description. Look what he says in verse 12. Put on, therefore, there's the decision. As the elect of God, holy and beloved, he mentions three things. He describes a Christian in three ways here. Notice he says the word as, uses the word as. Put on therefore. As, because you are elect of God, because you are holy, because you are beloved You ought to dress a certain way. You ought to put on these certain garments. Now the word electer simply means chosen. And God has chosen you God has chosen those that choose his son as Savior, he chooses them to be his people. Hey, God chose you. God has you in his family because he wants you to be in your family. Isn't that an amazing thing? God's not stuck with me. God chose me. He wants me. He loves me. He says we're holy. That means separated. In the eyes of God, the person that trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, in the eyes of God, is separated from all the rest of the people in the world, the unsaved. We're not better than them But through our faith in Christ, we're set apart for God. God sees us as holy. And then he says, well, beloved. What an amazing thought. I've been saying this a lot lately, and I mean I need to get over it maybe, but I'll tell you, this night sky recently has just Captivated me. Last night I was walking over for a prayer. That night pray. I'm walking over. And you I think you could see a little bit of the Milky Way. Am I? Is it just me? But you could kind of see a little bit of that That Milky Way galaxy thing there. I was looking at the stars and I was just mind-boggled the immensity and the distances of this universe. And then the door, then as I was walking up around the corner, the thought hit me, the God that made this loves me. Loves me. And he uses the term beloved. That means to be loved dearly, unconditionally. Listen, don't you ever say, don't ever say this, nobody loves me. That is a lie of the devil. There's a God in heaven, the most powerful being there is, and he calls his children, my beloved, my beloved. Listen, God chose us. God sets us apart. He loves us unconditionally. And because of that, because that is true. I ought to have uh my life ought to reflect the fact that I'm part of the family of God. My attitude and lifestyle should reflect the fact that I am a child of God God's goodness and God's grace to us puts on us a responsibility to conduct ourselves And to be the kind of people that he saved us to be. Take your Bible, if you would, with me, real quick. Keep your place here. And turn to Romans chapter number 12, if you would. Romans chapter twelve, Paul is kind of addressing this thought here because God's been so good to us Because God has shown his love and his grace and his mercy and choosing us and setting us apart and loving us, then there ought to be an appropriate response on our part. Look at Romans 12, verse 1 I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice wholly, acceptable unto God, which is your what? Do you catch what he's saying there? Because of God's mercy, because of all that God has done for you, because of the mercy God has shown us in loving us and saving us And keeping us and choosing us. Because of that, we ought to respond. Present our bodies a living sacrifice. And I believe that's what Paul is saying back in Colossians. He's saying, man, God loved you. He chose you. He uh set you apart. In that case You ought to be a well-dressed Christian. Now come back here to Colossians with me, if you would, real quick. And let's look at these garments that a well-dressed Christian wears. So first of all, we have the decision of the well-dressed Christian. Number two, the description of the well-dressed Christian. And then now we notice the dress. of the well-dressed Christian. Look at verse 12, the second part. Here's what he tells us to put on. Put on, therefore, the elect of God, holy and beloved, first garment we pick out of the wardrobe. We open the door. First one we pull out is bowels of mercies. What in the world? Somebody tell me, what are bowels? What's he referring to when he says the bowels of mercy? It would be our what? What? Our intestines. Your intestines of mercy. What in the world is that? I put it this way: compassion. The first garment we ought to put on is compassion. Now he uses that term, bowels of mercies. That was in the ancient times. They believed that our emotions come from our intestines. For instance, back in the old days, if a young man fell in love with a a young lady, uh he would look her in the eye and the stars at night, he'd have flowers. He'd look her in the eye and he would say this, I love you with all my intestines They believed that that's where the deepest emotions came from was from our liver and our large intestines and our small intestines. and our spleen and our kidneys and our um gallbladder and all that. I love you with all my gallbladder. And um brother you get slapped upside the head today, say that. But the reason being was, is they believed the intestines were the most sensitive part of our inner being. And what he's saying here is that we are to put on the vows of mercies. In other words, we're to be very, very tender-hearted. We're to be very, very compassionate. And what he's saying is: listen, you've been saved. God forgave you. He gave you new life. He sets you apart. He loves you so much. And because of that, you need to decide that I'm going to put on and I'm going to wear This compassion. I'm going to be a compassionate Christian. I believe compassion toward others, Christians ought to be characterized by compassion towards others. That's the missing ingredient. I believe what this world needs, what Mountain Lake Park, what Oakland, what Garrett County needs. Are Christians who are not hard and harsh and mean and angry and bitter? The world has plenty of that. But God says, I want you Christians, I want you to put on some compassion. And you just show mercy. You just show compassion to other people I'm telling you, we live in a world that's hurting. People are hurting. You go to the store and that person standing in front of you in line at the Walmart and uh you're standing in front of you There's a good chance that person is brokenhearted, has something going on. I tell you, we had a tragedy here in our community just Friday night. The fella lived right down the road here that would uh mow grass for people and he'd ride his lawnmower around. Anybody here ever see him driving up and down here all the time Friday night there was a tragic accident. Somebody hit him and he was killed. And what a sad thing. People are hurting. People are sad. People are struggling. You know what they need from Christians? They just Just need some kindness, just some compassion. Uh when I when the when the in the hospital, at least back when you I could go in there regularly and often Um in fact I was in the ho I would go in the hospital so much, I was in there one time getting some blood work, the lady thought I was an employee there. I'd been in so much Much. And um but when I get on that elevator, anybody here ever get on an elevator at the a at the hospital or somewhere and it's just kinda awkward. There's somebody else standing there and you don't know what to look at, you know. You're watching the numbers, you know. I I decide I got on there, I figure they're in the hospital, they're on their elevator, there's probably somebody, something going on in their life You know what I started doing when I get on there I'd stop and just say, uh, do you have some family here? There's somebody sick, somebody here, and I'm telling you so often, many times I've had where they start weeping, yeah, my mom is real sick. They don't know if she's going to make it. They're just standing there. Before I got on, they were just standing there staring at the numbers, watching the numbers. And I just asked a little word. Everything okay? Somebody not well? Boy, their heart's broken. I've had so many opportunities. I give them a little gospel tract. I say, well, here I'm Pastor Leatherman. Here's a little gospel track. I'll be praying for you. You call if I can do anything for you. You know what I found out? Just a little bit of compassion can make a world a difference. Our world needs compassion. Our world needs Christians that are dressed with compassion. Hey, a little bit of compassion in the home would do a heap of good. In the home. Sometimes we sometimes we uh kick back in the home. We take off that garment of compassion And boy, homes can be awfully mean and awfully unkind. Amen or not. We need to keep that on. He says, you put on those bows of mercies. That tender-heartedness, that compassion, how we need compassion. So a well-dressed Christian, what's a well-dressed Christian wear? Oh, he wears compassion. Look what else he says here. He says, put on vows of mercies, and then the next garment is what? Kindness. Put on kindness. Uh boy, uh that kind of goes along with the compassion there, but I tell you, um this world could use some kindness. I've said this all these years we've been here. I've said it so many times. The folks at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be the kindest people in all Garrett County. We ought to just be kind to people and help people. I tell you, kindness will open a lot of doors. Then he says, look what else he says, holy and beloved bowels of mercies That's compassion. Kindness. Put on some kindness. How many people agree with me? Some compassion and kindness. Boy, that would have a pa uh powerful impact, wouldn't it? And this guy's compassionate. He cares about me. He's very kind to me. And then he says, humility, humbleness of mind. What does that mean? It means this. It means have a humble opinion of myself or a deep sense of my own littleness was one of the definitions. A deep sense of mine own littleness. Can I tell you one of our biggest problems? We think too highly of ourselves. We think we're more important than what we really are. Uh we think the whole world revolves around us. I was last night I was I was showing my wife, I don't know what it is. Preachers are weird things. But we were looking on social media a couple things and I was showing her pictures of preachers on there and there's a whole slew of them and man they'd have these dynamic pictures of themselves. You know, they're taking pictures and But there's one the guy there and you know he's doing this and and all this. And I said, man, these guys are in love with themselves. I just can't see Paul taking selfies You know? And the whole idea here, this uh humbleness of mine, has the idea, you know, I'm not that significant. I'm not that important. I think way too highly of myself. If we're not careful, we'll get the idea the world revolves around us. And we're the most important thing in the world. You know what's the problem with much of our society? Is just old-fashioned stinking pride. I deserve better than what I'm getting. I deserve to be treated better than what I am. I deserve this. I am entitled to this. I, I, I, I I tell you that's some garments that ought never be on a Christian pride. That ought to be put off and just Humility of mind. Big problem is we think too highly of ourselves. We think we deserve better Jesus in Philippians chapter 2 says that he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Think about how Jesus humbled himself in leaving the glories of heaven and came down and became poor for us. And humble himself, even the death of a cross. And he says, put on that same mind. Have that same mind. Tell you, do a lot of good for our church. Do a lot of good for this preacher. Learn in the morning. Get up and put on some humbleness of mind. It would stop a lot of arguments. I tell you, the most ugly, ugliest garment a Christian can wear is the garment of pride. The garment of pride. So put off these things, put on. Put on compassion, put on kindness, humility. Then he lists another garment here. He says uh uh uh bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind. Look at the next one. Meekness. What in the world does meekness? Meekness does not equal weakness Doesn't mean to be, oh we had a I knew a fellow one time, he would always uh he was, oh, I'm just nothing I'm just uh I'm just uh uh sorry to no good uh uh and um it was always I'm just this and I'm just that and you know I noticed he kept saying one word over and over and over Aye, I, I. Listen, that's not meekness. That's not humility. Humility isn't thinking lowly of myself necessarily. It's just that not thinking of me And meekness, I like the definition of meekness. I was looking that up. It has the idea of gentleness, or this idea, strength under control. In other words, the ability to control my reactions. Anybody here ever have somebody say something to you? And before you thought, you reacted and you said something back and you thought, man, I wished I hadn't done that. Can I get a witness? Anybody here ever you're driving and somebody uh pulls out in front of you or does something stupid or they don't do use a turn signal or uh uh something and man you just react and you think, boy, that wasn't very Christian Anybody know what I'm talking about? Meekness is the ability to control that, to not let that happen. Meekness is strength under control. I saw years ago, I often use this illustration for meekness, I saw years ago a lion. What's the female lion? Is a Like this, yeah. I knew that. Um And it had it was uh videos uh anybody remember Wild Kingdom was on TV, Mutual of Omaha's Wild Kingdom. That was a great show. And we'd watch that. And they had this lioness. And I mean she was I wouldn't mess with her And uh she she was there and she reached down those fangs and those powerful jaws and she reached down and she had a little cub there And it was powerful, powerful jaws very tenderly picked up that little cub and was carrying it. And I thought, there's a picture of meekness. That jaws could crush that thing without her even thinking. Just crush its skull. But she controlled it. She was able to do very, very tenderly. That's what God says we need to put on. Just be meek. Maybe that person did you wrong. Maybe that person was a knucklehead. You don't have to react. You don't have to respond in that. Control that and be meek and be gracious and kind. God says put on meekness, to suffer injury rather than inflict injury, to suffer offense rather than to afflict offense. I'll tell you This world could use some meekness. Then he says, quickly, let me show you a couple others here. He says, put on long suffering. That's patience. It means to suffer long. Humility and patience, I believe, are two of the most attractive garments in the Christian wardrobe. Humble, patient. I tell you, a strong faith in God will produce patience. There's one verse, I preached on this back in the beginning of the year, and just about every day God brings this passage to my mind. This has been a good year for this verse. It's Proverbs 3, 5 and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not into thine understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct thy path. I tell you, I read the news a little bit and I get worked up. I look at our country, I get worked up. The election, I get worked up. Our cities, I get worked up. Pandemic, lockdown, churches being targeted. I get worked up. Over and over, that verse will come to mind. Dennis, just trust in the Lord with all your heart. Not in your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him. He'll direct your paths. God's got this. God will take care of it. We don't have to be angry. We don't have to be stressed out. We don't have to be all worked up and get all worked up. Just calm down, trust the Lord, be patient. I tell you, a calm Christian in this day and age will stand out Will stand out. And so God says, put on, listen, you stop and you make a decision. I'm not going to wear these garments listed in verse 8. Anger, wrath, malice, bitterness, unforgiveness, I'm not going to wear them. I'm going to put on compassion. I'm going to put on some kindness and patience and meekness. And then he says, verse 13, he says, forbearing one another. The word forbear means to hold back. It's self-restraint. I'm not going to react. I'm not going to respond. You ever meet somebody that reacted to everything? I love people like that. It's called this. You can push their buttons. Right? You follow what I'm saying? There's certain people I know if I say a certain thing, boy, they're gonna go off. And uh I find that morbidly funny. But um I like to get them worked up. And there's certain people I know I can say something, and brother, they're going to lose it. The Bible says don't be that way. You just forbear. Don't react to all of that. You just be steady and go on. Then he says, put on forgiveness, brother. That's a big one Forbearing one another and forgiving one another. What does it mean to forgive? It means to cancel or pardon an offense or a debt a debt. You know who the most forgiven people in the world are? Christians, we're the most forgiven people in the world. And we should be the most forgiving people in the world. We should forgive others. Brother Caldwell preached on that last Sunday night, showing mercy. God has shown us so much mercy we ought to show others Put on the garment of forgiveness. Ephesians 4. 32. Be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake Hath forgiven you. A forgiving Christian is a well-dressed Christian. Then one last garment. Now, this is what I thought was very interesting. Look at verse number 14. And above all these things. That phrase above all these things means, in other words, I've got all these garments on. I've got the compassion, I've got the kindness, I've got meekness, I've got patience. I've got humility. I put all these garments on. I'm all dressed and I'm looking in the mirror. I've got I've got all these attitudes I've decided I'm going to wear And then he says, all right, over top of all of that, you get that garment of charity. You put that on over everything else. And it actually has the idea where he says they're above all these things. It has almost this idea to pull them all together with this charity. It's kind of like pulling a bell. I just pull that all together and bring that all together. Above all these other characteristics, the one garment I need to wear is that of charity, love, compassion. All other garments without charity are incomplete. It is the bond of notice what he says here. Above all these things, put on charity, which is the bond, the belt. Of perfectness that brings it all together, makes it complete. Listen, I can be humble, but if I don't love people, that humility is not going to do me any good I can be patient, but if I don't have love, it does me no good. What does Corinthians chapter 13 say? If I can speak as angels, but I have not charity, I'm just a tinkling brass, a sounding symbol. It's no good. I'm telling you, we have got to learn to love people. We've got to love God. We need to learn to love others. And so the garments, all other garments without charity are incomplete. Um, and so God says, listen, you need to be a well-dressed Christian. You and I need to decide what are we going to be? Are you going to walk out of here? Growl. Grunch, mad, bitter, complain, find fault, or we're going to say, no, no, no, I'm not going to be that kind of Christian. I want to be a well-dressed Christian. I want to be a well-dressed Christian. I and I know some of y'all know exactly how I feel. You feel the same way about family member yours, but I tell you, I've been missing my daddy. A lot lately. Weather changing, maybe. I get missing Johnny. You know what I'm talking about, and probably more so. Others. I get missing. I think back to my daddy. I think you talk about a well-dressed Christian And he was so humble and so meek, so kind. I want to dress like daddy did. I want to be that kind of Christian. And I have to decide. I have to decide. Let's pray. pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take this. I feel like I stumbled through it a little bit this morning, Lord, and Lord, we just want to be what the kind of people you saved us to be. And help us, Lord, to put off that old man, all that attitude from before, and what we see in the world. Help us decide, put all that off. And Lord, help us. Holy Spirit, help us. Put on these garments. Lord, some of us maybe need to forgive somebody. Some of us need to learn to be kind. Some of us learn to have compassion. Lord, I need these things. So I pray, Holy Spirit, you would help us. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many people would say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved But I want to be I want to be a sweet Christian. I want to be a well-dressed Christian. And I need God to help me. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand. Just that kindness, compassion, patient with people Loving and kind. We need that. How many of that? Any others, preacher? I need that. I get off and I get mad. I get bitter and I react. I want to have a better testimony. I think we feel that way. There's some here this morning who say, Preacher, I know someone that's unsaved, and I want them to be saved. I need to be a better witness to them, not just in my life, but in sharing the gospel with them. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I have a friend or someone I know that's unsaved. I want them to be saved so bad. You'd say, help pray with me that God will help me be a good witness. Is there any like that? I know someone particularly needs to be saved. I tell you how we dress, quote unquote, be a powerful effect on our witness. Help it or hurt it. We need the Lord to help us. Is there someone here this morning to say, preacher, I don't know if I'm saved or not? I hope I go to heaven. I think maybe You say, I need to nail this down and I need to make sure of this. Or any of this morning say, preacher, pray for me. I need to settle and know for sure by Sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Any like that, by the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I gotta know for sure. Any at all, maybe online, let us know if you're watching. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our invitation. Have your way, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Maybe God