We met uh an odd couple in the Bible here, probably the strangest couple in all the Bible you're going to find, Nabal and Abigail. And as we've been saying now, we've looking at this for a while. Nabal, of course, was a fool. His name means fool. His wife said that he was a fool. All his household said that he was a fool. God said that he was a fool. That's pretty rough when God says you're a fool. And so this guy was a powerful, wealthy, but um uh very unpleasant fellow. And then he's married to Abigail, as we've been saying, uh beautiful woman, uh by the Biblical record says she was a very beautiful woman. She was a very intelligent woman. She was had some wisdom to her and uh she had some insight. She was a blessing And so we have this two polar opposites are married together, and uh to Abigail's credit, she, uh by all appearances in Scripture, made that thing work. Nabal insulted David without going into all the details. He insulted David. David got angry, got in the flesh, so to speak, and is going to kill Nabal and all his household. Abigail intervenes. And uh and uh keeps David from killing uh Nabal David David realizes his mistake And then God takes Nabal's life. And that's where we're going to pick up here in verse number 36 of 1 Samuel chapter 25. Notice the Bible says, and Abigail came to Nabal And behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. And Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunken. Wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning night. Nothing about her intervention there with David. But it came to pass in the morning. And when the wine was gone out of Nabal, his wife had told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became a stone. And as it came to pass and it came to pass about ten days after that the Lord smote Nabal that he died. Alright, there's the death of a fool. Funeral for a fool. Now look what this is where we're going to pick up tonight. And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be the Lord that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach. from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil, for the Lord hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head And David sent and communed with Abigail to take her to him to wife. And when the servants of David were come to Abigail, to Carmel, They spake unto her, saying, David sent us unto thee to take thee to him to wife. And she arose and bowed herself on her face to the earth and said, Behold, let thine handmaiden be a servant to wash the feet of the servant of my Lord. And Abigail hastened, and arose, and rode upon an ass and with five damsels of hers that went after her, and she went after the messengers of David and became his wife. And David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel, and they were also, both of them, his wives But Saul had given Michael, his daughter, David's wife, to Faltai, the son of Laesh, which was of Gallam. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now you'd bless our study of this passage of Scripture. I pray that you'd fill me with your Spirit, holy, dear Lord, and that your Holy Spirit would be our teacher tonight. And I pray that you would speak through me to each of our hearts and minds. And Father in heaven, I pray you challenge us and help us to grow. Open our hearts and minds. and apply the principles that are given here to our lives that we can be stronger in our faith and closer to you in our walk In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Here we have the wedding of this new widow, uh Abigail. And the first thing I want us to notice, I want to jump right into my outline here. The first thing I want us to notice is David's recognition. of God's vengeance. David's recognition of God's vengeance. And I see that in the first part of verse number 39, where it says, when David heard that Nabal was dead, and then David makes this statement. Look what he says. Blessed be the Lord that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil, for the Lord hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. He recognized God's vengeance here. I'm afraid too often we attribute the acts of God to something other than God. What I mean by that was David didn't see Nab's death following Abigail's intervention. He didn't see that as just a strange coincidence. He recognized God's hand in that. He saw that God did this. And I'm afraid a lot of times God works in our lives and God does things for us and God protects us from things. And then rather than giving glory to God and recognizing that God did that for us, we'll say, oh boy, what a coincidence that was. Woo! That was close. Or something like that, rather than stopping and giving glory to God. And uh I credit David here, he recognized immediately That Nabal's untimely death was the direct hand of God, God stepping in. Sometimes we'll attribute something God does for us, a work that God does, we'll attribute it to coincidence. Now to be honest with you, I don't think there's coincidences in the life of a Christian. I think God works and plans and and uh we uh we need to recognize his hand and all that. Sometimes When God does something, God blesses us or God protects us, sometimes rather than attributing the glory to God for what took place We'll attribute it to man. We'll say, oh, we did that. In fact, just I read in the news just uh yesterday or today uh a governor up in New York uh this virus thing I guess is slowing down a little bit up there. And he made a very blant statement. I don't think I'm quoting it directly, but he said God didn't do that. We slowed this down Tell you, you've got to be very, very careful about trying to take glory away from God. If it wasn't for God, none of us would be alive. And so we have to be very, very careful about this. When God does something and God intervenes, and God blesses us, and God protects us, or God provides for us. We need to be very, very careful that we give him the glory, whether we eat or drink or whatsoever we do, we do it all to the glory of God. And we recognize his end in that. I'm very grateful, personally, I'm very grateful for our president. I think he's been a friend to Christians. He's put policies in place But I tell you, sometimes he makes statements that uh make me cringe when he takes credit and takes uh glorifies himself for maybe the economy or some things. And again, I don't want to take away that he does play a role. But I'm telling you, the bottom line is God is the one that blesses nations, and God is the one that withholds blessings. We've got to give glory to God. And I just was talking with someone recently and we hear uh folks bragging about how great our economy is, greatest in our history, greatest, greatest, and in a matter of weeks that things turned upside down. I'm telling you God is the one that blesses and withholds blessings. And so as I look at David's statements here, I see that David immediately recognizes that Nabal's untimely death is not some coincidence. It's not something David did to bring this about. This was God's hand. This was God's hand And so David recognizes God's vengeance, David's recognition of that. He gives glory to God. Now notice what he says down through here, under that thought. I notice, first of all, he praises I notice his praise of God's vengeance. He says, blessed be the Lord. He gets word, hey, Nabal's dead. Oh, blessed be the Lord. The word blessed there means this, to give adoration to, to give honor to. It's translated some places to kneel down before. And what is David saying here? He's not praising God that Nabal is dead. He's not saying, oh, praise the Lord, that old fool's dead. That's not what he's saying. We have to be very careful about rejoicing in our enemies' demise. In fact, if you would, take your Bible and turn with me to Proverbs. It seems we always end up in Proverbs at some point. But go with me if you would to Proverbs chapter 24 and verse number twenty verse number seventeen. Proverbs twenty-four seventeen. Now, I trust you've got your Bibles out at home there, and uh not just laying down drinking milkshake. Uh I hope you're following along, listening. Don't eat cheeseburger, uh set it aside, and get your Bible. Turn to Proverbs 27. And uh verse number, uh Proverbs 24, I'm sorry, and verse number 17. Notice what the Bible says here. It says, rejoice not when thine enemy falleth. And let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth. We need to be very, very careful when we have maybe an antagonist. or somebody that we would describe as an enemy or somebody that opposes us, we need to be very, very careful that we don't rejoice when things go bad for them. Because God can again God can take that and turn that around and we may end up reaping the very thing we're rejoicing in our enemy. Jesus said, Bless those that curse you, do good to them. that despitefully use you, pray for them. And so David is not, coming back to our text, David is not Praising God that Nabal is dead. I don't believe that. Nabal brought this upon himself. To be very frank, his death was not David's fault, it was his own fault His own actions brought that about. Again, if you're uh I should have stayed in Proverbs. If you would come back again to Proverbs. I thought of Proverbs chapter 11. And uh two verses here in Proverbs 11 that I thought of when I got thinking about Nabal was uh uh he brought this demise upon himself. Look at verse 7 of Proverbs 11. The Bible says, when a wicked man dieth, his expectation shall perish, but the hope of unjust men perisheth. Oh he ha he ha Nabal had us uh had it all worked out. He was in charge. He had everything a big party. But you know he brought that whole thing on himself. It was his own actions that brought about his death. Come down to verse number 19 of Proverbs 11. Notice again what it says. As righteousness tendeth to life So he that pursueth evil, Nabul, he that pursueth evil pursueth it to his own what? His own death. Nabal brought this upon himself. His own actions. This, his death, his untimely death, was the result of decisions that Nabal made. You know, our actions have consequences. Decisions we make have consequences. And we need to stop and think. Wait a minute, the direction my life is going, the actions I am taking. The behavior I'm engaged in, what is going to be the consequences? How does this play out? Nabal never gave that a thought And so I get back to my thought. David is not praising God that Nabal was dead. David is praising God that God was faithful. And that God took care of this and David didn't uh that David didn't have to. He was praising God's faithfulness. Now notice something else I did. David praises uh God's vengeance, and then I notice the protection of God's vengeance. Again, back here in 1 Samuel, look what it says in the middle of verse 39. Blessed be the Lord that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach. from the hand of Nabal. Okay, he's praising God for his faithfulness. God intervened and hath kept his servant from evil. Has kept his servant from evil. He's recognizing here, David's not again, not so much focused on the punishment of this foolish and wicked man. David's rejoicing in the protection that God provided for him. God stepped in and kept David. That word kept there means to restrain or hold back. Kept David from doing something that would have been tragic in his life uh murdering a man and his whole household uh simply out of anger. I am glad that we have a God that will step in when we start making bad decisions When we start uh being tempted to do something wrong, I like 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 13. Boy, if you don't have that verse memorized, you ought to. It ought to be at least highlighted in your Bible. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able And so God can step in. God will, if we will just trust Him. We sang the song a little bit ago and noticed the phrase in there about Uh now it slips my mind, but the phrase, uh uh if you're tempted, just whisper that name in prayer. And God gives us opportunity. So David is praising the Lord That God's been faithful in this vengeance God took out on Nabal. Not that Nabal's dead, but God is faithful and God dealt with this. He's praising the Lord. He's recognizing God was protecting him uh from uh uh doing something foolish. And then we notice that David uh recognized the precision of God's vengeance. The precision. Now let me explain what I mean. Look again here at verse 39. He says, Now look at this last statement Upon his what? His own head. What was David's plan when he was heading down to Nabal's household? He was going to kill Nabal, Abigail, the whole household, all the servants He was going to slaughter that whole family, that whole household. But God steps in, David God restrains David from doing that. God steps in and he is very precise. He said he took out Nabal. Nabal is the one that needs to be dealt with Nabal is the one that needs to uh uh the consequences of his actions, needs the consequences of his actions. What I'm trying to get at is this. This is what I got in studying at. God is a whole lot better at dealing with our enemies than we are. David would have gone down there, he'd have made a mess. God knew exactly who needed to be dealt with. He knew exactly how to deal with that. And God was very precise. In his intervention here and carrying out this vengeance. I'm telling you, God's whole whole rather than arguing and fighting with people Why we learn just to let God take care of it. He's a whole lot better than we are. He's a whole lot more precise than we are. We get involved, get all worked up like David was We end up hurting innocent people. We end up damaging things that don't need to be damaged. We end up bringing reproach upon our own names. That is not necessary. Let God deal with it. He's very precise And so God brings it upon his own head. Then so first of all, I notice here is David's recognition of God's vengeance. Now, quickly, I want us to notice Abigail's response To David's proposal. Look at verse 39, the last part. And David sent and communed with Abigail to take her to him to wife. What's he doing? He's asking her to be his wife. He is uh it's a marriage proposal. And uh and and when the servants of David were come to Abigail to Carmel They spake unto her, saying David sent us unto thee to take thee to him to wife. Here you have uh this proposal. Um I suggested earlier in our study, it's been a few months ago now But one Wednesday night we were looking at Early Ulmer just introduced to Abigail and her interaction with David, and I made the suggestion that I uh some of the Jewish uh commentators from years ago, ancient Jews, had suggested that Abigail was a little out of line when she said to David, Remember thy servant Uh, she said to him, and they said, That was a little inappropriate. And I thought maybe there might have been something, a little something there between those two. And I got a little pushback on it. I had some folks come to me afterward and uh say, Well, preacher, we don't know about that and and gave me a little hard time. But uh I have a sense I've got a sense here that there was some electricity Between David and Abigail going on here, there's a little uh a little bit of uh electricity there. And think about it now for a minute. They're both very intelligent people No doubt about that. They're both uh very attractive people. Uh they are both born leaders We see that saw that in Abigail as she dealt with the situation. David, of course, is a tremendous leader. We saw that uh introduced to that with uh the situation with uh Goliath And so Abigail and David have a lot of things in common, and they both had a previous spouse that was not good. Of course, Nabal with Abigail, and then Michael with David. She lied about him. Uh she uh was far from a very uh very loyal uh wife to him. And so they both got a bad experience in their past. They have all these similarities. So it to me, I'm saying that to say this. To me, it seems just natural that these two would gravitate together. Now I want us to notice David's request, his proposal, his request for her to marry her. Verse 39 there. We read the last part. He communed with her to take her to him the wife. Then he sends the servants down in verse 40. And they say, hey, David sent us to you to take you back with us to be his wife. I got thinking about that. That's not a very romantic proposal by anybody's standards. Now you want to know about a romantic proposal. Uh I'll tell you about when I asked uh proposed to Kathy to marry. I mean horse and carriages and Fancy restaurant down in Chattanooga, I'm telling you, it was the epitome of romance that night She was shocked and amazed. I had the waiter was in on it and uh the whole restaurant staff was in on it and uh and uh uh opened I'll tell you some other time. But romantic, I'll tell you what. It was impressive. Here you got David. He says, uh hey you servants, go down there, tell Abigail, I want her to be my wife, bring her back It's like, good night. Seriously? And uh, but to be honest with you, that's pretty much the standard operating procedure in that day and age. I mean, that's pretty much how it went down And Abigail's not put off by it in any way, shape, or form. It's just kind of how it happened. And so David makes this request, this proposal to her. Then in verse 41 and 42, we have Abigail's response. She says yes. She accepts the proposal to be his wife. Now notice her acceptance here. Verse 41, I put this down. She was humble in her acceptance. Look what she said. She arose, look at this, bowed herself on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, let thine handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my Lord. Now my wife never said that to me, I'll tell you that right now. I don't expect her to. I'm being trying to be funny here. But uh man alive. Uh you talk about humility on the part of Abigail to say, listen, uh she bows herself and says, you know, I'll do whatever I need to do. I'll be your wife to you. I'll I'll I humbly accept your uh uh uh offer of marriage. I take it, yes. And she does it in such a humble way. And that should not surprise us because she had already proven herself to be a very faithful, a very humble wife to Nabo of all people. I'm telling you, if she could humbly be humble and faithful to someone like Nabal, then I'm confident she could be humble and faithful to someone like David. I think that's just characteristic her one of her characteristics. That she was a humble, gracious woman. And in her acceptance of David's proposal, she is very humble in her acceptance And then I noticed this she was very hasty in her acceptance. Again, look at verse forty-two. And Abigail hastened and arose and rode upon an ass. I mean she jumped up and she's ready to go. Now, I don't mean she was hasty in her acceptance in a bad way I thought, well, why would she be in such a hurry? Why would it just boom, all of a sudden, yep, all right, load up, let's go. Why would it be so quick? I don't think it was in a bad way. I think she understood David's situation. David is fleeing from Saul. David is on guard. He has to be able to go in a moment's notice. And I think Abigail understood that. And said, you know, I can't loiter around here. I can't pack up the uh hope chest and you know and make all these arrangements and stuff. Uh we gotta go for uh for safety's sake And again, I think it was it displayed some wisdom and insight on her part. She understood what the situation was, and uh she loaded up and and and was hasty in getting out there and going out. Now maybe I'm reading a little bit into that, but uh I think that's uh may be the case. And then she had foresight. Now sh there there's a statement here In verse 42, Abigail hastened, arose, rode upon an ass, and then it says, with five damsels of hers that went after her. Now, why would that be included in there? Why would they say that Uh this is my question. This is what I'm thinking. I'm wondering if she didn't anticipate that David would have his hands full in dealing with the 600 men that have uh uh has entourage those 600 men and all the others that go along with that escaping uh King Saul, providing for everybody. I think she understood that David had his hands full And he wasn't going to be able to wait on her every whim and do everything for her. So she's got these damsels saying, you ladies come along and you help me get this set up. You help me get situated here, and I just want you to be a part uh of uh of me becoming David's wife. And I think again it was great insight on her part, that uh foresight on her part. She anticipated David's butt not going to be able to do a whole lot for me and so she's got these uh damsels along with her. Uh it's suggested, though of course it's not we're not told in scripture, but uh Bible scholars suggest that David probably inherited all uh I guess you'd say inherited or he obtained all of Nabal's estate probably whenever he married Abigail. So again there's a lot of work involved with that, a lot of logistics, and I believe these five damsels would be a great, great help to Abigail as she became David's wife. And then, last of all, I want us to notice David's error. We had uh, first of all, his recognition of God's hand and the vengeance on Mabel. We had uh Abigail's response to David's proposal. She said yes And then the last two verses we have what I see as David's error. I think David made a mistake here Notice in verse 43, David also took Ahidoim of Jezreel, and they were also both of them his wives. Verse 44, Saul had given Michael, his daughter, to David, David's wife, to Faltai, the son of Laish, which was of Gallam. Uh I I just think there's a mistake here. This scal Ahenoam. We're not told much about her Probably David had already taken her to wife before Abigail, before he met Abigail, is implied here. That she was already his wife. Later on we're going to see that this Henoam actually became the mother of David's first child. And the implication there being that she probably was married to David before Abigail came along, and so he married them. But it says both of them were his wives Um that is not the way God initially designed marriage. God made uh Adam And he gave them one wife, and the two shall be one, and uh for the rest of their lives till death to impart. God's design for marriage is one man, one woman And I can't believe we have to say this. It seems ridiculous to me, but it is one man and one woman is what makes up a marriage Jesus reconfirmed that in the Gospels when Jesus addressed the subject of marriage, one man and one woman And uh not one man and five women, not one man and two women, one man, one wife. That's the way God designed it. And experience tells us, you study carefully in the scriptures, where they had more than one wife, they had sometimes many wives, almost without exception, it caused problems, serious problems. And so there's a uh I believe David made a mistake here in taking to him these multiple wives, contrary to Jesus' teaching, a cause of much grief. It's not the way it was initially designed. And so David made that mistake. Now that was very common, and of course, we read the Old Testament. Good men had multiple wives. But again, I reiterate, reiterate, reiterate, that is not God's design And it is not the ideal situation. Now, there's another statement. I just want to touch on this. It says, but Saul had given Michael, his daughter, David's wife Saul's daughter, David's wife, to this other fellow, this fault-eyed guy. Now I want to suggest to you, King Saul had no authority To take David's wife, Michael, he had given her to David to be wife. Saul had no authority to step in and take her from David and give her to another man. When she left Saul, when she married David, she was to leave her mother and father and to cleave to her husband. Saul had no authority to do that. He had no authority to step in to his daughter and his son-in-law's marriage. And he's overstepping his bounds in doing this. Now here's my application. I hate to end with this, but this is so important. In-laws need to stay out of their children's marriages Don't be messing around. Let them work it out. Let them pray it through. Let them work uh get on their knees in Scripture. Let God help them. Let God work it through But the in-laws mom and dad need to stay out of the kid's marriage. And that's where I would say, Amen Let them grow, let them work it out. Leave thy father and mother and cleave unto their wife. Saul was out of bounds, out of bounds. in stepping in and doing that. So, uh David, uh we have the the funeral of a fool, Nabal, and we have the wedding of a widow. Uh Abigail marries David. And so we'll pick this up and uh into the next chapter and continue our study in the life of David. But I want to encourage you, just pray, ask the Lord to help us To trust God. And if we've got a situation with someone, a fuss with someone, don't go in there storming in. Let God deal with that. He can deal with our adversaries far better than we can. And let the Lord have that. And just trust him, Lord, with all your heart. Lean not unto your own understanding. All your ways acknowledge him. And he'll direct your paths. He'll work that thing out. And David learned that firsthand. Let's pray together. Father in heaven. We ask, Lord, you'd help us to trust you. Help us, Lord, take situations that we really uh Uh don't don't uh have control over and just let you take that and handle it and deal with it and not try to uh uh control things that we i it's out of our our area. I pray you'd bless us and help us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.