This is where I believe the Lord would lead us tonight. I'm going to try to move quickly. Uh I when I study God's Word, uh oftentimes God will direct me to a book of the Bible. I'll begin to read. Sometimes I'll stay in that book for a long, long time. I was reading the book of Jonah. I know the story very well. I was privileged to be raised in a Christian home. Uh my grandfather was my pastor. My father's now my pastor. I've never pastored. I'm an evangelist, but uh I'm a third generation preacher. I've been in church my whole life, as far back as I can remember, and I know the story of Jonah. I've heard it many, many, many, many, many, many times. There's four chapters, and of course we we know the story. If you've been saved any length of time, or you've been in church any length of time, you know the story of Jonah. I was reading through the book, it's only four chapters And of course it's broken into different things are taking place. There's not a lot of characters in this book. Sometimes when you read a book of the Bible, there's so many characters you can't count them. You just can't keep track of all the characters. The book of Job Doesn't have a lot of characters. You have Job, you have God, you have Satan, you have Job's three friends, you have a younger man that shows up on the scene. You have Job's wife, Job's children About it. You run out. Jonah's the same way. There's not a lot of characters in the book. Now, we know the people of Nineveh, there's a lot of people, over a hundred thousand people, but as a group, you have that group, and then you have the mariners. You have God. You have Jonah. About it. And so there's not a lot of characters in the book. Chapter 1 deals with fleeing from the face of God. This is when Jonah runs from God. You know the story. Chapter number two, if well was to title it, it'd be fleeing to the face of God. This is when Jonah kind of comes to a senses in the whale's belly, if you remember. Chapter 3 is dealing with the people of Nineveh, and this is fearing the face of God. This is when they realize God's going to bring judgment on them if they don't turn from their wicked ways And then chapter four is flying in the face of God. This is when Jonah's upset. You see Jonah's anger comes out, and he says things to God that we can't believe he would say And we're waiting for God to go, you know, if I was God, I'd have done that to Jonah, talking to me that way. I often thought of the book of Jonah as a book of judgment After all, God is going to bring judgment on Nineveh for their wickedness. I often looked at Jonah running from the presence of the Lord. He should have known better. He runs from the presence of the Lord, and I always looked at God prepared a what? A whale or a great fish to swallow him, custom made. Alright? As I heard old R. G. Lee say, when someone said, Do you really believe God prepared a fish to swallow his preacher? Now R. G. Lee said if God can make a preacher, he can make a fish big enough to swallow it. And I agree with that. I agree with that. I always looked at the whale swallowing Jonah as judgment. God was judging his preacher for being disobedient. But after studying this, really, my mind has been totally changed, and I want to bring you a different perspective tonight. I'll try to move quickly. There's no way I can cover the entire book. I'm not even going to try. But I want to show you something that I'd never seen before, and maybe allow the Holy Spirit to take his word and prick your heart tonight And do a work inside your heart and inside your life. I hope you never take for granted this book. This is a precious book. It's different than any other book you ever read. It is God breathed. It's a special book. I love it because I can read the book of Jonah. I can memorize the book of Jonah. And tomorrow when I open the pages and begin to read, God will give me something new. And I look at it and I think to myself, how can I miss that all these years? Because it's a living book. It's a living book. Jonah chapter number one, the book of Jonah starts a little bit different than other books. I want you to notice the first word in chapter one, it starts with the word now. Kind of odd. In other words, Jonah's one of those books, kind of like Job. Again, I'm going to compare it to Job. It's a little chunk out of Jonah's life. It's not a record of the entire life of Jonah. We don't know his beginnings. We don't know when God called him to be a prophet. We don't even know at the end what happens in the life of Jonah. God chops it off In fact, the last verse of chapter 4, God asks a question, and guess what? Jonah never answers. If he does answer, we can only speculate because the Bible doesn't tell us. In other words, this book is almost food for thought. Food for thought. Now, I would not say this is an isolated time that the word now is used The first word in in the book of Judges is now. The first word in the book of Ruth is now. The same in 1 Samuel, the same in Esther, the same in Ezekiel. So it's not just Solitary to this book, there are other books that start with the word now. But I want you to notice a couple things. Number one, Jonah, his name means morning dove or son of truth. Son of truth. Now, oftentimes when you look in the Bible, you look at a character in the Bible, you're wondering to yourself, is this a man that really existed? Or is God giving us a parable or telling us a story about a hypothetical person just for us to learn from Did Jonah actually exist? Well, he does, or did actually exist, because the Bible says when Jesus walked upon the earth in his earthly ministry in Matthew chapter 12, verse number 40, Jesus proves Jonah's actual existence. He says this. For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly, so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. So he's giving a fact As Jonah was, so I will be. So Jonah existed. There was a man named Jonah. He was swallowed by a whale. He did spend three days and three nights. By the way, I did not bring it with me, but recently I had a friend Send me a picture. It was actually a text. And inside of that was a story. And this story happened back, I believe it was in the late 1800s, a whaling ship. And a man uh they went out whaling, you know what whalers were, they went out and they would harvest kill whales and they would use the blubber to make oil for lamps, and that's what they did. And there was a man that showed up missing. They thought he was drowned at sea They end up pulling this whale in. They process the whale on board the ship as they would do. Eighteen hours later, they're cutting this whale open and a foot comes out. They opened it up, and the sailor that was missing is in the wheel, and he was not dead. He was unconscious, he was bleached, and he lived. Eighteen hours later. Uh by the way, I I if I can find it, I'll show it to you. The record of it. So uh not that we have to have proof that the Bible is real. Faith is good enough for me. But it has happened. It can happen. It can happen. Okay? So I want to give you some things about Jonah. I'm going to start reading. Let's have a word of prayer before we jump into it. I'm going to move quickly. Let's ask God to do something in our hearts and our lives tonight. Father, I pray That shall quiet our spirits. May our hearts be open to your word tonight. May your Holy Spirit work on us. May we be receptive to what you have. For us this evening. Thank you for your word. How precious it is to us. Help us to see Joan of this story in a new light. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The Bible says in Jonah chapter 1, verse 1, Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Amitai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness has come out before me. You know the story. God gives Jonah a command. Jonah says what? Verse 3, but Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshus from the presence of the Lord And went down to Joppa, found a ship going to Tarshish, so he paid the fare thereof, went down into it to go with them unto Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. So Jonah does the exact opposite of what God told him to do. Now, when I was a young person growing up and I was reading, I thought to myself, well Jonah is just a disobedient man. He doesn't want to be God's prophet anymore. He doesn't want to listen to God He doesn't mean he doesn't believe in God anymore. He's doing his own thing now. Then that's not the case. As you study, you'll find out that the Assyrians, Nineveh, okay, the Assyrian people, were the enemies of the Jews. They hated them. Jonah did not want to go give them a chance for revival. It wasn't worth it to him. He did not want to be a laughing stock. uh with the other prophets or the other people that were Jews. He didn't want to be known as the man that helped them get another chance. He don't want to do that. So he went the other way. I noticed some things as I was reading. I'm going to make just some just some observations if I can The Bible says in verse 3, but Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshus from the presence of the Lord. I wrote this down in my Bible. You are either fleeing to the Lord's presence or away from the Lord's presence You're never in between. You're going to God or you're going away from God. I noticed something else. The Bible says in verse number 3, he went down to Japan and found a ship going to Tarshus. Isn't it amazing when someone wants to run from God's presence, there's always a vehicle waiting. Have you ever noticed that? Have you ever noticed that? Listen, when you run from the Lord, Satan always provides transportation. Always. Always. I want you to notice something else. The Bible says in verse 3, he ran from flee from the presence of the Lord and went Down to Joppa, found a ship going to Tarshis, paid the fear thereof, and went down into it. Verse number five. The mariners were afraid, cried every man who was God, cast forth the wares that were into the ship into the sea, to lightning of them, but Jonah was gone down. Whenever you run from the presence of the Lord, you're always headed down. Always. Always. Notice something else in verse number three. It just kind of throws it in there. The Bible says, so he paid the fare thereof. Whenever you run from the Lord's presence, you always have to pay the fare. And let me tell you something, Christian, listen to me, please. It's always more than you thought it would be. Always more than you thought it would be. I was reading the story. I know the story very well. I'm not going to take the time to go through all that we can't. You know what happens. He goes down, gets into the ship. Thinks he's got his ticket, he's on his way. Verse number four, the Lord's not having any of it Verse 4 says, But the Lord sent out a great wind into the sea. There was a mighty tempest in the sea, so that the ship was like to be broken. And the mariners were afraid, cried every man unto his God, cast forward the wares are in the ship and in the sea to lighten it But Jonah was going down to the side of the ship, and he lay and was fast asleep. Now again, that struck me a little odd, preacher. I'm just going to be honest with you. If I was running from God's presence and I'm a servant of the Lord, and I'm running from the Lord, I would kind of be hiding in the bottom of the ship going, I hope God doesn't find me. Right? Not Jonah. Oh! Fast asleep, so much so that a storm arises, he doesn't even know it. When the Bible says fast asleep, it's not lying. When a storm comes up, you ever been woke up by a storm in the middle of the night? This is laying in a bed. This is being tossed to and fro in a ship. Amazing, he's fast asleep. Shipmaster comes to him. You remember the story. Oh, sleeper, he calls to him. What are you doing? He says, Arise, call upon thy God. This will be that God will think upon us that we perish not. You know the story? They cast lots to figure out why this evil has fallen upon them and who does the lot fall on? What a coincidence. It falls on Jonah. I noticed something I'd never seen before. The people come to him, the mariners, and they say, Listen, okay, the law fell on you. You're the problem. You're the reason we're in this storm. Tell us where you're from. What people are you from? What do you do for a living? Come on, stranger, spill it. This is happening to us. This storm, the loud fell on you. What do you do? And notice what Jonah says. Verse 9. And he said unto them, I am in Hebrew. Notice what it says next. It is not past tense. And I fear the Lord God. It's Present tense. And I fear. Not past tense. Present tense. You know what that tells me? Jonah still considers himself a prophet of God. He fears God. Why would he go through all this and risk what he's risking to do what he's doing He says, I fear the Lord God of heaven, which hath made the sea in the dry land. Then the men were exceedingly afraid. They said unto him, Why hast thou done this? For the men knew that he fled from the presence of the Lord because he had told them. Then said they unto him, What shall we do unto thee, that the sea may be calm unto us? For the sea wrought and was calm. Tempestuous. Notice that Jonah knows exactly what has to be done to remedy the situation He doesn't say, I don't know, I should have ran from God. Now we're in a storm. I can't help you guys. Sorry. Judgment's fallen. That's not what he says. That's not what he says. Look what he says in verse 12. And he said unto them, Take me up and cast me forth into the sea. Notice the next phrase. He does not say, maybe the storm will stop. Notice what it says? I'm not, I didn't write the book. Look what it says. So shall the sea be calm. You know what shall means? Positively, absolutely. Jonah says, listen, I know exactly how to remedy the situation. You throw me in, the sea will be calm. Which pose the question to my simple mind. Are you ready? And maybe it's just me because I'm simple-minded. But after reading this book about twenty times It just dawned on me. If Jonah knows these mariners are going to die, the ship is going to go down eventually if they don't do something. The mariners can't bring, they're throwing things over. They can't stop the storm. They're all going to perish Jonah knows the remedy. What's the remedy? For him to hit the water, correct? Am I making this up? Anyone with me? Why didn't Jonah jump in? I mean that just hit my mind. If Jonah knows, if he hits the water, the mariner's a shade, that quits the storm, why not jump in? Why put it on them? Sorry, you've got to throw me in. Now, I've heard people say he'd rather die than go preach to Nineveh. He'd rather die. That's not true. Well he was committing suicide. No, suicide is cannonball That's suicide. He wouldn't commit suicide, he was having them throw him in. That's what he says That's what he says. For I know that for my sake this great tempest is upon you. Verse 13. Nevertheless, the men rode hard to bring it to land. But they could not, for the sea wrought, and was tempestuous against them. Naturally, these men didn't want to kill him because they knew if he threw him in, it was what? Sure death. And they knew that. They didn't want to kill this man, even though the lot had fallen on him. So the Bible says that they rode hard. Verse 14 is an amazing thing. Wherefore they cried unto the Lord. Now they're praying not to their gods, but to Jonah's God, of which they hadn't believed before. So Jonah's not reign to his God, but the mariners are. Amazing. Okay? We beseech thee, O Lord. We beseech thee. They're begging God here. Okay? Let us not perish for this man's life and lay not upon us innocent blood. Listen, for thou O Lord has done as it pleased thee. Isn't it amazing that even with lost mariners, God is getting glory? God can use lost people to get glory, by the way. He can. God always gets the glory. He always gets the glory. And so listen, they said, we don't want to kill this man, Lord. Please don't put his blood on innocent hands. We didn't know. We didn't know it's not our fault. Listen, you do as it pleases you, but it's not our fault. Finally, they have no choice. You know the story, verse 15. They take up Jonah. They cast him forth into the sea. And just as Jonah said, the sea ceased from her raging. Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly and offered a sacrifice unto the Lord and made vows. Verse 17 Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah. By the way, study that word prepared. This is a custom order fish. I mean, God prepared this fish just for him. And I often thought in my mind as I studied this verse, you know what, here it comes. Judgment's coming, Jonah. You should have been paying attention. You should have been listening. You should have been following God and being obedient. Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights Chapter 2, verse 1. Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord his God of the fish's belly. And Jonah goes into a prayer. This prayer goes all the way down to verse number 9. I'm not going to take the time to read the whole prayer. Something else jumped off the page of me. Are you ready? The Bible says Jonah was in the whale's belly three days and three nights, and then the Bible says Then, in chapter 2, verse 1, then Jonah prayed. I can have a question, just a question for you. Again, I'm just a simple mind. Observation. Jonah has not prayed and has just now remembered the Lord after three days and three nights in the fish's belly. What in the world has he been doing for three days and three nights? Let me let me pose it to you. You're disobedient to the Lord. You're running from Him. You're thrown over, and you get swallowed by a whale. You're in utter darkness. Seaweed is wrapped around your head. Your skin is bleached. You can't see a thing. You think you're going to die. How long would it take you to pray? Even if I'm backslidd and I was pushing 30 seconds. Three days he doesn't pray. Does that not strike anyone else, odd? In other words, Jonah really doesn't want to go to Nineveh. He really doesn't want to go to Nineveh. Three days and three nights, finally, listen, he prays unto the Lord his God. How often must men come to the end of themselves, a dead end, so that in that moment of deepest despair, God can move in? Certainly, man's extremity is God's opportunity. I notice something else. Look what it says when he starts praying. Look at verse 3 of chapter 2. Jonah starts to pray. He says, I cried by reason of my affliction unto the Lord. He heard me. Look what he says, out of the belly of hell cried I. So by the way, Jonah wasn't sitting in a hammock eating an apple. I don't care what kind of drawing you've seen. Jonas says I was in the belly of hell. That's where I was. At the belly of hell cried I. Look at verse 3. For thou hast cast me into the deep. He didn't say the mariners threw him in. What did he say? He said, God threw me in. God threw me in. I still often saw this as a time of judgment. A time of judgment. Notice what he says in verse number three: You cast me the deep in the midst of the seas, and the floods come past me about, all thy billows and thy ways passed over me. This is personal. In other words, what I'm trying to get you understand is Jonah knows what's going on. Jonah knows what's going on. But I'm still looking at it as judgment, God judging Jonah. You're going to find out in a minute, perspective is wrong. Perspective is wrong. That's not what's taking place. I noticed something else I'd never seen. Jonah here is telling the story. Jonah's telling his prayer. Do you notice what he says in these verses? I cried. Now I'm not very good in English. But can you help me? The word cried, is that present tense or past tense? What is it? Past tense. I cried. Past tense. I am crying is present tense. I cried. Verse 3, for thou hast cast me past tense. All thy floods compass me, all thy billows and thy ways pass over me. Then said I, I am cast out of thy sight. Verse five, the waters come past me, past tense. The weeds closed me round about the weeds were wrapped were wrapped about my head, not our wrapped Word, this is later, he's telling this, okay? Verse 6, I went down to the bottoms of the mountain. Not I'm going down. I went down. Oh, past tense. Preacher, what's your point? Stay with me. Stay with me. I went down. Verse 7, when my soul fainted, past tense. When my soul fainted within me, I remember, remembered the Lord. Past sense. All of a sudden, out of these four chapters in this book, a verse just pops out of the page, preached like a verse that don't belong there. It just comes out of nowhere. It's not past tense. It has nothing to do with the prayer. When I come down, I'm reading all the way through Jonah's prayer, my soul feigned within me. I remember the Lord. My prayer came in unto thee to thy holy temple. Verse number eight. He stops the past tense. Jonah steps out of the story over here, steps out of the story, and makes an observation. And then steps back into the story Look what Jonah says in verse 8. Honestly, folks, after studying this book and studying this book and studying this book and studying this book, I think this verse is the key to the whole book of Jonah. That's just my opinion. You can put it in file 13, you can do whatever you want with it. Look what it says in verse number eight. They that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy. Jonah's making an observation here. I begin to say those words, lying vanities. You know what it means? The word observe. The word observe means to believe. Lying vanities means empty lies. Jonah said, Listen, observation, they that believe empty lies forsake their own mercy. Now remember, verses 1 through 7 is past tense. Verse 8 is present tense. They that observe Look at the next verse, verse 9. But I will. What is that? Future. I will. In other words, when Jonah makes this observation, something clicks and something changes inside. Now Jonah still has some problems. You get to chapter 4, you see some major problems. Jonah has some serious issues still in trusting God and believing God. But what I'm saying is the story changes. Jonah then says, now I will sacrifice to the Lord. I will do this. Why? Because something took place, something changed him. An observation. It dawned on me. It dawned on me this whale that God sent to swallow Jonah is not God's judgment It's not God's judgment. I dwelt on this and I studied this and I dwelt on this and God did a work inside my heart. That giant beast That giant fish, that great fish that was swimming in the sea, waiting for Jonah to be thrown in, was not a picture of judgment. Let me help you with something, Christian. Here's judgment. Are you ready? Here's judgment. Jonah is cast in. Jonah sinks to the bottom. Jonah drowns. Jonah dies. That's judgment. This great beast, this fish, is a whale called mercy. It's a whale called mercy. This fish saves his life. It doesn't destroy him. It saves him. I had never looked at a whale before. as merciful. And then the more I thought about it, I thought, what better object to describe God's mercy than a whale? He says this giant fish, oh, we look at it like poor Jonah. Should have been obedient. Now you're going to get thrown in, and God's judgment's going to come crashing down wrong. It's a ship that carries him safely to the shore and vomits him out. Think about it for a second. This giant whale called mercy. You see, preacher, verse number eight, Jonah said, They that observe, they that believe, empty lies, lying beneath, they forsake their own mercy. That's the observation Shona came up with. Listen, and Shona not being willing to show mercy to the people of Nineveh, he was forsaking his own His own mercy. I'm going to make an application in a minute. Stay with me. Stay with me. You say, preacher, what empty lies or lying vanities did Jonah believe? I'm going to give you three very quickly. Number one, he felt his plan was better than God's. By the way, before you get too hard on Jonah, we do the same thing. You ever have a plan that's better than God's? If I was God, I wouldn't do that. Good thing you're not. Amen. Jonah is playing with the God says, Jonah, go to Nineveh. I think not, Lord, that's not the right move. I'm sorry, it's just not the right move. I'm going this way instead. That's the first lying van. That's the first empty lie that he believed. Jonah should know better His plan is not as good as God's folks can I say something in humility to you? Okay, please take it in humility. Your plan is not better than God's. This thing that's happening with COVID right now, what does God think he's doing? Exactly. He knows exactly what he's doing Exactly what he's doing. Number two, I'll move quickly. He thought he could flee from the presence of God. That's a lying vanity. For a preacher to think he can run from God and God not find him, that's stupidity. Can I get an amateur man? But how often have you met someone? Well, I'll just leave home. I've seen teenagers. I'll I'll move away and God won't find me. Really? Really? I've seen three God call men to preach and then run from it and then rebel and leave. I'll go somewhere else and God won't find me. Wherever you go, God's there. God's already there. It's a lying vanity to believe that you can flee from the presence of God. Number three, he chose to forget his place compared to God. He chose to forget his place. Look at chapter 4 quickly in verse number 1. We don't have time to say all this out. We just don't have the time. But now you see why Jonah's so upset. He tells, you remember the story Jonah finally gets vomited out. He hits the dry land. Imagine what he looked like. She think I look bad. Jonah looked rough, okay? He looked rough. He was probably the color of Bernie. Okay He shows up, uh, he starts to preach, what's he say? Forty days, and then we shall be overthrown. Now, he could have preached more. That's all the Bible tells us he said. I have no idea if he kept repeating that. We have no idea We have no idea. You remember the story? What happens? The whole country believes. I mean you're talking about the first Gentile revival in the Bible. Are you talking about people coming to God? You're talking about a country turning around over 100,000 people, 180,000 people turn to God From the king on down, they repent, sack cloth and ashes. They say, who can tell if God will be gracious? God will be merciful. Look what happens in chapter 4, verse 1. You would think Jonah would be excited. You know what? Wow, man. What a resume. I preached the meeting. 180,000 people came to Christ. Kaboom! Not Jonah. Verse 1, but it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was very angry. And he prayed unto the Lord and said, I pray thee, O Lord, was this not my saying when I was yet in my country? Therefore, he gives you the reason he runs. Therefore, I fled before unto Tarsus. Listen, listen, not because God's bad, but because God's so good. That's why Jonah runs. Because God's merciful. He says, I knew that thou art a gracious God, and merciful, slow to anger, of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil. God, I knew if I came and preached to Nineveh, you'd save all of them and you'd forgive them all. What kind of God are you? In other words, Jonas angry at God for his mercy. What Jonah doesn't realize is all this time God's been trying to maneuver to direct Jonah's life. And in Jonah trying to keep mercy from all these people, he's been keeping it from them You know what our problems are today? Listen to me, Christian. You know what your problem is today? We're not willing to witness to the neighbor or the coworker that's a jerk. You know what I'm talking about. When you say, you know what, preacher, you don't understand. You don't understand my brother-in-law. You don't understand my foot, you don't understand. You don't understand, preach This person that I have to deal with, they don't deserve mercy. And you do? And you do? There are times I think about politicians. I'm just gonna be up front with you, okay? Some of our democratic politicians Pelosi. I have a hard time. Maybe you like her. That's fine. It's America. The free choice. There are times I don't want to pray for her. Is there anyone else in here going to be spiritual? Amen? You know what I think to myself? They don't deserve mercy. They're ruining our country. You know what God says to me? And you do? You deserve mercy? I want you to think about something. I'm I'm done. Listen to me. Think about this. Think about this. Jonah thought he could be judge and jury. God did not respond with judgment on him. He could have. Oh, he could have No, judgment would have been he would have died. The whale is a symbol of mercy, and through it, God shows mercy on the mariners He shows mercy on Jonah and he shows mercy on Nineveh. What did the the mariners pray to God? Lay not what Innocent blood on our hands. If Jonah would have drowned, they'd live with that their whole life. In sending the whale, the mariners are delivered from the innocent blood Jonah is delivered from death. And listen, if he would have sank to the bottom, Nineveh would have never heard the story, and 180,000 people would never turn to God. The will is not judgment, the will is mercy. The whale is mercy. He delivers the sailors from Joppa. He delivers Jonah from death He delivers God's judgment call to Nineveh. You know what I've learned through this? The Lord will have mercy on whom he desires to have mercy, and no man can hinder him. And he who thinks that he can keep God's mercy from others forsakes his own. This book deals with divine intervention. It's amazing. God prepares a great fish. God prepares a great wind. God prepares a gourd. God prepares a worm. But I think the theme, the overwhelming theme of this book is the overreaching, overwhelming mercy of Almighty God. It's so big we can't understand it. And even in showing mercy, which is for us, mercy doesn't help God. Mercy was for Jonah. Mercy was for the mariners. Mercy was for Nineveh. It didn't help God at all. Even in showing mercy to them, God always gets the glory. That's amazing to me. It's amazing to me. Here's my question: I'm true. Are you keeping mercy from others? Are there times where you've been saved so long that you think, you know what, I kinda deserve salvation. I've I've kind of reached the you know, I'm I'm a good Christian now, I've been here long enough. Do you realize that when you forsake giving mercy to other people, you're rejecting your own. You're running from your own mercy. Preacher, how do I get mercy? It's very easy. Are you ready? It's gonna be brilliant. Get ready. Buckle your seatbelt. Preacher, how do I get mercy? If it Give it. You see a preacher, you don't understand. People in the middle of it didn't un they didn't deserve mercy. Jonah didn't deserve mercy. We don't deserve mercy. That's exactly why it's mercy. If you deserved it, it would be mercy. You see, mercy, this is brilliant. Mercy is only given to people who don't deserve it. That's why it's called mercy. The more I look at the book of Jonah, you know what I see? I see a Father in heaven whose mercy is so huge. And so ginormous. We couldn't understand it if we wanted to. You know what I'm reminded of when I read this book? God breaks my heart. He reminds me, listen, of how much God loves this world. How much he's willing to put up with. How that he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. The overwhelming, overreaching mercy of Almighty God. I see that giant whale come up and I used to be so scared when I was a kid. I don't like sharks. I don't like being in the ocean, something coming up. And I used to think that giant whales come to eat Jonah. And man, if you'd only listen, you wouldn't be judged. And I thought now I look at it. That's a giant lifeboat. That's a life raft That's a life rat. Well, by the way, there was lessons in the in the whale. That's a separate message, right? But no, God sent it to save him Let me remind you of something. Next time you're going through trials and problems in your life. Next time you're facing things in your life. Maybe you stepped out of God's will and you're running from what He wants you to do, and you're thinking, uh-oh, the hammer's getting ready to fall, and you see this giant beast coming, don't worry. If you're one of God's children, the hammer doesn't fall on you anymore. It fell on Jesus on the cross It's probably that big wheel call mercy coming to scoop you up. Teach you some lessons, split you back out, put you back on the narrow way. Would you bow your heads please and close your eyes very quickly? I appreciate so much your your tenderness. I tried to move quickly. I tried to move quickly Can I ask you a question, Church? Can you think of anything else right now that America needs besides God's mercy? Wouldn't you agree with me that that's what God needs to send right now? Don't you agree with me that that's what America needs right now is God's mercy? Do you know listen, do you know why America's not getting God's mercy like they could? We're not willing to show it We've raised ourselves up above them. We've forgotten the pit in which we were digged. We forgot there was a time we were on our way to hell. And God's mercy reached down and salvaged us out of the trash can of this old world and set our feet on a solid rock and pointed us in the right way. You remember that day, Christian? Do you remember the day he saved you? You remember his mercy that fell on you in his grace that was given freely? Shouldn't we be willing to show mercy to others? Guess what, Christian? Listen to me. I'm guilty myself. I'm guilty myself. When I choose not to give mercy to my neighbor, to my co-worker, to my friend, my relative, when I refuse to give them mercy, I'm just forsaking my own I'm forsaking my own. I'm going to ask the pianist to begin to play. Would you stand to your feet quietly, please? Let's all stand quietly. I'm not going to have a long invitation. I know because of the COVID and different things have happened, but if you feel