Proverbs chapter one if you would or chapter ten if you would notice verse number one with me. In fact I'd like for us to read That verse one together in unison, if you would, if you have it there, Proverbs 10, verse number one. Let's read that together in unison. Ready? The Proverbs of Solomon A wise son maketh a glad father, but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother. I circled that little phrase, a wise son. A wise son. And I want to speak this morning on a wise son. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, we thank you for a new Lord's Day. And the opportunity we have to assemble together, and Lord, snowy roads and snowy weather, and Lord is a lot of reasons we could come up with maybe not to assemble in your name this morning, but we did. And we're glad. And Lord, I believe your presence is here. You promise. If just two or three would assemble together in your name, you would be here in the midst. And so, Lord, we can't see you. Lord, we we can't hear your voice, but we know you're here. And I pray that your presence would be evident as your word is preached. I ask that you would take your word and speak to our hearts wherever we're at spiritually, whatever our spiritual condition is. Lord, we recognize, as was just sung, we only have one life. Lord, as so quickly go by, and only what we invest in you in eternity is going to really count. And so I pray you'd help us this morning to see that and act accordingly. I yield my will to you and my mind and I present my body, pray that you would speak through me, that it wouldn't be me, my thoughts, or my reasoning, or I pray it'd be the Word of God, and your Holy Spirit speaking through me. I ask all this in Jesus' name, amen. I like the book of Proverbs. It's always, you know, people say, what's your favorite book? It's usually whatever I happen to be reading at that moment. But Proverbs is unique in so many ways. There's no other book of the Bible There's no other book in the Bible, the 66 books of the Bible, there's no other book that's like the book of Proverbs. It is unique. Proverbs has really, I mean, there's a little bit, but it really is not a book on theology. It's the Word of God. It's given by inspiration, just like the Gospel of John or any other book. But Proverbs is not a book on theology, although it will, it has teaching about God in there. Very clear. But it's not a book on theology like maybe Romans would be or Galatians, Ephesians are just rich with teaching us about God and who he is, about salvation. Proverbs doesn't emphasize that. Uh there's no prophecy really in the book of Proverbs, like not like uh Isaiah would have or the minor prophets, not like Revelation, which is primarily all prophecy. And so it's unique from the books of prophecy. It's unique from many of the New Testament books of dealing with theology and the organization of the church. It doesn't talk about uh Israel and their sacrifices and all of that. It's different than any other book in the Bible. The book of Proverbs has no history. Like Genesis is a historical book. It's inspired of God. 1 and 2 Kings, 1 Chronicles, 1 and 2 Samuel are historical books. They're inspired, they're God's word, but they their emphasis is history. We come to Proverbs, and uh it it isn't any of that. It's different than all the other books of the Bible Proverbs is, I was trying to boil down in my mind just a statement to describe the book of Proverbs And I put it this way, the book of Proverbs is a series of divinely inspired wisdom nuggets. How many people know what a nugget is? Anyone here eat chicken nuggets? It's not a whole chicken. It's not even the leg, it's just a little bite-sized piece of chicken. And uh that's kind of what the book of Proverbs is. It's wisdom, God's wisdom, but it's given to us in little bite sizes Little statement here that is profound that helps me. Little statement here that actually if I get a hold of it, it'll redirect my life. Um Proverbs is unique, as I've been trying to say. By wisdom nuggets I mean brief And I want to emphasize this next word. Brief practical statements that help us, that deal with life. And I want to suggest to you every major area of life the book of Proverbs addresses in these brief little statements. For instance, it deals with moral issues, things that are right and wrong. Talks about moral issues in the home. The book of Proverbs will give little statements, very wise statements, concerning the husband and the wife and their relationship. Talks about the parent and the child relationship. In fact, in our text here, he says a wise son and a glad father. And you find that through the book of Proverbs. Um bu uh and so it it deals with moral issues in the whole. I'd put somewhere in the front of the book of Proverbs. I wrote in the margin of my Bible. Proverbs is is and I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but Proverbs is is penned by Solomon He didn't write all of it. Some of it he assembled. We get later in the book and he'll mention these other people that had penned Proverbs down. He assembled together under the inspiration of God. God did all this But he brings these things together and he addresses them to his son. I think it's 13 times in the book of Proverbs. He says, my son. My son. My son, Solomon, who Jesus said was the wisest man that ever walked the earth. He had supernatural wisdom And he puts this book together, he pens these statements down, these pithy statements, wise statements He puts them all together, and his purpose was to present them to his son so his son could be wise and not be a fool. Of course, God's inspiring all of this and bringing it together, and here we are, you know, 2,500 years later or more, and um And they're benefiting us. And so it deals with moral issues of uh of the parent-child, the husband and wife Talks about that. And he writes his son. I put I started to say, I put in the front of my Bible, I put this little statement. He's addressing his son in three areas. Women, whiskey, and wealth. You read through the Proverbs, he talks about those three things. He talks about women, his young uh his son, and his interaction with women. Uh some women uh he needs Stay away from. And uh some women hit that is uh what he wants, you know, you get the Proverbs thirty one he talks about the virtuous woman and and what a tremendous Uh that is what a tremendous woman she would be. And by the way, he talks about some men that the women need to stay away from And so what I'm trying to say is this, he talks, well, morally, so he talks about wine, drinking alcoholic beverages And if I'm going to be wise, my relationship with liquor, or if I'm going to be a fool. He talks, it's practical. And then wealth. He talks about riches and handling money. Talks about social issues, interacting with other people. What about what about someone that has an issue with anger He says, addresses that, how you should interact with an angry man, proud. He talks about pride, humility. He talks about honesty and dishonesty. How to deal with sinners, how to deal with saints. He talks about hard work and laziness. It's a unique book. You won't find another book in the Bible quite like the book of Proverbs. Then, of course, he deals with spiritual issues. There's some great teaching on faith, on leaning on my own understanding, my own reasoning, and acting on my own reasoning, or Putting that aside and trusting God, having faith in God. And so, the book of Proverbs, he talks about the heart of man, he talks about the Word of God. I like the book of Proverbs. I decades ago, back, I think it was back early in Bible college, in the early 1800s, 1980s, I mean. Wasn't quite that long ago. The early nineteen eighties. I was starting out in nineteen eighty-one. I went off to Bible college and somehow I came across this herd, somebody, whatever But I started reading a chapter of Proverbs every morning. And I match it up with that day's date. Today's the 18th. This morning I read Proverbs 18. Through desire a man having separated himself seeketh and intermeddeth with all wisdom eighteen one. And so It's a unique book, and I I've been all these many, many years been reading a chapter from Proverbs every morning. Just very rarely do I miss. Maybe one, three or four a year I might miss Every major area of life is addressed in the book of Proverbs. God, through Solomon, in the book of Proverbs, gives us practical instructions. On how to live life as God designed life to be lived. God is the author of life. And he has designed us to live a certain way. We are not designed to live foolishly. And if we make foolish decisions and we do foolish things, we're operating outside the way we were designed to operate, and there's going to be consequences. There's going to be harm done. There's going to be difficulties because we're not operating the way we're designed. And Proverbs tells us how to live life, how to operate our lives. In line with Thudd's design for us. The way God intended for us to live, if you would, Go back to chapter one. Now keep your place here because I'm going to look at this verse a little bit. But come back to chapter one. It's just a few pages early in your Bible. And notice the first six verses, he's giving the purpose of the book, and I've kind of elaborated on what he says here. Says verse 2, he says, to know wisdom and instruction, so that we know what wisdom is and get some instruction on how to live and do these things. Perceive the words of understanding. Comes down. Then if you get down to verse 6. He says, to understand a proverb and the interpretation, the words of the wise and their dark sayings. In other words, this first six verses he's telling us Proverbs is designed to teach us wisdom. To teach us wisdom. What is wisdom? What does it mean to be wise? We'll talk about that here in a little bit, but just in a nutshell, wisdom is the ability. To use the information I have, the knowledge that I've gained, to use that in such a way that I can fulfill God's will for my life. The things God entrusts me with, the resources, the possessions that God has allowed me to uh acquire. the information, the education, whatever level that may be, that I've God allowed me to acquire. And then I use that, I use these resources, I use these possessions, I use this information in my that I've gained and I use that in such a way so that I can fulfill God's will for my life. That's wisdom Would you agree with me? It would be foolish to deliberately walk away from the will of God. Anybody agree with me? That would be foolish. Wisdom is the ability to determine what God's will is, and then understand and know, and then do what I need to do to fulfill His will for my life. And by the way, God has a will for every single life. These young people, God bless them. We love them dearly downstairs. The old people, God bless them. I love all you old people so much. But God has a will for every life. And what Proverbs will help us take the things God has given to us and then fulfill that will for my life Live a life that's pleasing to him is what it boils down to. Proverbs has a threefold purpose. Number one, to teach wisdom, what I just said. Number two, to give instruction. That way I know what God's will is. I can't, it would be difficult. Let's see if you agree with this. It would be difficult to fulfill God's will if I don't know what His will is. Right? And so, Proverbs, along with the rest of the scripture, but Proverbs in particular, gives me instruction and emphasize the importance of instruction to learn What the will of God is, and then how to perform it, and then to develop character. Proverbs, as I said, talks a lot about hard work and laziness. About paying my bills on time, about doing right and having and being a man or a woman of character and of discipline. And doing what's right, even if I don't feel like it. And doing what is best and thinking ahead. And and uh and I'm elaborating here a little bit more, but uh uh not necessar uh not necessarily immediate gratification, maybe putting aside my immediate pleasure for my future good You follow what I'm trying to say? We live in a society now that it's like everything. I need to have everything I want right now. And I'm here to tell you that very rarely is that wise Why sometimes I put aside what I want right now for future good, for the good of others. So Proverbs talks about developing character. uh Christian character in particular. Fourteen times the book of Proverbs references the fear of God, the fear of the Lord. And the fear of the Lord is the basis of Christian discipline, Christian character. I fear God, I reverence Him, I honor Him, I respect Him, therefore I'm going to behave in a way that is pleasing to him, that what he would approve of, because of my fear of him, my respect for him, my honor I have in my heart for my God And so I want to live my life in a way that's in line with what he would desire. And so the fear of God. Proverbs or Psalms 111, verse 10 says The beginning of wisdom. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. I tell you, our it would do our churches and our country a good, a heap of good if we learned to fear God again. And fear the Lord, respect him and honor him in such a way that it affects how I live, how I talk, how I treat others The fear of the Lord. So Proverbs, again, is a profound book. It's unique in so many ways. I am absolutely convinced. I am absolutely convinced in the bottom of my soul, to the depths of my soul That if we will live and follow the principles that are given to us in the book of Proverbs, we can live successful lives. Now, by success, I mean in the eyes of God. The world may call us fools. The world may say we're failures. But as far I'll be honest with you, I'm not too concerned about whether the world thinks I'm a success or a failure. My concern is whether God considers me a success or failure. Anyone with me? And so I'm convinced if we follow what Proverbs teaches us, we can live successful lives. Your life can be a success. Uh Heimballs just sang about only one life that goes by so quick. That life, when we come to the end, I can live a life and look back and say, my life was successful. And Proverbs teaches me how to do that. Success in the eyes of God. I believe, I really do. I believe if we live by the principles and the And the wisdom given to us in the book of Proverbs, we can live prosperous lives. Now I'm not saying if you do what Proverbs says, you're going to be a billionaire, you're going to be an Elon Musk of the Christian world I'm not suggesting that, but I am saying this. I believe we can be a whole lot better off than if we don't live by the principles of Scripture, of Proverbs. We'll handle our money better, we'll handle our time better if we follow the wisdom given to us here and makes us more prosperous, at least in the eyes of God. I can what God does trust me with, I can use in a wise way, and it brings glory to Him. It advances the gospel and it meets my needs. Proverbs. Proverbs. I hope I'm selling you on the practical value of understanding, reading, and following the Proverbs that are given to us in this book. I think we can live more peaceful lives. We follow the wisdom given to us in the book of Proverbs and all the Bible, really, but Proverbs is our focus. We can live more fulfilling lives, not be empty, and not walk around with great guilt on our hearts and minds. That peace knowing that I have God's wisdom Proverbs, the primary penman, and I think I mentioned this already, is Solomon. If you notice, if you're still in chapter 1, verse 1, it says the Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David And then back on our text, he says again, it states again, chapter 10, the Proverbs of Solomon. He's the primary penman. He penned these down for the most part. However, Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verse 9, we won't turn there, tells us that Solomon sought out many wise sayings. And set them in order. Many Proverbs. And he set them in order. And if you notice, when you read through the book of Proverbs, if you notice, it'll mention some other men. That uh were had penned some things. And he'll he drew from some what other wise men had penned down and said. He brought it all together in one book Again, all this is under the inspiration of God. God's leading, God inspiring, bringing this together. And so Solomon It's written, as I said, for his son in particular, 23 times he says, my son, but it's written for young men in general. Every one of these young men here, whatever you consider young, You would be incredibly ahead of the game. Listen to an old man. You can be incredibly ahead of the game if you'll pay attention to the book of Proverbs and follow what it says. He'll be so far ahead of the game in so many ways. So it's it's its target audience is young men. Solomon's son in particular, young men in general. Now we come to chapter 10. This struck my heart on anybody want to wit guess which day of the month this spoke to my heart. January 10th I read this, and I had read it many, many times, but this past tenth, whatever day that was, eight days ago, I read in the morning, early in the morning, I read Proverbs 10. I read the Proverbs of Solomon, verse 1 A wise son maketh a glad father. Now my father's with the Lord. He's been there five years now, going on six, just about six years. And I and I looked at this in a little different way. I I I took a different reproach uh a different approach. From my relationship as Clyde Leatherman's son, and me being a wise son and making Clyde Leatherman glad, that's the immediate application. But I want to look at it a little differently. And this is how I believe God spoke to my heart about this. I want to view this statement, a wise son maketh a gladfather. I want to view this from the perspective of myself as a son of God and my heavenly father. And me as a believer in Jesus Christ, by the way, 1 John, I think it's chapter 3, in 1 John chapter 3, it says that when we accept Jesus Christ Savior, As a believer in Jesus Christ, we are the sons of God. Right? Everybody's familiar with that, right? We're the sons of God. You're here this morning, you've been saved. I'm going to talk about this a little more debt You're a son of God. So I got looking at this, and a wise son. I'm a son of God. God is my heavenly father. And if I'll be wise in my decisions, in my behavior In my thinking and my actions, if I'll be wise, my attitude, if I'll be wise, I can actually make my Heavenly Father glad with me. Now I don't know how that strikes you, but that to me is profound. That I, as a sorry old sinner Just a a man that is created among billions and billions and billions of people But because I'm a believer in Jesus Christ, I'm God, the creator of all this, I'm His Son, and I can make him glad if I'll be wise. So I got three thoughts real quick. In a little bit of time I've left, I want to give to you real quick. Number one, I want us to consider our relationship to God. Now I'm speaking to believers this morning When I come to Jesus Christ as a sinner, and that's the only way you can come to Jesus Christ if you're going to walk away with salvation. I see myself as a sinner. And I come to the Lord Jesus Christ and I believe that he died for my sins. I I despise my sin. I I uh uh I abhor the sin that I've committed and what I what I've made of myself and I come to Jesus Christ And I believe that he died for my sins, and he was buried and rose again. He paid the all the judgment for my sin. He paid for it. And by faith I say, Lord, I accept what you've done. Putting my confidence and trust in you. Can you forgive me? The moment I do that, I am born into the family of God. How many folks this morning? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. How many people remember, maybe not the exact moment, but you remember back to the time you trusted Christ as Savior? Have that down? At that very moment I mean that split second, when you made that conscious decision, put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ, at that moment you were born spiritually into the family of God. You are different than what you were before. You are the moment of salvation. You become something you never were before that. I'm now a child of God. I'm now part of the family of God. I'm now spiritually alive. And God is my father. I'm born into the family of God. I become a son of God and He is my Father. God Now that the unsaved, if a person has not trusted Jesus Christ, they are not in the family of God. I don't mean to be unkind, but I do have to be honest. I don't mean to be unkind, but I do need to be true to truth and the Word of God and truth. And that is this. If a person has not trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you may be a fine person's uh uh humanly speaking, and you may have many wonderful traits, but you are not a child of God until you trust Jesus Christ Savior, until you're born again. Nicodemus, a ruler among the Jews, a wealthy man, a leader. Apparently highly respected man. He came to Jesus Christ. He praised Jesus. He said, You're a prophet of God. No man can do what you're doing. Jesus immediately said to him, Nicodemus, you need to be born again. That's his great need. And so when we trust Christ as Savior, we're born in the family of God. If I'm not trusting Christ as Savior, I'm outside the family of God. I am not a child of God. Well, we're all God's chillings. No, we ain't People that have never trusted Christ are outside the family of God. It's interesting if you read through the Gospels, Jesus repeatedly, over and over and over, he emphasized He referred to God as our Father. Your Father in heaven knows what your needs are. If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your Father in heaven give good things to them that ask them? Your Father in heaven. Your Father in heaven. Jesus emphasized that. In fact, the disciples saw Jesus praying. They said, Teach us to pray. Alright, let me show you how to pray. Our Father, which art in heaven. Jesus' whole emphasis was for believers to approach the God of the universe. To approach him as a child approaches their father, because that's what he is. He's our father. And we come to him as a father. As believers, the God of the universe is literally our heavenly father. As real as Clyde Leatherman is my physical father. God Almighty, Jehovah, is my heavenly Father. What a truth. What a standing I have. What a position you and I have as believers. That we're the sons of God. And it doesn't yet appear what we shall be, but we know when Ishapir will be like him. We're his sons. We're his sons So, having said that, I can come to Proverbs chapter 10 and verse 1, where it says, a wise son maketh a glad father, and I can approach that From the perspective as God is my father and I'm the Son. So number one, our relationship with God. Number two, I want us to consider the definition of wise. Now I touched on it at the beginning. Now, the world's definition of wisdom, of being wise, and God's definition of wise are two very different things. In fact, if you would, come with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Is everybody doing all right out there? Alright? Alright, good. Uh 1 Corinthians chapter 1. How many people are glad you're not stuck in a ditch somewhere waiting for a tow truck to come and get you Amen. Now it may be true for the days out. I hope not, but First Corinthians chapter. I'm just trying to get you all to be happy. Proverbs chapter 1, and notice with me verse 20. Paul is writing to the church at Corinth, who was, they were behaving very foolishly. They were not making their father glad in their behavior. And so he's addressing that, and he's trying to help them correct that. And notice what he says in verse 20. He says, Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? These people in the world claim to be wise, they get all the answers, or they can tell you how it is. Hath not God made the foolish? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? In other words, you take all the wisdom of man, just human wisdom, and you compare it to the wisdom of God, and it is absolute foolishness. It is absolutely foolish. That's what he's saying. And he goes on. Says, for after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom, by their own wisdom, knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching that to save them which believe. Um And so uh where is the wisdom going In other words, what he's saying here is God's wisdom and the world's wisdom are completely different. Completely different. What is it about the world's wisdom that's wrong? The world's wisdom leaves the truth of God out of their reasoning. Now they may talk about God, and they'll have their religions and they'll have their version of Christianity. But the world's wisdom is primarily focused on man, on what we can do, on what we are and our greatness. I put it this way. This is my definition of the world's wisdom. I put it this way. The world relies on their own understanding and their own reasoning. If I can't understand it, if I can't reason it out, then it doesn't exist. Then it's not so. The world seeks its own will above all else. The world wants to do what the world wants to do, regardless of what God's will is. The world's wisdom. The world is materialistic. It's all stuff and things and pleasures. Materialism. America is eat up with materialism. Stuff temporary here and now. It's just obsessed over it. We live for it. We kill for it. For material stuff, we kill for it. We fight for it. That's the world's wisdom. The world's wisdom is humanistic. Everything revolves around human understanding. Everything revolves around me. The final authority is man and man's reasoning. And the end result of all of that is foolishness. It's foolishness. Again, that was a great song the Heimball sang a little bit ago. I invest and I fight and I kill and I work and I sweat and I bleed To get stuff and live for and enjoy here and now. And 65, 70, 80, 90 years race by, and I stand before God. I have nothing. I have nothing. That's the world. And the end of the world's reasoning is foolish. Jesus put it this way, what what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world? And loses his own soul. Would you agree with me? That would be a foolish way to live. To forfeit my eternal destiny, forfeit my soul for temporary pleasure. Stuff. So the world's wisdom and God's wisdom are very, very different. Very different. Basically, the world says I'm going to live life without God. I'm not going to pay attention. I'm going to think about them. I'm not going to consider them. I'll just, oh, I might go to church. I might have a Bible or sing some songs, do a little Christian stuff. But as far as living my life, as far as my plans and my purpose, my values, the principles I live by, God isn't part of any of it. It's me, what I think, what I want. God says that's foolish. That's foolish. A wise son maketh a glad father. God wants you and I, as his children, to be wise and not foolish. In our decisions, our actions, our behavior, our treatment of one another. And so wisdom is very different than the world genuine wisdom. Look, uh come back to Proverbs here with me real quick. I should have told you to stuck. stick a bulletin or something there in chapter ten. But look, come back to chapter nine of Proverbs. Just the same page probably in your Bible is chapter ten. And look with me at verse number. Chapter 9 and verse number 10. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and knowledge of the holy is understanding. In other words, he's saying there is a reality that is beyond just the material. There is a spiritual realm that is just as real as the physical realm that we see and hear and feel and touch And there's a spiritual realm that we can't see. You don't hear the wings of angels in here, and they're here. We don't see the movement of the Spirit of God, but He is. He's moving here now, just as real as I am. And he's saying, a wise son understands that there is so much more to life. And just flesh and blood and material. There's a real a spiritual realm, and that's eternal. We look not at the things which are seen, but the things which are not seen, for the things which are seen are temporal. But the things which are not seen are eternal. And that's where wisdom comes in. I see there is a God. And I see his handiwork everywhere, his design. In the molecular level, we see unbelievable design by this infinitely intelligent and wise designer God. And I fear him, I respect him, I honor him. And I live my life in a way that displays that fear and that respect and that honor for the God that made what I can see. Are you following me? And he says that's where wisdom is. A wise son maketh a glad father, fears God. Desires to do the will of this God above everything else, even my own will. A wise son does what is right He sees things from a spiritual, eternal perspective. Bible says, I don't have the reference, Bible in Proverbs it says, a prudent man, a wise man, is another way of saying a wise man. A prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. In other words, he's able to look ahead and see the consequences of his decisions. See the consequences of his actions. See the consequences of his treatment of somebody and how it's going to affect down the road. He looks beyond here and out, and God looks down, he says the sun, and he sees a sun that's able to do it, and he goes, that sun makes me glad. A wise son maketh a glad father. Wisdom, wisdom. I tell you, I want to, I got a I got a list here, 21 characteristics of a wise son in the book of Proverbs. How many people want me to elaborate on every one of them? No, I won't. But they're there Loves and a wise son loves and respects his father. Talking about a son, a human son. He listens and follows his father's instructions. He learns to make wise, godly decisions. He looks at the long-term consequences of his immediate actions. He lives for the glory of God and for the good of others. And what is true for a physical son to a physical father is true for the Son of God and our Heavenly Father. And I end with this, number three, the consequences of being a wise son. There's a lot. Again, you could do a year-long series from Proverbs on the consequences of being wise. The benefits, the product of a wise behavior, wise actions. Here in verse 1 it says, A wise son maketh, produces, affects. A glad father, a glad father. The word glad there means to be to rejoice The Father rejoices in the Son. He sees wisdom in the behavior, the decisions, the actions of his son, and he's glad. He rejoices in that. Means to be happy, to be to be pleased. Uh come over Proverbs 17. Is everybody still with me? Look at 17 Proverbs and look at verse 25. Here you have the other side of the coin. He gives the contrast to a wise son Proverbs seventeen verse twenty-five. Here he says, a foolish son is a what? Grief unto his father, and bitterness to her that bare him, as a son of God. As a child of God, if I act foolish, if I disregard God and His teaching, and I play the fool. It grieves my heavenly Father. It grieves him. Hebrews 11:6 says, without faith it's impossible to please him. I've got to trust God. When He says avoid this, I've got to trust Him and avoid it When he says, make sure you have this in place and make sure you do this, I've got to trust him and say, all right, I'm going to make sure I do that. Without faith, it's impossible to please him. I believe the ultimate goal of every child of God at least should be to please our Heavenly Father. And it's in our power, you and I, it's in our ability, it's in our power to make our Heavenly Father glad. I can plead, I can make God pleased with me. I can behave in such a way that He is happy with me, He rejoices in my behavior. If I'm wise. It's in our ability to please our Heavenly Father. He says, Trust me with your cares. Trust me. He says, seek diligently to do my will. Love him. God tells us to love him. God tells us, husbands, to love our wives. Like Jesus loves us. He tells the wives to love their husbands. He tells us to raise our children up to know the Lord, be an example to him. Be on testimony of what a child of God ought to be. Tells the children to honor your parents and obey them. This is all part of pleasing the God that made us and living within his design, way we're designed to live. Win others to Christ. He that winneth souls is wise. We sang w one of the couple of years ago, a number of years ago we went down, some of us went down to um Uh Dominican Republic on a mission trip a few years ago and there was like 75 people from the states come down. We were canvassing this whole northern, there's a huge peninsula there, several hundred thousand People never had the gospel. No churches up there at the time. We distributed tens of thousands of these Roman booklets. These here, some that we assembled. And evenings we'd get together, we'd have a service and sing and testify. We usually had a challenge from the Word of God. Just a wonderful, wonderful time. It was amazing. Anytime you go to the Caribbean in the winter, it's a wonderful time. But God was doing amazing stuff. And at night they sang a song. I don't remember ever hearing it before. I may have. I just never paid attention. But they sang a song, and I don't know a whole lot about the background of the song or anything. I looked up a little bit. It's based on an old hymn from the 1800s. But it goes like this. It says I want my life to count for Jesus. For earthly things will quickly fade. No need to add to worldly riches. I only seek eternal gain. I want my life to count for Jesus. I was preparing this and the song kept going through my mind. And I tweaked it a little bit And I started saying it this way: I want my life to please my Heavenly Father. I want my life to please God. And I wonder if there isn't anybody else in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that feels that same way. I want my life to complete a wise son maketh a glad father. Uh the Heimball sound keep reference it really stirred my heart this morning. But I don't know if you notice little Kaliana You gotta love that girl. She is a sweetheart. Her dad, aunt, but her Kayleon, sorry. But if you watch, and other kids do the same thing, but she just stood out. They'll be up here and maybe they'll be doing a Christmas program or a King's Kids or sometimes on Wednesday nights. If you don't come Wednesday nights, you're missing out. The kids will come up here, give a testimony, or sing a song, or quote some scripture And if you watch, when she's up here, her eyes always going over to Zach. Anybody ever notice that? She'll look over at Zach. She'll look over at Daddy. Look over at Daddy. And here's what I think is happening She wants to know that her daddy's pleased with what she's doing. She looks over, look, see if daddy's watching, if he's smiling. And I tell you, that's the way I want to be with my Heavenly Father. I want to look and say, God, are you pleased? Are to be glad with how I'm living and what I'm doing and the actions I'm taking, the decisions. Father in heaven, I want you to be glad. And if that's going to happen, I have to be wise. I have to be wise. Father in heaven, I ask you to stir our hearts this morning. And Lord, Holy Spirit, down in our hearts, put an intense desire to be wise. And how we behave at home and at work and at church, the decisions we made, what we do and don't do, where we go and don't go, what we entertain ourselves with. God help us be wise. How we use our time, how we spend our money. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder, and and this is an awfully general question, I know. I wonder how many this morning say, preacher, my sincere desire in my heart, and and please mean this, my sincere desire in my heart is that my life would please my Heavenly Father I know him, and I sincerely, any like that? Sure. Who in the world? What child would not want that? God's been good to us. He's a good daddy. We want to please them. Maybe there's something in your life. Maybe, and I'm not the Holy Spirit, but maybe the Holy Spirit has touched something in your heart and life. That is not pleasing to God. You know it needs to be adjusted. It needs to be addressed. I have no idea what that may or may not be Maybe something missing that should be in place, maybe something there that need shouldn't be there. I don't know. But I wonder if there'd be some. And again, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed, but you'd say, preacher, pray with me. There's some areas there that I know. need to be addressed. Is there any like that by the other? I know there's some areas there. God bless you. Hands all around. That's part of wisdom. Recognizing that, acknowledging it, and then dealing with it Whatever it may be. There's some this morning say, Preacher, I have some maybe friends, family, folks that are important to me, and they're outside the family of God. Oh, I want them to be saved. I want them to know the Lord. I want them to be a child of God and have their sins forgiven. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, my heart's so burdened. I have folks I'm so concerned for. God bless you, hands all around. He that is winnet souls is wise. Let's seek to win them through prayer and testimony, talking to them. One last question. Are you this morning say, preacher? I don't know for sure I'm saved. I don't know that I've ever sincerely trusted Christ as my Savior, and I need that settled. I want to know that I'm in the family of God through faith in Christ. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure about that. I need to get that settled. Any at all? Any at all? Father, bless now our invitation we ask in Jesus' name.