Matthew chapter number seven, I'd like for us to read together, if you would, read along with me. Verse number thirteen and fourteen. Matthew chapter seven, verse thirteen and fourteen. Notice. Let's read together. Verse 13. Ready? Enter ye in at the straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction. and many there be which go in thereat, because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth to life And few there be that find it. I want to speak this morning on this wide gate and this broad way that Jesus references here, a wide gate Very wide gate in a very broad way. Let's pray together, ask the Lord to uh teach us this morning. Father in heaven Sure, again, it's sure being good to be in your house, be around your people. What a blessing. It just encourages my heart. Fellowship together and laugh and sing together a bit and then hear these kids sing Lord, what a blessing. We want you to be glorified in our church, Lord. We want you to be honored. And now with our Bibles open, I pray, dear Lord, that your presence would become very evident with the open word. And Lord, as we try to preach your word, I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would speak to our hearts. God, you would challenge us where we're at spiritually. I pray that you would use your word as a mirror and we would see ourselves as we are, as you see us. And then Lord lead us and direct us on how to respond to what you reveal to us, what you show us. Again, I yield my will to you. I present my body for this message that you would just speak through me. Use my tongue, my gestures, to communicate your word, and that you would be glorified. So fill me, Lord. Speak through me. It's my prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. When Jesus Christ came to earth, of course we just celebrate his birth at Christmas a month ago. When Jesus Christ came to earth, he had one primary objective There's one thing he was after, and that was this, to give his life a ransom for many. Jesus Christ came to be the to pay the price for your sins and my sins That was his primary objective. Now, anytime a church or a preacher or a minister or a ministry, I should say, or an author, anytime When discussing the Lord Jesus Christ, they get away from that primary objective, which we understand to be the gospel Christ died for our sins, buried, rose again. Anytime they get away from that, and they uh they're getting away from the Word of God Now, what I'm trying to say is this, in some circles, it's very popular to emphasize what's called a social gospel and bring about social change. And bring a b and change uh uh society. Now, I'll be the first to admit society needs changing I'm all for uh you know I'll be the first to admit uh our world is a mess morally, spiritually. But Jesus did not come to overthrow governments Jesus did not come primarily to bring societal change. Jesus Christ came to be the Savior of mankind. He came for the purpose of dying on that cross, being buried for three days and three nights, rising again for our justification. So that every man, woman, and child that lives has an opportunity to find forgiveness of sins and gain eternal life. That's the primary purpose of Jesus' coming. And that's the primary message of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And if I understand my Bible correctly, I believe I do, that ought to be the primary message of every single Christian ministry. The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I said all that to say this. Jesus' primary purpose was to come to give himself as a sacrifice for our sins, to be the Savior. However, While he was here, he did many miracles. He was a legitimate miracle worker. That's not his primary purpose, but when he came he performed miracles. Amazing things. Well documented Um when he was here, his three and a half year ministry on earth, uh he performed miracles. Um he taught. He was a tremendous teacher and tremendous preacher. In fact, I want to suggest to you, Jesus was a master teacher. A master preacher. And I've said this before. I want to restate it here. I want to challenge every one of our Sunday school teachers, every one of our uh children's church workers, anybody that stands behind a podium or stands up with an open Bible and attempts to teach the Bible, you ought to study the teaching methods of the Lord Jesus Christ. He was a master. Used questions. He would use object lessons. He would use parables. And he tied them in beautifully as the master teacher. Now that's not his purpose for coming to be a teacher. He didn't come to be a miracle worker. He did those things. He came to be Savior. But the things he did, he did exceptionally. Now, a thing about Jesus teaching, let me just say this, the thing about Jesus teaching and preaching, he wasn't necessarily sensational. in his teaching and preaching. And by that I mean he wasn't real flamboyant. How many people know how many people know what I mean when I say some preachers are very flamboyant. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Oh boy, they can put on so it's uh it's almost entertaining To hear some people preach. And in and of itself, there's nothing wrong with that, as long as you got something to say I don't mind the guy being a little flamboyant and as preaching as long as he's serving some meat and potatoes. Follow what I'm trying to say? But I don't see any of that for Jesus. I don't see any flamboyancy in the teaching and preaching of Jesus Christ. I don't see anything spectacular or sensational about it. But I do, I'll tell you one thing I do notice in the teaching and preaching of Jesus Christ. This, this, is this. It was powerful. Powerful preaching. Lives were changed. Souls were saved. Prostitutes became pure. Self-righteous Pharisees humbled themselves. Teaching and preaching of Jesus Christ is powerful. And our text, verse 13 and 14 of Matthew 7 Is coming towards the end of one of Jesus' most powerful sermons he ever preached. Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7 records what we know to be the Sermon on the Mount. Every time I preach on the Sermon on the Mount, I always say this. I believe this is the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached. The Sermon on the Mount. A few thoughts about the Sermon on the Mount. I got looking at this thing. It is the longest recorded sermon by Jesus in the Bible. He preached a lot of sermons, and this is the longest. Takes three chapters out of Matthew to record the Sermon on the Mount. He has five sermons he preaches in the Gospel of Matthew, five of them. This is the first one, and it's the longest of any recorded in any of the Gospels. The Sermon on the Mount. He probably preached this sermon on more than one occasion. If you would, keep your place here. Flip over, if you would, to Luke chapter 6. Now, of course, in that day and age there was no Internet sermons. Um there was no um uh uh cassette how many people remember cassette tapes Now I used to think they were modern. I thought wow look how uh uh I I got when I was uh started listening to stuff, it was eight track tapes How many people remember that? And the cool thing was you could mash that button, it would flip to another track and you could listen to a different song. It's amazing. Uh the other some time ago was saying about getting some CDs and my son said, Dad, CDs are so out of date, they're dinosaurs. I said, what is there? I guess now what is it now? It's uh MP3. I don't never it has nothing to do with the message. I don't know how I got off on that. But they didn't have any types of recording. They didn't have any way to record his messages and share them like we do today And so often the Lord Jesus and no doubt others, the apostles, did the same thing in their ministries eventually. He would preach the same sermon. other places because those people hadn't heard it. It was whoever heard it was those in that immediate location. So he'd go somewhere else, preach that message again. We'd actually still do this today Um if I preach out sometimes on occasion, almost without exception, I'm going to preach one of the sermons I preached here. Actually, you guys are the guinea pigs. It's if an if I lay an egg, I don't preach it out. If it seems to go good, then I'll use it other places. And so in Luke chapter 6, we have what I believe Jesus preaching the same sermon, but it's a different location. Luke chapter 6, and look with me at verse 17. I just want to Point this out here. Luke chapter 6, let me get there. And notice verse number 17. It says, uh, and he came down with them and stood, where's he at here? He stood on the what? The plain. Now we're going to notice in a minute, and Matthew, he's on a mountain. So he's in two completely different locations. And then we won't take the time to do it, but if we would read down through verse 49, it's pretty much the same message that he's preaching in Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7. It's much more condensed. Now that could be various reasons. Of course, this is all underneath the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God. But Luke either Jesus preached the shorter sermon, or Luke may have edited some of it out and just gave a more condensed version of the sermon. than what Matthew did in chapter 5, 6, and 7. I don't know. It really doesn't matter, make a difference. It's inspired by God. It's what God wants us to have. But my point I'm trying to make is this I believe the Lord Jesus Christ preached this sermon on the mount on more than one occasion. And he may have preached it numerous times that we have no record of. We don't know. But it looks to me that this is the same sermon, slight variations, preached on two different occasions So the Sermon on the Mound, longest recorded in Scripture by the Lord Jesus Christ, longest one that's recorded, probably preached on uh numerous occasions. And here's the thing: the Sermon on the Mound Is really a manual on discipleship. I've said this before, and I almost always, when we reference the Sermon on the Mount, I always try to point this out. The Sermon on the Mount is not an evangelistic message. Not in generally, overall. It's not evangelistic message. If you would, uh come back, if you would, and notice verse number one of chapter 5. I'm sorry, Matthew chapter 5, and verse number 1 Notice who he's addressing, and this is important to understand. Matthew chapter 5, verse 1. It says, and seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. And when he was set, now that's where you get the sermon on the mount, he went up in a mountain. And when he was set, his what? His disciples came unto him, and he opened his mouth and taught them. Who's the them? The disciples This is not an unsaved crowd for the most part. Now, no doubt there was unsaved people in this crowd. But he's talking, he's teaching, he's preaching to disciples. Now, what is a disciple? A disciple is somebody who's trusted him as the Messiah. They believed on him And they've met the requirements of discipleship. Jesus said, forsake all you have, take up your cross, follow me, deny yourself. There are requirements for discipleship that are not requirements for salvation. The jailer asked Paul, what must I do to be saved? What did Paul say? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, thou shalt be saved. They said, what do I have to do to be a disciple? Be a disciple, be a follower of mine, to be a committed follower, not just saved, but somebody following me and living for me and honoring me with your life? Well you need to take up your cross daily, you need to die to self, you need to forsake all. There's a cost to discipleship. And that's who Jesus is speaking to here. Disciples. He's talking to folks who have made at least some level of commitment To be a follower of his, to live by his teachings. Now, he's telling them this manual on discipleship here. And without going through it in detail, he's basically teaching them that discipleship is more, is not simply outward conformity to some religious requirements. Now, I hope you're thinking with me. I hope you're listening to me. Being a disciple of Jesus Christ is not just conforming to a list of do's and don'ts. It's not just an outward facade. Well, I go to church and I do this, I have these external things. Discipleship begins in the heart of the believer. It is something that is within me that prompts me to behave and function and act. As a disciple of Jesus Christ. And that's what he's emphasizing. And again, without dissecting the sermon, he points out on a number of occasions he says, listen, don't you be like those Pharisees. Because they love to put on a show. And outwardly they look wonderful and righteous, he said, but inwardly they're a mess. He said that's not discipleship. Being a disciple of Jesus Christ, a follower of Jesus Christ, begins in the heart and soul. It doesn't begin with what I wear, it begins with what I am. As a believer. But I am. And so he's teaching his disciples. He's saying, this is what a disciple is, this is how a disciple thinks. This is how a disciple responds to persecution. This is how a disciple uh deals with uh the emotions, anger and lust and desire and pride. This is how a disciple responds to that. He's training them. He's giving them a manual on discipleship. He's telling them basically discipleship is a way of life. It is not some religious obligations I fulfill, much more than that. The way I live my life. If I'm a genuine disciple of Jesus Christ, I'm just as much if I'm a genuine disciple of Jesus Christ, my behavior should be no different on Tuesday afternoon than it is on Sunday morning. I mean as far as my values, my priorities. It's not something I put on to go to show uh put on a show to go to church Anybody here have Sunday go to meeting clothes? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Used to have Sunday go-to-meeting clothes. Don't wear those shoes there for Sunday. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Some uh he's saying discipleship is not a Sunday go-to-meet and show. It's a lifestyle, it's a way of thinking. It is having distinctive values. Being a disciple to Jesus Christ is having very distinctive priorities in my life. Very distinctive values that are rooted in what I am and who I am It's having uh very a very distinctive character about myself. I tell you, we live in a world that has thrown values out the window We have a Christianity today whose priorities and principles are turned upside down. And Jesus is calling. I believe Jesus is calling us and calling our church to discipleship. To have from within us heaven-born values and God-instilled priorities. And a character that is not of this world, but a character that is born in heaven. Because of our faith in Jesus Christ and the indwelling Holy Spirit. And that's the gist of the Sermon on the Mount. Discipleship is from within. It is God, I put it this way, it is God-given internal principles that govern my behavior. Discipleship. If you would come back to chapter number five. Or maybe you're there, but look at verse 20. He says, For I say unto you that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. Ye shall in no case enter the kingdom of heaven. Now, what's he saying? In the eyes of the people at that time, the scribes and Pharisees, they were the most righteous. Brother, they put on the show. Um the way we used to say it, they put on the dog. I have no idea where they came up with that. But do you understand what I'm saying? And he says, listen, if all your righteousness is, is what the Pharisees have a show An outward appearance, this facade, if that's all your Christianity is, if that's all your righteousness is, you don't have true righteousness. He said, your righteousness has to exceed that of the Pharisees. In other words, it has to be from within. It has to be something God does in my heart and life. How many people are with me? Everybody with me? That's what he's calling. That's what he's teaching his disciples. Listen, and and in a in a few short years, just a couple years from here They're going to be sent out into the world, they're going to be persecuted, they're going to be hounded, thrown in prison and beaten for their faith, and they need to have something that is from within, not just a facade. That's what he's teaching. That's what he's drilling into their heads. It has to be more than just external. It has to be more than just show. Has to be real. Has to be uh from a deep well within. Look at verse 21. He says, Ye have heard that it was said of them of old time, thou shalt not kill. And whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of judgment. That's what the Pharisees said. Would you agree with me? You ought not to kill anybody. Right? Hey, Mount Lake, listen, don't kill anybody. I'm telling you, your pastor, don't do that, alright? But Jesus said, look at the next verse, he said, but I say unto you. It's more than just losing your cool and taking someone's life. Everybody. He said, You want to be my disciple? It has to be more than that. Look at verse 21. But I say unto you, whosoever is angry with his brother without cause shall be in danger of judgment He said, if you're not right, he says, uh they said if you do wrong outwardly, that's bad. Jesus says, I'm saying to you, if you do wrong inwardly, it's just as bad. That's what he's saying. Uh come down with me if you would. Look at verse number 27. You have heard that it hath been said of them by them of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. Would you agree with me? Committing adultery is bad. That was three people. Come on now. Committing adultery is bad. Don't make me do this. Killing people is bad. I'm gonna get you to say I'm gonna park here until you I'm joking He says, listen, you commit adultery, that's bad. He said, but I say unto you, if you got adultery down in your heart, you're just as guilty. Wow. He's saying discipleship is more than just this outward conformity. It is an inward transformation. It is a set of God-given values and priorities and principles that govern my life. Not just some outward Garment I put on. Discipleship. Discipleship. Now we come to our text here in chapter 7. That's the gist of the sermon he's preaching, and I'm telling you it's a powerful sermon. I don't see Jesus up there jumping around and carrying on and doing cartwheels when he's preaching this. I see him standing, I don't see him holding up amen things. I see him standing there speaking with authority. And telling his disciples as the Son of God speaking to them with authority. This is what it is. In fact, if you would, just real quick with me, go back to the end of chapter 7. Notice how they responded. This tells me a little bit about his preaching. Verse number 28, and it came to pass when Jesus ended these sayings, the people were astonished at his doctrine. Why? For he taught them as one having what? Authority. Not as the scribes. They were just a show. They were a facade. They were a circus. They were um What was that guy? Wild Bill. Wild Bill's Western show. Anybody ever read about that? He'd come into town, put on this Wild West show. That's all the scribes were. They were just a religious show. A brother, when they heard Jesus preach, they said, man, this guy's got something to say, and he says it with authority. The power behind the teaching and preaching of Jesus Christ astonished them, shook them up. Eyes were changed. Now we come to our text. Again, we come back to our text, and he's winding down this message that he's preaching. He's coming to the end. And he's making some critical applications. He's talked about this righteousness that is more than just a show, as I've emphasized. And he's bringing it to a head. And he's making some, like I said, making some applications here. Very, very critical. In fact, if you would, look there at verse 24. He says, therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, now what sayings of mine? What's he talking about when he references these sayings of mine? What he just preached. He's giving the invitation to his sermon here. You've heard the sayings of mine. Whosoever heareth what I just said to you, what I just preached to you And do with them, you respond in faith. You do what I've instructed you to do. Look what he says: I'll liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock. And the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell not. Why? Because it was founded on a rock He's saying, if you'll do what I just preached to you, if you'll do what I just instructed you, the storms of life will hit you and you'll stand strong. You'll stand firm. It won't destroy you. But then he goes on. And he says, and every one that heareth these sayings of mine, what I just preached to you, and doeth them not. You just ignore what I said. You just walk away. You don't respond. I'll like it. He shall be likened unto a foolish man. Which build his house upon the sand. The sand is disobedience. The sand is neglect of God's word. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it what? It fell. And great was the fall of it. So that's his invitation. The point I'm trying to make here is he's winding down his sermon. And he's making some critical application. Then he appeals to everybody to respond in faith and obedience to what he just said. And in verse number 13 and 14, he touches on one of the most important issues of life. Now he's talking to disciples, granted. But like any good Bible preacher, he works the gospel in. He works the gospel into his message at some point. Now this isn't directly the gospel, but he is addressing Here, where our lives are leading to, what we're heading to. And that's what I want us to look at this morning, particularly one aspect of this. Look again at verse 13. Enter ye in at the straight gate. For wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat. Because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. What a statement! What a critical truth. The first thing I want us to notice this morning is, number one, man's destination. Man's destination. Verse 13, he says, that leadeth to destruction. And then verse 14, he talks about the way that leadeth unto life. I thought it was interesting as I was studying this, and I never noticed this before, really. But when he uses that term leadeth He says there's a broad way, a wide gate, a broad way that leadeth to destruction. And there's a straight gate and a narrow way that leadeth to life. I got looking up that word, leadeth. I like to study words. Word, uh, here's a good lesson. Words mean things When God says something, there's a purpose. He means something. And he uses this term leadeth, and I got looking it up and how it's used. in various places in Scripture and where it comes from and how the Bible translates it in other passages. And this is what I found out. That idea leadeth, it has this idea to be carried along. Um it has the idea uh to be escorted, willing or not Uh it has the idea of to be taken. My my picture in my mind as I was studying it was the idea of somebody Take somebody like a thug or a uh somebody um uh maybe a uh a bodyguard, somebody gets too close to the president or governor, whoever And a bodyguard comes up and takes them by the arm and just escorts them away whether they want to or not. Do you have the picture in your mind? And that's the idea behind this word leadeth. In other words Everybody is on a road. Everybody is on a path. Our life is a journey. And that journey is leading us to one of two destinations. The road I'm on, here's the point. The road I'm on determines the destiny I arrive at. Now that's simplistic, but it's profound. If I choose to stay on the broad way, then I'm led to destruction, whether I want to or not. If I'm on that road, if I enter the straight gate, then it leadeth me to life, eternal life. There's one of two destinations that we face. Each of us are being carried to an eternal destination. Our lives are being led to one of two destinations. Every one of us. By the way, this leading, this life, we are led swiftly to that destination. I hope you catch what I'm trying to say. In other words, life goes by very rapidly. Very rapidly. Now, these young people aren't convinced of that just yet. But they will. I really thought it would take a lot longer to be this age than what it did. It just came so fast. The Bible speaks over and over and over again about the brevity of life. And the older we get, the more we understand that, and the more we appreciate the reality of that. Amen or not Job said that his life is like a weaver's beam. Now we don't know what weaver's beams are, but it was an old instrument used for making a uh clothing, we take uh cotton and weave it together. And if you've ever been up to um Springs uh uh Springs Festival and you go in that little museum there anybody know what I'm talking about And they got an old weaver's um uh what's it called? Loom. And that weaver's thing, man, that thing, they run that thing, it's just going shoot, shoot, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo. And Job said, that's my life. Oh. Just and here I am. The brevity of life, every one of us is on a path, a road. That is leading us to one of two destinations. And it is leading us very, very rapidly. David said, My life is a shadow. In fact, one place in Psalms, David said, Teach me to number my days. Why? Because they're going so fast, he's losing track. Lord, help me pay attention. This thing's racing by. Help me to take this seriously and think about this. Man James said that life is but a vapor. Here a moment and gone. Here a moment and gone. So every one of us, every man, woman, and child is alive right now on this old planet, every every corner of this uh earth. It's being led down their life to a destination. Two destinations. We're being led there swiftly. Somebody said the brevity of life is a stubborn and undeniable fact. There's nothing we can do about it. It's leading us down a life, leading us to an eternal destination, leading us swiftly. But I want to say this. This leading, there's a lot of uncertainty with it. And by that I mean we don't know how long this life is going to last. We're being led to a destination, and we're heading there very quickly, and we have no idea where that stopping-off point is Friday, I think it was. What's today, the 29th? Friday morning. First one of the first things I do in the morning when I get up is I read Proverbs for that day. Friday was the 27th. Proverbs 27:1 says this. Friday morning I read this. Very first verse I read for the day. Boast not thyself of tomorrow. For thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We have no idea how long this life is going to last. There's uncertainty I've been in the ministry for a long, pretty long time now. And I've seen that young people's lives end prematurely sometimes. Middle-aged senior citizens. How many times have we noticed in the almost thirty years that I've been here, how many times have we noticed one person sitting in the pew one Sunday, the next week they're out in their eternal destiny How many times has that happened? Jesus makes this significant critical statement In this powerful message he's preaching, and he says there's one of two destinations that we're being led to in our lives. Two destinations. The Bible is very clear, we end up in one of two destinies. To use the terminology Jesus uses here in Matthew chapter 7, it's either eternal destruction or it's eternal life. One of those two. Heaven is a wonderful place filled with glory and grace. I want to see my Savior's face. Heaven is a wonderful place. Thank God that one of those destinies can be heaven. But the second destiny is not wonderful. The second destiny is horrific. It's called hell. Heaven or hell, that's all there is. Every single person conceived Ends up in either heaven or hell. That's it. That's what Jesus is saying as clearly and as bluntly as he can. Too destined. Hey, I'm here to tell you, there is no purgatory. You say, yeah, but this church here, I don't care, I don't care what the church says, I'm going by what Jesus says. Man can come up with all kinds of crazy stuff. There is no reincarnation. You were not a queen in a South Caribbean island in a previous life. You were not some great warrior under working under Genghis Khan D'aimer notice that these people that say they were reincarnated, they're always some spectacular former life. They never were a coal miner. Anybody notice that? They never were a truck driver. There always some spectacle. I'm here to tell you there is no such thing as reincarnation. There's no holding tank, there's no Purgatory, probationary area where I can somehow I messed up in life, I missed the I missed the narrow gate and I end up in uh this temporary place and maybe if my family gives enough money to the church and my family prays enough for me that I can get out of this and eventually make it to heaven. Man's Uh imagination, not biblical truth. One of two destinations, heaven or hell. The Bible is clear on that. There's no question about that. There's no annihilation. Some groups teach that when you die, if you're not saved, you're just annihilated. You cease to exist. I can't find that anywhere in Scripture And we can preach a whole series refuting that easily. With little study or preparation, it's just clear in Scripture. Heaven or hell. That's that's all there is. And you can like that or you can hate it. But it's true. It's reality. It's a stubborn fact The reality of hell is, in my mind, one of the most disturbing doctrines in all scripture. Bothers me. The interesting thing is Jesus preached and taught more about hell than he did about heaven. He didn't say a whole lot about heaven, a little bit, some places, and what he says is fantastic He sure stalked a lot about hell. Fourteen times we have a record of Jesus referencing a literal, actual place he called hell. If you would come back to Matthew chapter 5 here, we're same sermon earlier in the sermon. In verse number 29, he makes this statement here that makes you just say, wow. If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out. Cast it from thee For it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, cast it from thee. For it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not thy whole body should be cast into hell. That sounds like a literal place to me. If you would come over to Mark chapter number eight. Next book, Matthew Mort. Chapter eight, Jesus is speaking on another occasion. And notice what he says in verse number thirty six. For what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? He's saying the most important thing is that I make sure I have settled where I'm spending eternity. One more passage, if you would, chapter 9 of Mark, just a page over, verse number 43. He repeats what he said in the Sermon on the Mount. This is a whole nother occasion, whole different crowd, whole nother message And if thy hand offend thee, cut it off. It's better for thee to enter into life main than having two hands, go into hell. And he elaborates here a little bit, into the fire that never shall be quenched. Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. And if thy foot offend thee, cut it off. It's better for thee to enter halt into life than to having two feet and be cast into hell, into the fire that shall That that never shall be quenched, and where the worm dieth not and the fire is not quenched. If thine eye offend thee, pluck it out. It's better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye than having two eyes be cast in the hellfire where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. He's very adamant here You say, oh well Professor uh Professor Self Righteous in the big seminary, university seminary Says that hell is old-fashioned and hell is hell is just a figment of people's imagination. It's just a tactic that churches use to scare and control people Listen, he can say that all he wants. I just read from the lips of Jesus what it's about. Listen, you can take what Professor uh Professor Bigshot says. You can you can listen you want to, you can base your whole destiny on what some man says, or we can take Jesus at his word. Huh? No preacher in his right mind relishes preaching on hell. No preacher that has any heart at all for people. Relishes preaching on the reality of hell. But any man that claims to be a preacher or of the Word of God or a teacher, any person that claims to be a teacher of the Word of God Is under moral obligation to preach exactly what the Bible says is so Whether it's popular or not, or whether we like it or not, I do not like it. I do not like it. But Jesus is very clear. Jesus loves every man, woman, and child more than you and I will ever know. And yet he teached, that he preached and taught boldly, earnestly, the reality of hell. We're obligated to declare this. No preacher with any kind of heart relishes the thought of hell's reality. And no Christian of any role in the ministry, role in the church, with any kind of heart relishes the idea of somebody going to hell. But we have an obligation to warn people and tell people what Jesus said about hell, this place of destruction. Every one of us is going to end up in only one of two destinations. Every one of us. And one of two. Either heaven or hell. Either heaven or hell. No other options. Like it or lump it. That's the way it is. So I look, come back here if you would to Matthew 7. Jesus is winding down this powerful sermon on discipleship, and he makes this critical statement here about the destinies of man, man's destination. And then, second of all, and last of all, I want us to notice man's decision. Man's decision. Look at verse 13 with me. What's the very first word there in verse 13? Enter. Everybody with me? Everybody doing all right? Enter Man's decision. We have a decision to make concerning our destiny. Well, God just decides who ends up where. No, no, no, it ain't that way at all. We have a choice. I got studying as I do that word enter and it is an instruction. He's instructing people, you and I. Enter into this straight gate. That, as I looked at that, that sounds to me like it requires a conscious decision. I've got to decide: am I going to enter that straight gate or not? There's a decision involved here. My eternal destiny is determined by my decision about entering the straight gate or not. Now I got looking at this very carefully, and I don't see anywhere where he gives any instructions about entering the wide gate. Talks about people go therein, but I don't see any instruction saying you need to go into this wide gate. What is he saying? I think this is what the Lord's telling us here. You don't have to make any decision to end up in hell. You just keep on going down that road. Fact of the matter is, when Adam disobeyed God and sinned in that garden thousand several thousand years ago, when he sinned He placed all of mankind on this wide this broad way. That wide gate was opened. When sin entered mankind. Listen to Matthew, listen to Romans chapter 5, verse 12. For by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin. And so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. Adam's Decision in the Garden of Eden placed all of his offspring, all of mankind, on that broad way. That's when that wide gate was established. The decision John chapter 3 and verse 18 and John chapter 3 and verse 36. And for sake of time, I really wanted to go there, but we won't. But Jesus says, listen, he that believeth not is condemned already. In other words, anybody that does not make a conscious decision to enter that straight gate, whatever it may be, we'll look here in a moment. Whoever doesn't make a conscious decision to enter that straight gate is on the broadway that leads to destruction. Already condemned. Already lost. You're under the sound of my voice and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. You're not going to be condemned someday. You're not going to be lost someday. You're condemned already. Lost now. In your current condition. When that path leads, comes to the end of that path, it's destruction. Eternal destruction. It's easy to go to hell. It's easy. Do nothing. Ignore reality Just go along. Make no decision. Die in your sins. It's easy to go to hell. Anyone can do it. Just do nothing. We're condemned already. The tragic truth of this is, and again I do not relish preaching this. The tragic truth is not everyone is going to enter the straight gate. Not everyone ends up in heaven. I don't care what some of these denominations say. That is not the truth. In fact, I hate to even say this, but it's reality. This verse teaches it, most people Will not enter the straight gate. Most people will end up in hell The Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John have numerous accounts of people who ignored their soul's salvation, ignored it. And ended up in hell. Luke chapter 12, there was a man that had great farms and crops, and they were very successful, and he his barns were busting out. And he says, I'll build new barns and bigger barns. And listen to what Jesus said to the fellow. You can read it in Luke. He said to him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. How foolish to give no thought for my eternal destiny, to give no consideration, make no decisions concerning where I'll spend eternity. How foolish! If somebody's out driving their car around, they don't have insurance, you say you're foolish. You can get in a wreck and it could cost you much. We buy insurance on our houses. But we do nothing about our soul. We make no decision about our eternal destiny. We just live our lives. Jesus said, Thou fool. Luke chapter 16, there's a rich man. Oh, he fared sumptuously. Under his table was a poor man named Lazarus, and he ate the crumbs that he brushed off his table, scraped his plate off, like you would a dog, scrapes it off for Lazarus. You know what the difference between these two men was? The rich man gave no thought to his eternal destiny. They gave no thought to his spiritual well-being. He was living for here and now on a broad way, a wide gate. And Lazarus under the table had thought about where am I going to spend eternity? And he entered the straight gate. And the rich man died. And listen to what Jesus said. And in hell, he lifted up his eyes, being in torment. And the poor man also, Lazarus died also, and the angels took him to Abraham's bosom. Eternal life. It's easy to go to hell. Just don't do anything. Somebody gives you a track, you hear a preacher preach a sermon like this, and the Spirit of God's deal with your heart. I need to get saved. I need to get saved. Just don't do anything. That's how you go to hell. Right? Mom and Daddy begging you, you need to get saved, you need to get saved. Just ignore them. Just disregard what the Bible says. Just don't pay any attention to the gospel. It's easy to go to hell He says, Enter ye in at the straight gate. You've got to make a decision. Now, what is this straight gate? The word straight there doesn't mean straight like an arrow It's not S-T-R-A-I-G-H-T. No curves or anything. It's straight as in it means very, very narrow, very, very condensed. Very restrictive. This straight gate you can only go through individually. I hope you're sticking with me here now this morning. You can only go through this straight gate. Only an individual fits through this straight gate. In other words I can't go through this gate on behalf of someone else. Every individual has to make the decision to step through this gate. In other words, my daddy couldn't enter the straight gate for me. I've got to make a decision whether I'm going to go through that gate or not. And by the way, Daddy, if you want your kids to go through that straight gate, you better go through it It's very restrictive. I hesitate to say this because I think it could be misunderstood, but crowds don't get saved. Individuals get saved. Now it may be a crowd of individuals, trusting Christ But it's not, oh, I'm a member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. By being a member, that makes me saved. No, no, no. You've got to go through that straight gate yourself. You follow what he's saying here? That word straight means very restrictive, very narrow paths that only an individual one at a time can go through there. And it means there's only one way. That straight gate is none other than Jesus Christ. Straight is the gate. Look what he says. Entering in at the straight gate, for wide is the gate, broad is the way that leadeth to destruction. Many there be which go in there at. Because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way. It's so restricted, there's only one way. And that's through Jesus Christ. Acts 4. 12 says, there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. That's Jesus Christ. That's a straight gate, only one name that can bring salvation. Listen to how Jesus put it in John chapter 14, verse 6. He said, I am the way The truth and the life, the way. I'm that narrow way. I'm that way. No man cometh unto the Father. Help me, but by me. That's that narrow way. That's that straight gate. Preacher, how do I go to hell? Easy. Just don't worry about it. Don't think about it. That's what the devil wants. Why do you think entertainment controls the population? Why? Amusement. And you've heard this before. You know what the word amusement means? Ah means non. Muse means think. Watching those stupid shows and playing the stupid games. Not even thinking about my spiritual condition. The devil has us brainwashed and brain brain Controlled. What I'm trying to say is this every single person needs to stop and think for a moment. Where am I going to end up? What road am I on? What's my destiny? If I can just get a man or a woman or a young person, if I can just get them to think about that. To step in the right direction. Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the light. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. The most important issue and d most important decision in life is not who I'm going to marry, and that is important, young people. Not what school I'm going to go to for advanced education, and that's fine. That's not your most important decision. Most important decision in life isn't what occupation I'm going to be and that is important. You ought to pray over every one of those. You want to seek the Lord's leadership and direction, every one of those. But that is not the most important decision in life. The most important decision in life is whether I'm going to trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior or not. Because that determines my eternal destiny. Entering in that straight gate, trusting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. God forbid. I thought of this. He says only a few people find it. Only a few people. And I thought of this. Now each individual is responsible, but I thought of this. God forbid that somebody would miss that straight gate and that narrow way because I failed to tell them about it. If we had time, we'd go to Romans chapter 10. How can they believe without a preacher? They never heard of it. How can they believe of it? Eight billion people in this world, and every single one of them need to know about this straight gate. And who has God entrusted with that message? Who has God entrusted with that truth about the straight gate? His disciples! It's your job. It's not the government's job to tell the world about Christ. It's not the Elk Club or the moose or the caribou or the White-tailed deer club. It's God's people have been given that responsibility. Jesus' last words, go into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature. God forbid that somebody would miss that straight gate because I'd refuse to give them a gospel tract. I refuse to give some money to send someone to a mission field. I gotta get a new four-wheeler. How can I send somebody to a mission field? Come on now I ain't giving up my American lifestyle. Go to some foreign country, tell them about Jesus. Are you nuts? No, I'm not nuts. How shall they hear without a preacher? Responsibility is on us that have entered that game. I think about that fellow member of the pool of Bethesda, and the first when the water would move, the first person in would get healed. Anybody remember reading that? And finally Jesus comes, by, you want to be made well? Sure, but I don't have anybody put me in the water. He says, Oh, rise up and walk. Wow. He didn't have anybody to put him in the water. And the interesting thing is, and I may be reading too much, there's another message, but he walks off and doesn't get anybody else and puts them in. I thought that's your average Christian. I'll get saved and I'll walk off. Don't ever tell anybody else about it. I gotta quit. But I hope you understand how critical this is. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. To understand the truth of the matter, what the Lord tells us here, and then help us to respond accordingly. Maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I got that settled. I entered that gate. I have a biblical basis. I'm confident. Christ has forgiven me and saved me. But you say, preacher, I'm I need to live like I'm saved. I need to be this disciple, not just some show I put on, but I gotta it needs to be real in my life And I wonder how many would say, preacher, I'm saved, but I need to work on being that disciple the Lord wants me to be. Any like that by the uplifted hand, and boy, study the sermon on the mount. What a disciple is Maybe there's something here this morning to say, preacher, I'm saved. I'm on that narrow way, and something down inside my heart and soul is burning to let others know about this straight gate. Something in my heart that wants to be a witness, a testimony to this critical truth That Jesus is the Savior, the only Savior. Anything like that, preacher, it burns in my heart and soul to be a witness for my Lord. Anything like that by the uplifted hand? Maybe we need to come and say, Lord, help me. Fill me with your spirit. Give me boldness. Give me witness wisdom to be that witness. One last question and we quit. Well, if there's some say, preacher, I'm not sure that I've entered that gate. Pretty good person, I think. I try to do right. There's doubts and questions in my mind about whether I've entered that gate and whether this is settled. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me get that settled I need that settled any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. How about in any others? How about it in any others? Father in heaven, we give the invitation now, just like Jesus did at the end of his sermon. I pray you'd help us to take you at your word and respond accordingly. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed.