Ecclesiastes chapter number four. Ecclesiastes chapter four. Um I don't remember if I mentioned anything this morning, but I do appreciate a number of folks were Praying, uh Brother Jerry and I went up to traveled up after track month. We had lunch, we took off, headed up to Erie PA and was able to preach at a wild game dinner up there at church uh Grace of Calvary Baptist Church and uh we had a wonderful time they treated us very well, great food and um It's about eighty folks there, and when it was all said and done, there was at least four that raised their hand to indicated that they had called the Lord to trust the Lord as their Savior So we're very grateful for that. We appreciate the prayers. We got back in good time, got back safely, and um it's a blessing to serve the Lord. Ecclesiastes chapter four. I want to begin reading in verse one I need to get my mic on here, and uh I'm gonna read down through verse number three, and um then we're gonna look at this passage here Let me get hooked up here real quick. Verse number one, I'm gonna turn it on now, Brother Jamie. Number one, so I returned. Ecclesiastes chapter 4. So I returned and considered all the oppressions that are done where? Under the sun. There it is. This is what this is all about. And behold, the tears of such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter. Under the sun, they had no comforter. And on the side of their oppressors there was power, but they had no comforter. Wherefore, as a result of that, I praised the dead. which are already dead, more than the living which are yet alive. Yea, better is he both than both they, which hath not yet been born Who hath not seen the evil work that is done where? Under the sun. I'm entitled The Message, and I'll tell you, studying this, this is a dark book in a lot of ways. And I'm looking at this passage. I've titled the message. It's kind of a dark message, but it's this: The world without God is a very sad world. A world without God is a very sad world. You could put it this way, a life without God is a very sad life. So let's pray, and let's see if we can't, Lord can't give us something from this passage here. Father in heaven. It's been a good day. We had a lot of fun with some things. And Lord, now we want to buckle down. And uh we want to look in your word in a very sobering passage here from an incredibly wise man You gave them the wisdom, and you've recorded and preserved this for us, Lord. You've inspired this portion, this book, and you've preserved it for us. And so I'm asking you tonight, Lord, to teach us. The truth that's in this. Lord, you told us that all scripture is given by inspiration. God's profitable. Doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness. So I ask you to do that tonight with this portion here. I pray that the thoughts and notes, observations I've made They would be in line with your word. They would be true to your word. If Lord, if there's something I have here that is not correct, should not be said, Lord, help me miss it. Lord, if there's something here that I didn't notice before, I pray you'd put it in my heart and mind. I want to be true to your word. So fill me with your Holy Spirit is my prayer. I yield myself, my body anew And ask you to be our teacher and preacher tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. If you will come back to chapter 1. And verse number 3. Solomon started this whole sermon off, this whole book. He started off with a question. In Ecclesiastes chapter 1, and notice verse number 3. He says, What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? Now we've been around, those have been around it all, you know the key phrase in the book of Ecclesiastes is that phrase under the sun. What Solomon is asking here, he's asking, is there any profit in life? And all that I invest myself into Is there any prophet under the sun? Uh with the assumption that God is not involved. God is out of the picture. I'm just living uh living life and seeing life from under the sun. This is all there is. What I see, hear, feel, touch, material, that's all there is. Is there any profit in a life lived that way? And I believe he answers, he comes to a conclusion under the sun in chapter 3 and verse number 22. If you would come over there. He takes chapter 1, 2, and 3, and he is attempting to answer that question he raised at the beginning. Is there any prophet? Is there any prophet? What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? Then verse 22 of chapter 3 says this, wherefore I perceive That there is nothing better than that a man should rejoice in his own works. For that is his portion for all for who shall bring him to see what shall be after him And so he kind of comes to this conclusion, and we looked at this last week. He asked the question, Is there any profit that a man laboreth under the sun? His conclusion, I believe, he says here is, you know, I found this is where the only prophet I can find. Under the sun. God's out of the picture. God's not a factor. The only prophet I can come up to is listen, just eat, drink, be merry. This is all there is, what's under the sun. If that's all there is to life, then do the best you can and try and be happy. You know, I got thinking about Solomon. What an amazing man. How many folks here have ever read through the book of Proverbs? Isn't that a phenomenal book? I love Proverbs. I try to read some every day. Song of Solomon, what a romance. It's a tragic thing when somebody loses faith in God. That's a tragedy. Solomon was the wisest man ever lived. God poured out material blessing on him like few others. Peace and prosperity in his life, like you and I can't hardly imagine. And yet he turned away from that. He lost his faith in God. How did he do that? We talked about this before. I think uh obviously the Bible tells us a factor in him losing his faith in God, getting away from God Was the ungodly influences. The Bible says he married many strange wives. And they influenced him and drew his heart away from the Lord to heathenism and unbelief. I'm telling you, we need to be very, very careful about the influences we allow in our lives. I don't think we preach on that enough. Separation from sinful influences and people who would draw us away from the Lord. The Bible is very strong on that. I've often said separation is probably the most neglected teaching in the Bible. So Solomon, what amazing man of God. And he loses faith in God. And he's drawn away into unbelief. He's drawn away into living under the sun because of ungodly influences. But also, I think, this is my surmise. I think his incredible prosperity was a factor. He's just had so much and so much peace and so little challenge, so little so little uh warfare, just everything was going his way and It's easy to become slack in our Christian life. It's easy to lean on our own understanding, our own resources in that type of situation. So now we come to chapter 4. Solomon is a very sad man. A very sad man. And he ended up walking away from God. Now I want to look at these three verses here, and I tried to break them down so we can maybe bite-size uh thought so we can comprehend maybe what he's trying to say here. The first thing I put down was Solomon's observation. He makes an observation. He says there verse number one, so I returned. And I think, what's he returning to? And I kind of got this idea that he is returning to his original question. He's coming back. What uh what profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under his son? I think he's thinking that through. Now his conclusion In chapter 3, verse 22 was, you know, do the best you can, try and be happy. And I got a sneaking suspicion. What he's saying here is I'm rethinking that. Return. Notice he says, so I returned and considered a few things. I wonder if he isn't stopping and saying, you know, I need to look at the conclusion I've come to a little more closely. I need to examine this a little more thoroughly. You know, I found when we remove God from our equation When we neglect that which is above the sun, God and spiritual realities and eternity. And all we're living for, and all we see, and all that consumes our mind and our focus and all our priorities and all our values are simply on things that are under the sun, material things, temporal things. I found that when we remove God from the equation, we can never arrive at a definite conclusion. Can never say anything for certain Somebody said, I am absolutely certain that we can be absolutely certain about nothing. You've got to think about that one a little bit. I'm sure that I can be sure about nothing. Somebody says, uh there there are no absolutes in life Ask him, are you absolutely sure of that? So Solomon is rethinking this through. God is out of the equation. There's no foundation, there's no real truth. to hang his hat on, so to speak. And he comes to this conclusion under the sun, do the best he can, try and be happy. Then he says, you know, I return to my original thinking and I'm considering some stuff. So I notice here Solomon is making some observations. He's backing up maybe He's rethinking this through, and then he observes some things. And notice what he observes, and that's my second thought. He observes the oppression of the powerful Notice he says in verse 2, verse 1, so I return and considered. Now this is what he's considering, considered all the oppressions. That are done under the sun, down here among men, in this temporal life, in this temporal world, this material world. I'm observing, I'm noticing all these oppressions that are being done And behold, the tears of such as were oppressed. I get the impression Solomon's heart is being touched. He's looking under the sun, he looks out, and he says, everywhere I look, I see oppression. And the tears of the people who are being oppressed, how it's affecting them. Then he goes on, he says, and they had no comforter under the sun. There was no comforter. There was nothing. To help them. Nothing to encourage and comfort them. And then on the side of their oppressors, there was power. But they had no comforter So he's noticing, I think he's noticing, Solomon is looking here, and he's seeing two classes of people. He's seeing the oppressed. And he uses that word a number of times. Did you notice that in the verse? He uses it two, three times. And he notices the oppressed. The word oppressed there has this idea: to be exploited. What does it mean if someone is exploited? Somebody help me. What's that mean? Somebody's been exploited or a group of people have been exploited. Taken advantage of. Somebody that had influence over them, somebody that had an angle on them that they did not have took advantage of that. He says, I look out into the world and I see a class of people that are oppressed. They're exploited. They're taken advantage of. They're abused. They have no power to keep from being exploited. He says, I see their tears. They have no comforter. It's nothing to help them. There's nobody to come alongside. They have no advocate. Nothing. Not under the sun, they don't And then he sees another class of people, that's the oppressed, the first class, exploited or taken advantage of. Then he sees another class of people, and that is the oppressors. Those are the ones that are in positions of power. Those are the ones that are in a position where they are able to take advantage of others. They are in such a situation or circumstance where they are able to exploit another person. It doesn't necessarily mean they're a great powerful leader. It doesn't necessarily mean they're some king or uh uh uh uh dictator And that's exploiting the people under. And that, of course, would fall into that, but I think he's referring to just anybody that has somebody in a situation where I can take advantage of them And you'll find them everywhere, all over the place. So he sees these two classes of people. One is the oppressed He sees their tears and they have no comforter. Then he sees the oppressor. And that is one who is in a position to take advantage of another And he makes a sad observation, and I touched on it a couple times already. Under the sun, they had no comforter. Under the sun, without God, there was no one to show compassion. There was no one to show relief. Let me say this. I believe this is the implied message here. If you and I are looking for genuine concern and genuine comfort from this world. We are going to fall short every single time. Under the sun, we are not going to find genuine, real, soul-depth comfort under the sun That's sad. A world without God is a very sad world A life without God is a very sad life. I have nothing real and and uh uh that I can hold on to that will really help me in life. All the world has their self-help books, the world has their philosophies and their little things and their little programs and all of that. And it helps temporarily. It gets through for a while. But there's only one real eternal solution to man's problems, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. Under the sun, there's no comforter. Turn with me, if you would, to Genesis chapter 6. We see a little bit of a picture of a world that is living. Under the sun. The entire world, for with a few exceptions, has completely pushed God out of the picture Now we live in the and the unbelievers and the world out there, they don't really like to admit this, but the world is more influenced today by the Word of God and by the things of God than it likes to admit. I know of very few atheists that have started hospitals, mission agencies, help things around the world. Very few of that. Most of those are started either by genuine Christians or by folks who are heavily influenced by genuine Christians. Do you follow what I'm saying? The little bit of comfort and whatnot there is out in the world is mostly the result of the influence of the Word of God and the people of God in the world. But let's go back to a time when there wasn't that. And Genesis chapter 11, or chapter 6, I'm sorry. Genesis chapter 6, did I already say 6? Look with me at verse 11. The earth also was what? Corrupt. The word corrupt is very similar to the word oppression. The earth was corrupt before God. And the earth was filled with what? Violence. They've pushed God completely out of the picture. In fact, there's only eight peoples of God on the earth at this present time. Some have suggested there's millions and millions, maybe billions of people on the earth at this point. I don't know. But I know this. The whole world is living simply under the sun. And there's oppressors, there's oppressed, there's corruption, the word corrupt there means to exploit others. To take from others, to violently, the word violent, and the world was uh that word there it says uh uh was filled with violence. The word violence there means to exploit by force. Kill somebody for a couple bucks. Corrupt. Take advantage every chance I can. Get what I can from others with no regard For their well-being. Pretty sad place, huh? My statement is this: the world, a world without God is a very sad world. Very corrupt. That's what Solomon is seeing. He says, under the sun, I don't see any comfort. I don't see any respect for others. I don't see any concern for others. I don't see any comfort for the oppressed. Job experienced a little bit of this. Now, his buddies talked about God, but they showed very little comfort or concern for God. Under the sun, Job found no comfort. Right? All he had under the sun, all he had was tears. You get to the end of the book of Job, and that which is above the sun, God shows up. And Job makes an amazing statement. He says, I've heard of you with my ears, but now I've seen you with my eyes. And what he's saying is this, I knew all this was true. I knew it was true because I heard it. I believed it by faith. But now, God, I've seen what you can do in the life of a person whose life is totally devastated. I've seen what God can do in s in the life of someone who has everything taken from them, everything taken from them. Their family, their possessions, their health, everything taken from them. And I'll see what how you can comfort and how you can meet the needs and how you can get the victory. In a life that's been devastated. Job knew a little bit what it is to try and find comfort under the sun and not find it. It wasn't there. It wasn't until he looked beyond his buddies. And he saw the Lord. That's where he found his comfort. Turn with, if you would, to Psalms chapter 73. Here we got a fellow by the name of Asaph. Don't know a whole lot about this guy, but he wrote some phenomenal, or God used him to write some phenomenal Psalms in Psalm 73 And I want to read a fairly extended portion because I think he's touching on a little bit what Solomon is addressing in Ecclesiastes, Psalms 73. Look with me at verse number two. Now think about what he's saying here. Verse 1, you know, he starts out good. God is good to Israel, and to such as of a clean heart. But look what he says in verse 2. But as for me, My feet were almost gone. My steps had well nigh slipped You know what he's saying? He says, I'm starting to lose faith. My walk with God was faltering. Why? What caused that? Look at verse 3. For I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. For there were no bands in their death, but their strength is firm. They are not in trouble as other men Neither are they plagued like other men. Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain. Violence covereth them as a garment. They're oppressing. They're living under the sun. Their eyes stand out with fatness. They have more than heart could wish. They're corrupt. There it is. Speak wickedly concerning oppression. They speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth Therefore, as people return hither, waters of a full cup are wrung out to them. Their hearts are broken, they're weeping. This is a sad, sad thing, you see. They say, how doth God know? Is there any knowledge in the Most High? Behold, these are ungodly who prosper in the world. They increase in riches. Verily? He's saying this, verily I've cleansed my heart in vain and washed my hands in innocency. For all the day long have I been Plagued and chastened every morning. If I say I will speak thus, behold, I shall offend against the generation of thy children. When I thought on this, it was too painful for me. Now I read that and I kind of get the same mental picture that Solomon's painting. Under the sun, this is a sad place. I see oppression, I see tears, I find no comfort. ASAP is saying, I'm looking out there at the world and you know they're oppressing each other and they're violent and they're corrupt and I don't see any comfort. I don't see any hope in it. The difference between what Solomon says in Ecclesiastes 4 and what Asap is saying in Psalm seventy-three is found in verse seventeen. Then Asaph makes this statement. Well verse 16, when I thought to know this, it was too painful for me. That's where Solomon's at. But verse 17, until I went into the sanctuary of who? God. Then I understood their end. Surely thou didst set them in slippery places, thou castest them down into destruction. How are they brought into desolation as in a moment? They are utterly consumed in thy terrors. And he goes on What is Asaf saying? He starts out saying, I think, something very similar to what Solomon is saying. I look out there, I see oppression, I see tears, I see sadness, I see hopelessness, I see no comfort whatsoever. And my faith almost failed. My walk with God almost failed until I went into the sanctuary. What happened when Asaph went into the sanctuary? This is the way I put it He lifted his eyes above the sun. He goes, wait a minute. There is something bigger than this life. There is a comforter that is overall. There is a God. That is ultimately in control. And there is a God that will take care of this, and God will settle this matter. And He found comfort, not under the sun, not in this world. He found tremendous comfort, and his faith was strengthened, and his walk with God was renewed. When he looked above and he says, I set my eyes on the Lord. I put my hope back in God, and I saw that there is a God in heaven. Asaph, Job, I think David to some extent struggled with This idea of under the sun, all we saw is this, all we see is this. Let me say this. This coming week we're going to get out. If you watch the news a little bit, if you pay the attention around, we're going to see some things that are disturbing There's some things that are going to hurt. There's some things that are not right. And if we forget that there's a God in heaven that is a good God and God is in control, if we forget that, we're not going to find any comfort, and I'll tell you what to do. It'll depress us. It'll make us very, very sad. We look above that. Now I got one last thought I want to give real quickly, and I get that from verse 2 and 3. And that is the opinion of Solomon. Come back to Ecclesiastes there if you would. Look at verse 2 and 3. Alright, he says, I returned, I considered the oppressions under the sun. There's no comforter, there's tears, they had no comforter. Look at verse 2. Wherefore, because I see no comfort, I see all this oppression, I praise the dead, which are already dead, more than the living, which are yet alive. What's another way of saying what he's saying there? We'd be better off dead. If that's the way life is, if that's the way the world is, we're better off dead. He says, Wherefore I verse three, yea, better is he both in the than both they, which had not yet been uh which hath not yet been, who hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun He has no answer. Under the sun, there's no solution to the oppression and the sadness and the wickedness and the sinfulness and the corruption And the violence in the world under the sun there's no solution. We talked about this before. This world cannot come up for a solution to sin. They can't. We try with legislation, we try all these programs and all this stuff, and we cannot solve the problem of sin under the sun. And so the world's conclusion, and Solomon's conclusion, was this the only solution is death. That's the only solution. Somebody says, oh, I'd be better off dead. Hey. Not if you're unsaved you won't be. Not if you're unsaved, you wouldn't be. Somebody says I'd be better off dead, then what you're implying is God has made a terrible mistake. That I know better than God. God has given me life, but God has made a mistake. Sometimes somebody's very, very sick. And I w I want to be very careful about this, but they're on their deathbed or they've been sick for a long time. Might even be a young person, they've been sick for a long time, and they pass away. And people say this to me. They'll say, oh, they're better off now. I don't mean to be unkind, but I w I need to be honest. If they're not saved, they're not better off now. Not if the Bible's true. They're not better off now. The world's solution is death. If you push God out of the picture, the solution is death. So we abort our unborn. We kill our elderly. Somebody goes through a tough time, take their life. Death is the solution of a world that has no solutions. I suggest to you that solution is straight out of hell Better off dead. Better off dead. Better off dead. Nowhere do you find God s offering that as a solution. So Solomon again is wrong. He's dead wrong. There is comfort in the Lord. Psalms Aceph said that in verse. In chapter 20 73 of Psalms, verse 17 through 19, there's comfort in the Lord. God has a plan. God has a purpose. God is doing something. God has a solution. We see that all through Scripture. We look at the lives of men. Joseph, what a testimony of somebody that has been as low as you can get. Job, somebody as low as you can get. And yet they looked beyond the sun and they knew there was a God in heaven that loved them and was working in their life and was doing great things. And if they'll just trust him and wait on him God will work things out. And it'll be glorious. I don't know if anybody recognized him. I was reading this week and I I read about a fellow, and I think I had heard of him before, and some of you, all of us, I think, are going to know some things about this guy. His name is Charles Tindley. That name ring a bell with anybody? Couple folks? Charles Tindley. Some of you will catch on when I tell you a little bit about him. He was referred to as the greatest African American preacher of the 20th century. He was born, I think, 1851 in slavery down south. His parents were slave. He was born into slavery. After the Civil War, they moved up to Philadelphia. He got a job as a janitor in a Bible preaching church. In that church, he heard the gospel, and he found Christ as his Savior. He began to grow and got involved in the church, and he went from being a janitor of that church to being the senior pastor of that church. And there's a black man born down south during slavery, comes to Philly, gets a job as a janitor, gets saved, ultimately comes the senior pastor of that church. They said the record I have here is congregation grew radically. Eventually, thousands of people would come to hear him preach every Sunday. Most of the people that came to hear Charles Tindley preach were very poor inner city black folk. Oppressed. Prejudice, poverty, horrendous. But they would come and hear Charles Tinley preach the Word of God As he grew in his influence, the denomination he was in wanted to give him a position of greater influence there within their denomination. As a black man, he faced tremendous prejudice by others. There was another fella in the denomination, and I don't know anything about the guy, but He was kind of in competition for this position that Charles Tinley was asked to take. And he resorted to some horrific means. He said to Charles Tinley to his face one time in a meeting, he walked up and he said, You are an unlettered ignorantist. You are not educatedly fit to be in the position you have as a pastor. Somehow, an anonymous letter came out and was being passed throughout the denomination that Charles Pinley had been immoral. It was a lie, it was unfounded, but people wanted to believe it. And as a result of that, his position was denied and he lost his pastorate. Short time after, his wife died. About that same time his son was killed in World War One. And his ministry was over. Charles Tinley lost everything. Under the sun, if there is no God, if this is all untrue, if this was not true, then Charles Tinley had no comfort. He had nothing but tears. It was a very sad situation. But Charles Tinley knew that there is a God in heaven. And he knew that regardless of what his circumstances and how low he may find himself and how unfair life may be, God was true and God is good. And he wrote a song, We Shall Overcome. Very, very famous for his civil rights. But that's not the only song he wrote. He wrote this song: Nothing between my soul and the Savior, naught of this earth treasures I see. You know what Charles Tinley was doing? He was doing the exact opposite of what Solomon was doing. He was looking above the sun He's looking beyond this earth. There's more. This is not it. This is not where my comfort is. This is not where my hope is. This is not where my strength is. It's above the sun. And God himself. He wrote this song, take your burden to the Lord and leave it there. What a great song I like this one. This one applies. One of the best hymns he wrote was this. Well understand it all. By and by. We are often destitute of the things that life demands: want of food and want of shelter, thirsty hills and barren lands. We are trusting in the Lord, and according to his word, we'll understand it better by and by. Trials dark on every hand, and we cannot understand all the ways that God would lead us to that blessed promised land, but he guides us with his eye and will follow till we die For we'll understand it all better by and by. Temptations, hidden snares often take us unawares, and our hearts are made to bleed for a thoughtless word or deed And we wonder why the test, when we try to do our best, but we'll understand it all better by and by. I don't know about you. I don't want to follow Solomon's thinking. I want Charles Tinley's thinking. Solomon got so far from God, he could not see beyond what this world had to offer. And what this world had to offer was nothing but death. But above the sun, there's a God in heaven. I just want to remind us as we go into a new week, there is a God in heaven. Who knows us and loves us and is all powerful and is working on our behalf. We've got to keep our eyes on him and follow him and trust him, even though it might not make sense now. We'll understand it all by and by. Isn't that good? Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us now, Lord, to keep our eyes. Above this whole world, not to look to this world, not to love this world, not to lean on the temporal things of this world. Lord, help us to keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. You promised us that will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee. I pray this coming week that our mind, our eyes, our hope, our faith. We'd be in you, Lord, and not in this old simple world. Help us to be a light shining in this dark, dark world and strengthen our faith. With a head bowed and eyes closed, how many say, preacher? I needed this tonight. I needed to be reminded there's a God in heaven. I need to be reminded that God is in control. And someday it's all going to make sense. Someday it'll be all right. And I need to keep my eyes on him. Any like that by the uplifted hands? Certainly. We need this all the time. I think it'd be a wonderful thing to finish out the Lord's day, go into a new week. And just say, Lord, you're my Savior. You're my hope. You're who my faith is in. I want to stay faithful and true to you. Father, bless now our invitation. And one last quick question. Would there happen to be someone tonight and say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven? Not sure my sins ever give me when I die I'm going to heaven concerned about that. Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need that settled in my heart and life. Now, Father, make this invitation special Pray that we make good decisions and really get up and leave here strong and ready for the week, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed, as Jennifer plays the invitation. What do you think? Find a place in the