Thank the church. This past Wednesday was my forty-ninth birthday and uh the church gave me a very generous gift card to JC Penny, my wife and I, preaching a missions conference Thursday and Friday. Went to uh Buchanan or to Clarksburg and uh some things and was able to get this suit. And didn't this look sharp? So this is my birthday suit. And um so appreciate it so much. And uh funny thing is, I probably shouldn't say that Funny thing is, uh I didn't get anything from my mom. She emailed me and said m Wednesday morning and she said, Do you know how much pain I was in forty-nine years ago right now? So that was my birthday wish for my mom. But uh appreciate it so much. I'm always every year on Mother's Day I'm put into a very difficult situation. It's always the Sunday before our missions conference. And I want to bring a message on mothers, but um uh but then there's missions conference and uh my focus is on that and I really prayed about it this year and I really sought the Lord and um so I Uh thank God for mothers and we love you dearly, but I'm gonna bring a missions message. And um if you wouldn't notice, verse number uh thirty-one and thirty-two from John chapter twelve By the way, Thursday was my spiritual birthday. It was 30 years ago, Thursday night, that the Lord came in my life and saved me. Praise the Lord for that. Verse 31. Now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out. And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. That one phrase caught my attention. Now is the judgment of this world. I've entitled the message A World Crisis. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, I do pray that you would speak to our hearts in this hour. I'm so grateful for the mothers who uh have given life to us. And Lord, uh we owe so much to them, Lord, and really all the ladies. that worked so hard to make this world a better place and make our church a success. We're grateful, Lord. Now we look into your word and our my heart and our hearts are stirred towards this matter of our responsibility of getting the gospel into every region of the world, all the reaches of the world I ask, Lord, that you would challenge us this hour. I yield myself to you. I surrender my will to you, Lord, as best I can. Lord, I present my body anew. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit and challenge us, encourage, and strengthen us, I pray, in Jesus' name Amen. You really need to come back to verse 20 through 25 to get the context of what is being said in verse 31 and 32. And so if you would come back and notice verse 20 as I read this portion. It says, and there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast. Talking about coming up to Jerusalem, worshiping at the Feast of Pentecost. And the same came, therefore, to Philip. These Greeks that came up came to Philip, which was of Bethsaida of Galilee. And desired him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. Philip cometh and tell Andrew, and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus. These Greeks, they're not Jews. They're Greeks, referred to throughout the New Testament as barbarians, heathen. These were Gentiles, and for the most part hated by the Jews But the Bible says something interesting there in verse 20 that these Greeks came up among the Jews to Jerusalem, and they were a part of the worship. That the Jews were engaging in there in Jerusalem. Now that's interesting. The Greeks, these this group of Greeks, Gentiles, Saw something in the Jewish religion that appealed to them. There was something about the Jews' worship of Jehovah. That stirred their hearts and motivated them to leave their homes, leave their towns, travel a good way to a strange people, strange to them A strange city, and were involved in the worship of Jehovah. Now they did this in spite of the Pharisees Now, we understand the Pharisees. Let me ask you this. Pharisees, good or bad? Terrible These guys claimed to be representatives of Jehovah. They claimed to be authorities of the Jewish religion. And they were, according to Jesus, they were a bunch of hypocrites. And they put on a big show and they're a judgmental of everybody else. And uh I I don't see anywhere in the New Testament of Pharisees cracking a smile. I don't see any incident in the Gospels where a Pharisee was being kind or gracious to anybody, being merciful or even friendly in any sense. They were cold, they were hard, they were hateful, and Jesus rebuked them severely for being hypocritical. And in spite of the Pharisees, in spite of the terrible representation the Pharisees gave of the Jews' religion, these Greeks wanted to be a part of it. They saw beyond the hypocrisy of the Pharisees, and they saw something in Judaism that was real. You know, I hate to say this, but as a pastor, and even for my own self, I'm a more often than I would care to admit, the way some Christians act I wonder sometimes why anyone would want to be a Christian. I think sometimes as uh years ago Gandhi, the spiritual leader in India Not saved man by any stretch of the imagination. And he made a very, very um um uh hard for us to swallow remark. He told a group one time, he said, I studied very carefully the Christian religion. And he said, I would be a Christian today were it not for Christians. And what he was saying is the truths of Christianity appealed to him. He saw the value. He saw there was something there. But the way Christians acted turned him off so much that he said, I'll never be a Christian. Isn't that sad? These Greeks, Gentiles, They saw the truth in the worship that God had instructed the Jews to engage in. They saw reality there And in spite of the hypocrisy of some of the Jews, the Pharisees in particular, they saw something real. And I would like to say we get on Christians and we uh sometimes give ourselves a hard time and we need to judgment must begin at the house of God. But I'm here to tell you this morning, in spite of the way a lot of Christians behave, there are still a lot of people who are coming to Christ. Thank God there are people in countries throughout the world who, in spite of the failures of man, in spite of the frailty of human nature They are able to see beyond that, and they are able to see the truth of Christianity, the reality of the gospel, the wonders of the Lord Jesus Christ, and they are coming to know Christ as Savior. Sometimes people, and this happened to me and I mentioned it a number of times over the years, we were in Boulder and uh we were checking out of the grocery store. Older Colorado, we were living there and I handed the man a gospel track and uh I said here's a little gospel track tell you to know for sure you're going to heaven. And he said something to the effect, and I don't have the exact words, he said something to the effect, I don't want nothing to do with Christians. He says, I've had dealings with Christians. And I said something like I'm sorry and I said well maybe take some time and read that I walked out and I wish so badly I'd have thought to say uh actually what I should have said to him was this I agree with you. Christians have failed many times, but Jesus has never failed. And thank God around the world there are multitudes of people. Thousands, maybe millions, who are seen beyond the humanity of us, and they're able to see Christ and come to Christ. That was the case here with these Greeks. The Bible says, verse 20, there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship. The same, therefore, verse 21 came. The same came therefore to Philip, which was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir We would see Jesus. We would see Jesus. Evidently, they had heard of the Lord Jesus Christ. And there was something about Jesus that appealed to them. Something about his word. Stir their hearts and appeal to their hearts. Something about the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Had touched their hearts and they wanted to know more. Again, I believe if we can get the word of God Into the hands of people, and people can just read the Word of God. Just see what the Bible has to say. I am convinced there are people around the world. If they could just get their eyes on the Word of God, see what it has to say, I believe it would appeal to the hearts of people all around the world. Here's a sad fact. There are six thousand languages in the world that have no scripture in that language, or at least not a complete Bible. Isn't that awful? There are people, our church uh last year adopted the nation of Kazakhstan as a focus of our mission's efforts. There are people groups, as Brother Pat's been sharing with us on a monthly basis, there are people groups within Kazakhstan that have no portion of the scripture at all in their language. Now put yourself in their shoes. Can you imagine not having a Bible that you can read and understand? There are por places in the world where the missionaries, the national pastors, do not have the scriptures in their language. They have to learn another language Read it in that language and then translate it to their people. They have no scripture in their language. I'm convinced that we as Christians, if we can just get the word of God Into the hands of people where they can see it and read it. It would appeal to their hearts, and many, many, many people would be saved. There was something about the words of Jesus, that these barbarians, these Gentiles, these Greeks, something about his word. Spoke to their heart. I remember, as I mentioned, uh thirty years ago, this past Thursday night, May 7th, I trusted Christ the Savior. It was actually a Monday night in 1979 And I remember the weeks and months leading up to that wonderful night when Christ came in my life and changed my life. And I remember I would read my Bible. It was back around the new year, January 1st in there, that I began praying to God, asking to help me, to change my life. I made such a mess In just the short 18 years I had, I had made such a mess of my life. I began crying, God As an 18-year-old boy, I would lay in my bed at 2, 3, 4 o'clock in the morning, crying like a baby, and I would say, God, help me! I've destroyed my life. Help me. And it was not an audible voice, but a voice nonetheless spoke to my heart and instructed me to read the Bible. I dug through my dresser drawers. I remembered so clearly, dug through my dresser drawers. I found a Bible a Sunday school teacher had given me years ago. I hadn't been in church in years. Open that Bible up in the middle of the night, early morning, I would begin reading. And it was like God had just written it that day. Just to me, it was alive. Can I get a witness? Does anybody know what I'm talking about? It was a lie. And I'd read that and I'd devour it. And for five months. The words of Jesus, the word of God was appealing to my heart. Until I got to the point where I said, like these Greeks, I would see Jesus. Jesus. I've read about him. I've read what he had to say. Now I want Jesus There was something about the word of Jesus that appealed to these Greeks, that appealed to their heart. There was something about the person of Jesus. Those five months leading up to my salvation. When I was praying and I was reading my Bible at night, and then I'd go out and live like the heat, like a devil, and then come in and read my Bible at night. Those five months, as I was learning about the Lord Jesus, I was coming to realize there was no one like Jesus. Not a person has ever walked this planet quite like the Lord Jesus Christ. And I began to realize if my life was going to be salvag I came to realize if anything good was ever going to come out of this pitiful life I was living, it would have to be Jesus do that. He was my only hope. I believe there was something about Jesus and the Jews, like I did, realized if we have any hope in life, it's in that man. If there's any hope of salvation, if there's any way to have our sins forgiven, if there's any way for my life to have purpose and meaning. Something beyond just having stuff and going through the motions. I mean a real life with real purpose and real meaning. If I'm ever going to have that, it has to come from Jesus. Greeks, Gentiles, not Jews. They weren't raised up teaching of the coming Messiah. Something about the truth and the Jewish religion, something up in the words of the Lord Jesus that they evidently had heard, something in the person of Jesus that they ever evidently had seen appealed to their heart. And they came to the disciples and they said, Sirs, we would see Jesus Now you need to understand they weren't they didn't they didn't they weren't wanting to come and look at Jesus. When they said we would see Jesus, it doesn't mean boy we wonder what he looks like We want to see him not like people today, you know, some movie star, oh, I saw whoever. I saw them. That's not what they're saying. They weren't some crazed fans, groupies that just wanted to see them. Oh, I just I could just see them. That wasn't it at all. I got studying that word see. And it has far more, it means far more than just observing with your eyeballs something. It means to perceive. It means to have a further understanding of. It means to have an experience with. In fact, one definition said this: to have an interview with. So when they said we would see Jesus, they weren't just wanted to come up and gawk at him. Alright? They wanted to know him. They wanted to understand, man, this man's words stir our heart. This man's person gives us hope We need to see him. We need to understand. Has anyone the the more the meaning of the word is this? I think it's pretty obvious, but the meaning of the word is this. If somebody explains something to you, you don't understand it, and somebody explains something to you, and then you say, Oh, I see I understand. I comprehend it. I perceive what you're talking about. And these Jews said, we need more information than what we have. There's something here. We need to know this guy. We need to understand. We need to uh, oh boy, there's there's an emptiness in our heart that this man we believe can fulfill. We've got to know him. Listen, it is not enough to know about Jesus. We must know Jesus. Can I tell you a real concern of mine in our independent Baptist churches? A real concern of mine. We have a lot of teaching, we have a lot of scripture going out, and sometimes I'm afraid we have people who know all about Jesus. But do not know Jesus. Boy, they can give the right answers and they can quote the scriptures back and They can go through the motions and boy they can just externalize everything, but there's nothing real in their heart. There's not there's no relationship with a living Savior. They know about Jesus, but they don't. No Jesus. The sight of these Greeks said we would know Jesus You say, what in the world does verse 20, 21, and 22 have to do with verse 31 and 32? Jesus, in verse number, oh look at verse 23, and Jesus answered them, saying The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Now, think with me a little bit. Are you all here? Are you glad you came? Amen. Alright, good. The hour is come. What hour was Jesus talking about? When he said the hour is come when the Son of Man should be glorified, what was he making reference to? The crucifixion. These Greeks had just come. The Bible tells us in the beginning of John that Jesus came unto his own, the Jews, he came unto his own, and his own what? Received him not. They rejected him. But now you have some Greeks, some heathen, Gentiles, and they're not rejecting him, they're wanting to receive him And he says, wait a minute. The hour's come. We're there. We're at that point where the Son of Man is going to be glorified. We're at the point where my crucifixion is about to take place. And then you jump to verse 31, and look what he says. Now is the judgment of this world. Now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out. And if I be lifted up, I will draw what? Amen to myself. You know what Jesus is saying? He's saying, we are at a turning point in history. This is my message. I'm going to end with it. We are at a turning point in history. Now the hour has come. Now the judgment of the world. Now the Satan will be cast out. Now if I'm lifted up, I will draw all men to myself. Jesus had presented himself, came to earth, and now he was at a point in time. That was a what that was a turning point in the history of the world. Now what's he talking about? Look, he says three things are going to happen at my crucifixion. These Jews, these Greeks are standing there. We want to see Jesus. He says, now the hours come. This is what's going to take place. He says, the result of his crucifixion, first of all, the world would be judged. Now is the judgment of this world. That word judgment, again, I like to look up words, I like to study their meanings, where they came from, helps me understand what's being said. That word judgment there actually means damnation Condemnation, much like we think of the word judgment. It means what it says. But there's also an aspect of this world where it means a crises. And Jesus is saying here, now is the judgment of this world. Now has this world come to a crises. This world is at a point in time that is very critical. We heard this past week about The crises, the world crises of swine flu. Anybody happen to hear about that going on? I figure if you quit kissing pigs, you'll be alright Well, the world had a much greater crises 2,000 years ago than swine flu And Jesus says his crucifixion put this world at a crisis, put this world at a turning point, at a climax, so to speak, that this world would never reach. Before or after. The death of Jesus Christ brought the world to a judgment, to a crisis. To a turning point. Now think with me a little bit. On the cross, the world was condemned as guilty. The entire world rejected the Son of the Creator of that world When Jesus was mailed to the cross was the lowest point In the history of humanity. And I do not believe that there was a lower point before that, and I do not believe there will be a lower point after that when God saw it. Was rejected by the entire world and nailed to a cross to die. Nobody stood up for the Lord Jesus Christ. His own disciples forsook him. As I was preparing this, I thought, is it really, was that really the lowest point? What about in the tribulation period? When the Antichrist sets himself up in the Holy of Holies in the rebuilt temple in Jerusalem and declares himself to be God, wouldn't that be a lower point? I don't think that will be a lower point. You know why Because during the tribulation period, there will be thousands and millions of people who stand for the Lord. There will be thousands, maybe millions, who give their lives The Lord Jesus Christ. But when Jesus was nailed to the cross, not one man stood up and said, I'll have him. I'll be identified as one of his. All men forsook him. Now, I have to qualify that. Because in reality, and this just dawned on me a couple years ago, there was one man. That said, I'll claim him. And that man was nailed to a cross beside Jesus. One of the thieves said, This man has done nothing worthy of death. Lord, remember me when thou comest into that kingdom. At that point in time, out of the millions of people who are alive on the earth Only one would dare to speak up and claim Christ. And he was a thief nailed to a cross. This is Leathermanism. This is my thinking. You can take it or leave it. But I kind of have a feeling that in heaven, that thief is a hero. I kind of have a feeling in heaven that he is honored as the only one that would dare in face in the face of the entire world Stand up and say, I'll have Christ. I'll have Christ. Christ said, now the hour come, the Son of Man is going to be glorified. See, this is a turning point for the world. This is the lowest point in human history. And the world is judged guilty. No one on that day bowed down and worshiped the Lord Jesus. You know what homage was paid to Jesus on the day he was crucified? The homage paying to the Lord Jesus was this. Crucify him! Crucify him Judgment of the world came. The world likes to speak of the dignity of human nature. The world, the humanists like to suggest that within all of us there is a spark of divinity, that we are all good, basically good. But society and lack of education and lack of finances somehow corrupts us. I'm here to tell you, it doesn't matter if a man's rich or poor. It doesn't matter if he's educated or ignorant. We're born sinners There's no spark of divinity in us. There's a spark of devilship in us. Our hearts are sinful. Our natures are corrupt to their very core. This world is guilty. This world rejected Christ. Man's nature is corrupt. The fact of the matter is, this world hates virtue. This world hates moral perfection. This world hates absolute purity. You say, oh, I don't think it's that bad. Oh, yeah. Look at the people whom the world honors. Liars, dishonest, immoral. Tell me when's the last time somebody that kept themselves pure never touched a cigarette, never engaged in fornication, never was deceitful or lied, but lived a life of integrity and honesty and purity and godliness. Tell me then the last time the world has honored somebody like that. It ain't gonna happen. The highest honors this world gives, the Grammys and the uh grandpas and all the awards they give out, whatever they're called. Music awards and movie awards and political awards and media awards, they never know go to humble, godly, sweet, pure Christian people Am I right or wrong? Well doesn't honor that. This world is guilty. The result of Jesus' death, the world was judged guilty, sentenced for the rejection of Jesus. Second thing he says about when he was crucified was that Satan was cast out. Satan's most effective weapon against a believer is accusation. We talked about this recently. And by the way, we give him plenty of ammo, don't we? Satan likes to throw accus Well, you did this, you did that, you're some kind of Christian. Boy, what kind of Christian oh what kind of Christian does that? Who do you you want to do something for God and this is the way you are? I mean he just heaps the accusations on and the sad thing is we give him so much ammo to throw at us. We give him the tomatoes to throw at us. Am I right or wrong? But when Jesus died on the cross, he took that away from them. And when the devil comes and starts throwing accusations at the child of God, we look to the cross and we say, the devil, you're right, I'm guilty, but Jesus paid for it. You're right? I failed! But Jesus in my place has succeeded for me. Isn't that great? The devil's cast out. Listen, Jesus said, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Let me just share something with you. I'm excited. I'm telling you, God is doing some great things. I mean, because of the cross. Think about this. Here we are out in Western Maryland. We were we were preaching mission class, we were talking, I guess we were in Clarksburg something. I said we lived in Oakland, Maryland. I said, we don't know where that is. I said, you ever hear of Dean Creek Lake? Oh yeah, we know where Deep Creek Lake is, we don't know where Oakland, Maryland is. So I thought, wow, so nobody knows where we are. But anyway, I don't know w that wasn't even funny, was it? But anyway The point is this, here we are, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Would you agree with me we're not the biggest church in the world? You know what? We're not even the biggest church in Maryland. You know that? But now listen, God is using Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to break ground in Kazakhstan. Amen. We've been praying for a year now that God would somehow get Christians into that country. Hey. And God is doing great things. God's doing great things. He's in a little church. So the devil's cast out. The gates of hell cannot prevail against it. Hey, in China, Christianity is illegal. The latest statistic I came across, there are more genuine Christians in China than there are in the United States of America. Number-wise. Gates of hell can't prevail against it. Satan was cast out. His accusations are ineffective. His opposition to the church is ineffective because He's been kissed out. Then last of all, the Lord says in verse 32, I will draw all men unto myself. That word all men means each and every individual of all types. There is no one that cannot be saved because of what Jesus Christ did on the cross. The crucifixion of Jesus is a great magnet. And we preach Christ crucified and he will draw people to him. Before the cross, he drew thousands, and even that was just temporary He'd say something, they'd go offended, they'd all leave. But after the cross, now he is attracting millions The love of God was displayed on the cross, Romans 5. 8, God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. The greatest blessings in life come to us through Christ's crucifixion. Forgiveness, a new life, eternal life, and dwelling Holy Spirit. And God has put in our hearts a motive to reach the world. I'm so grateful for this church that has a burden to reach the world with the gospel. This Wednesday, this Wednesday night at seven o'clock, we're beginning a meeting series uh uh a conference On taking the gospel into all the world. We're bringing a preacher from Toronto, Dr. Greg Baker's coming down here. We're bringing missionaries in. We're going to pray. We're going to be stirred. We're going to seek God. for what we can do to take this message I share with you this morning into all the world. The whole world's condemned. But Satan has been rendered ineffective. And if we take the gospel to him, if we'll take Christ and lift him up, people will be saved. Isn't that good? Last year was in Mongolia and just everything with the conference and all has just been stirring my memories. We went out one day to the largest cemetery in Mongolia. Hundreds of thousands of graves across the side of a mountain. They don't have any trees there. Side of a mountain just Tombstones as far as you could see, then down this way, went in a valley, tombstones as far as you could see, just handmade of every variation I stood there and we looked at that, almost overwhelmed. There was people over here digging. They had to dig their own graves. And people over there digging, someone had died. And there's another group up on the side of the mountain there. You just burr see him. They were digging them to bury their loved one. I thought, boy, what if some Christians had gotten in there A hundred years ago, I wonder how many of those would be in heaven instead of hell today. If we could have got Christ in there and lifted him up and preached the gospel, how many could have believed and been saved? Telling you this world needs Christ. And he says when he was lifted up on that cross, he began drawing all men. And if we'll just give them like those Greeks, let them see his word, let them find out about Christ, they'll be drawn to him just like those Greeks were drawn to Let's pray. Father in heaven, please bless us. Lord, I don't know how this applies to each of our individual lives, but I know this, Lord. The turning point in history was when you were crucified. And I pray you'd help us to do our part in lifting Christ up, getting that message out around the world. Show us what we should do. Show us how you want to use us. Her heads bowed and with her eyes closed, how many would say with me this morning, Preacher, I want God to use me however he sees fit. I mean just however, I don't even know what all it might involve. But I wanted myself, put myself in God's hands, that He'd take me and just use me. To get the gospel to unsaved people. How many like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Hands all around. Surely that would be the desire of a believer. To be used of God.