There are a number of words that we use in messages, in preaching messages, and in teaching the Bible, and those words are not found in Scripture. The word describes, the word is used to describe a truth presented in Scripture, though that word itself is not there. For instance, the word Trinity. is nowhere to be found in the Bible. Um in fact our Jehovah's Witness neighbors, uh sometimes, at least to me they have a number of times, uh made a big deal of the fact that the word Trinity Trinity is not in found in Scriptures. Of course, by the word Trinity, we mean the Bible teaching that God the Father is God. Jesus Christ is God, the Holy Spirit is God, yet there's only one God, the great three and one. That's what the word Trinity means. But the word itself is not in Scripture. You'll not find it. You can read Genesis to Revelation, the word's not there. But the teaching is there. The truth is there. For instance, another word that has a great meaning, great truth that's in Scripture, though the word itself is not there, and that is the term we use, the rapture. The term rapture is not in the Bible. Now the rapture, when we talk about the rapture, we're referring to that event at some point in the future, perhaps today or maybe a hundred years from now. We don't know when But at some point in the future, God is going to rapture the church up off the planet Earth. The Bible talks about it being a catching away. It's a point where every saved person is going to We're going to be caught up off the earth. We'll be with the Lord, get our glorified bodies. Now, rapture, when you hear a preacher talk about the rapture, that's what he's referring to. But you can read your book Bible through cover to cover, you will not find the word rapture. Now there's another word that is taught in our verse. Verse 21, but the word itself is not found anywhere in the Bible. But the truth is, and that word is this: substitution. Substitution, a substitute. That word's not there. You can get your concordance out, strong concordance, look it up. It's not in there You can read Genesis or Revelation, every verse of the Bible, you'll not find the word substitution. But the teaching of one person standing in the place of another As far as their relationship with God is concerned, that teaching is all through Scripture. Now I want to show you a few places. Now take your bulletin or a ribbon or something and mark your place here because we're going to come back to verse 21. But I want to show you a few. illustrations of this teaching of substitution. And we've got to go all the way back to Genesis. So if you would, come back to Genesis chapter number three. Genesis chapter three. Now, this, as far as I can tell, is the first instance of a substitute in the Bible. Genesis chapter 3, and look with me if you would at verse number 7. Genesis chapter 3, verse 7. Very first chapter, very first book of the Bible, third chapter, verse number 7. Now this is where Adam and Eve disobeyed God. They ate of the forbidden fruit And uh God is confronting them and uh and uh uh the well this uh verse seven is before God confronts them, but they realize they did wrong. Look at verse seven. And the eyes of them both were opened. And they knew that they were naked, and they sewed what? Fig leaves together and made themselves aprons. So Adam and Eve disobey God. They realize that they're naked, and they try and cover up their nakedness. Suddenly now they're aware of right and wrong. Suddenly now they've experienced what sin is Suddenly now they have a perspective on things in existence from a sinful perspective, and they try and cover their nakedness with fig leaves. Question, does anything have to die for you to make garments of fig leaves? No. Fig doesn't die. You pull a few leaves off, that fig tree doesn't die. So nothing's dying here. There's no substitutions being made. But come over, if you would, to verse 21. Same chapter. Look at verse 21. Now God, as I started to say earlier, has confronted Adam and Eve. He's dealt with a number of things. Notice in verse 21 what God does. And unto Adam also, and to his wife, did the Lord God make what? Coats. Now let's stop there at that word coats. Now this is completely aside. This has nothing to do with the message, but I want to take a I just can't resist. Adam and Eve made what type of garment out of the fig leaves? Aprons. What type of garment did God provide for him? Coats. Question What covers more of your body, an apron or a coat? You know what that tells me? God wants you to cover that body up. Now this is the wrong time of year to be preaching this. But uh man in his sinful state wants to cover as little bit of the body as possible. Am I right or wrong? A coat covers a whole lot more than uh an apron. So that was completely free. You're not going to be charged for that truth at all. But notice, let's read on. Unto Adam also and to his wife did the Lord God make coats of skin. Ah does anything have to die if you're going to make a garment out of skin? I can't imagine a critter running around without skin And surviving. Now, my own personal opinion is, and I can't prove this, I think the spirit of scripture supports this. But my own personal view is that the Skins that God made coats for Adam and Eve actually came from either a lamb or a sheep of some uh either a lamb or a sheep I think that fits the picture throughout scripture of the sacrificial lamb for us. But here's the point I'm trying to make. Adam and Eve disobeyed God They were under the judgment of God. And God, in their place, what did God say? God said, the day you eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. But God comes along and says, I'm going to kill this lamb. I'll take its skin and I'll cover your nakedness with the death of this lamb. I believe, this is Leathermanism, you can take it or leave it, you can be wrong if you want, but um uh this is Leathermanism, but I believe the moment Adam and Eve accepted those coats of skins, that was the moment of their salvation. They accepted the fact that something had died in their place and they allowed God to clothe them with the coats that God provided for them, and they put aside their own coverings. for their sin. But the point is this: something died so that Adam and Eve could live. A lamb was, a sheep, if that's what it was, was in a sense rejected of God so that Adam and Eve could be accepted of God. God. A sacrifice. Let's go with me if you would to Genesis chapter 22, just a few chapters back. Genesis chapter 22. And here you have Abraham. And God has given to Abraham miraculously a son. And uh his boy grows, and uh Isaac gets uh older, and now God approaches Abraham concerning this son of promise. In his old age, God gave to Abraham and Sarah Isaac, miraculously. And God says to Abraham, Abraham, I want you to take your son, your only son, whom thou lovest. And I want you to take him up, and I want you to offer him up as a sacrifice. Now, this was a this was literally, God was telling Abraham. That he was to take his son, build an altar, and make him, in a very real sense, a human sacrifice. Kill him, and no doubt burn him before God as a sacrifice. Now the amazing thing in this whole event here is, as far as we can tell from Scripture, Abraham did not hesitate for a moment. I don't know about you, I would hesitate. That would be very difficult. No doubt it was very difficult for Abraham. But he believed God. He had faith in God that if God was telling him to do something and it made no sense to him Nevertheless, God knew what he was doing. God was best, God would never do wrong. So Abraham was confident that he could do this, and one way or another, it would work out where it was right and good and bring glory to God. He takes his son Isaac. They go on the journey as they're traveling. Notice in verse 31. Genesis chapter 22. Let's see, I'm talking away. I didn't turn there. Genesis 22. And notice verse 13. And Abraham lifted up. Let's back up. Let's let's set the get the setting here. Come to verse eight Right, they're traveling along. His son says, Father, we've got wood, we've got fire, where's the sacrifice? to be offered. I I don't know about you, but I can hear Abraham swallowing very hard when Isaac says that. Look at verse eight. And Abraham said, My son Look at this. God will provide what? Himself a lamb for a burnt offering. So they went on, so they went both of them together. And then come down to verse number 10. And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son. The angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham! And he said, Here am I. I said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from From me. Look at verse 13. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and off look at this and offered him up for a burnt offering. Look at that last phrase. In the stead of his son. You could write in the margin of your Bible, you could put as a substitute. That lamb was put in the place of his son, and the lamb died in the place of his son. A substitute. Substitute. The word's not used. You won't find it in chapter 22. You won't find it in the book of Genesis. You won't find that word in the Bible. But the truth is there. Let me show you another one real quick. Exodus chapter 33. Exodus chapter 33. This is Abraham. He's been up on Mount Sinai, received the commandments of God, what we refer to as the Ten Commandments. There was a whole lot more than ten, but He comes down, and uh Aaron has been messing around with the crowd, and uh lo and behold, they've forsaken the Lord, they've made a golden calf, and And uh they're having a rock concert, rocking out and dancing and drinking and carrying on to this Cap and worshiping the Cap. Moses comes down, uh he kind of loses it there, and uh goes through all that. And uh notice In verse number chapter 33 and verse number 31, you get the heart of Moses. Notice what he says. Exodus 33 and verse Verse where am I coming up with thirty-one all the time? Exodus thirty-two and verse thirty-one. Exodus thirty-two and verse thirty one. Notice it says, and Moses returned unto the Lord and said, Now Moses is praying. Oh, this people have sinned a great sin and made them and have made them gods of gold. Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin, and you find something in the Bible that's found nowhere else in the Bible, you find a little dash. Nowhere else in scripture is that worded that way. You find that. Moses is pausing. I want to suggest to you there's a struggle going on in Moses' heart and Moses. Mind. He's so burdened for God's people. He does not want to see them judged for their sin. Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin, And if not, blot me, I pray thee, out of the book which thou hast written. Do you see what Moses is offering himself Here as. Moses is saying in so many words, Father, if you won't forgive your people, God, if you won't forgive these people, people of Israel If you won't forgive them, then take their sin and put it to my account. Let me be blotted out of the book of life and let them live. I will be their sacrifice. Question, could Moses have died for their sins and would it have been effectual? No. Moses was a sinner just like them. He could not, Moses could not accomplish what he was offering himself to God to try and accomplish. Couldn't have happened. But nevertheless, his heart was for the people of God And he offered himself as a sacrifice. We could go on and on and on through scripture and find picture after picture after picture illustration after illustration of sacrifice. That were made, one person, one thing in place of another. The Day of Atonement and the nation of Israel The high priest would come to the tabernacle. He would go through the holies. He would go into the Holy of Holies, and there he would offer the blood of ram sacrificed on behalf of the people. And that sacrificial lamb was offered as a substitute for the sins of the people. So, a beautiful word, a wonderful word, substitution. It's taught all through Scripture, but you never find the word. Just the truth. Now, come back with me if you would. I ask you to mark your place there in 2 Corinthians. Let's look at verse 21 of 2 Corinthians chapter 5. To me, this is the greatest substitution ever made. What this verse here is presenting is the greatest substitution that has ever taken place. Look at verse 21 with the hath made him To be sin, next two words are key words for us. He made him to be sin in our place, on our behalf Jesus Christ was our substitution. Now as I look at this verse, the first thing I notice, point number one, is the subjects involved in this substitutionary transaction. There's three subjects mentioned here. First of all, is God. Look at verse 1. For he, that's God, God the Father. Hath made him, who's that? Jesus Christ. So you've got God the Father, you've got God the Son, Jesus Christ, for he, God the Father, hath made him, God the Son, to be sin for Us. That's mankind. That's sinful beings. So the subjects in this substitutionary transition transaction being made here in verse 21 Is God the Father, God the Son, Jesus Christ, and sinful mankind? Now let's look at each of these individually. First of all, let's consider God the Father. God the Father took our sin The sins of mankind, and transferred them to Jesus Christ. For he hath made him to be sin for us God the Father took our guilt and put it upon Jesus Christ. You could say it this way. Now, this has helped me grasp this a little better. God the Father Held Jesus Christ responsible for my sin God the Father, in that moment of transaction, substitutionary transaction, held Jesus Christ responsible for all the sins of mankind The most trivial transgression, the most trivial um wrongdoing that you could think of, just something that man You and I were just thinking, oh, that's really nothing. That's very trivial. It's just the slightest little transgression. God held Jesus Christ responsible for it. The most perverse, vile, most wicked thing by our standards that a man the sinful, wicked heart of man could ever comprehend that's been committed, God held Jesus Christ responsible. For it. He made him, God, made Jesus to be sin for us. Now, man could not do that I cannot come and say, you know, I'm going to make Jesus be responsible for my sin. Not one human being could ever decide with authority that Jesus would bear my sins for me. God's the one that had to do that. And by the way, these churches where they have priests, who the priests offer up prayers on behalf of others and no The priests decide what sins are absolved and which ones aren't. That is nothing but raw blasphemy. Only God has the authority to decide who is held responsible for sin. And God made Jesus sin for us. I cannot transfer my guilt from me to someone else. I don't have that ability. I don't have that power. Now we try to do that. Mankind tries to do that, don't we? We blame everyone and everything else for uh for our failures, for our sins, our things. Everyone else is responsible for my misdeeds. Listen, you can say that until you're blue in the face. Doesn't make doesn't change a thing. You're still responsible. Now, God, in his compassion, made Jesus Christ to be sin for us. God did it. That's God's decision Now notice the wording here. And I picked this up after I studied it for a while. I came back and I noticed something. Look here. For he hath made him to be sin for us. Question Was Jesus a sinner? No. Um Was Jesus guilty of any sin? No. Jesus was not a sinner. I was reading one commentary. In fact, I think it was uh Luther, Martin Luther, years going by. He made a statement. Now, you know, he was an amazing person. But he made the statement to the effect, and I understand what he was saying, but I think you can miss I think you can misunderstand, you can misread into it. I think it's you have To be careful. But he made the statement that in essence on the cross Jesus was the worst sinner that ever lived. Jesus was the most vile, wicked sinner that ever lived. And his argument was this that all the sins of mankind were transferred to Jesus Christ, and for that moment on the cross, Jesus was the most wicked sinner. Now I balk at that I hesitate to say that Jesus Christ was a sinner. Jesus Christ never sinned one time. What happened was he became a sinner became sin for us. In other words, he took the responsibility for our sins, though having never committed those sins. In other words, Jesus Christ, and notice the wording here. He hath made him not to be a sinner for us. But to be what? Sin itself. On the cross, God, if I understand this verse correctly On the cross, God treated Jesus Christ as if he was sin personified. As if he was very sin itself. Now, our God is a holy God. The Bible says repeatedly that there could be no sin in the presence of God. It's taught very clearly. And so when on that cross God made Jesus to be sin for us, God, in his sovereignty and his authority and holiness, made Jesus to be sin for us. It immediately produced a separation between God and Jesus Christ. So God the Father does this. God treated Jesus as if he was sin. On the cross, God held Jesus Christ accountable for mankind's sin, as if Jesus had committed it, though he never did. So the first subject in this transaction, this substitutionary transaction, is God the Father. The subject, the second subject is Jesus Christ, God the Son. For he, God the Father, hath made him, Jesus Christ, to be sent for us. Now the wording here is a little different, maybe, than what we might in everyday conversation Let me read the verse and then let me try and explain it. For it made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. Now just at a surface reading of that, just on the surface, who does it look like is the ones who knew no sin? Us. It's just the way it's worded. Do you see what I'm saying? For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. But the fact of the matter is, this verse is not teaching that we didn't know any sin. Who is it actually teaching didn't know that's it? Jesus Christ. So it's worded just a little out of what we might in everyday conversation. Nevertheless, Jesus Christ was made sin for us. Jesus Christ, who knew no sin, was made sin for us. Jesus Christ was the pure, perfect, sinless Son of God. Jesus Christ is the one who is completely incapable of sinning. Question, is Jesus God? That was a little hesitant. Is Jesus God? Absolutely. It's the cornerstone of Christianity, the deity of Jesus Christ. Can God sin? No Jesus Christ, the pure, sinless, one who is completely incapable of sin. Jesus Christ, the one who is pure holiness in every aspect of his being Nevertheless, he was made sin for us. It's interesting, that word knew, who knew no sin, it means this: who in who indulged in no sin Who was involved in no sin? Not one time did Jesus ever say anything that was not completely pleasing to God. Not one time, not one act of Jesus' hands were ever committed that was not completely pleasing to a holy God in every way. Not one thought ever went through the mind of the Lord Jesus Christ that was not pleasing to a holy God in every aspect. He knew no sin. He indulged in. He engaged in. He was involved in not one sin. Yet nevertheless he was held responsible for our sin. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ The greatest, now think about that. I think it's impossible for us in our sinful minds, our sinful nature, to comprehend what pure holiness is We can grasp at it, we can try and comprehend it, but we fall so short in our ability to understand what total pure goodness and holiness is, which is what Jesus was. Now let me tell you what the horror of the cross was. The horror of the cross was not the Catenine Tales. As horrific as that was. I have in my library a copy of the Journal of American Medical Association. Back when I worked at the here we go When I was in Bible college, I worked in the surgery department of a hospital. You guys are getting weak on that But uh anyway one of the doctors there gave me uh they knew it was a Christian game me this uh this medical journal and in there was a the Mayo Clinic in uh Minnesota had done a study, a medical evaluation critique on the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. They didn't talk about any supernatural aspects. They weren't dealing with his deity or his offering up as a sacrifice for our salvation. They simply went through and did a medical critique of what he suffered. It's fascinating. It was brutal. It was violent beyond our almost comprehension. That cadine tales was as about as gruesome an event as you can possibly imagine. Nailing them to the cross, the suffering, the blood, the gore, all of that. But I suggest to you that was not the horror of the cross. The horror, I believe, of Jesus Christ on that cross Was when God Almighty, this holy, sinless, pure Son of God And God Almighty took the sins of all of mankind and made him responsible. Can you imagine the shame That would have come upon that pure, holy conscience of Jesus Christ. Can you imagine the guilt The one who never experienced guilt because he never sinned now suddenly has the guilt of the world placed him. I believe that the spiritual sufferings of taking the sins of the world upon him was the greatest horror of Jesus Christ on that cross. I suggest to you, now I can't obviously can't speak on behalf of Jesus, but I suggest to you it would have been far greater just to have the physical suffering without that spiritual suffering. It was my understanding is when Je when the guilt of the sins of all mankind were placed on Jesus, and the other thing is that the name of the name of the name of the night, Jesus Christ, I believe it is that moment that when the darkness settled down over the earth. The Bible says that when he crossed there was a darkness came upon the earth. As I studied that, it appears to me to be a darkness, a utter, total, pitch-black darkness. I call it the darkness of hell. Have you ever been somewhere where there is absolutely no light whatsoever? You can close your eyes and you can open your eyes and there's absolutely no difference. I believe that was the darkness that settled it. Have you ever been in a place where it's so dark you can almost feel the darkness? Do you know what I'm talking about? I believe that is some sense of that darkness that came down on the cross. Nobody could see it. And it's interesting that in that darkness, Jesus Christ. The holy, pure, sinless, good, righteous son of God that never engaged In sin of even the most trivial part. In that darkness, he cried out. My God. By God, why hast thou what? Forsaken thee. The sins of all of mankind Are placed on Jesus Christ. He was made sin. The shame and the horror and the remorse And the guilt that would have fallen upon this pure Son of God was more than man could see. He says, why have you forsaken me? God the Father was involved in this substitutionary transaction. He's the one that made Jesus To be sin for us held him. Jesus Christ was the one who was made sin for us. Jesus Christ suffered for our sins in ways we will never comprehend. I don't believe in all of eternity we'll fully understand the price Jesus paid for our sins. On the cross, the end of his time of suffering, Jesus cried out, It is finished. He was saying it has been paid in full. Every sin for all of mankind, for all the history of mankind, has been paid for. I became sin for mankind. I suffered the judgment of a holy, eternal God. For every sin, I suffered a full, complete judgment. It is finished. Now think with me. A person dies and goes to hell. Now let's not forget hell is just as real now as it ever has been. Nothing changed. A person dies and goes to hell and suffers the judgment of a holy God for all eternity. When is that person's suffering for their rejection of Christ for their sin? When is that suffering finished? In hell. The smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever and ever and ever. If a person dies and goes to hell, they never Escape hell in the lake of fire. Never. By the way, our Seventh-day Adventist neighbors are wrong when they say that a lost person is annihilated and ceases to exist in hell. They're wrong. The Jehovah's Witness neighbors may come by and try and tell us there is no such thing as hell. They are wrong. Now think about this: Jesus on the cross was made sin for us. He said, at the end of his time on the cross, he said, it is finished. He paid the judgment of sin in its fullest, completely. But yet a person in hell never, ever, ever can say it is finished. You know what that tells me? That tells me that Jesus Christ understands and experiences It's judgment for sin that no person ever will. It's never filled up. The judgment for sin in a person in hell is never filled up. But yet Jesus suffered it for Fully and completely on the cross. I say again, Jesus Christ suffered for our sins in ways we will never comprehend Made sin for us, for us, on our behalf, in our place. God the Father, Jesus Christ, God the Son, there's a third party involved here For he hath made him to be sinful us, sinful mankind. The ones who actually committed the sins. The ones who are actually responsible for the deeds and the words and the thoughts and the actions that violate the holiness of God. Those of us who have actually disobeyed God, He made sin for us, for us, in place of us. Sinful mankind. He's talking about mankind, the mankind that put other things before God. He's talking about mankind, the mankind that made idols in their heart, cars and houses and clothing and places and things. And worship idols, things, rather than worshiping God. He's talking about man who corrupted, who has taken God's holy name in vain. Over and over and over and over. Can you imagine with me for just one moment? Can you possibly imagine Jesus Christ taking God's name? In vain. I can't. Yet nevertheless we have. God's name taken in vain, blasphemed Taking God's holy name and using it in such trite ways, just an explanation, an explanation, using it in frustration. Rather than honoring that holy, precious name of God. That's the us. We who made idols of created things We who've put other things before God, our own time and pleasures before God. Those of us who have taken God's name in vain and use it in such trivial, blasphemous ways. He was made sin for us. Those of us who have um corrupted God's Sabbath Now we're not under the Jewish law. We're not under the Old Testament economy. The seventh day is not the Sabbath in the sense it was for the Jews. But I want to remind you something. Sunday is declared in the New Testament to be the Lord's Day. That's the term God gives to it. The Lord's Day, not Man's Day, not sports day, not pleasure day, not work day, it's the Lord's Day God says, I've given you seven days of the week. All I ask is one day back. Man who has corrupted God's Sabbath. Man who has dishonored our fathers and mothers. You know, it's still one of God's ten top ten commandments, thou shalt honor thy father and thy mother. That's still one of that's still an integral part of God's holy law. Man who is killed. You say, well, Brother Leatherman, I I'm not perfect, but I never killed anybody. I'm glad to hear that. Would you take your Bible and turn with me to Matthew, chapter number five? Jesus addressed that Matthew chapter 5. And notice with me, if you would, verse 21. Matthew 5 and verse 21. Jesus speaking. Matthew 5 21 he says, Ye have heard that it was said of them in old of old time, thou shalt not kill. He's quoting the comm one of the ten comments Commandments. And whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment. But I say unto you, he says, I'm taking it to another level. I say unto you, look at this, that whosoever is angry with his brother without cause shall be in danger of the judgment, and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raka, shall be in danger of the counsel, and but whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hellfire. What's he saying? He's saying you might not have killed anybody physically with your hands or a weapon, taking their physical life, but in your heart you've done all but killed them. Your attitude is that of murder. Your attitude towards them is that of taking their life. And you're held just as responsible, just as guilty as if you'd have taken their life. That's the us being referred to In 2 Corinthians 5, 2021. He hath made him to be sin for us. Those of us that have done these things are guilty. Mankind that is killed, not physically, maybe not in body, but in attitude. Mankind that has committed adultery. Adultery. Brother, you don't hear much preaching on that today, do you? There's one sin that is characteristic United States of America, it is adultery and fornication. throughout society. This country is eat up with it. That's who sins were laid on Jesus Christ, us guilty of it. You say, Brother Leatherman, I've never committed adultery, I've never done that. By the way, there's less and less people being able to say that See, I've never committed adultery. I'm glad to hear that. I've never committed fornication. I haven't kept myself pure. I've not done those things. Glad to hear that. But before you get too self-righteous, notice with me in Matthew 5 and come over to verse number 28. Jesus addresses that. Verse 27 he says, Ye have heard that it was said of them of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. And as I said, that's still God's law. Regardless of what our politicians how they behave, regardless of what Hollywood promotes, regardless of what rock and roll and country western singers promote, regardless of what our contemporary Christian leaders Live like. By the way, it's even in our own circles. You have heard that it was said to them of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery, but I say unto you, he's saying, I'm taking it to a whole nother level. That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. Saying, Yeah, you may have not physically engaged in it, but in your mind you have. With your eyes you have, you're just as guilty, just as responsible for God That's the us being referred to in 2 Corinthians 5. 20. For he hath made him to be sin for us. Mankind, those who have committed these sins, stolen from others. We can justify stealing in so many ways, taking things that are not ours Man that has lied. Lied. Just stating myth-truths, untruth, for the most trivial of reasons. Seems like some people just lie for the sake of lying. Just say stuff that is completely bogus. We went years ago down when the boys were smaller, we went down to Washington DC. They had opened a spy museum down in Washington DC. Has anyone ever been there? Man, one of the coolest places I ever been. And uh we went through there and all the spies history of spying and all these different things and gadgets and gizmos and stuff. It was cute. There was one little girl uh they're walking around. They had these little booth you could go in, maybe seat about fifteen, twenty people and they show this little clip video clip of some spy or something. And the one was about World War II, uh a a woman spy for the United States got caught by the Nazis or something and uh they did really ugly things and uh the little she went in and a little girl came out and her eyes are like this. She goes, I used to want to be a spy, but I don't want to be a spy anymore And uh she got spooked. But um it was interesting. We watched one video clip of uh I guess it was during the Cold War, and this woman was a spy for the United States And she said, our whole life was a lie. Everything about me, my name, my occupation, everything was a lie. And she said, I had to get out of it when it became Lying just for lying's sake. She said that lying, that dishonest lifestyle just takes over every area of her life. And she said I would find myself lying for no other reason than simply telling a lie. We live in a very deceitful world. We have very deceitful hearts. They're desperately wicked. God says, thou shalt not lie. You need to be honest. Tell the truth. But we haven't. We haven't. We're a race of liars. And that's the us. God He has laid on him Jesus Christ, made him to be Sin for us. Liars, blasphemers, covetous. That's the us, not a pretty picture The subjects of this substitution, God the Father, in his sovereignty In his compassion has taken the sins of mankind, some of which we just touched on here, and he made Jesus to be those sins as our substitute. Held him responsible for our lies, for our hatred, for our covetousness, for our blasphemies Made him to be sin for us, our adulteries. Held him responsible for the sins of our hearts and our minds. What a substitution. We are guilty before a holy God. Mankind is guilty of sin. Before a holy God. And God says, I'll hold Jesus responsible for that. I'll hold Jesus responsible for that. So the subjects involved here, for he hath made he, God the Father, hath made him, Jesus Christ Now, last of all, and very quickly, what's the consequences of this substitution? Look at verse 21. Last part. Why? That we might be made the righteousness of God God in him. Isn't that something? We preached on this just a couple weeks ago. We touched on it a little bit But God, get this. This is amazing substitution. God made Jesus to be our sin for us, dealt with him accordingly, as if he's the one that did it. And then he makes us the righteousness of Christ. He deals with us as if we were as pure and holy as Jesus Christ. Isn't that incredible? You talk about compassion. You talk about pardon. It's not that he just doesn't remove the responsibility of sins for us. He actually puts righteousness to our account. It'd be like you have some murder and say, all right, we're gonna kill someone else for you. Just take the guilt away from you and have someone else take the responsibility for your guilt. But then it's more than that. Then it's saying, all right, we're going to give you the righteousness as if you're the greatest citizen that ever lived Substitution. We never have any righteousness of our own as far as salvation is concerned. God puts his righteousness to our account We don't have any of our own. If you're here this morning, you're saved, and you know it. You have the righteousness of Christ, you have no righteousness of your own. I have no righteousness of my own. I cannot stand and say, Praise God, I deserve to be accepted by God. I don't God put Jesus Christ acceptance to my account. Jesus was condemned so that we can be accepted. Jesus was killed so that we can be Can live. Jesus was judged so that we can be forgiven. Jesus was crowned with thorns so we could be crowned with glory. Jesus suffered hell so we could enter heaven. Jesus was rejected by men so we could be received of God. Jesus was made poor so we could be made rich. Substitution. When I was in Bible college, I was in several years and God was blessing, but I It was the economy was bad and I didn't I was working jobs, odd jobs shit, raking leaves, mowing grass, just whatever And one semester, it was uh the spring semester, I had worked and done different things and got enough money to pay my fall semester bill. It was $525 a month Back then is what it costs for room and board and college and everything. Well, I had paid up through the fall semester so that I could take my finals. If you weren't paid you couldn't take your finals. So I paid up and I took my finals. But school started two weeks later and I didn't have time to earn that five hundred and twenty-five dollars to start the spring semester. You had to have the first payment And so I was stuck. And I prayed and uh tr uh asked the Lord, you know, what is what's your will? And um I went ahead and registered I filled out all the paperwork, but I had no money. I think I if I remember correctly I had like sixty or ninety dollars, just what it would cost me to go home if I had to, because I couldn't stay there if I didn't reg if I didn't pay the registration And so it came time to register, and I just said, Lord, I did and I decided I wasn't going to tell anybody. I said, God, I want to prove in my own heart and mind that you'll come through if I'll trust you. And so I told no one. I didn't tell my father, I didn't tell any of my roommate, I didn't tell anybody. I said, God, I need this desperately. I registered, I didn't pay any money. money in time for the first day of class and um I didn't go because I didn't have paid. If you go and the money doesn't come through then you gotta pay the semester if you show up at class, even if you drop out you still got to pay it. So I didn't go until I was sure God was going to come through. Second day of classes, still nothing. Finally, the third day was too late. After the third day you couldn't get in. I said, All right, it's not God's will for me to be in school this semester, packed all my stuff up, everything I owned. I put in a box about that big. And I was gonna go down to the bus station, catch a bus, go back home to Philly and spend the semester With my dad. Never told anybody. That morning, I went down and checked my mail for the last time, and there was a note in my mailbox that said, come by the financial office, the administrative administration office. I said, okay. I didn't know what it was. They came over there and said, uh got this note, showed it to them. They said, okay, we need you to sign this receipt here for Your school payment. I said, well, I already paid last semester. I said, I don't have the money for this semester. I'm going to go home, I'll come back. They said, No, it's uh it's all paid. You just need to sign this thing here I said, well I I know it's all paid. I already paid last semester. They said um they said no, you just need to sign this so your money can be put to your account. Uh I said, but I've already I'm I'm not She said, just sign it. Okay. I said, what is this about? She goes, somebody has paid your account for you. your spring semester, it's all paid. I said, but I didn't put anything towards it. She said, would you shut up and just take it? No, she didn't think. Somebody went without a lot of money so that I could continue my education. But it didn't do me any good until I received it. I had to sign acknowledging that I accepted that payment that was made a substitution I didn't pay it. Somebody else substitutionarily paid that for me. All I had to do was accept it. Now that is exactly what salvation is. Jesus was our substitute. He paid the price for our sin. We're wicked, guilt, guilty sinners. He paid that sin for us. He put his righteousness to our account. Now what do we do? We've got to accept it. Yes, Lord, I'll trust you. I accept it. You as my Savior. Now, the vast majority of the folks here this morning, I assume you've made that decision. You've already accepted the free gift, which is eternal life. Now, what about the thousands of people around us? They just need to hear about it. Just need somebody to tell them. The price has been paid. The substitution has been made. Eternal life is available. Let's share it with them. Let's share it with them. Father in heaven, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to understand the great transaction that was made, the great substitution Your sins, your righteousness for our sins. I pray we'd live in accordance to that. Pray we'd be faithful and appreciative and grateful.