Wrote Mark chapter 14 is where I want to first passage and keep these marked because we're going to come back to every one of them in our message. Mark 14 And if you would, notice with me verse number 32, Mark 14, 32. The Bible says, and they came to a place which was which was named Gethsemane. And he saith to his disciples, Sit ye here while I shall pray. So this is the night Jesus is going to be betrayed. Next day he's going to be crucified. And so he's in the Garden of Gethsemane, tells the disciples, sit here, I'm going to go off a little bit. I want to be alone. I want to pray. So that's the situation. Verse 33. And he taketh with him he taketh with him Peter and James and John. And began to be sore amazed, and to be very heavy. This is Jesus. He's heavy in his heart and soul. And he saith unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful unto death. Tarry ye here and watch. And he went a little, he went forward a little and fell on the ground and prayed That if it were possible, the hour might pass from him. So again, Jesus is about to be betrayed. He's going to be beaten beyond imagination. I mean horrendously beaten, cat in eye tails, tortured basically. Now he's going to be nailed to the cross, he's going to die. Uh one of the most horrific deaths man has ever come up with On top of that, he's going to bear the judgment of God for all the sins of all mankind. So what he is facing is overwhelming. Now notice his prayer here in verse 36. And he said: this is Jesus praying to his Father, God the Father, God the Son, praying to God the Father. Abba Father, all things are possible unto thee. Take away this cup from me That's what he wanted. Take away this cup from me. What I'm about to go through, take this away. Then he says this: nevertheless, not what I will, but what thou wilt. Abba Father, you can do anything. All things are possible. Please, some other way. Take this away that I don't have to go to the cross. I don't have to be judged for all man's sins. Nevertheless, not what I want, but what you want. What a prayer, huh? Come over. Now keep your place here because we're going to come back to this. Come with me to Romans chapter number 8. Romans 8, and we'll begin in verse number 14. Now Paul's writing under the inspiration of God to the church, to believers in Rome. And he's talking about the Holy Spirit here, is the context. Verse 14, he says, For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption. Now he's talking about the Holy Spirit here. The believers received the Holy Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, now notice, Abba Father. Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. And if children, then heirs. Heirs of God and join heirs with Christ. If so be, that we suffer with Him, that we may be also glorified together. Abba Father Holy Spirit dwells within us. We cry out to God the Father, Abba Father. Come over to Galatians. Pastor Matt read this a few moments ago. I want us to notice verse 6 and 7. Galatians chapter four, verse six and seven. And because ye are sons God hath sent forth the Spirit of His Son, be the Holy Spirit again. God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts. Crying, here it is again, Abba Father. Howbeit then when ye knew not God, ye did service unto them which are by nature no gods. Abba or verse seven, I'm sorry. Wherefore thou art no more a servant, but a son. And if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. Abba Father, Abba Father, Abba Father. I want to talk about that phrase this morning. Abba Father. Let's pray. Father, I ask that you would speak to our hearts. Lord, help us to understand the significance of that term. That your son used and that Paul on two occasions instructs us to use. I pray that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit I pray that you would be the one speaking to hearts today, not me. I present my body anew and pray that your spirit would take your word, speak through my lips. I yield my will and mind to you. You guide my thinking and the words that come off my lips that they would be exactly what we need and what you would have me to say. And so, Father, take me and use me and help us to be open to your word for us and help us, Lord, show us where we're at spiritually. What our needs are, what our blessings and resources are as your people. And so help us now, I ask. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. In a little under a month, about three weeks, actually, I'm going to turn 65. Yeah, nobody believes it. I was talking to one of the little kids. How old do you think I am? And they said, Oh, you're you gotta be at least eighty. And um I'll be sixty-five and I look back, uh some of you older folks, you m maybe maybe you do this, I don't know. But I've catched myself doing this more and more I look back over my life. Anyone do that? The older you get, you kind of look back, you see the direction your life went. You see how things turned out in life. And sometimes I just kind of go back and and r uh evaluate maybe What my life has been. You know, we only get one shot at this thing called life. It goes by awfully quick. We don't get any do-overs. It's one one. That's all we have. Only one life. And so I look back over my life, and I've been doing this some the last year or so. It's getting a little older, I do it more And I look back and I notice that I in my life I've made some bad decisions. Can I get a witness? I look back and things that decisions I made that have cost me, bad decisions I've made that have cost me. And um and I I would assume you like me, if you could, we'd go back and reverse those decisions, right or wrong? I don't I don't think I'm alone in in my thinking on this. And so, you know, I look back and say, man, that was dumb. That was a bad decision. And some, many of those decisions we still live with today, don't we? Bad decisions we made. We still deal with the consequences today and some of them throughout our whole life. They're irreversible. And by the way, that's why I'm so grateful for our youth ministry, our ministry to our young people. They had a great day yesterday, our master club kids. But it's so important, I think, for the young people, let me just say a word to our young people, so important to listen to older folks. When a 65-year-old man says, I've made some decisions that were bad decisions, and I'm still living with the consequences of those decisions It looks to me a wise young person would want to learn so that I don't make those same decisions. I can avoid that. And so I look back over my life and I see some decisions I made that that weren't wise and they cost me. At the same time, I look back over my life, and a lot of you folks my age older in this period of life all do the same thing, I've no doubt. But I look back and praise the Lord, there were some good decisions I made. There are some things I got it right. I made a good decision there, and it's blessing me, and it's been good for me throughout my life, and a number of those. And if I could go back and change it, I wouldn't. Now some people uh kind of drive me nuts. They say, oh, if I could do it over again, I wouldn't change a thing. I always think, what a knucklehead, you didn't learn a thing from any of it I'd change a bunch of things, but there are some things I would not. There are some decisions I made by God's grace. That was a good decision. I'm glad I made that decision. Anyone with me? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Praise the Lord. And so, look back. And what I want to say this morning is this, the greatest decision I've ever made in my life, made some bad decisions, I made some Good decisions. But the greatest decision I've ever made in the 65 years of my life was to trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. That is one decision I absolutely regret nothing. There's no regrets. About that night I bowed my head, trusted Christ as Savior. I'm reaping the benefits today, 46 years later, and every single day of my life I am blessed. Because of that one decision to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Amen? And you uh majority of you know exactly what I'm talking about Knowing there's nothing greater in the world, there's nothing greater in life than knowing Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Nothing greater. And I've been on the other side of that. Issue. I've been I was without Christ. Many of you know exactly what I'm talking about. I say, well, you just grew up in the church. No, I didn't. God saved me out of horrific stuff, and I'm here to tell you there's nothing greater than knowing Jesus Christ as Savior. Nothing this world has to offer that comes even close To experiencing the blessings of being a saved man. What are some, we say, all right, what are some of these blessings? Oh we could, I'm like Jude, you know, I love to talk about the common salvation. We just go on and on and on. Forgiveness of my sins. What a blessing to know that my sins are forgiven. All my sins, forgiven. Colossians chapter two, verse fourteen says, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us. Nailing it to his cross. You say, what's that saying? I'll tell you exactly what it's saying. It's saying every word I've ever said that violates the holiness of God. unclean word, every filthy word that's come off my lips. Every statement of blasphemy that I've ever came off my lips Every sinful deed that my hands have done that break the laws of God and the holiness of God, everything these hands have done Everything I've listened to that is perverse and wicked, music and language and conversations that I've listened to, I've willingly listened to, deliberately listened to. Every place I've gone that's unclean and sinful and wicked. Every thought that's coursed through my mind that is sinful and corrupt. Every one, every single instance of every one of those, it's as if it was written down And it was nailed to Jesus Christ. And he says, I take responsibility for all those sins. Judge me in Dennis's place. Who to be forgiven. To be forgiven. Everything. Jesus paid for all of it. No and no no need to no no need for a guilty conscience anymore. No need for that weight of conviction, knowing I've done wrong, I've done wrong. And it's all nailed to Jesus' cross. I tell you, that's a blessing. I don't regret trusting Christ as Savior. All my sins forgiven. Another result of knowing Jesus Christ as Savior is having eternal life secured. In other words, he has promised that everyone that will trust Christ as Savior, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, is how Jesus words it, and throughout Scripture it's worded uh believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, every single person that does that, eternal life is secured. In other words, every saved person, genuinely saved person, that person has eternal life. And will never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever end up in hell Under no circumstances, under no situation whatsoever, ever, at all, in any circumstance, is a saved person going to end up in hell. Jesus said in John chapter 3 and verse 16, you know it, for God so loved the world That he gave his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, who nailed my sins to his cross, he took responsibility. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish. Now that word perish means die and go to hell. Now listen, the Bible's very, very clear. That word perish means die and go to hell. Anybody that suggests that word means anything other than dying and going to hell is twisting Scripture and they are not being honest. And there are cults, there are organizations that twist the meaning of that word. Should not perish, die and go to hell. But shall have everlasting life. Not probationary life, not temporary life, everlasting. If something's everlasting, how long does it last? So a person that sincerely comes, believes the Lord Jesus Christ, trusts him as their personal Savior, my Bible says, the lips of Jesus says they will not perish, die and go to hell, but they have ever lasting life. In other words, that life outlasts the life of my body. Someday my body's going to die, but I have everlasting life. I am not my body, I am a soul. I am a I am a spirit, I'm a soul, my body dies, but I have everlasting life. Because of faith in Christ, not because of membership in Mountain Lake Baptist Church Not because of my baptism certificate. Not because of any ordination papers I have as a preacher. That's not what gives me eternal life. It's believing on the Lord Jesus Christ. Period. Period. So the decision to trust Jesus Christ's Savior to be saved, man, all my sins are forgiven. All of them. Past, present, future. Nailed to his cross. I have eternal life. I'm not going to go to hell. No matter what the worst circumstances, I'm not going to go to hell. I'm going to go to heaven. Listen to what Jesus said in John chapter 10, verse 28 I give unto them eternal life. Speaking of the people that believe on them, that trust them. I give unto them eternal life. Listen. And they shall never perish. Never perish, never perish, never perish. Listen, folks, criticize. Sometimes religious people criticize me and our church because we believe That when a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, their salvation is secure, it cannot be lost. Listen, let them criticize. We've got the Bible. We're standing on scriptural promises. Not on man's reasoning, but on scriptural promises. To be saved, know Jesus Christ as Savior, forgiveness of all my sins, eternal life is secured, no fear of hell. I touched on that. I have direct access to God's throne. How many folks this morning you're saved and you know it? Say amen. You know what Hebrews chapter 4, verse number 16 tells me? And you? That as a saved man, as a saved woman, a saved person, someone that knows Christ as Savior, trusted him, made that decision, I can come directly to God's throne in prayer. I can pray directly for I can just come this morning. I got on my knees. I talked directly to God on his throne. I went directly to him I didn't have to go through some priest. Didn't have don't have to come through the preacher. Would you go to God for me and pray for me? I'll be glad to pray for you and I'll be glad to pray with you. But I want you to understand You can pray directly to God yourself as a believer. You have as much access to God Father, the throne of God, as anybody else in this world. Now I'm not trying to be unkind. Please don't misunderstand me. There's a lot of fine folks involved in this. But the Catholic Church is wrong when they say you have to go through one of their uh uh priest to be able to go to God. They are wrong. And anybody else that suggests a believer cannot go directly to God is wrong So, as a believer, I can come directly to God in prayer. Direct access to God. Come boldly, in fact, the Bible tells us. Boldly. I have, as a believer in Jesus Christ, I have the indwelling Holy Spirit. I have the Holy Spirit within us. We read a little bit of that here in Galatians and in Romans, he referenced it Every saved person has the Holy Spirit dwelling inside their body right now. Right now. If you see a Christian, you see a person that's indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. If a person doesn't have the Holy Spirit of God, then that tells me they're not a Christian. But Romans says, He that hath not the Spirit hath not the Lord, hath not life. And so I have the Holy Spirit. You and I have the Holy Spirit of God. Now think with me. The Holy Spirit is an eternal being. From everlasting to everlasting. The Holy Spirit, as a as part of the Godhead, the Trinity, the Holy Spirit, played a role in the creation of this universe. And he dwells inside my body. How many people find that astounding? I have never gotten over that. The Spirit of God dwells within me. And then the Bible says, as a believer in Jesus Christ, trusting Jesus Christ, now this is what I'm getting to this morning. I am born into the family of God. The moment a person trusts Christ as Savior, I am born into the family of God. With a young person last Sunday, I believe, trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. The moment that young child trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, they were spiritually born into the family of God, and God became their father. 1 Peter 1 verse 23 says, Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the Word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. Born again, born spiritually into the family of God. God is now my father. Sometimes people will make this statement, I heard I heard a preacher just in the last week or so I was listening, and uh he made this statement. He says, uh if you're a born-again Christian If you're a born-again Christian, now I understand what he's saying. I'm not correcting him in any way. But the fact of the matter is that's a little redundant By that I mean this. If you're a Christian, genuine biblical Christian, you have been born again. There is no such thing as an unborn-again Christian. If you're not born again, you're not a Christian. If you're a Christian, you've been born again. And so it's a little bit redundant to say a born-again Christian. Um and so uh uh um It's uh redundant, as I said. Galatians chapter 3. Are you still in Galatians? Look with me if you would, chapter 3. Look at verse 26 For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. The Bible is clear. You're born again, you become a child of God. In other words, not everyone in the world is a child of God. Well, we're all we're all God's chillins. Uh no we ain't. Jesus listen to what Jesus said. Now this is sobering and and and could be misunderstood maybe. Some people could take offense at this, maybe. But Jesus, speaking to very religious people, scribes and Pharisees, listen to what he said. He said, as unbelievers, unsaved, they rejected Christ They would not receive him as their Savior. He said, Ye are of your Father, the devil. Now, these are religious people. These aren't Satan worshipers. These aren't hardcore drug addicts and blasphemers and atheists. These are folks that claim to know God. They didn't drink. They weren't committing adultery. They weren't living in all these awful sins. I mean they were sinners, like we all are. But they were very religious, respectable people, but they would not put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And he says, You're of the father of the devil. You are outside the family of God But the moment a person trusts Jesus Christ Savior, for me it was 46, almost 46 years ago, that moment I called on the Lord, trusting him to be my personal Savior, I was born into the family of God. God is now my heavenly Father. It's my father. God is my father. Notice in Galatians chapter. Are you still in Galatians? Look with me at verse four. Or chapter four, I'm sorry, verse six. Chapter four, verse six. And because ye are sons, you trust in Christ, you're born into God's family, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father. Abba Father. Now we notice that term is used three times in Scripture, only three times. In Mark. Chapter 14, in Romans chapter 8, and here in Galatians chapter 4. Abba Father. Abba Father. He says you're saved. You're a child of God, you're in the family of God, He's given you His Spirit. Now we cry, Abba Father. Now I read that in my devotions a couple weeks ago And I've read it gazillion times, but for some reason that little statement stuck out in my mind when I read it. Ah blah father. So I thought I want to look at it. What does he mean, Abba Father? Abba is not a word we use today. The word father, let's look at it. He says, Abba Father, ascending your hearts crying, Abba Father. The word father, we understand father. It means father. But the word Abba, that's what's a little different. It's an Aramaic word It means father, but it means more than that. It means it's a term that would refer to my father, but more of an intimate way. More of a personal term. It's a bit of a term, maybe we would put it this way: a term of endearment between a child and its father. A word for us today we might use that would kind of help us understand what he means by this is maybe the term daddy. It's a term that a child would use uh for their daddy. Oh daddy Papa, sometimes. Dad. It's more intimate, more personal. That word Abba Father. It's not a term that anyone would use for a person that's a father other than the child of that father. Um in in in the context here, Derek is a daddy. He's going to be a daddy here real soon. And um uh again Now I would refer to Derek, he is a father. All right. But Grace would say, Daddy. Daddy, Papa, Dad, when we get older, sometimes we'll say Dad. My oldest son, Sam was out visiting him this been a couple years ago but he was introducing to some of his work associates his business associates there and I'd never met him he lives in Missouri And I never met his associates. He took me to the place he was working at the time, and he was introducing me to different people. He always introduced me this way. He would say, This is my father, Dennis Leatherman It's a little bit of a formal term. It was the term he would use for me introducing me to somebody in more of a formal setting. Are you with me? Father. However When he calls me up, or we're together just the two of us, or we're we're writing back and forth, he refers to me, when he's talking to me more of a personal and an intimate way, he refers to me as Pops. Hey Pops. Pops. I don't know about you, but I like that. I love to hear, and and Dan will use it too sometime. Sam more so But they'll say, hey pops. I'm telling you my heart melts every time. And you daddies, you know what I'm talking about, your kids probably have a term for you. Pops. That's what the Bible's referring to. Abba, Father. Now God is my father. By virtue of the fact that I've trusted his son as my personal savior, I've been born spiritually into his family. He's my father. But as his child, I can refer to him as Abba Father Daddy Pops Papa It's a personal and endearing term. Now don't misunderstand. It's not a disrespectful. God is holy. We need to worship him in the beauty of holiness. We need to reverence him and honor and respect him. But as a believer, as a saved man or a saved person We can come to God and we can refer to Him as Abba, Daddy. We have that personal, that intimate relationship with Him Now, as I said, that term is used three times in Scripture, and I just have a little bit of time left. I want to look at them very, very quickly. If you would, come back to Mark. Now keep your place in Galatians, because we're going to end up there, Lord willing. Here's Jesus again. He's in the Garden of Gethsemane. It's the night before. It's midnight or later. The soldiers are about to come up and take him by force. He'll submit to him. They're going to go down into the city of Jerusalem. He's going to be falsely judged. He's going to be burnt beaten mercilessly beyond recognition. He's going to be nailed to a cross. He's going to die a horrible death Now notice what he says in verse number 36. This is Jesus talking to God his Father, God the Son, talking to God the Father. And he said Abba Father, Abba Father, all things are possible unto thee. Take away this cup from me Nevertheless, not what I will, but will what thou wilt. I put it down. Jesus used the term Abba Father in reference to the power of God. Did you catch what he said? Right after he referred to God as Abba Father, he said, All things are possible unto thee. Now Jesus knew this perfectly. You and I know it through the promises of Scripture, but God is all powerful. All things are possible with God. Now Jesus is about to go into the darkest day in all of history. He's about to go through the lowest valley that any human being has ever gone through. He is about to be crucified for the sins of the world. Humanly speaking, Jesus is struggling with what he is about to face Now, as God the Son, as the Son of God, he understood all this before he ever came to earth. But as the Son of Man In a human body, what he's about to experience, he's struggling with that, for lack of a better way to describe it. And he comes to his God the Father, he comes to God the Father like a little child. He says, Ah, but Father, oh Daddy, if you can do anything Please, if you can do anything, let this pass away from me. That's the Son of Man facing what Jesus Christ was facing. He says, God, our Father, all things are possible with you. Now, Jesus knows what the divine plan is. The plan The divine plan is for him as the sinless son of God, the sinless son of man. He is going to take all the sins of the world, and he is going to be judged as our substitute in our place. He's going to be buried, he's going to rise again. He knows what the plan is. And he submits to that. He says, nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. However, humanly he's struggling. And he declares that his father, his daddy is all powerful, almighty. I just want to remind you real quickly, our Father, as a believer, our Heavenly Father, our Daddy, so to speak, his power is unlimited. Your father in heaven, as a believer, your father, his power is unlimited Jeremiah chapter 32, 17. Ah Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven. And the earth by thy great power, there is nothing too hard for thee. That's our Heavenly Father. That's Abba Father. Jesus said, All things are possible. Jeremiah said, There's nothing too hard for you. You made the heavens, you made the earth by your power. There's no situation that I have. There's no situation I face as a child of God that my Heavenly Father can't handle. That my Heavenly Father can't handle. Our Father in heaven is his power is available His power is available. We have access. Ephesians 1. 19, Ephesians 2. 20, who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think Listen to Isaiah 40, verse 29. He giveth power to the faint, and to them that have no might, he increaseth strength. I come to my Heavenly Father, and God says, All my power is available to you, Dennis. Son, my power is available to you. Above anything you can imagine or think, the power of our Heavenly Father. Now, here's where we get thrown a little bit. And I talked to a man yesterday in Cumberland. We're giving out tracts, and he brought this up. Here's where we get thrown. If God is all powerful and God is infinite, He's omnipotent, why doesn't He take all my childs away from me? Why doesn't he take all the heartache away from me? If he can do anything, why does he let me go through this? I'm here to tell you, God is a whole lot wiser than we are. And his power does not mean the fact that he's infinite in power, all things are possible. does not mean that he takes every trial and heartache and difficulty away from us. Now sometimes he does in answer to prayer. And I can testify numerous times where I had a situation, a burden, a heartache, a need, whatever it was, it was overwhelming. I came to God and God met the need, God took it away. But sometimes, and maybe more often than not, He'll let me have that burden. He'll keep that trial in my life. And in his infinite power, he gives me the ability to deal with that difficulty. Follow? We want them to make everything easy. You know, oh Lord, take away all my burdens, all my heartaches, all my needs. You can do anything, just make me rich and healthy and happy. Well, God's smarter than that. Our heavenly well, how many people agree with me? If we did that for our kids, they'd be a bunch of spoiled brats. Uh maybe a lot of people already did that with their kids. And God is a good daddy. And a good daddy sometimes understands their kids have to go through it. But they're there to support and help and strengthen. And don't think, by the way, Jesus went through it. His Heavenly Father said, No, I'm not taking this away from you. I'm not removing this cup. You're going through it. But God gave him the grace and the God the Father gave God the Son the grace and the power, the ability to go through and endure the cross, despising the shame. But God glorified him then on the other side. You follow what I'm trying to say? We come to Abba Father, we say, God, this is too much. I can't handle this. God, please take it away. Sometimes God will take it away. Sometimes Sometimes our Abba Father, our daddy in heaven, and I don't want that to sound disrespectful, but our daddy in heaven says, no son. I'm going to leave that burden on you, but I'll give you the strength to deal with it. I'll enable you to go through that because there's something I want you to learn. There's something you need from this. This will help you in the long run. Jesus endured the cross. James chapter 1, verse 2 says, My brethren, count it all joy When you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have its perfect work that ye may be Perfect and entire, wanting nothing. You know what that passage is saying? It's saying this. God says, listen, when you have a burden, you'll have a heartache, a difficult time, pray Bring it to me. We're told other places, bring it to me. Sometimes I'll take it away, but when I don't, understand, rejoice because I'm using this to mature you and strengthen you and make you a better Christian, a stronger your faith stronger God uses the trial. So God is all powerful. Our Heavenly Father is all powerful, but that doesn't mean he takes everything away. Number two, and I've got to wind down here in Galatians. Come over very, very quickly to Galatians. I wish I had time to say more about that. But look at Galatians. Yes, Galatians. I'm not sorry. It is Galatians chapter 4. And uh notice again verse 6 Notice this, because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying, Abba Father. Number one, Jesus prayed to God, the Abba Father, use that term in reference to the power of God, thou canst do everything. In Galatians, that term is used in reference to the promise of the Father. In other words, every child of God, every saved person, has the promise of the Spirit of God within our hearts. As Christians, we don't just follow Christ. We literally have Christ within us. In the person of the Holy Spirit. He leads us, He empowers us, He lives His life through us. Colossians one twenty-seven, Christ in you the hope of clo hope of glory As a child of God, I don't have to fear God rejecting me, God abandoning me. I have the Spirit of God within me. He will never leave me. I uh I have that uh promise of of of uh the Holy Spirit. I am secure in my relationship with Christ. Now I kind of hammered this a little bit at in the introduction But the fact of the matter is, as a child of God, God is my daddy. He will never abandon me. Now God disciplines his children, but he never disowns his children. And so I have that promise. The Spirit of God keeps me. I'm secure in my relationship with God. Don't respond to this, but I'm confident. Many, many, if not all of us that know Christ as Savior, some point after we got saved, we failed God. Some failed him horrifically. And I'm here to tell you, I am indwelt by the Spirit of God. I have no fear. Regardless of the level of my failure, God will not disown me. Now he'll discipline me. He's not going to let me carry on. Just like a good parent isn't going to let their kid run wild. They're going to discipline and bring it. But God will never disown us. God will never, oh love a father Son, I will never disown you. And then last of all, uh, and again, I wish I had more time to talk about that, but I want to get to this last one, number three, and Romans. Now come over to Romans if you would And verse 15. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear. But ye receive the spirit of adoption whereby we cry, Ah the Father. There that term is used in reference to the presence of God. There's no need to fear. Now again, don't respond to this. Well, let me say this. I really believe, I sincerely believe that by the time I reach this point in life Fear would no longer be a factor in my life. Although at some point you outgrow fear. You know what I found out? You never outgrow fear. Fear is a very real issue all through life. Now, what we fear changes throughout life. When I was little, I was afraid of what was underneath the bed. That monster was under there, you know? And um and then we go through light, those fears change. But nevertheless, the fear is is very real. These guys drive around their pickup trucks, no fear. I'm like, you're a fool. You're lying. No need to fear. As a child of God, Ah the Father, we have the presence of God in the person of the Holy Spirit with us The Holy Spirit will never leave a child of God. He will never leave you. Listen, how many folks say do you know it? Say amen. The Holy Spirit will never leave you. Are you listening to me? He will never leave you. Ever. John 14, 16, Jesus said, speaking of the Holy Spirit, He will abide with you forever. Do you ever get lonely? I do sometimes. A believer, a child of God can get lonely, but a child of God is never alone. Never alone. Never alone. We have the presence of God. Abba Father, Son, I'll never leave you. The Holy Spirit helps the child of God. Romans 8. 26. Down there. He says, notice what he says real quick. But if we uh verse 26, likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities. He helps us The word help means to come alongside of, to strengthen, to comfort, to advise. We're not left to ourselves. I've used this illustration a number of times over the years, but when the boys were home and they were small, uh live across the road here and there's just a slight little incline in our backyard. Not much, just a little bit. And we had snow. Uh anybody here remember when it used to I mean really snow? Uh and we had snow and the boys are out back playing and I was at the kitchen sink doing some dishes and I was watching them and they're all bundled up, you know, like that kid, uh, they can't hardly walk, you know, they're all bundled up And they had this little toboggan they were s sliding down this little incline with and they could hardly walk and Dan was real small, Sam was a couple years older, and they went down and Dan was trying to get up off of that toboggan, he's trying to get up off of that thing and he went Right in the snow, face down. Some of y'all heard me tell this before, and he's face down and he looks up. I'm in the kitchen, I'm looking out, snot running out, you know snow all over his snow. And to this day, I mean we're talking 30 years or more going by. I can still in my mind's eye My oldest son went over there and picked him up and helped him get up on his feet and put his arms underneath his his arms and he started walking them into the house He was helping him. That is exactly what Romans 8. 26 is saying that the Holy Spirit will do. He'll come, you're going through a tough time and you just cry yourself, you say, I don't see any hope. I don't see any end. And God says, Oh, our our our father, our daddy, goes, no, you have the Holy Spirit. He'll help you. He'll carry you, He'll come down, He'll come alongside you, and He'll strengthen you and get you on your feet and He'll see you through it. For the child of God, a saved person, it is never hopeless. May look that way, may feel that way, but it is never hopeless for the child of God. So we have this presence of God in our life. Oh, but Father, God's with us. And then the Holy Spirit assures us we're a child of God. Verse 16: the Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit. that we are the children of God. The Holy Spirit of God will take scriptures and apply it to my heart and life and say, yes, I am saved. When I first got saved back in age 19, there was a little period of a couple weeks there, right after I called more, my life changed so much. But there was just some questions about, you know, you know, does it stay? Am I really saved? Or what I know what's happened, it's incredible, I don't understand it, but And the Holy Spirit of God, I'd come across verses that, like, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, and the Holy Spirit would just confirm in my heart. That's exactly what I did. And then the Spirit would say, Alright then, you're saved. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall we say, I know called the Lord. And the Holy Spirit will use scripture to give us that assurance. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Listen, I don't go by what mama says or the preacher says. I want to know what the scripture says, and then the Holy Spirit applies that. And I have that assurance. Oh Daddy, you can do anything. Please, if you can take this burden off, please. God said to Jesus, no. I'm going to leave it. But I'll strengthen you. I'll see you through it. Oh, Father, I'm afraid I'll mess up and you'll you'll you'll disown me. You'll kiss me out. No So I'm I'm never going to cast you out. I'm never going to leave you. But Lord, I get scared and I'm lonely. No. The Holy Spirit's in you. It's going to be okay. He'll help you. He'll see you through. I read about a daddy, I'll end with this. I read about A s father and his son, they were hiking up this big mountain. They'd been out camping and they wanted to hike to this mountaintop and and just get up there and see the view And it was a whole day hike, so they had to bring some supplies with them. And daddy had a heavy backpack that he was hauling stuff. And the little boy, his his son, had a little p backpack also Well, they didn't get too far, a mile or two up the trail, a little ways. And the son began whining. Said, Dad, this pack's too heavy. Can you carry it for me? Son, you'll be okay. Be okay, it's not that heavy. They go away, so daddy, it's too heavy. Can you please carry it for me? So finally the daddy stopped and looked down. He looks through the backpack and there's some light things in there and nothing nothing extreme. And um a few light items, a water bottle, a snack, a little first aid kit, nothing heavy. The boys were tired and it felt like it was a lot more than what it really was And then finally the daddy said this, I could carry it for you, but I want you to carry it a little bit longer. Finally they went a little ways, and the boy said, Daddy, can you please take this pack? The father said softly, according to this account. He said, I gave you just enough weight to build your strength, not to break your spirit. If I carry everything for you, Your legs will never grow strong enough to reach the top, but I'm right here with you, step by step, and if it gets too much, I will carry you Later they reached the summit. The boy put his shoulders back and stood up tall and proud. Not only did he make it to the top, but he made it to the top with a heavy backpack On his back. And that's the way God is. We say, God, can you take this away? There's some listen, I'm here to tell you, there's some burdens God's never going to take away. We'll just have to live with them the rest of our life. That's some he won't take away. But I will tell you what he will do. He'll give us the strength we need to carry that burden. And he'll be right there with us, and he'll see us through. And we stand before the judgment seat of Christ someday, and he says, Well done. You trusted me. You stayed faithful. Even with the burden. You stayed faithful. Let's pray. Father in heaven, what a wonderful thing it is to be saved. Have all these blessings, and then to know that you are our daddy, you're our father. You love us. And you know what is best for us. And we trust you. And we love you. And we rejoice in you. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed if there's any this morning, say, preacher, I do have a burden. A heartache. It's difficult. I know Jesus is my Savior. I've got that settled. I know I've been born again in the family of God. And I'm just going to start trusting my daddy. I'm going to look to Abba Father. Let him lead me and let Him help me and let Him direct me. Any like that, by the uplifted hand preacher, I do And I just need to learn to trust God. Wait on him in his timing, his way, his will. God bless you. Hands all around. You raised your hand. I want to encourage you. Bring that to the altar this morning. Say, Lord, I'm just going to trust you. You put this on my shoulders. You have a plan. You have a purpose. And I'll let you have your way. Maybe there's some this morning to say, Preacher, I know somebody that's carrying a heavy burden. If I could, I'd take it. But I can't, but I can pray with that. I can bear help bear that burden with that And you'd say, preacher, pray that God will help me be a help and a blessing to another I know that has a great burden. It's difficult. Any like that, I know someone. I want God to use me to be a help to him. God bless you God bless you, hands all around. Let's pray. Let's encourage. Let's support folks in that situation. One last question, then we'll give the invitation. Is there some this morning say, preacher I don't know for sure that my sins are forgiven. I don't know for sure that when I die I go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I'd like to know That God has forgiven me, that I have eternal life, and that heaven's my home. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I don't have that assurance, and I need that And you'd say, pray that God will help me to get that settled. God bless you. How about it? Any others? I need to get that settled. God bless you. Father, bless our invitation. Now I know it went a little long this morning, but I pray you would help us to just take all our cares and cast them on you and trust you in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are