You uh want to make friends slowly and change them even slower. Amen. No, it's true. Um In a very fickle day-to-day where you're in, you're out, you're in. It's great to have steady relationships and steady friendships. But that's the kind of relationship we enjoy with the Savior. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever, and he's a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. Amen. So uh Amen. You're still my friend, brother. Amen. Well very quickly, I wasn't going to, and uh your pastor had asked me if I would briefly just give you an update on one of the ministries that we have. And so the best way to do that is to just read you a portion of my prayer letter I sent out last fall. And uh It was uh in September last year I wrote the following. Care package outreach program to the troops continues. I wrote approximately two and a half years ago our ministry launched a care package outreach program to our men and women in uniform around the world. As a young Marine, I remember how open I was to consider the gospel in the first year or so away from home. And how the Lord used Christians with a heart for our military to get the truth to me. Now, years later, that same burden upon my heart has been the driving force behind this unique outreach to our military personnel. Our program distributes three items. The first is our water-resistant branch-specific pocket pack containing seven spiritual helps. The second is our military vet story Corvette DVD. And the third item is a two-gigabyte waterproof ammo thumb drive preloaded with sermons, music. and other helps. Since this program began, our ministry has distributed over 6,525 pocket packs, 2,240 DVDs, and 358 ammo drives as spiritual ammo sent downrange into the hearts of men and women at home and abroad. And we will send these materials to our troops at no charge, and oftentimes via the chaplains that we meet. And please continue to pray for this outreach in our milit military Semper Fi in my name. One of the groups that uses them is the ministry down in in uh San Antonio, Texas, and uh it's the Serviceman Center under Director Gary Hines. And they impact all the branches, but specifically the Air Force, where if you know anything about San Antonio, that's where recruit training takes place for all enlisted Air Force personnel. And so his servicemen center, I went and visited him this winter, and there the pocket packs are and being distributed. So you pray for that ministry. And by the way, the pocket packs I'm just going to show you. Very unique, first the Marine Corps, Semperfy. They're all branch specific The second one, the Army, features Command Sergeant Major Archie Davis. He commanded 65,000 troops at Fort Hood, and he is now retired. personal friend of mine and he has followed us into evangelism. He does leadership conferences, saved independent Baptist, wonderful, wonderful fella. Semper Paradis, Air Force Ahoy, that would be Commander Gil Hansen, 1960s Annapolis Grad, personal friend of mine, fast frigate skipper of the USS Gray. And uh Brother Gil Hansen has a statement for all the sailors and then two-star general Ron Henderson. Anybody ever meet Brother Ron? Brother Ron Henderson passed away four years ago, three and a half years ago, and he was a two-star general in the Air Force. Loved the Lord. Secretary of the Air Force was at this man's funeral. He said to me, Brother Dave, you can use my story. to impact the Air Force kids, and I hope it makes a difference in their heart long after I'm gone. So these are the pocket packs and in there is a postcard to return to receive the DVD. And then when we mail them the DVD, we put a postcard in to request the two gigabyte ammo thumb drive. Alright? So all kinds of spiritual ammo and a very unique hair package program. You pray for that. And uh Pray the Lord will keep it going and keep getting the ammo downrange into hearts. I want to read a thank you note to you very quickly. This thank you is from the Summerdoors. We usually mail these things, but due to recent budget cuts, we're gonna save the stamp Just not the government has sequestration, huh? No, I actually have enjoyed doing this now. I love reading the thank you notes to the church. Dear Dr. Leatherman. And church family. That sounds good, doesn't it? I would call my pastor down in Texas and I'd say, Dr. Burkholder, how's it going? And he'd say, where's it hurt, my brother? So dear Dr. Leatherman and Church family, such a blessing to be with you briefly once again and to see the work the Lord continues to accomplish in your midst. It was great to meet so many familiar friends and to become acquainted with some new brothers and sisters in the Lord as well. Many thanks for your kind care of us from the 30-amp RV hookups. to the wonderful meal between services, the upcoming cookout tonight, as well as a sweet fellowship throughout the day, the numerous handfuls of purpose many of you showered upon us, truly, you all. We're a delight. Special thanks in advance for the love gift bestowed upon us. We know it will be more than we deserve. We truly hope that we were as great a blessing to you as you have been to us. Already looking forward to our next time together. Hint, hint. Until then, may you continue faithful to our King, and don't forget those three little words to abide in him. All our love and thanks, Brother David Mysteb. with our ministry verse, 2 Corinthians 4, 5. So, Brother Leatherman, I'm going to give you that thank you note. I'm going to gift you the sign frame photo. I I know you have one, but I don't think you have that one. All right. This is the updated one. Pastor Leatherman and Church Family, thank you for your service to our King. Sempre Fidelis. That's Marine Corps Lingo. Means always faithful. Evangelist David Somerdoff of Ministry Verse Sign Framed. Deb and I with the Corvette. And there's the thank you note. And we're going to gift you one more item. Don't think you have this, but if you do, you got to now the 2GB ammo thumb drive. Alright? So enjoy And downloadable, reusable. Take it anywhere you want to go, but I wouldn't recommend going through airport security with it. And I'm gonna gift you, brother, here, I'm gonna gift you this newsletter One of the few I still have left, feature Stan Roach in there, uh the uh stats on our our uh care package program, if you want to just hang that up if people want to review that. Amen. Thank you. All right. Take your Bibles tonight. Go to 1 John chapter 2. 1 John chapter 2. I'm going to give these to Deb real quickly so I don't. I'll wander off and leave them. First John, chapter two, once you find your place, if you're able to stand comfortably, stand with me 1 John chapter 2. I want to simply read two verses tonight. 1 John chapter 2. I want to begin in verse 18. 1 John 2, 18. Says this, he says, little children, it is the last time. And as ye have heard that Antichrist shall come, even now, present tense, are there many Antichrists whereby we know that it is the last time. And now verse 28, he comes back around. He addresses them as newborn babes. He seems to summarize the fraughts on his heart by saying this in verse 28. He says, And now, little children, Say those next three words with me. Abide in him. And notice one of the reasons why. That when he shall appear We may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. I would like to conclude tonight with the Lord's help. That little thought we started tapping this morning, drawn from verse 28 of our text. That I am titled, How You Can Have Confidence in the Day of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you, Lord, tonight, for the honor we have to be gathered in your Son's name with your people. To be ministered to by the preaching of your word and your Holy Spirit's power. Lord, to sing these songs we've sung that have lifted up his name. Lord, we we come to you in his name and ask your blessing on our time. As we consider this thought of abiding in your Son. I pray tonight that you would help us to understand how to see that accomplished. Lord, if there's someone here who doesn't belong to him, we pray you'd save them. For each of us that do belong to him, teach us tonight. how to abide in him. And then, Lord, by your grace, help us to be doers of your word and not hearers only. We ask and we pray this in Jesus' name Amen. You may be seated. Now, little children, abide in him. That when he shall appear, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. This morning I took verse 28 and I framed it with a single question. The question was this, why? Why should you and I, once we belong to him, why should we choose to abide in him? And it would do us well to remember again, just because you belong to him doesn't necessarily mean you're abiding in him. Maybe we could say it this way, all who abide in him do belong to him. But not all who belong to him. Are abiding in him. Amen? And so I answered the question: why? Why should you, as a believer, not be content to simply belong to him? But should choose to desire to move to a higher level of abiding in him. And we saw the three reasons. Number one, because of the deception that's out there. Long before the Antichrist comes, this world is going to be filled with many Antichrists that have a singular goal, and that is to draw you away from Jesus Christ. And the very first reason, Christian, you should not yield to simply nominal Christianity and simply be content to belong to him, but to desire to move to a higher level and abide in him is because of the deception and the darkness out there. But then we saw the second reason. Because of our utter inability to be fruitful without him in here. Jesus Christ made it very clear in John 15 concerning fruitfulness. Without him you can do nothing. And he made it clear, if you want to be fruitful, you'll have to abide in him. Let me tell you something, Christian. Just because you belong to him doesn't mean you're going to be fruitful. Amen? In fact, there's no guarantee you will. You'll probably move to the default setting of works of the flesh But if you want to produce fruit of the Spirit on a consistent basis, you'll need a power bigger than you, and you'll need to rest in that resource, and that one is Jesus Christ. You'll have to abide in the one you belong to. I think it's sad many times. We think when we get saved, that's the end of it all. That's just the beginning. There's much more to be had in Jesus Christ, even beyond. securing your eternity and forgiving your sins. Amen. Oh, he's good for dying, but he's great for living too. And when you choose to abide in him, once you belong to him. Only then can you truly produce fruit of the Spirit and not works of the flesh. Amen? And so abiding in, because of the deception and darkness out there, abide in him. because of the need to be fruitful in here. But thirdly, and our text showed us in verse 28, abide in him because of our confrontation with him one day up there. 1 John 2. 28, it says, And now little children, abide in him that when he shall appear, we may have confidence. Not be ashamed before him at his coming. Christian, there is coming a day where you're going to receive the audit of all audits. How many of you ever been in an IRS audit? You ever gone through an IRS audit? I've been twice as a businessman through an IRS audit. Let me tell you what I didn't do the day I got the notification. I didn't circle my calendar, put a smiley face on there, and call everybody at you and say, guess what? Guess what? Next month, on the fifth of the month, I am getting an audit You don't approach audits that way. Amen. Audits are very weighty things. Audits can be, frankly, very scary things because of the power and authority that is dealing with you. I remember one person told me, so well, their mistake is your misfortune. Amen. But let me add to this: of all the audits I've ever been through, Not a single one of those auditors knew everything about my books. Now that doesn't mean that I wasn't doing what I was supposed to be doing. It simply meant they didn't have access to everything. They only had access to what I showed them or what was online. What was in the records, if you will. You know what I'm saying? But you understand one day When you and I stand before our king, we are meeting the auditor of all auditors. There's nothing hid from his eyes. He's going to know what you did He's going to know what you didn't do. He's going to know what you said, what you didn't say. He's going to know why you did or didn't do what you did I think we forget sometimes. That there's coming a day we'll stand and give an answer for how we served him after he saved us. I don't know about you, but I there's days I'm not looking forward to that. Amen. Can you identify with me? I think many times I've been an utter disappointment to my king. Why should you abide in him once you belong to him? Well there's the three reasons right there. But I said as I closed it out, I felt the better question to be dealt with hadn't been dealt with. And that's tonight's message. Not the why, but the how. How do I get there? How do you get there as a believer? Where we don't simply belong to him, but we're abiding in him and having victory out there, consistent fruitfulness in here, and a confidence for that day one day up there. As we move into the thought, if you have a pen or pencil, you ought to write stuff down. And uh let me let me just encourage you to do that. I encourage note-taking. Here's why. You're gonna hear something tonight and you're gonna go, that was good. And you know what you're gonna say as soon as you say that? I don't want to forget that. I want to remember that. But you don't have anything to write it down on, and so what'll happen is the rest of the message, all you're doing is you're trying to remember what you don't want to forget that was so good you heard And you literally hear nothing else and still forget what you didn't want to forget. I'm telling you the truth. Yeah, it gets worse with age, brother. And I say what gets worse w worse with age? I don't know, but well it's something. I mean there it is, amen. And so I believe that a sharp pencil is better than a dull mind, amen And this is stuff you'll use for the rest of your life. You use it in your children's lives, and you will use it in your grandchildren's lives. So here we go. How? How do we, once we belong to him, how do we move to where we're abiding in him? As I begin the thought tonight, you need to recognize that eight times in our text, 1 John chapter 2, the word abide is used. And it has this picture and it has this idea to reside, to be firmly planted To be rooted and grounded in an immovable way, it's not something temporary or transitionary, but it's something permanent that remains. And abiding in him occurs in three steps. Get your pencil ready, get your pen ready, step number one. Abiding in him occurs number one. When you abide in his word, write that down. Step number one. Step number one: the very first step that has to be taken to abide in him is you must abide in Look at verse number one of our text. Go to first John chapter two and look at the very first verse here and look at all the moments in this single chapter chapter that the written word is referenced By the Holy Spirit of God through John two, verse one says, My little children, these things write I unto you. That is the written word of God. Look at what he says in verse seven. Brethren, I write Look at what he says in verse 8. Again, a new commandment, I write. Look at what he says in verse 12. I write unto you little children. Look at verse thirteen. Three times I read unto you fathers. I read unto you, young men, I read unto you little children. Verse 14, twice I have written unto you. He says it again, I have written unto you. Verse number twenty one. I have not written unto you because you know not the truth. Verse number twenty-six, these things have I written The very first step that has to take place For somebody who is saved and belongs to Jesus Christ to move to that abiding in him is you must abide in his word. All right, let me just go ahead and put it where we live. You show me your relationship to this book. I will show you your relationship to the Lord. If you do not have a vibrant, healthy relationship with this book, you do not have a vibrant, healthy relationship relationship with Jesus Christ. If you do not have a daily personal walk in this Bible, you do not Have a daily personal walk with Jesus Christ. You may be saved, but you're not abiding in Him You may be doing church ministries, but you're not abiding in him. You may be trying to serve the Lord to the best of your ability, but you are not abiding in him. Do not lie, do not make lies your refuge. This is an utter impossibility spiritually to abide in the living word if you are not abiding in the written word. It is impossible You are lying to yourself if you're arguing in your heart about what was just said. I don't care how you feel, if you are not abiding in this word, you are not abiding in Him. I remember this event happened to me not that long ago, going into the Carolinas, I was invited to ch preach at a church and a conference. A very gracious war horse preacher, wonderful ministry there. And they had a Christian school. And when I checked in on Saturday, he asked me, he said, Brother Dave, could you go ahead and Preach two chapel services for our teens. We've got 52 teens in our Christian school. One of the chapel services is on Monday, and the other will be on Thursday before you leave town. I said, I would love to do that. And so Monday morning came and I'm scheduled for the first chapel service. Now you need to understand my attitude when you ask me to go deal with teens. You don't have to drag me there. You don't have to go ahead and uh you know coerce me to spend time with them. I absolutely love going. I don't I don't know, maybe I just never grew up And identify with maybe I wish somebody had cared enough when I was a young person to invest and get my point of aim right early in life You know what I'm saying? But I just know the potential is enormous there. And so when I go to deal with teens, I love every second of it. Just three weeks ago I flew in from Denver, Colorado, spent an entire week with 150 teens from across America Man, we saw God work in a very special way up in the mountains of Denver. But I just love it. I love dealing with young people. So here I come in Monday morning, preacher, and I can't wait. I mean, I am on a high. I've got a message. Woo! This thing is going to be Practical, it's gonna be passionate. I'm gonna tell you, this is gonna be great. I show up 20 minutes early, grip and grin, get to meet them while they're on a little break, just to build a little relationship Then they sing a couple songs, and man, I'm up. And I have open that Bible and I share my text. I pray, and then I start preaching and sharing with them. And I'm going to tell you, I got ten minutes in that thing. I thought, what is going on? I mean it's like I've taken all these spiritual truths and it's like mud, just splat, nothing's sticking. They're yawning, they're looking at their watches, they're falling asleep I thought, what? I had more liberty in a jail than I did that Christian school. I'm telling you the truth. That's not as that is exactly how I felt. I thought what in the world was that? So I kind of reel from that, finish it all up. Get back to the RV, Monday night preaching going, but here's my thought all week long. It's Monday, but Thursday's coming. It's Tuesday, but Thursday's coming. Chapel service number two. And literally my attitude was this. Those little creeps are not going to win. They are going down. There is no way They're going to take me out with their attitudes. So Thursday morning comes and preacher, I am prayed up. I've got some gospel hand grenade illustrations. I got my automatic weapons, bandolero of the word of God. And I mean I'm literally going to take that hill. And as I come in there, I can't wait for that ramp to go down because I'm going to storm the beach and them little creeps are going to go down. And I remember as as we get into the chapel service, man, the ramp came down and with their attitudes, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, I mean they just blew me away And I can only fake it so long And so ten minutes in, I just shut the thing down. I had enough. And I started asking questions. And I asked this one question that gave me the answer for their apathy and indifference to their Savior. Some of them have been saved for over seven years, I came to find out. And here was my question: I said, how many of you in your entire Christian life have read your Bible through just at least one time? Just once, out of 52 teens, fifty-one of which professed to be saved, one admitted to me he didn't belong to the Lord Zero. Not one single Teen, some saved over over seven or eight years had ever read their Bible through just one time. I had my answer. The living word meant very little to them, because the written word meant very little to them. And yet the average team today will go ahead and pull out that smartphone and look at it at least 60 times a day. Amen. Now don't get me wrong, I'm not against technology. I got out of the dumb phone industry about three and a half years ago. And you live in a motorhome like that, and most of the time pulling a trailer, I'm over 70 feet long. And I'm going to tell you, dumb phones are dangerous because you have to rely on Walmart checkers for your directions. I remember those days, those dumb phone days. I'd be going through a Walmart and I'd ask this innocent little question, excuse me, ma'am. Do you you could you tell me where the closest post office was? And this was always the initial answer. Oh, it's easy. Famous last words. And she would give me the easy directions and I'd get about ten minutes into Blondie's directions, sorry, but but and I mean I would like What was she sending me? One-way road? People honking at me, freaking out. And you know, it was like I felt like going back and taking the track away from her. If you're gonna send me there, I ain't gonna send you up there. It was like, what was she thinking? But you get a smartphone, and man, you can put the postal app in there and press a little button, your little blue dot goes to that little red dot. And man, you just drive there. Amen I'm not against technology. But isn't it sad today, young people, isn't it sad today that what ought to put you closer to God oftentimes takes you away from Him? You escape the reality even of this life. There's a Bible program you can download on this. Dr. Don Strange shared it with me It's called Bible. is. I don't know if anybody ever heard of Bible. is, downloadable, dramatized King James Bible, audio and visual. And you can download loan that thing for free. There's an app for that. And maybe young people here, here's the deal. I'm not against technology. Maybe you want to just make the deal. In your heart, covenants say every time I open that phone and look at it, I'm going to read at least one verse. of my Bible on that program. Wouldn't that be fair? Amen. You buzz through 60 verses a day, just picking your phone up and looking at it. Amen. You say, well, you're just kind of rough on the teens. All right, ladies, let's talk about you. Well, my wife Not that long ago, went into a ladies' conference, 35 Christian mothers and grandmothers, some say for over 50 years. She was asked to come in and And uh and uh have studies with the ladies, uh special banquet they had. And along the way to get to know the ladies, she asked a series of questions, and one of them was this, how many of you ladies in your entire Christian life have read your Bible through at least one time? Out of 35 Christian mothers and grandmothers, some say for over 50 years. Only five. Had ever read their Bible through just one time. Now I was not at that meeting, but could I make a very bold statement? that I that is absolutely true. Thirty of those thirty-five mothers and grandmothers were not abiding in him. Thirty of those thirty-five grandmothers, they may have good ministries in their local church, but they were not abiding in him. 30 of those 35 women, some of them say for over 50 years, maybe trying to raise their kids, maybe trying to make a difference in their grandkids' life, but they were doing it in their strength. They were not abiding in their Savior. You show me your relationship to this book, I will show you your relationship to the Lord. Listen to what the psalmist said. Blessed is the man. That walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night, and he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his Fruit in his season, if his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. The highest compliment you'll ever give an author when you meet him one day is to tell him I read your book I read your book. And if anybody ought to be able to say that to the God of this universe, it ought to be his children. We ought to be able to say to him, I read your book and I didn't read it just once. I read it many times. It was the strength my part soul needed. It was the bread of life I needed spiercely. It was the refreshing water for my soul. It was the sword that that I needed for my battle and for my victory. It was what I needed. I read it many times First step that has to take place must occur to begin to abide in him is you must abide in his word. Step number one Number two, there's a second step. Look at our text. It's tucked right in there. Not only must you abide in his word, but second of all, you must allow his word to then abide in you. Look at what said in 1 John chapter 2 and verse 14. He says, I've written unto you fathers because you have known him that is from the beginning. Watch how he reverses this now. I have written unto you, young men, because you're strong. Look at this, and the word of God abideth in you. Jesus Christ himself in John 15, 7 said, If ye abide in me and my words abide in you. And he speaks of answered prayer and power. In our Christian walk. Step one, you've got to abide in His Word. But step two, you must then allow His Word. to permeate and abide in you. Look up. Somebody who says, well, how do I allow that to happen, preacher? I think there's a number of answers, but let me give you one quick one. Go to Colossians 3. I think it's a quantity answer. In Colossians chapter 3, I think that can be answered first of all. With a quantity answer. A measurement of quantity. In Colossians three, look at what it said in verse number sixteen Colossians 3 and verse number 16. Now this verse is directed to Christians. And the very first word in Colossians 3. 16 is let. You know what that says to me? Allow this to happen. Don't fight this. This is going to be a natural thing. If you're a believer, you're saved. This will be a natural direction your heart wants to go because of who now is inside of you. His name is Jesus Christ. And look at look at this. In Colossians 3. 16, he says this. The word of Christ, look at this, dwell in you. What's that next word? Say it again. Richly Pause. Man, when you hear the word richly, that's a quantity indicator, isn't it? Isn't that a descriptive word that describes a quantity of something? When you hear something is in a quantity of rich, what do you think of? Abundant, right? I mean if I'm going to tell you after church I'm going to introduce you to a very rich man. Let me tell you who you don't think I'm going to show you to. You do not think I'm going to take you over to the street corner with a guy with a cardboard sign and introduce you to him is not the personification of rich if you're talking money or monetary things, right? You're thinking of an overabundance of something something. You're thinking uh uh of a great amount. Something that's rich is just tons of it, you know what I'm saying I grabbed something from my wife's kitchen. We're going to go Sunday school for just a sec. I grabbed a sponge to illustrate this. You know, sponges are interesting things. There's some things about a sponge that are always true. I don't care what size sponge, what shape sponge, or what color sponge. They're all called principles of the sponge. Alright? Principle number one, if you want to find out what's really in a sponge, you can't find it out by looking at it. All you have to do is what? Squeeze it. Then you're gonna find out what's really in the sponge, amen. If I want to really find out how spiritual you are If I want to really find out if you're filled with works of the flesh or fruit of the Spirit, if you're really abiding him, all I have to do is squeeze you. Amen. And then whatever is deep inside you're trying to hide will come to the surface and reveal who you really are. Amen. And let me tell you, there are a lot sp of sponge squeezers in life. Would you agree with me? First of all, I meet 'em all the day out in traffic. Oh yeah, all the time. All the time. I I remember times we'd be traveling down the interstate and I'd start fussing about something and girls would say to me, What's the matter, Dad? And this is what I would say, it's a woman driver. See right there, some of you just got your little sponge squeezed, ladies. Preachers that talk about women drivers are sponge squeezers, amen. See, you know I got four girls and two boys, so guess what happened And by the way, if all the motorhomes are passing you, you're going too slowly. Just want you to know that, because those are old gaffers running those things. All my girls would go poof, splat, right up against the right-hand window. And as we would pass the car, they were looking to see who was, and all too often, this is what I'd hear. It's a guy, Dad! It's a guy! I'd hear that. Well the skipper of the ship can't give that one the crew, so I'd say, yeah, it's a guy driving like a girl. There are sponge speezers in traffic, eh, man? And there are sponge squeezers and preachers that talk about women drivers. Your boss can be a sponge tweezers, eh man? Y'all win me? I'll tell you this, kids can squeeze your sponge. Amen? Kids, parents can squeeze your sponge. Amen. Life is a sponge squeezer. Politicians are sponge squeezers. Media are there's a pile of them out there. The point is this world's full of sponge squeezers. If you want to really find out what's in a sponge, all you have to do is squeeze it. Number two, here's a second principle. This is so profound. A sponge will only pick up what you place it in. I mean, I can't put the sponge in something over here and expect it to pick up something over here. Amen? And the third one is one we miss, but it's probably the most important one. Every sponge has a saturation point And once it's saturated and full, it doesn't matter what you put it in, it's not going to pick up or retain anything. Here we go. The sponge is you and me. You and I, there was a time, our sponge, our life, we were lost, and we were heading to hell and then the lake of fire. Amen? But along the way we heard that Jesus saves, and wisely we trusted him as Savior. He purchased us. We now belong to him, and he changed our destination. We're now heading to a place called heaven. But we're not there yet. Along the way, we can park in things in this life. I watch it all the time. I watch our young people get saved. And you know what? They park in social media. They park in entertainment and electronics. They park in movies, music, and videos, reams of them, DVDs. Five hours a day, ten, fifteen, twenty, thirty hours a week, forty hours a week, fifty hours a week, parking the videos, park in the entertainment. Parking social media, park, park, park, park, park, park, and then after fifty sixty seventy hours of being parked in everything the social media Electronics and entertainment has. They come to the house of God, they hear a 35, 40-minute message from the Word of God, and this is what they have the nerve to say. Well, I didn't get anything out of that. How could you You came in here dripping, wet, and totally saturated with everything but God's word. You had no room to pick one solitary thing up. We do it as men. We get saved. Now watch men that are saved They want to serve the Lord, go and park for hours, tens of hours every week, sometimes it's sports. Could be football. Average game four, five hours. Man, football season comes five hours. Wednesday night, there's a Thursday night game. Friday night, two games. Saturday, three games, five, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five, forty, fifty, sixty. Maybe it's talk radio. Hours and hours every day scanning the internet for the newest conspiracy theory. Oh yeah, I'm so sick of them. Don't even tell me. Mm, you will squeeze my sponge. But fifteen, twenty, thirty, forty, fifty men, we we give ourselves honey, we give ourselves We give ourselves a talk radio 30, 40, 50, 60 hours a week. We come to the house of God, we hear a sermon from the Word of God, and on the way home we say, you know, I really didn't get much out of that. How could you? You're dripping full of everything but God's word, for you haven't come near it. And you have the gall to blame the preacher For your sponge. And then you got the ladies. You found out that guy you married wasn't perfect. Oh, the old prince fell off the seed. Some of you figured out in one day, some of you took a few years, but you figured out, oh man, Peter Perfect wasn't perfect. And now to escape your miserable reality you call marriage, who disappeared to the romance books. Oh, but they're Christian romance, so that little adjectives make it. All okay. Chapter by chapter, book by book, you escape into Neverland with your Prince Charming, whoever You want him to be 40, 50 hours a week, book by book, and then you come to the house of God and you wonder why the Word of God does nothing for you. How could it Where's your sponge been parked? You know it works the other way. You can take your life and you can decide to park it in the Word of God. Some of you who have never read your Bible through one time, I'm telling you right now, you walk out of here and don't determine to do that. You'll go nowhere with your relationship with the Lord. It's gotta start there. But you can get into the Word of God, page by page, book by book. Read it in abundance. It says here, teaching and admonishing one another in Psalms and hymns and spiritual language, you just start singing the Word of God. Then you can move to another realm and start memorizing the Word of God. Man, it delighted my heart to see you quoting a verse. I remember the very first memory portion that I ever had to do. Do you ever see that? Treasure Path of Soul Winning, Scripture Memory, The Red Book. Who's ever seen that before? I remember this. I was newly saved. This is what confronted me as a new 19-year-old Marine at Bible Baptist Church, Oak Arbor, Washington. Newly saved. I was confronted with treasure paths of soul winning scripture memory book. Five verses a week Topical. Lesson number one. And there are thirty-six lessons. Lesson number one. Brief text to arouse an interest in spiritual matters. Life is brief. You had to memorize the header. Life is brief. James 4. 14, whereas you know not what shall be on the mouth, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away. And every week I had to memorize five verses with the text, with the and then the topic they were under. And I had to quote him. Let me tell you something. That will tuck the word in your heart. You get spare time and you gotta get five verses, man. You're going I found it was a great way to witness. Hey man, see if I'm quoting that verse, John 3. 16, right. For God so loved how how's it go? Read that to me. And then I I mean as a boss, I would have my secretaries read me scriptures. Okay, let's see if I got this one right. Okay, and then I'd be putting the word in them. I'd be getting the word in me A little teenage girl. 15-year-old girl started checking these off for me as a 19-year-old Marine. I had to report to her every single Sunday. She became my wife. Some of your teenage boys said, give me that book, man. telling you that one dead book. Not the right motivation, but we'll take it, all right? You can memorize it. You can read it. You can sing it. You can take your sponge and get into s the real life missionary stories that are even going on today. One of the things is we would travel to motor home, Deb would find a missionary book and she'd read it to the kids. And man, I can't tell you how many times we finish a chapter and all of us, including me, the driver, would say, read another chapter. Right, quit leaving us hanging mom's e read another chapter. They put the word, she would put real life stories in her heart. We would read it, we would sing it, scripture songs, memorize it Let me tell you something. You can fill your sponge and you can saturate your sponge all throughout the day, all throughout the week. And then when you get out in the world, you know what? The world just doesn't stick to you like it could have. American Christians. Have as their default setting to park their sponge throughout the course of a week anywhere but God's Word. We lack strength. We lack passion. We're easily offended. We walk in our strength, not his. We miss the second step in the play call of how to score spiritual victory to abide in him. We don't allow his word to abide in us. Number one, abide in his word. Number two, allow his word to abide in you. But there has to be a third step. Or you won't be abiding in him. And it's this. Yield to the Holy Spirit of God, who's already in you. Yield to the Holy Spirit of God, who's already in you. Listen to His voice and move at His command. Look at our text. It's right there. Look at me in 1 John chapter 2. Look at what's said in verse number 20. He says, but ye, Christian, have an unction from the Holy One. You know what the word unction means? Anointing. Who's the Holy One? The Holy Spirit of a living God. Look in verse number 27. He repeats it again. But the anointing which you have received of him abideth in you. And you need not that any man teach you. Look at this, but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things. Again, the Holy Spirit of the living God. What is step three? Step three is you must yield to the Holy Spirit of God who's in you. Listen to His voice and move at His command. I've had Christians say to me, but preacher, I've never heard him speak to me Why is that? Here's the answer. Because of how he speaks. How does the Holy Spirit of God speak? You'll complete the thought. I'll start it. He speaks in a still Small voice. The psalmist says be still Quit running all over the place. Be still and know that I am God. He doesn't yell at you. He doesn't amplify and try to speak over the world. You hear him when you shut the world off. And separate yourself to silence. Open his words because he's the spirit of truth. He loves truth. And ask him to speak to your heart. Why does this world, I've often thought this, why does this world, why do lost people always have to have a movie? Always have to have a game, always have to have an event, always have to have a party, always have to have something going on out here. And I'm thoroughly convinced there's lots of reasons, but here's one of them, because they don't want to get silent. And have creation scream to them, God is. And have their conscience scream to them, sin is. And then have the Spirit of God scream to them, Jesus is. And so they stay busy, busy, busy, busy, busy. So they Don't they drown out his voice and they don't have to hear him convict them. They need to be saved. Christians do the same thing. We have taken obedience and we've substituted busyness for obedience. We just make a smoke. Look what I'm doing. Look what we did today. Look what I'm going through. No, no, no, no, no. It's not what you're doing. What's God doing through you? He can do a lot more through you than you can ever do with yourself But you're going to have to get silent, shut the world out, and let him speak to you and point out where he wants you to go and what he wants you to change. And who he wants you to be. You know, our young people say this all the time. Well, I'm just trying to figure out who I want to be. That is so wrong. Why don't you pause and get quiet with the Word of God before you? And if you're saved, ask God to show you who He wants you to be. Adults, the same for us. Step one, you must abide in his word. Step two, you must then allow his words to abide in you richly. And then step three, you must shut this world off, separate yourself to silence, get still And let the Holy Spirit of God speak to you in instill small ways. And here's the thing. If you're saved, he's there. If you're saved, he's there. If you're saved, he's in you. Or You don't belong to him. And mark this well. When you and I consider his command and his desire for us to abide in him once we belong to him, you and I need to recognize That between our existence right now as believers and that entrance into heaven The most intimidating daunting moment in your entire Christian life will be when you stand before Him and you give an answer to Him. for how you served him after he saved you. I cannot think of a bigger mountain. Can you? I can't think of a more intimidating moment where I stand before the all-knowing eyes of my wonderful Savior and he just lays it out who I am and how I served him. And he just picks through my life and shows me what he thinks of it. I can't think of anything bigger. Death isn't as big as that. And if the answer for victory in that moment of those three little words abide in him Then those three words are your answer right now, Christian, to whatever daunting moment you are going through. Because it's not as big as that moment. Let me give a few. You say, preacher, I am struggling with sin. I have this habit, I still struggle with it, and I get victory for a few days and then I fall back into it. Could be my tongue, could be my thought like preacher, I just so struggle with it. How do I have consistent victory over my sin? Three little words, say them with me. Abide in him You say, preacher, I don't care about souls anymore. I used to care. I used to be burdened for the lost, but now I'm afraid to even talk to them. I don't even I pass people all the time. How do I get that burden back and care about those who Jesus died for? Three little words. Say them with me Abide in him. Preacher, I've got a spirit of anger. Man, I it so embarrasses me. My family's afraid of me. And I get victory and then I lose it again. How do I keep from getting so angry so quickly Three little words. Say them with me. Abide in him. Preacher, I got internet sites I go to, I shouldn't be going to. How do I get victory over that? Three little words. Abide in him. Preacher, I got somebody doing me wrong. I'm starting to get bitter. How do I keep from getting bitter? How do I let them go? How do I forgive them? Three little words. Say them. Abide in him. If those three little words are the answer to how to have victory in that moment when you stand before him Then those three little words are your answer right now for whatever mountain you're up against as a Christian. And mark it well as I close. I mean this. In military terms This is the hill we must die on. Dads, you can't give this hill up. And if you've given it up You better take it back. Because you will rule the day you left this hill in your Christian life undefended For from it are all the strategic battles. And everything springs out from this one. If the enemy keeps and retains your abiding with you, he can keep you from that. He has an angle on every other aspect of your life. Moms? Grandmas, if you're not there, you need to get back to this hill like now. This is the one we cannot give up ever. And if we have, we must take back at all costs. Young people, you give up this hill, and I see you in ten more years, I won't recognize you I won't recognize you. You give this hill up. You belong to him and you do not die on this hill, young people. You have no clue what your life is gonna end up like. Yeah, this is the one. You say you speak like you know these things. I've given it up before. I have given this hill up in my Christian life. I've given this hill up even in my ministry. And I've regretted the day I did it. it because I've never given this hill up cost-free. It has cost me dearly. Regrets to this day, because I coughed up this heel that Jesus never wanted me to move away from. And now, little children, abide in him, that when he shall appear We may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. Abide in him. Let's stand. Let's stand. Father, thank you tonight for this thought. And Lord, as we bow our hearts before you, we ask for your grace and we ask for your help. Lord, I pray for that father, I pray for that mother, I pray for that young person, that grandmother, that grandfather, though they're saved. They've left this hill untended. I pray, Father, that you would get them back quickly. You would put in them a desire to even want to abide in your Son. May you shower them with grace and the desire and the ability to turn and abide in your word. Allow your words to abide in them. And then Father to separate themselves to silence and listen to you speak. Forgive us where we have allowed this hill to go and be taken by the enemy. Lord help us now to be back right where you want us to be, abiding in your Son. We ask and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Heads are bowed at eyes are closed. Music's playing software. You do what God tells you to do tonight. You do