And comfortably stand with me and I'll know that you have it. 1 John chapter 2. Again, thank you for your hospitality. We appreciate the electrical hookups there. We've been drawing power for a while in the last few days And we appreciate that and a blessing and we uh appreciate the friendship. Told somebody this morning, uh always love desperate people because they still have me through after all those years. And so Thank you, Pastor Leatherman and church family, for being desperate enough to have us once again. 1 John 2, beginning in verse 18, begins with these two words. He says, little children Little children, it is the last time. And as ye have heard that Antichrist shall come, even now, present tense, are there many Antichrists, whereby we know that it is the last time. They went out from us, but they were not of us, for if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us. But they went out that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us. But Ye have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things. I have not written unto you because you know not the truth, but because you know it. And that no lie is of the truth. Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He is Antichrist, that denieth the Father and the Son. Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father. But he that acknowledges the Son hath the Father also. Just as a little sidebar there, it's not our focus this morning. But according to those two verses, you cannot be wrong about Jesus Christ. And still be right about God. You cannot be wrong in your assessment of who the Lord Jesus Christ is and still be right about who the true and living God is. They're a package deal. Notice he continues in verse 24. He says, Let that therefore abide in you which you have heard from the beginning If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you, ye also shall continue in the Son and in the Father. And this is the promise that He hath promised us, even eternal life. These things are written unto you concerning them that seduce you. But the anointing which you have received of him abideth in you And ye need not that any man teach you, but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things, it is truth and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him. I draw your attention now to verse number 28. It'll be our focus this morning. He comes back around. He addresses them again as little children. He says, and now, little children, look at these next three words. He says, abide in him. And notice the reason why, that when he shall appear, and Jesus is coming again, you can make book on it. We may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. I would like to preach a message to you this morning. That's simply entitled, How You Can Have Confidence in the Day of Jesus Christ. How to have confidence in the day of Christ. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you this morning for the wonderful honor and the great, great privilege we have to call you our Father. Thank you for the blood of Calvary. Father, thank you for the sacrifice of your only begotten Son. Lived that sinless life we could never hope to live. Died that sinless, perfect sacrifice we could never hope to give. And Lord Father rose again in victory over death and hell, the grave. Lord, in his name we ask your blessing upon our time. And as we come to you, we pray, Father, that you would open our hearts to the preaching of your word this morning. Help us set aside busy thoughts. Help us set aside cares and concerns. And Father, may your word, as it enters our hearts, may it enlighten us May it, Father, if there's someone unsaved, may your word draw them and point them to Jesus Christ that they may trust Him as Savior. But Father, for we the redeemed that are saved, may your word challenge our hearts. Lord help us this morning not to be hearers only, but doers. Bless this morning, meet the need, whatever it is, the hearts of the people gathered. We ask and pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. And now, little children, abide in him that when he shall appear, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. I notice here by way of introduction, little children are being addressed. And the context of that title is simply this: these are new believers. These are individuals that have just recently gotten saved. Just recently they placed their faith in the finished work of Calvary. And biblically they've been born again, and spiritually, they're babes in Jesus Christ, they're little children. And of everything the Holy Spirit of God could point these new believers to through John, He chooses to point them to a divine reservation and rendezvous that's coming for every one of them. That moment is noted in Romans chapter 14. If you go back there with me, in Romans chapter 14 and verse number 10, turn there. It's referred to in Scripture as the judgment seat of Christ. Go back to Romans chapter 14 and verse number 10. It's referred to in Scripture as the judgment seat of Christ. It's Now, once you find Romans chapter 14, just look up because I need to explain something. As you approach the Word of God and you look ahead in time, you will find Scripture records two moments Where creation stands before God in judgment. One of those moments here is in Romans chapter 14. And it's called the judgment seat of Christ. But there's another moment found in Revelation chapter 20, and that's referred to as the great white throne judgment. These two moments are not one and the same. They're very different. First of all, they're different in regards to who is congregated there and being judged by God. In Revelation chapter 20, those who are congregated under the gaze of God are the unsaved. There are individuals that said no to Jesus. There are individuals that went through life, never trusted him as Savior. And they remained in their sins. And Scripture gives the ending of that in Revelation chapter 20. It says, those who were not written in the book of life were cast into the lake of fire. Those congregated there in Revelation 20 are judged for their rejection of Jesus Christ. And they go to a place they never planned to go to. And frankly, they go to a place God never intended for them to end up But they go there not for the darkness that they accepted. They go there for the light that they rejected. His name, the Lord Jesus Christ. Revelation 20, what is in the balance is the soul of an individual and their eternity. You know, the good news is you don't have to keep that reservation if you're here today. Amen. The good news is you can be saved and not have to stand before God and be judged for your rejection of Jesus Christ. Amen? That's the good news. I was 18, young people, I was eighteen when my heart found a resting place in what Jesus did for me. And I got saved. And I didn't even uh know it, but that reservation got canceled out and When I found out after I got saved, I said, Well, praise the Lord. I'm glad I'm not standing before him to be rejected by him one day. But I'm accepted in the beloved. Whose name is Jesus Christ. Amen? And so that's the great white throne judgment. It's the judgment of unsaved people, and they go to a place called the lake of fire. For the rejection of Jesus Christ. But Christian, you and I need to recognize there's another judgment, and that isn't for the unbelievers, that's for the believers That's what the judgment seat of Christ is about. And the difference here is where this one is concerning redemption, for you and I, it is concerning Our reward. Where that one determines the destiny of a soul, in Romans chapter 14, the judgment seat of Christ, what is being up for review is not our salvation, but our service to the Lord after he saved us. Look at how it's described in Romans chapter 14 and verse number 10. He says, But why dost thou judge thy brother? Notice the context is spiritual here. These are people that are saved. Oh, why dost thou set at naught, thy brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Believers, look at what it says in verse 11. For it is written, as I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God, so then every one of us Shall give account of himself to God. Christian, the day you and I were saved, The Revelation 20 moment was etched out forever and ever. Amen. But a new reservation got set for you, and it's not just heaven. It's standing before your king before you enter that place, and it's a moment where you're going to stand and be spiritually audited by him. He's going to know everything you did, everything you said And he is going to judge you, and he's going to scrutinize your service to him after he saved you 1 Corinthians 3 talks about that moment. You don't need to turn there. But it says this: there's only one foundation that's eternal, that stands the test of time and eternity, and that foundation is Jesus Christ. And the day you were saved, you were picked up out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and your feet were put on that foundation. Amen. But then it goes on to say this: but you take heed how you build when you get there. For the days coming, God is going to judge your works of whatever sort they are. And when he puts his scrutiny of judgment to what you've done for his son after he saved you, Scripture says that if your works pass his judgment, you'll receive a reward. But if not, they'll be burned up. And you will suffer loss, but you yourself shall still be saved, yet so as by fire, quote unquote. In Romans chapter 14 and 1 Corinthians 3, the focus of that moment is not our salvation, that's settled in Jesus Christ. The focus of that moment is our service after he saved us. And notice with me, go back as we've now set the stage for the message this morning, in 1 John 2 and verse 28. Notice in that moment, Christian, there's only one of two ways you're going to stand before your Savior. when he judges you and scrutinizes your service to him after he saved you. Look at what said in verse 28 of 1 John chapter 2. He says, and now little children, look at those next three words. Say them with me Abide in him. Say him again. Abide in him. And notice the reason why. That when he shall appear, look at this. We may have confidence. And not be ashamed before him at his coming. There in verse 28 gives every single believer The two responses that will be found on that day at the judgment seat of Christ in your life and in mine, we're either going to stand before him in shame Kick him the ground, wishing we'd have done more, or we're going to stand before him in confidence, not arrogance, but confidence, expecting to hear, well done Thou good and faithful servant. You say, what'll make the difference in that day? How can I, now that I belong to him, how can I have confidence in that day when I stand before him? And give an answer for how I served him. The answer is given in verse 28, three little words, abide in him. Now this morning I want to take that verse. I want to frame it with a single question. And the question is this: why? Why should you and I, once we belong to him, why should we choose to abide in him And let me tell you something, there's a world of difference between belonging to him and abiding in him. Just because you're saved today, just because you belong to him, does not necessarily mean you're abiding in him. Just because you're a believer doesn't mean you're a disciple. The root word a disciple is discipline. And there are people in America that are saved, their sins are forgiven, they're going home to heaven, but they have virtually no discipline to mature in this new knowledge of their Savior that they now belong to. And they just stay spiritual babes for their entire Christian life. And so this morning, why should you Why should I, once we belong to him, why should we choose to move to a higher level and abide in him? The scripture gives the answers right here in our text. The very first reason in verse number 18, if you want to write this down, I like to say a sharp pencil beats a dull mind any day. If you'll write it down, you don't have to try to remember this and miss the rest of the message, all right? In first John chapter two and verse eighteen, we find the very first reason As to why you and I should choose to abide in him once we belong to him, and it's this because of the deception of our day Because of the deception of our day. Look in verse 18. Look at what's recorded here. He says, little children, it is the last time. And as ye have heard that Antichrist shall come, even now, present tense, are there many Antichrists whereby we know that it is the last time. Christian, there it is. Number one reason why you and I should choose to abide in him now that we belong to him is because of the deception of our day Scripture makes it very clear that long before the Antichrist comes, the living embodiment of everything wicked and evil In the book of Revelation, this world is going to be filled with many Antichrists, Antichrist philosophies. Antichrist systems and Antichrist people. Now don't let the word Antichrist wig you out like, ooh, you know, ooh. It's nothing mystical. All Antichrist means is against Jesus Christ, not for him. Look across America today. Look outside of this auditorium that just sang about him. Look outside of this auditorium that just lifted up the name of Jesus Christ. And let me tell you, we are living in a world filled with Antichrist today. We see Antichrist and there are many of them in our public school system today. There are individuals in place in our school system They are not for Jesus Christ, they're against him. Therefore, not letting the kids learn about him, they're for trying to get rid of Jesus Christ, sanitize him from the books, and don't let any young person ever hear his name other than a curse word. There are antichrists in our public schools today. There are antichrists in our universities across America today. All across our nation, our universities. That have professors and people in power that do not want Jesus Christ's name on that campus. They are not for him, they are against him. They're not for lifting him up, they're for putting him down. They're not for heralding his name. They're for silencing him and eliminating him from the minds of those students. There are antichrist in America today in our government. Shocker. There are individuals in place. They do not want to promote Jesus Christ. They want to demote him. They do not want to lift him up. They want to put him down. They're not for him. They are against him. There are anti-Christs in our media today. Big shocker. There are individuals in place in our media. They do not want to give Jesus Christ a fair report. They do not want to tell the truth about who he is. They want to lie about him. They are not for him. They're against him. There are antichrists in Hollywood in our entertainment industry today. Almost every single movie you watch Has been produced and brought forth in the minds of individuals that want to make Jesus look bad in that movie. They want to promote anything and anybody except him. They're against him, they are not for him. And there are even antichrists in our churches across America today And they have goals. They have goals in mind in this battle, this world filled with Antichrist. First of all, they lie about him in verse 22. In verse 23, they deny and diminish his influence. And in verse number 26, they seduce and deceive men and women. Boys and girls. And you need to recognize, you you need to recognize this. You need to accept where we are today as a nation and a people, but when you leave the auditorium, you go out into that world It is a world filled with Antichrist philosophies, systems, and people, and they have one collective goal in mind, and it's this: they want to draw you away from Jesus Christ. At the end of it all, that's their goal. They want to push you away from him. They do not want to push you closer to him. You with me? All those antichrists have got one goal for you, Andrew. They want to push you away. They don't want to get you closer to Jesus. They want to tear you away from him. Amen. And hey, let's put it in our parlance. You know what? They have goals for my children. They want our children. They want to draw our children away from Jesus Christ. They do not want to push the next generation closer to Jesus Christ. I'm a grandparent now. All seven of my grandkids, I recognize as a grandfather, this is battleground. Those antichrists out there, they want to pull my grandchildren away from Jesus Christ. That's their collective goal You say, well, how can little old me, in a world filled with Antichrist, have victory over all that? Three little words, say them with me. Abide in him. The very first reason you shouldn't be content to just belong to him. But you should desire to move to a higher level and abide in him because all that darkness out there. Number one. But there's a second reason. Not only because of the deception out there, but second of all. Because of your and my lack of fruitfulness in here. Go to John with me, John 15, and notice something. None other than Jesus Christ himself, directly speaking to his disciples, brings up this thought of fruitfulness. And this idea that you and I as believers need to abide in him now that we belong to him. Look at what's said in John 15 and verse number 4. Jesus Christ is speaking and he's speaking to his disciples. So very clearly, if you're saved this morning, this is very directly to you and to me. And here's what he's saying to us. Verse 4, John 15, Abide in me, he says. And I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself except it abide in the vine, no more can ye except ye abide in me Look at verse 5. He says, I am the vine, and ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much. What Fruit. And then he adds this, for without me ye can do what's the word? Nothing. Wow. Lord makes it very clear in the area of fruitfulness. Without him, you can do nothing. Now to take these cookies and put them on the bottom shelf, go to Galatians 5 with me. Galatians chapter 5. And let's look at something here. Galatians chapter 5 and verse number 19. Jesus Christ made it very clear in the area of fruitfulness. Without him you can do nothing. To be fruitful, you must abide in him once you belong to him. And notice in Galatians chapter 5, beginning in verse 19, we have two commodity lists given here. Maybe picture it this way. Picture a big wicker basket up here, filled full of things. And then picture another wicker basket over here, filled full of things. Each basket bears a label that summarizes what's in it. One basket is called the works of the flesh. The other basket is referred to as the fruit. Of the Spirit. Now to just put it in your minds, what are the works of the flesh? It's what you do in your strength, and you don't need God's help to do it. Alright? That's what's in the works of the flesh bucket. It's what you're capable of producing. You don't even need to be saved, and if you are saved, you don't need to abide in Jesus. This is what your flesh produces automatically, and you don't need God's help to do it. But the fruit of the Spirit, the fruit of the Spirit, is only what God can produce through you as you abide in His Son. Because concerning fruitfulness, Jesus said, without me ye can do nothing. Alright? So here we go. Watch the list. Galatians 5, verse 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which means made known, which are these. Adultery, fornication. Uncleanness, lasciviousness. Look up. He nails the sexual sins first. You know this morning, you don't need God's help to be an adulterer. Did you know that? Guys, do you understand you do not need God's help? To be a pornographer, to go to internet sites you shouldn't be looking at and see things you shouldn't be looking at. You don't need the Holy Spirit of God. You don't even need to be saved You can do that in your strength, in your power. You have the ability to do that. You can be a fornicator in your strength, and you don't need God's help. Y'all with me? So work in your flesh, you don't need to be saved, and if you are saved, you don't need to abide in Jesus. You can do this in your strength. Amen. Somebody says, Well, that's not my struggle. The list isn't done. Watch this. Watch what else your flesh produces. Verse 20: idolatry. Well, worshiping something or someone more than the true and living God. I have people say to me, well, I don't bow down and worship an idol. No, but you maintenance one in your heart all the time. You know how I can find who your God is? Who you spend time, money, and energy on is who your God is. Every time. A drunk's God is booze. He's going to spend time, he's going to spend money, and he's going to spend passion and intensity on his bottle. Amen? That's his God that's in his heart. A pornographer, boof, we know what his God is. Amen. A drugie, we know what their God is. Listen, you give me your checkbook and you give me your bank statements I can tell you who your God is, because that's who you sacrifice and spend on. All gods require sacrifice if you truly want to worship them. And most of the time, the God of all gods is self. Amen? It's just the big eye. Idolatry. Watch this. Witchcraft. Hatred. Just being hateful. The flesh does this. Various arguments, emulations, imitations, wrath, strife, seditions, attitudes against authority. No one can tell you anything. You are the boss. And then he goes on to say this. Heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, the party life, and such like Article 135, catch-all. Which I tell you before, as I've also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. You know what God's saying there? If that's all your life is, is that list. That's just all you are. That's who you are. That's how you live. I don't care how many times you prayed the prayer. I don't care how many times you went to church. If what you call light is really darkness, you have a spiritual problem. And there's something about that list I've noticed. It's an automatic. We enter this world with that list being produced automatically We were in Atlanta, Georgia a number of years ago, and Jason Prisk's family was there, and I remember following the morning service, Jason's wife was all flustered My wife and I were standing there and she said, What's the matter? She says, Oh, that daughter of mine. And my wife said, What daughter? Well, the one I had in nursery. I said here we are in nursery. Everybody's fine. 25 kids at a very very large church. 25 kids in nursery. And everybody's fine for a change. But my daughter wanted that toy over there. And I said no, but she wouldn't listen to mommy. So right in front of everybody, she just Marched right over, she looked at the little kid that had it, she said, If you don't share, you're going to hell. She had all the toys. Everybody tossed them up. And then Mr. Cena said, Where does she get that? Yeah, Matt felt like stepping forward and saying, well, you know, I've met the mother. You know. The apple never falls too far from the tree. It's the gene pool, you know, we just inherited that all the way from Adam Yeah. My son Kevin calls me here a couple months ago. He lives in Baltimore. Three of our seven grandchildren are with Kevin and his wife Laura Lynn and He says, Dad, guess what your grandson did this morning? Now, when it becomes my grandson, you know this isn't good Yeah. So it's like what did Daniel do? He's just winning church. It's before church starts and everybody's getting ready. We just get ready to start services. And how old is he on? How's the little Three. And don't look at me where I'm just a grandfather. I I finance the capers. You know how that is. What'd you give for your birthday? Oh, we got you that. Good. Yeah, okay, yeah. And he said, guess what Daniel's doing? I said, he's running around church and every little kid he meets, he pushes him. Pushes him over. And I said, is he alive? I may be grandfather, but there's still a lot of me. Still dad, you know. He said, Well I grabbed him, Dad, and I pulled him over. I said, What are you doing? And he said he looked at me and he said, I duper man. And so Kevin says, I said, Dad, I said to him, I said, Now Daniel, Superman's He's a good guy. He goes around helping people and doing good things, not bad things. He said, Little Daniel processed that, looked at me, said, I evil duper man. Peace. Did you notice that, mom and dad? There's just some classes you don't have to give your kids. How many of you as mothers ever sat down on a Monday morning and said, now, sweetheart, you prayed for mommy this week, she's going to try to teach you a new concept? She's and some little girls they grow up and they never master this concept. They just never learn how to do this. But mommy's going to try to help you and train you to be selfish. And if you don't get your way, be a drama queen. You pray for mommy? Some little girls never master the art of selfishness. You don't have to teach them that. It's the work of the flesh. It's a default setting. And none of you men have ever had to sit down on a Monday and say, now sunny. Let Dad teach you a thing or two here. We got a course. You pray for Daddy because he's going to try to train you to do something and to be something. Some boys never master this, but Daddy's going to try to help you to become a liar To not tell the truth. And when you get caught, blame somebody else. You pray for dead. You pray for dead. Some boys never learn how to do this, never master the art of lying. No! You don't have to teach them that It's a work of our filthy flesh, our old sin nature that we inherited from Adam a long time ago. go. Amen. It's a default setting. You say, but but preacher, I I'd like to produce something else besides that. You're going to need God's help to do that. You know what I think sometimes when we look at the works of the flesh and we just step back and tap this, I think we minimize them. Could you imagine if your pastor did something unique? Let's do this. Let's look at the fruit of the Spirit. Look with me. Notice in verse 22, watch this. He says, but the fruit of the Spirit Here it comes. And as I read this list, it'll quiet your hearts. Is love, joy, peace, long-suffering. Gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Look at this, he says, against such there is no law. You know what he's saying? There's no limit. You are never going to meet Jesus Christ and hear him say this. You know what my problem with you was? You were just too kind. You were just too long-suffering. You're never going to hear that. He places no restrictions on the fruit of the Spirit. Amen? You say, well, preacher, man, I need more of that in my heart. I need more of that in my home. How do I get that? You're going to have to abide in him The fruit of the Spirit is what Jesus Christ produces through you when you abide in Him. What is in your heart in your home this morning? Brother Leatherman Receives direction from the Lord to do something special for the church. You already have a missionary of the month, but he's determined that he's going to have a family of the week. And that family, a member of the family of the church, is they're going to be the focus that the church prays for all week long. It'll be announced Sunday night who the family will be, and then the church will pray for them all through the next week and finish up, and Sunday night will be another family. But so you intray intelligently. He lets you know the Lord has led him to do something very unique. Sometime that week before you are going to be announced as the family, he's going to sneak into your house. and place a recording device there and he's going to record your family conversation for 72 hours. How you talk How you speak to each other, your attitudes toward one another, what kind of words are used, and what kind of attitudes flow through the house. And then Brother Sound is going to get that. back in the crow's nest, and he's going to edit it down to 10 minutes of highlighted sound bites, and Sunday night we are going to Play that for the church and this is your family you're praying for. Here's how you need to pray for them. Play If you knew in advance you were the family, first of all, would you even show up? Second of all, would you be trying to find that recording and somehow eliminate it? Amen And if you couldn't catch it in time and they did play it, what would we learn about your home and your heart that you've kept hidden from us in this public arena? Would we hear works of the flesh? Angry words and filthy words and anger and wrath and strife Or would our ears hear this multiplied fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, patience? Kindness. You know what we should hear is that second list Because here's the thing I found out in my marriage. My wife needs from me fruit of the Spirit She doesn't need more works of the flesh. She can get those just by going out in this world and they're there in abundance all the time to be had if she wants them. But in her home, she doesn't want works of the flesh. She wants fruit of the Spirit from her man. And sir, ma'am, you understand your husband wants fruit. He doesn't need works in a place. He gets that just checking into work every day. It's there. The emulations and the pride and just all that. The dirty jokes. The anger. You know what he needs from you? He needs fruit of the Spirit. And our young people, they need from their parents fruit of the Spirit, not works of the flesh. And Mom and Dad, I know you want from your young people fruit of the Spirit, not works of the flesh. You say, well I preacher, I do need more fruit of the Spirit. There's too many works of the flesh here. How do I get that? Three little words. Abide in him. Just because you belong to him Doesn't mean you're going to produce fruit of the Spirit. You must then choose to abide in Him. Amen? Abide in him because of the darkness out there. Abide in him because of the lack of fruitfulness, oftentimes, that's in here. But then abide in him as we close because of a certain confrontation with him one day up there. Look at our text as we close this morning in 1 John chapter 2. He says this in verse number 28, the very context of what we read, he says, and now, little children, look at this. Abide in him. These are people that are already saved. They already belong to him. And now they're being challenged to take that next step and abide in him. And notice why? That when he shall appear We may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. There's the third reason this morning. That every believer should choose to abide in him once they belong to him is because of our confrontation with him one day. I know I know we sing the song, when we all get to heaven, what a day of rejoicing that will be. That's a truth. There will be a day of rejoicing. But before we enter that place up there, we will stand to give an account for how we served our king down here. You know what scripture calls that? The terror of the Lord. The terror of the Lord are not lost people going to the lake of fire. The terror of the Lord are saved people answering for how they served him. after he saved them. And maybe those tears that get dried up in heaven are a result of the judgment seat of Christ. God gave his best to you. God gave his greatest to you. You say I'd like to, but how do I? Abide in him. Trust in him to get saved. Abide in him to have confidence and victory. And now, little children, abide in him, that when he shall appear, we may have confidence. And not be ashamed before him at his coming. Abide in him. Let's stand. Let's commit these thoughts to the Lord. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Father, thank you this morning for this thought. This partial thought, Lord, that challenges us to consider our ways. I pray for the soul here this morning that is yet without a savior. They don't belong to your son. They've never yielded to the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Father, there's never been a day in their life where they've seen their need for all their sin to be forgiven, as we heard sung in special music, forgiven forever. Lord, I pray this morning you would tap that heart in this invitation to step out. And trust your Son as their Savior. And belong to Him. I pray they'd be saved. But then, Lord, this morning for each of us that are saved Lord, I pray this morning we'd not be content to simply belong to him, but help us, Lord, to abide in him. Because of the darkness out there, the lack of fruitfulness in here. And our confrontation with him one day up there. Lord, I know this morning that the works of the flesh, the fruit of the Spirit, is a way to measure where we stand with you. Not only belonging to you, but then abiding in your Son. I pray, Lord, we not be deceitful and deceive ourselves. But Lord help us to be honest in your assessment of us. Save the one who's lost, and move the Christian to abide in the Son who they now belong to, your Son. We ask and pray this in Jesus' name. A man, heads about and as you're closed, music's playing softly. You