John 15, I want us to, if you would, let's read together verse number five. Read this together in unison. If you have your Bibles here, John 15, verse 5. Ready? Let's read it all together. I am the vine, ye are the branches, he that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit For without me ye can do nothing. Abide in me, he says. I want to preach this morning on abiding in Christ. Abide in Christ. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us understand what He's talking about here. Father, I ask now you'd bless our time in your word. Lord, as I try to preach this passage, I ask that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, I don't have my l my Lord, my understanding is so limited and uh my wisdom is so limited that I don't in and of myself I uh I cannot uh preach what needs to be preached her. So Lord, I look to you and I ask, as I just said, that you would please fill me with your spirit And I yield my mind and my will to you, and I pray that your Holy Spirit that authored this passage, this book, that you would Move on my mind that I would speak only that what you would have me to say, and everything that you would have me to say I ask, I present my body anew to you. Just take me as a conduit, Lord, and you would speak through me to our hearts. And I pray when we leave here in a little bit That we'd be closer to you than we've ever been before. That you would address areas of our life that need to be addressed. And God, if there's something that we've let slip, or Lord, we've just gotten out of balance I pray your Holy Spirit use this passage, help us get it back where it needs to be. Lord, some folks no doubt need encouragement. I pray that you'd use your word through me to encourage Some of us need to be convicted and challenged. So, Lord, have your way and meet with us is my prayer. In Jesus' name I ask. Amen. I read of a fella and and the way it was presented as a true story. I can't tell you where it was or when, it was years ago, uh it sounds as I read it, uh hundred or more years ago. But it says of a beggar that was uh lived in a city, and every day for years and years, decades, he would sit along a busy street corner there in whatever city it was, and he would beg And people would go by and put some coins in his hat or basket, whatever he had there. And he was always sitting on a wooden box. He had this wooden box and years and uh went by, decades, he was always there as he was growing old. Finally one day a wealthy businessman was walking by and he had seen him so many times he really never paid a whole lot of attention to him, but for whatever reason, as he went by this one day, this man caught his attention. And his heart was stirred a bit, and he know he'd been there a long time. He'd obviously was very poor. He's in rags and unkept. And he stopped and in a passing spirit of generosity, he reached in his pocket and took a few coins and he Put it in the man's basket. And the man said, Thank you very much. God bless you. He started to walk away and he stopped and looked back and he said, Sir, by the way He said, what's in that box you're sitting on all the time? And the fellow said, I don't know. He said, I just found an old box back in an alleyway years ago, and I just leave it here and I Set on it for my little seat. He goes, huh? He says the businessman said, if it was me, just out of curiosity, I would look in that box, see what's in there And uh the man said, Well, I never have. And the businessman went on. And the beggar never opened the box Wasn't interested. What was in it at all? Just begged. Number of years went by. The beggar grew old. His expiration date came up. Billy and I. We're talking about our expiration dates. And the old beggar passed away. They found him in an alley back where he slept underneath a stairwell. Found this body and took care of it and had a little burial and they went out and got the box. And one of the folks that was trying to help, he had no family or anything, they reached down, they picked the box up, and it was very, very heavy. And I thought, what in the world? And they got a pry bar and they got and they pry the thing open. And lo and behold. That box was filled to the top with gold coins. The man was sitting on hundreds of thousands of dollars that would have absolutely transformed his life, would have transformed his lifestyle, and he never knew it. He never knew it. I read that story and I thought about us as Christians. I think some Christians are very similar to this beggar. We're living beggarly spiritually, we're living beggarly lives, and yet we have in our hands And we have available to us the ability to live a victorious, joy-filled, Christ-honoring life. But yet we never experience it. We never experience it. Sometimes, I believe in some cases, we have What we refer to as unsaved church members. Now I try to be very, very careful. It's not my position to judge or determine Whether somebody's saved or not, that's God's job. Right? And so I I try to be very careful about it. But The reality is our churches, in some cases, some of our churches, no doubt, are filled with unsaved church members. Oh, they come faithfully. They believe the doctrines of the church and and uh they they carry their Bibles. They attend church, maybe the gospel is preached from the pulpit, and every week they hear the plan of salvation. Every week they hear How they can have their sins forgiven and receive as the gift of God's grace eternal life and have a home in heaven and escape hell. Every week they hear that But they never open the box. And they never accept and receive it. They carry in their hands the precious Word of God that has the message of salvation. They carry it under their arm. And in that book is how they can know their sins are forgiven. They can have a life of purpose and fulfillment and meaning and have eternal life when this body dies. And go to be with the Lord and not go to hell. They carry it under arm, but they never open and receive what's in it. My daddy was saved when I was about uh ten years old. He was, I believe, thirty Uh uh around there, 30 years old. And my daddy always said, he said, I went to church my whole life up to that point. Faithful church member. Religious, carried his Bible, went to Sunday school, did all these things. He said, Daddy said, but I was religious. But I was lost. I was lost. I was lost. You know, it's one thing, it's one thing to die a beggar without money. But it's another thing to die as a sinner without Jesus. Now, we need to make sure we're saved. We need to make sure that we've opened the box of God's grace, the gospel box, and we receive and accept and know for sure that Jesus is our Savior, and when we die, we go to heaven. So I'm afraid in many cases, perhaps, in some cases anyway, there are folks who are no different than that beggar spiritually, they're unsaved. They have no forgiveness of sins, no assurance of a home in heaven, all hope so, think so. Maybe something in this life will give me And they're just going through life spiritually, begging, looking for something that can do what only the Lord can do. And how tragic to die in that condition. Wouldn't it be sad to go from a church pew to the devil's hell? What a tragedy. What a tragedy. However, I think there's also in cases, some cases, where you have church folk who haven't been saved. They trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. Their sins are forgiven. They sincerely come and recognize, acknowledged themselves as a sinner before the Lord, turning to him Trusting them or forgive them and cleanse them, give them a new life, a home in heaven. And yet they never have their prayers answered. And they never have any real joy in their life. And it seems like though they're saved, there's just something missing in their Christian life. They're frustrated. They're irritated. And there's just something missing there. They never have their prayers answered. In some cases, and again, we need to be careful about making judgment whether someone really got saved or not, but some cases I think people get saved, and there's really not much of a change in their life As far as their lifestyle is concerned, they aren't much different after they got saved than what they were before they got saved There's not much change or difference between them. They try to, but there's no real difference in their life than the unsaved man they work with or the unsaved women they uh fellowship with and associate with. There's no difference between them and the world. And yet I think in some cases they're genuinely saved. The church at Corinth, Paul referred to them over and over and over as brothers, as saved people. They certainly were living in some cases even worse than what the world lived. There's something missing. Never get a prayer answered. No joy of the Lord in my heart, in my life, in my home. There's no spiritual fruit in my life. There's no fruit of the Holy Spirit like we're studying Sunday nights. It's not there. And there's no souls being saved. There's no influence I'm having spiritually on others. It's not because they don't know the doctrine. Oh, they know the doctrine of the church. It's not because they don't attend church or they might even be involved. They might even be serving in a position of the church. Might sing in a choir, might work a bus rail, may serve somewhere But they do not have the joy of the Lord. They do not have that supernatural presence of God in their life. No prayers. No influence. Something's missing. Oh, they might have the gifts of the Spirit. May be very talented. May be very gifted in many ways. It's not because they don't have gifts, it's not because they're not faithful to church, it's not because they don't believe the Bible. I think some of it is they just never open the box of God's Word and take by faith what God has promised us. And don't open the box of God's Word and receive what God has promised to us as His people. We're saved by faith. Amen or not? By faith, I believe Jesus died for me, was buried, rose again. I see myself as a hopeless sinner. And by faith, I believe what he did was for me, and I trust him. I put my hope, my confidence in him. He forgives me and say, that's how we're saved by faith. However, we are to live by faith also And God gives us promises, and God gives us instructions, and God gives us information about how we're to live and how what we're to trust, and yet we miss it. And we miss it. Either the Bible is true or it isn't. Amen or not. Either that book is true or it is not true. And here's the thing, so many Christians they talk about believing the Bible is true, but they live like it isn't. We sing about the Bible being true, but we live as if it's just another book written by some man somewhere. And the fact of the matter is this is not another book, just another book written by Manson. This is the very Word of God. And it has the answers to our questions. It gives us purpose in life, it has meaning. Jesus in John chapter 15. He's talking about this, abiding in Christ, and he makes several statements here. He says, without me, you can do nothing. He says, Without me you bear no fruit, you have no prayers answered. If you don't abide in me, if you're not abiding in me, you you can do nothing and you bear no fruit and you have no prayers answered and you have no joy. He says, you need to learn to abide in me. That's where the joy is. That's where the peace is. That's where the power in prayer and power in witnessing is. Abiding in Christ. Now the question is, what does it mean to abide in Christ? What is he talking about? What is that even? Well, he's using an illustration here. He's referring to, if you notice there in verse number one, he refers to, he says, I am divine My father is the husbandman. Now, help me out here a little bit. What would the, in our terminology in our day, what would a husbandman be? The farmer. He's the guy that tends to the vineyard. Jesus is divine God the Father is the husbandman or we might say farmer, the the the the steward of the vineyard there. He cares for me. He trims me. He uh uh cares for the the the the vineyard. And then he says, and you on the vine, Jesus the Son of God, God the Father, He's the farmer, He's the one that tends to all this. And he says, You are the what? Talk to me. You're the branches. Now, who is he talking to when he says you're the branches? He's talking to his disciples. He's talking to saved people. He's not referring to the unsaved. They're not branches. They're not part of the vine. They're outside the family of God. They're outside the vineyard of God. But he looks at the disciples and says, You're the branches. I'm the vine. God the Father, he's the one behind all of it, makes it all happen. And you're the branches. You're the branches. And he says, you as a branch. Now obviously he's illustrating this. This is a symbolic And he says, you as the branch need to abide in me. Now everybody there knew exactly what he was talking about. There were vineyards everywhere. Everybody. They probably passed vineyards. In fact, some have suggested there may have been a vineyard within eyesight of what he was talking. He may have been pointing it out. We don't know But whatever the case, every single person standing there in the sound of his voice, when he's y y using these terms They are picturing in their mind, they're seeing they know exactly what a vineyard is, they know what a husband is, they know what the branches are that come off that vine that bear the fruit They were very familiar with what he was saying. In fact, and we wouldn't take time this morning, we can go back through the Old Testament, where over and over and over, God referred to Israel as a vineyard, as a vine. And he said they he l he looked from Israel as a nation. God, their their uh their father, God looked to the Israel as a nation to bear fruit for him, to be a witness into all the world to come and worship Jehovah. to glorify him and serve him and trust him and love him and he would love them back and meet their needs and take care of them. He says, I look for fruit from you And he said, I never got the grapes, the good grapes. He said, all I got from Israel was wild grapes. Of no use, no good, meaningless. And so when Jesus says, I'm the vine, you're the branches, the father's the husband, everyone there knew exactly what he was talking about. And he's using that illustration, that picture, to draw out Their responsibility, our responsibility as believers, and that is to abide in Christ. Abide in Christ Eleven times, in these verses that Pastor Matt read, eleven times he uses the term abide. Are you listening to me, girls? He uses the term abide. Or some form of it. Look with me if you would here in uh verse number four. He says, abide in me and I in you. In the middle of the verse, he says Well he says the ex the branch cannot bear fruit of the itself except it abide in the vine. No more can you except ye abide in me. Verse 5, I'm the vine, you're the branches. He that abideth in me. Look at verse 6. If any man abide not in me. Verse 7, if ye abide in me, and my words abide in you. As the Father has loved me, verse 9, so have I loved you. Continue. It comes from the same word. Abide. Continue ye in my love. Verse 10, if you keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love. The end of verse ten. And abide in his love. Verse eleven, these things have I spoken to you, that my joy might remain. Comes from the same word Remain in you. Abide, abide, abide, abide, abide, continue, remain. My first thought is this: the precept of abiding. And what I mean by that is this. What in the world is he talking about? When he talks about abiding in him. What does that even mean? If he uses this term eleven times And then he says, if you don't do this, you can do nothing. Would you agree with me? It's pretty important to find out what he's talking about, right? It's more important than falling asleep when he's talking about it, right? So my concern is if he says this eleven times, he says I can do nothing If I don't abide him, I can't do anything, I can't bear any fruit, I can't have the joy of the Lord, I don't get my prayers answered. I want to find out what in the world he means by this. I want to know. Would you agree with me? It's pretty important we find this out. And so what does he mean by abiding in him? Well, the word abide itself means to remain, to stay in place, has the idea of enduring something. We use it to refer to where we live. That's where I abide. That's my abode. It's where I come back to. It's where I stay. It has the idea of to uh dwell somewhere or continue to be faithful. So he says, abide in me. Stay there. Be faithful. Stay true. In Matthew chapter 11, if you would, take your Bibles with me, come back to Matthew chapter 11. He makes a statement, and uh most of us, I would imagine, are going to be fairly familiar. Matthew chapter 11, look with me at verse 28. Matthew chapter 11, verse 28. I'm just of the opinion, uh maybe I'm old school or something, but I'm of the opinion when the Bible's being preached, that's the most important thing going on in all the world. Amen. I just really believe that And so souls are at stake. Um victory in the Christian life is at stake If we miss what God's trying to say. And it's not because what I'm saying, it's because it's God's word. Amen. You with me? And so we come to Matthew chapter 11, verse 28, and he makes this statement. Jesus speaking here He says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. And he then goes and expands on that a little bit. He says, Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. For I am meek and lowly in heart, and you shall find what? Rest to your souls. Peace in your heart. Rest, not turmoil, not frustration, and anger and angst. But rest in your soul. Take my yoke upon you. Learn in me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, you'll find rest for your soul. For my yoke is easy, my burden is light. Here's the invitation. He says, Come unto me. This is a universal invitation. I'm saying this morning, Jesus Christ is calling to all the world, come to me, trust me, receive me as your Savior. It's an invitation to come and trust. Let me ask you this. How many folks this morning you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. You've come to Christ, right? That's what we mean. I've come to Christ. I've trusted him. He's my Savior. And he says, then he says this. He says, take my yoke upon you. You know what that yoke is? That yoke is abiding. Alright, I'm trusting my Savior. I'm I'm tied in. Alright, I'm gonna take his yoke. I'm gonna be faithful to him. He's my Lord. He's gonna lead me. I want to abide in him. So the invitation is come unto me. Come unto me. If you're here this morning, you don't know for sure. Your sins are forgiven. When you die, you're going to heaven. Jesus Christ is inviting you. Come and trust him as Savior. Find forgiveness of your sins, find eternal life, and know for sure you're going to heaven when you die and not to hell. Amen? That's the invitation. Now he says, all right, you've come to me, you've trusted me, abide in me. You stay faithful, you stay true, abide in me. Stay with me, keep following me. Keep trusting me, just like you, trust in me as your Savior. Trust me with your life And your purposes, your struggles, your trials. Have faith in me, just like you. Have faith that I'll forgive your sin and save your soul. Trust me, have faith in me to lead in your life and meet your needs and take care of you. It's abiding in Christ, abiding in faith. Now, we don't abide in Him to stay saved. Salvation is an eternal condition. He's not saying, listen, you trust me and believe in me and accept me as Savior, then you need to abide in me or you're going to live. He's not saying this. You better live it or you're going to lose it. That is not scriptural. He's saying, stay in fellowship with me. Stay close to me. Stay true to me. Salvation is an eternal condition, but fellowship with the Lord fluctuates. Sometimes I'm up, sometimes I'm down. Sometimes I'm hot, sometimes I'm cold. Can I get a witness? David in Psalm chapter 51, he messed up. And he comes to God in verse number 12, I think it is. He says He says, Lord, restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. He had gotten out of fellowship with God. He lost the joy of the Lord. It wasn't there. Oh, he used to go to church and sing the hymns and his heart was full and he sang to God. Now it's just going through the motions. He used to be excited about getting up and have his devotion and spend time with the Lord. Now, if I do it at all, it's a drudgery, it's just going through the motion. Check off of this. Our fellowship with God will fluctuate. Sometimes we're up, sometimes we're down. David found that to be true. We notice in In the church at Ephesus and Revelation, they lost their first love. No, they didn't lose their first love. They left their first love. Oh, they were in love with the Lord. Man, their life was committed. I love the Lord with all my heart. He forgave my sin. He changed my life. Got me out of that garbage I was living. He's given me purpose. And over time we lost that love. Now I love this. I love my job. I love my fun. I love my possessions. I love my car. I love this. We lost our love for the Lord. Salvation is eternal condition. It never changes. Once saved, always saved. Amen. It's the Bible. I can support it. You take issue with that? I'll sit down. I'll show you from the Bible. But my fluctuate my fellowship with God, my enjoyment of His presence in my life and His power and the joy and the purpose of my life, sometimes that fluctuates. And the Lord's saying, listen, once you've come to me and trusted me, now you need to abide with me, stay in fellowship with me, stay close to me, stay in love with me. Abide in Christ. Abide in Christ. Fellowship with the Lord fluctuates. The church at Laodicea, again, is addressed by the Lord in Revelation, and they got lukewarm. He said, I wish you were cold or hot. But you're neither. You're lukewarm. I'll spew thee out of my mouth. Yuck! Paul said, he said, for me to live is Christ You know what he's saying? He's saying, I abide in the Lord. My life, the whole purpose of my life is the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ. Someone says, you have somebody, you look at him and say, what is he? Man, his whole life is his job. Did you ever hear anybody say something like that? For him to live is his job. For her to live is uh what do girls live for? I don't know. Um uh for that her to live help me ladies, I don't know. To live is uh shopping. That was bad. Uh uh you follow what I'm saying? For me for me Paul said for me to live is Christ. You say that's kind of radical. Everything's Jesus. Jesus, how your whole life is Christ. Yeah, it's called abiding in Christ. Abiding in Christ. So the precept, the concept, the meaning of the word abide means to stay in close fellowship with the Lord. Stay faithful to the Lord. Don't let anything get between me and God. Stay faithful, stay faithful, stay faithful. So abide in Christ. Number two, the prescription for abiding in Christ. In other words, what are the biblical requirements? How? Do I abide in Christ? How do I do that? Well, number one, if you look at verse number come back here to John, if you look at verse number two, The first thing we notice, I've got to be in Christ. If I'm going to abide in Christ, I've got to be in Christ. Right? Is everybody with me this morning? Everybody okay? I gotta be in Christ. Notice he says verse 2, he says, every branch in me, come down to verse 4, abide in me. Y end of verse four, except ye abide in me. Verse five, he that abideth in me. Verse number six. If any man abide not in me, verse 7, if he abide in me, in me, in me, in me, in me, I've got to be in Christ. What does it mean to be in Christ? It means to be saved, means to be born again. 2 Corinthians 5:17, if any man be in Christ, he is a what? If I'm in Christ. When I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, There are so many there is so much transaction that takes place in that very moment. You could preach a series for years on All that takes place the moment a person accepts Jesus Christ their personal Savior, one of the things that takes place, I become, I am then, from that moment on, I am in Christ. In other words, the person that trusts Jesus Christ, their personal Savior, from that point on, God sees them. When He sees them, He doesn't see them for their own sin and their own failures and their own weaknesses and their own flaws. He sees me in Christ He sees the righteousness of Christ. He sees the victory of Christ. He sees the purity of Christ when he looks at me. And that's what it means. I am before God. I am in Christ. I have his righteousness. I have his purity. I have all the merit that Jesus Christ has, I have in Christ for God to accept me. Isn't that a wonderful thing? So I can't abide in Christ until I'm first in Christ. Trust Him as my Savior. And God see me as that. He doesn't say abide in the church. If any man abide in the church, uh no, no, no. Uh question: is church important? Absolutely. The whole church is designed to help us abide in Christ. But abiding in Christ, he doesn't say abide in church, abide in Christ. Make sure you're in Christ. As I said at the beginning, it's possible to be in church and not be in Christ. So he says abide in Christ. He doesn't say abide in your good works or abide in your giving. And those all have their place, they're fine. But he says, abide in me. Make sure you're in Christ. Number two, requirement to abide in Christ. I need to be in God's Word. Look with me at verse number seven. He says, if ye abide in me, look at this, and my words abide in you. In other words, if I'm going to stay faithful to Christ, I'm going to stay in fellowship with Him. I'm not going to get out of His will, out of His fellowship. I need to abide in the Word of God. So God told Joshua, he said, This book of the law shall not depart out of the mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. It is impossible to overemphasize the importance of the Word of God in the life of the believer. If I neglect the Word of God as a believer, I am neglecting my spiritual well-being. Psalms chapter 1, God tells us that blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, whose leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. If I'm going to abide in Christ, if I'm going to stay in close fellowship with the Lord, number one, I need to be in Christ. Number two, I need to be in God's Word. Number three, I put this down. I need to be consistent in my prayers. Look at verse 7. Again, look at the last part of verse 7. If ye abide in me and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will. And it shall be done unto you. He says, you need to pray. If I'm going to abide in Christ, if I'm going to stay in fellowship with God. If I'm going to stay in love with the Lord, if I'm going to stay in close fellowship with the Lord, I've got to learn to pray. God's people have got to learn to pray. We neglect prayer to our own spiritual harm. We've got to get that established where I pray, I pray, I pray. The importance of prayer. The importance of prayer. So I need to be consistent in prayer. That word ask there in verse 7 he says He says, ye shall ask where you will. That word ask has this idea. If you get your strong coordinates, look up diction uh dictionary, uh New Testament dictionary. You'll find it means this, to ask and ask and ask and ask and ask and keep on asking and keep on asking and keep on asking. You just pray and pray and pray. You say, How long shall I pray? Pray until God comes through. So that might be years, it might be decades. Keep on praying. Keep on praying. And that keeps me in fellowship with the Lord. It's interesting, 2 Chronicles 7:14, talking about revival, he said, if my people shall humble themselves and pray And seek my face, turn from the wicked ways, I'll heal their land, forgive their sin, heal their land. He doesn't say what to pray for. He just says, pray. You know what I found out? When I get serious about praying, no matter what I'm praying for, when I get serious about praying, it helps me spiritually It draws me closer to the Lord. It doesn't matter what the subject that I'm praying for is, just the act of praying itself draws me closer to the Lord. So one, I gotta be in Christ. Number two, I gotta be in the Word of God. Number three, I need to be consistent in prayer. And then number four, I put this: stay in love with the Lord. Stay in love with the Lord. Look at verse 9 As my Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. Continue in my love. That's a decision I make. Say, well, I just I just don't feel like I'm really in love with the Lord. Since when have your feelings helped you in any way spiritually? Feelings come and feelings go, and feelings are deceiving. I've got to just decide. I love the Lord. I love you, Lord. This world has so twisted the church's understanding of what love is, we don't even know what God's talking about when he talks about love. Love is a decision. Study 1 Corinthians 13. It's all action. It's all decision. Not one of the descriptions of love in the Bible is a feeling. It is a conscious decision. I love my Savior. I love my spouse. I love my children. I love my brother. I love my s uh Sister. Ah, I'm sorry. I love my s it's a decision I make. It's a decision. So you say, how do I abide in Christ? I want to abide in Christ. How do I do it? Well, just decide you love the Lord. You love the world. I don't love the world. I love the Lord. And last of all, let me give you very, very quickly The product of abiding in Christ. The precept is to stay faithful, stay true, stay close to Him, stay right with Him. The requirements, the prescription is be in Christ, be in his word, be consistent in my prayer, love him with all my heart, soul, and mind. And then what's the product? All right, preacher, all right, what's gonna what do I get out of this? Well, look at the results he tells us here. Look at verse 2. He says, Every branch in me that beareth not Fruit he taketh away, and every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. The branch is abiding in him, it extends my influence He says, verse 4: Abide in me and I in you. The branch cannot bear fruit, except it abide in the vine. No more can ye, except ye abide in me. Abiding in Christ extends my influence. The life of Christ in me. People see that, and I share the gospel with them, and I tell them about my Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, and they don't just hear my lips, but they see Christ in me. They see the fruit, the characteristics of Jesus Christ being lived out in my life. Because I'm close to him, I'm right with him. And they say, you know, what he's saying is true because I see it in her life, I see it in his life. All I do, all we do is give lip service to the Lord. Our influence on this whole world is going to be very, very limited But when I'm abiding in Christ, I have his presence, his power, the fruit of the Holy Spirit. People see it and they say, man, what he's got is real. But he's God's real. Anybody here ever know someone, maybe family or work with someone, and all their Christianity was lips and it wasn't any life? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Oh, they talked it, but there is no reality. There is no substance there. He says, if you abide in Christ, your influence will be real. He says, I'll purge you I'll mold you, I'll make you more like Christ, I'll reform you. Paul put it this way, for I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I But Christ liveth in me. The life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Paul said, Christ is living his life in me. And so our influence is reached. We win more souls. We see people saved. The whole purpose of this whole passage is to bear fruit. I appreciate yesterday we had men's prayer breakfast. Eric and I were down here after the breakfast and uh we were praying and uh and I'm appreciating I don't mean to put him on the spot but he was praying, but his prayer was, Lord, uh we need to see more people saved. And every list we went down, the list we had, Lord, we need we need revival in our church so more people get saved. Lord, we need missionaries in Kazakhstan so more people get saved. We need the sword conference, God. We need you to empower and do a work, send revival to the churches that come in so more people get saved. God bless our anniversary Sunday and fill the place up so more people get saved. That's what this is all about. I abide in Christ, and God works in my life, and they see the reality of Christ in me, and we can reach others for the Lord. Number two, I put this down: extends my influence. Number two, empowers my prayer life Again, verse number 7. Notice what he says here. He says, if ye abide in me, and my words abide in you. Listen to this promise. Ye shall ask what ye will. What's the last part of that verse say? Help me. It shall be done unto you. Would you agree with me? That's a fantastic promise. It's incredible. Of course, the Bible gives other conditions in prayer and stuff, but he says, you stay right with me. You stay close to me. You stay in love with me. You keep your heart clean, your mind pure, you stay faithful and true and do what I say. God says, you ask what you will, I'll take care of you. I'll take care of you. Woohoo! Good night. There's a lot of prayers that are prayed, but only a prayer that comes from a heart that's abiding in Christ has any power. Abiding in Christ. Number three, it exalts my heavenly Father. Look at verse 8. Herein is my Father glorified. That ye bear much fruit. That fruit's a result of me abiding in Christ. My Father is glorified. The more I'm like Christ, the more God is glorified. The more I'm like Christ, the more God is exalted. We live in the flesh, we live for ourselves, we're all mad and grouchy and snappy and short and snippy God gets no glory in my life. No attention is drawn to him. Nobody thinks highly of him. Nobody praises him. Because I'm not abiding in Christ. But I get in great with the Lord and I stay close to Him and I'm reading the Bible, trusting it, following instructions, I'm praying. I'm loving the Lord and it changes my whole attitude. It changes my whole perspective on everything. And I see things from God's perspective. And I love the Lord, and people see that in me, and they say, My, what a wonderful God He serves. What a wonderful God she serves. Look at their life, look at their attitude, their circumstances may be rough. But they have the presence and glory of God on this life. That wonderful? I remember back before I got saved, May 7, 1979, 19 years old, we would go over. I lived just north of Philly And we would go over to New Jersey. The drinking age in New Jersey was 18. And back then the license plates didn't have pictures on them. Anybody remember that? It was just a little card And we'd borrow some guys that were 18, we'd borrow their license. And we'd go over to New Jersey and if they would card you, we'd just show them the license and I'm I'm Evan Heath, you know, some guy and um you just get in. And that that's the way it was. And so we go over there, fourteen, fifteen years old, sixteen, we go to these clubs My daddy was praying for me. My daddy abode in Christ. I'm telling you. And I know I talked too much about my dad, maybe, but but he was living for God. He was faithful to God. And I knew that As a punk. And we would drive over to Jersey. And to get over to where we were going, I had to drive by my daddy's church. I don't know how many times we would go a Sunday night or they'd be having revival meeting. We'd go a Friday night. And I I can still feel the conviction of the Holy Spirit As we would drive by that church and I saw the lights on in the church and the parking lot filled, and I knew my daddy was in there worshiping God. And I'm heading over to Jersey to live in wickedness and ungodliness. And I drive by there, and just the presence of that church brought such conviction on me One time we were heading over and fin I got by and it was killing me and I finally I said to the guys, guys I changed my mind, I'm not going. And we went back home. You know what that was? That was some people who were abiding in Christ, and the presence of God was there in such a powerful way that God was glorified. Just driving by it brought glory to God. And we settle to live such bitter and angry and self-centered and miserable lives when we could abide in Christ and God be glorified in our lives and people drawn to Him. Nobody comes to Christ because a Christian is bitter. Nobody comes to Christ, gets right with God, because a Christian's got a bad attitude. It's when I die to self and say, Lord, I want to live for you. I want to be faithful to you. I want you to fill me. I love you, Lord. I want you to have your way. Then God works through us and draws people to Christ. God's glorified. Abide in Christ. Abiding Christ. We experience God's love, verse 10. You keep my commandments, you abide in my love. Even as I kept my father's commandments, abide in his love. God loves all of us, but not everybody experiences the love of God. The prodigal son. How many people are familiar with the prodigal son? And I'm winding down. Bear with me here. I'm winding down. How many people are familiar with the prodigal son, right? He goes off. He's living in riotous far country, wasting his father's son. I mean living in debauchery and wickedness and drunkenness and fornication. He's living in sin And the father, did the father love him the whole time he was in the far country? Absolutely Did that boy experience his daddy's love in the far country? No, he didn't experience it. He was loved, but he didn't experience it. But when he came back home And that daddy saw him coming, and daddy goes out and he hugs him and he says, get some clothes on this boy. He's a wretch. Get him looking nice. Get some good food on. Hey, get some food My son's come home. He was lost. He's come home. Boy, that boy right there experienced the love of the father like he never experienced before. He came back to his daddy. And abiding in Christ means I come and I stay close to God and I experience his oh he loved me when I'm carnal and bad attitude and all that. When I come and I abide in him, get ready. And then I experience his love like I've never experienced before. He says, you abide in me. You experience the love of God. Oh, He loves us wherever we are. And then, last of all, it expounds my joy. Expands my joy. Look at verse 11. These things have I spoken to you that my joy might remain in you and your joy might be full. The joy of the Lord in me and filling me Unchanging circumstances do not affect it. I can have the joy of the Lord no matter what my circumstances are if I abide in Christ. He said the word full, overflowing, abounding. This isn't some show. This joy of the Lord isn't just coming in, hmm, I'm happy. Right? Anybody ever been there? I say this a lot, but to me it's surreal. I stand back here, shake hands, people coming in before church, and a car comes in and the windows are all steamed up And you can feel the tension. You hear rumbling on and they pull in and you look through the windshield and the back seat And they get out. Hi preacher. How y'all doing? Praising the Lord. We're wonderful. No, the joy of abiding in Christ is a real joy. It's there. Doesn't matter what you say. You don't know how they're treating me. Doesn't matter. I'm abiding in Christ. I can have the joy of the Lord You don't know how poor I am. You don't know how tight my bills are. Ah, doesn't matter. I'm riding in Christ. I have the joy of the Lord. God will take care of it. Amen? That old beggar sat on that box, hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of gold coins. Can you give me something? Can you help me to do something for me? Will you do something for me? And he could have been the one out doing something for others. And he just never opened it, he never received it. We got Christians in our churches going around. Somebody needs to treat me right. Somebody needs to do this for me. Somebody need stop treating me this way. You need to be better. You need to. We can open the Bible and I can have the presence of God in my life. I can abide in Christ, have joy, and be a blessing, being a help to others. Amen? Lord, I pray you'd take these thoughts and help us to abide in Christ, stay close to you, stay in love with you, and serve you. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder some this morning say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved, but I need to get closer to the Lord. Maybe we've allowed things to come in and we've gotten off track a little bit and you say, preacher, pray with me. I've got to get back close to the Lord. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you, hands all around Maybe it's the Bible reading part. Maybe it's the prayer. Maybe it's the loving the Lord part. I've gotten cold in my love. I've left my first love. Whatever it may be. I urge you this morning, you come on back And just love the Lord and get close to Him. Let Him fill you with His Spirit. Let Him give you the joy of the Lord. Let Him empower your witness. He'll do it We'll just come and stay close to them. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I know someone that's not saved or someone that's away from the Lord, and I'm begging God to use me To be that witness, to be that person, a testimony that God can use to bring them back to the Lord. Anybody like that here? I want God to use me. I want my heart to be in tune. I want to abide in Christ so God can do that. God bless you. There's someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not in Christ. I gotta be honest. I don't know for sure. If I die now, I go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know my sins are forgiven. I want to have purpose and peace in my heart, rest in my soul. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. God will help me get that settled. Any at all like that, preacher, pray for me. I need to get My salvation settled, any? Father, bless now our imitation, help us, Lord, I pray in Jesus' name.