Alright, I want to read a lengthy portion of scripture here, and uh we're gonna try and cover it tonight. Um it'd be easy to get bogged down here, so I want to kind of buzz through verse 14 It's where we left off. We left off at verse 13 last week. I'm going to pick up at 14. I'm going to read all the way to verse 31. Alright, so stay awake. Pay attention So I read this, verse 14. But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master, and he railed on them But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither missed we anything as long as we were conversant with them when they were in the fields. They were a wall unto us, both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep. Now therefore, know and consider what thou wilt do, for evil is determined against our master and against all his household. For he is such a son of Belial that a man cannot speak to him. Then Abigail made haste and took two hundred loaves and two bottles of wine And five sheep ready dressed, five measures of parched corn, and a hundred clusters of raisin, two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses. And she said unto her servants, Go on before me. Behold, I come after you. But she told not her husband Nabal And it was so, as she rode on the ass, that she came down by the covert, by the hill, and behold, David and his men came down against her, and she met them Now David had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that pertain to him, and he hath requited me evil for good. So and more also do God unto the enemies of David, if I leave of all that pertaineth unto him by the morning light, any that pisseth against the wall. He sounds pretty ticked, doesn't he? And when Abigail saw David, she hastened and lightened off her ass and fell before David on her face and bowed herself to the ground and fell at his feet and said, Upon me, my Lord, upon me let this iniquity be. And let thine handmaiden, I pray thee, speak in thine audience and hear the words of thy handmaid. Let not, my lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial, even Nabal. For as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him. But I, thy handmaiden, saw not the young men of my Lord whom thou didst send. Now, therefore, my Lord, as the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing the Lord hath withholding thee from coming to shed blood, and from avenging thyself of thine own hand, Now let thine enemies and they that seek thee, seek evil to my Lord, be his neighbor. And now this blessing which thine handmaiden hath brought unto my Lord, let it even be given unto the young men that follow my Lord I pray thee, forgive the transgress the trespass of thine handmaid, for the Lord will utterly make my Lord a sure house, because my Lord fighteth the battles of the Lord, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days. Yet a man is risen to pursue thee and to seek thy soul. But the soul of my Lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with the Lord thy God. And the souls of thine enemies, they shall be slung uh they shall Then shall he sling out as out of the middle of a slave. It shall come to pass when the Lord shall have done my Lord according to all the good that he has spoken concerning thee and shall appointed thee ruler over Israel, that this shall be no grief unto thee, nor offense of heart unto my Lord, neither that thou hast shed blood causeless Or that my Lord hath avenged himself, but when the Lord shall have dealt well with my Lord, then remember thine handmaiden. We have here Abigail's intervention. Let's pray, and we'll try and look at as much of this as we can. Father in heaven. Lord, I thank you for the Word of God in the life of David. I pray we could learn from this event here in David's life, particularly from Abigail and her actions I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray you would apply to each of our hearts and lives, our circumstances, the truths that are contained here. And help us to go away. Better Christians, stronger in our faith, closer in our walk with you, more obedient to you. And I pray for revival. My heart, our church, our homes And help us, I ask. Fill me with your spirit. I yield my will to you and body it present my body anew with all my heart. In Jesus' name. Amen. I think for those that were here the last couple weeks, or last week at least We understand the context of what's taken place. David, of course, is fleeing from King Saul. He's been out in the wilderness. He comes across this fella Nabal, his wife is Abigail. And he's got his he's a very wealthy man, very powerful man, very influential, very foolish. We looked at all of that. And uh he's got his men uh up in the wilderness with the sheep While they were up there, David of course is hiding from Saul and and uh uh uh uh up there uh uh keeping uh out of sight and trying to be out of mind and he helps them, he protects these shepherds from the Philistines and others, marauders. And uh protects them. Well David is hard put to provide for all his men. He's got six hundred men, plus whoever else is uh there in the camp with him And so he's hard put to provide. He comes down to Nabal very respectfully, very humbly, and asks for help if he could help supply his men. And it's not a baseless request. It's not unreasonable. David had provided security for him. And who knows what all that entailed. And so it's a reasonable request. Nabal, the fool he is, responds harshly. He's a churlish man, the Bible says, and he runs David off. Well, of course, that rubs David the wrong way, and David reacts in the flesh, we would say, in new to use New Testament terms. And David's determined he's going to kill Nabal, he's going to slaughter his whole household. How many people agree with me? That's probably a little overkill. Somebody rude and unkind to you. But David is, as I said, what we would say in the flesh. In the flesh. To start out, let me say this One of the characteristics of a fool, or at least foolish actions, is the inability to see the consequences of my actions. Proverbs 22 and verse 3 and chapter 27 verse 12 says, A prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. But the simple pass on and are punished. Did you catch what that verse is saying? A prudent man, a wise man, is able to say, well, if I do this, then the consequence down the road is going to be this. A simple man doesn't even think about what the consequences are. I'm just going to do whatever comes to mind, or just going to do whatever my whim, desire is at this moment, and never even think about what the consequences are David is acting foolishly. And we're going to see that. Abigail's going to point that out to him here in a little bit. And so uh uh so we're seeing we're seeing one fool brings out the foolishness of a good man. Nabal was able to do to David, influence David in a way that King Saul never could. And so that's That's, I think, the lesson we take away from this, and how God steps in and intervenes so that David doesn't carry out this foolish decision he's made, this foolish action he's taken. Another verse I want to bring up before we get started here is Proverbs chapter fourteen in verse one. In fact, if you would turn over there with me. if we have time tonight, but as we work our way through here, we're going to jump back and forth between Proverbs and our text. Proverbs chapter 14. We have this gal, Abigail. Now we've looked at her pretty closely. We found out she's a very beautiful woman. We found out she's a brain. She's a very intelligent woman, and she is a blessing. And uh we'll see that bring uh uh as we work our way through here and see her actions. But I thought of Proverbs 14 verse 1 When I was studying Abigail's actions here, look at what it says. Every what kind of woman? Every wise woman, look at this, build her house. But the foolish plucketh it down with her hands. The wise woman buildeth her house. I got studying that word buildeth there And I found it means this, to secure, gets it secured, to establish it Here is one definition that struck home a little bit. A wise woman buildeth her house. It means this, makes it nicer, more pleasant. How many people would rather live inside a house than outside a house? Yeah, it's more pleasant. It's nicer. And the whole idea here is a wise woman doesn't make things miserable and tear things down and and uh and uh uh find fault and criticize and point out faults and all of that. That's that's a foolish woman does that in her house. Makes it miserable But a wise woman builds it up. Builds it up, makes it pleasant, makes it uh uh more secure, uh uh um establishes it. So I thought of Abigail, and I think we're going to see her wisdom play out here as we look at this. Abigail is under very difficult circumstances He's married to this guy. Now, ladies, it would be very prudent of you not to glance sideways as we're talking about Nabel. She's married, watch it, she's married to a fellow that, to put it nicely, is very, very difficult to live with. That's putting it nicely. But she makes the best of her circumstances. And uh I this this just fascinated me. She saw in spite of her very difficult circumstances, married to Nabal, this cherlish fool. She sought what was best for her husband and for her home. Now that's that struck me She knew her husband's faults, she knew his weaknesses. She expresses it a number of times But she does not manifest them, she does not broadcast them, she doesn't dwell on them, in fact, she doesn't even react to them She knew her husband's weaknesses, she knew her husband's fault. Nevertheless, she did not fight him, she did not broadcast his faults, instead, she protected him. Now that's interesting. And I want to try and bring that out here in a little bit. I see Abigail as a peacemaker, not a fault finder. I see Abigail as a protector, not a selfish critic. She never seeks to exalt herself. She never points out, one time does she ever point out how she is better than her husband? She never one time points out, now she addresses his faults, we're going to see that in a little bit, but she never does in a way to try and exalt herself or uh in any way. She's an amazing woman She really is. Let's look at this event here. Now we're picking it up. David's on his way down, as we already said, and he's about to slaughter this whole household, this whole operation. He is taken over. He is very, very upset. Now let's look what happens. Number one, my first observation here is this information that is given to Abigail. She was not around when David's servant showed up and made the request. She was not around when Nab responded the way he did. She's unaware of any of that. Look at verse number 14 with me It says, but one of the young men told Abigail. So he brings this information to Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master, and he railed on them. And he goes on and and uh he uh um uh explains to her what uh David did, but the men were very good unto us and were not hurt, and she goes on down through there So I notice this information. This guy comes to Abigail. Now I see two characteristics of Abigail here that come out, at least in my mind. Number one, I believe Abigail was a woman who was approachable It was approachable. This servant, this young fellow, and perhaps others were with him, we're not told, he felt very comfortable, very secure in coming to Abigail and talking about what took place. Now my question is, why did this young guy go to Abigail about the situation? Why didn't he go and approach Nabal, why didn't he confront Nabal about this and uh address Nabal's foolish actions? Anyone want to offer a suggestion? Why would he go to Abigail, not Nabal? Scared to death of Nabal. He was powerful, he was intimidating, he was rude, he was churlish. Um and it's uh here's the thing. These servants, these people within the household of Nabal and Abigail, again, very wealthy, very, very influential, two polar opposites I'm telling you, the people that worked under these two knew exactly what these two people were like. Everybody under there, they knew what Nabal was and they knew what Abigail was. And of the two, they said, if this problem's going to get solved, Abigail's the one going to solve it. And she was a very, very approachable woman. Abigail was approachable. Nabal was not approachable. In fact, look at verse number 17. This servant, this young man says, for at the end of the verse, he says, For he's such a son of Belial that a man cannot speak to him. Now that tells me maybe this young man had considered, hey, I need to go talk to Nabel. This isn't a good idea. This is a bad situation. Then he caught himself and says, Whoa, no way, you can't even talk to that guy. Maybe they got together, some of the young people within the household, the workers there, servants you'd call them, and maybe they got together and said, What are we going to do? What are we going to do? What are we going to do? So while we can't go to Nabal and talk to him, that's for sure. Abigail we can talk to. She'll listen to us. And so the one characteristic I notice here is that Abigail was very approachable. You could get to her and talk to her even about a very difficult situation. The second thing I notice about Abigail is this. She was reliable What do I mean by that? This young man trusted her. They didn't know what to do. They couldn't go to Nabel. He certainly isn't going to deal with this correctly. But when they thought of Abigail, they knew that she would know what to do. That tells me she's an intelligent woman. We're told that earlier. She would know what to do. And the second thing is, I believe they were confident, is she would do the right thing. You know, there's a world of difference between knowing what should be done and doing the right thing. You know there's two there there there's a world of difference. It's one thing to know what I should do, it's another thing to actually do it. And these apparently what I see here is these young fellows, this young man and perhaps the other staff of the household there, uh they knew, listen, we can trust Abigail. She is a smart woman. She will know what to do and she's going to do the right thing. I put this down. I I kind of like this quote I came up with. Intelligence Without integrity will help no one. You'd be the smartest person in the world, but if you don't have integrity to do what's right, it's not going to do you a bit of good or anybody else any good. And I think they saw in Abigail a woman that was not only intelligent, but she was a woman of integrity. She would do the right thing, one way or another. So the first thing I notice here in the first verses 14 through 17 is the information given to Abigail. She was approachable, she was reliable. The second thing I notice in verse 18 and 19 is this. The insight on Abigail's part. They came here and assessed her of the situation. And look at verse 18. Then Abigail made haste. Took 200 loaves and two bottles of wine. Of course it'd be loaves of bread, two bottles of wine, five sheep, ready dressed. Five measures of parched corn, a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses, and she said to her servants, Go on before me, behold, I'll come after you. But she told not her husband. There's some insight here on Abigail's part. Now notice what she does not do. Notice what Abigail does not do. She finds out David's on his way down. He's got 600 men with him. He's going to slaughter Uh he's going to slaughter this household. Everybody's going to die. So what were some options she had with this information? She could have what? And that was my first thought. Jesus says, I'm out of here. That guy's a fool. He got himself into it. He can get himself out of it. Pack your bags and run. But she doesn't do that. The other thing she doesn't do, she doesn't go out meet David and say, here, let me show you where he's at. How many people agree, humanly speaking, that might have solved a lot of her problems? David, I know where he is. My life will be a whole lot easier. She doesn't do any of that. She doesn't run. She doesn't hand over uh Nabel. Uh why not? Why why would she not run? Why wouldn't she hand over probably the biggest headache in her life? Why would she not do that She's responsible for her household and something else. This may not be the first rodeo she's been in. I think there's another factor here. She's trusting God. Integrity. This is what I got. She's committed to her husband. What do we say when we take our marriage vows? For better or for worse, richer or poorer, till death do our part. Now my my thinking is, my thinking is, this woman took her marriage vows such as they may have been then. This woman took her marriage commitment very, very seriously. And she was his wife, whatever he was, whatever kind of man he was, she was going to answer to God for the kind of wife she would be, not for the kind of husband he was going to be. One of the best things that helped me in my life, and this is, you know, is just when I came to the realization, however my wife treats me, whatever kind of wife my it my wife is, I am never going to stand before God and give an account for the kind of wife I have. I'm going to give an account to God for the kind of husband I am. Period. And I have I have an idea as I'm studying this that uh that uh Abigail Took her marriage commitment very, very seriously, and she was going to do what needed to be done, what was best for him and for the entire household. Now that's a challenge. How many of us in her shoes would be able to do that? How many of us in her shoes would be willing to do that But she doesn't turn them over, get rid of this uh uh headache she's been living with, doesn't run for her life and abandon ship and run She stuck it out and she had insight here. She has some wisdom. First of all, I notice under the insight on Gabigail's part, number one, her generosity. Look at verse number 18 again. I just read it. But she made now look at what she prepares. In haste, very, very quickly, she prepares 200 loaves uh uh uh uh obviously of bread. How long does it take to make two hundred loaves of bread? Now they're very well Sh they're very, very wealthy, and no doubt she has plenty of hands around to help her. And perhaps they had some stored up, but remember they have no preservatives back then, so it's not like she runs down to Walmart and clears out the shelves in Walmart. So this she is uh this is requiring a lot of work and a lot of investment on her part. So there's 200 uh loaves of bread, two bottles of wine, five sheep, but not just sheep, but sheep that are what? Ready dressed. In other words, she's not bringing some live sheep. Here you go, David, some sheep for you. No, no, no. She's slaughtering them, preparing them, dressing them, cooking them, ready to feed. I mean, she has gone overboard. Ready dressed, five measures of parched corn. Alright, this corn has already been processed, 200 clusters of raisins, 200 cakes of figs. That must have been the dessert. And uh laid them on asses. Uh she is generosity. I put this down. Wow. This is the world's first catering service She's putting all this together, loads them up on these asses, and heads out. Uh generosity, generosity. Uh do you are you are you do you still have Proverbs marked there? Come back over to Proverbs. I want to show you a few verses. And an act of wisdom, again, we see we see uh Abigail's wisdom. Look at Proverbs chapter 17 with me, if you would And verse number 8, Proverbs 17, and verse 8, look what the Bible says. Proverbs 17, 8. A gift is a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it. Whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth. What's that verse saying? Say that it's saying that if you have a gift, you bring a gift, ah, that that turns things. That that will accomplish what you're trying to uh that will bring about what you're trying to accomplish Let's go over to chapter 18, verse 6. It's a little clearer. A fool's lip. Oh, wait a minute. Proverbs 18, verse 6. That's not what I want. Look at verse 16. Ah, verse 16. A man's gift maketh room for him and bringeth him before great men. That phrase maketh room for him has this idea. This is interesting. Gives him a hearing. Gives him a hearing to somebody. In other words, you show up, somebody's not interested in anything you have to say, but if you have a gift, it'll open the door and they'll listen to you. Does anybody here remember me telling the story of old Charlie Lyons when I went first to visit him on hospice? And he, I don't want to say now, preacher! So I came home, got Kathy to make a couple dozen chocolate chips. She made about four dozen chocolate chip cookies, put them in bags. I took them down there. When I got there, there was two dozen. And um Knocked on the door, his son Rusty, uh said, Preacher, he said he doesn't want to. I said, Don't tell him I'm the preacher, tell him I'm with hospice, and I got chocolate chip cookies. Guess what he said? Come on in. And we ate cookies there, and I didn't tell him I was the preacher until I was about done visiting. I didn't lie to him. I was with hospice. I just didn't give him all the information And those cookies opened the door for me. Come over, if you would, to chapter 21 and look at verse number 14. Now, is David angry? Yes or no? Yes. He's really angry. Look at verse 14, Proverbs 21. A gift in secret does what? pacifieth anger and a reward in the bosom strong wrath boy she knows she knows if she's out if she shows up to David with a pile of goodies food what he needs and wants, and good food, and grapes and figs, fig Newtons And uh she knows that's going to cool his jets. That's going to cool his jets. And so I see tremendous insight. What would have happened if she if we skipped verse 18 of 1 Samuel 25? Just skip that and she gets on the donkeys and the horses. She is running up there to see David. What's probably going to happen? He's not going to give her the time of day. Most likely. I mean he is hot under the copper But she knows a gift in secret pacifieth anger and strong wrath. And so we see this insight on her part uh in her generosity. I mean she's just not bringing a gift. She has it piled on. This is a buffet for these guys Yeah. And um and uh and the thing is, the other thing I noticed is that she prepared it. I kinda highlighted that, she prepared this ahead of time. It's not just in the role. She went the extra mile And so she's taking this very, very seriously. David is very, very upset. And she needs to do this right. The second thing, not only do I notice her generosity, the insight she has in her generosity, but also in her strategy. Look at verse 19. Come back there. And she said unto her servants, Go on before me, behold, I come after you. But she told not. uh she uh she told not her husband Nabal. Why is she sending these guys on ahead of her? What's she doing? Yeah, I put it this way. Now I don't uh uh she's wanting to slow David down. Um sometimes when we get angry, the best thing to do is just stop and rest a little bit. Right? Best thing to do is just just stop. She's trying to get David slow down here. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. David's all worked up Here, you guys quit, get up there. I think she's buying herself a little more time. What she's preparing here requires a tremendous amount of work and time. And so maybe she s knows that time is an issue. This is a very time-sensitive issue. He's storming down here. So I and uh the Bible doesn't say this, this is speculation on my part, but I'm wondering if maybe she didn't put a bunch of this stuff together, put on there. Here, you guys go on up there, slow them down, give me a little more time to finish putting this together And uh then we'll then we will approach him. No word to Nabal. Um Why didn't she tell her husband? Well, you say he's a fool. He'd blow up. He'd do something true. Is she being dishonest? No, it wasn't necessary for her to tell him There was no no reason to tell him. And one, it would be very unproductive to tell him. And so she has, I believe, tremendous insight On the whole situation as she assesses this and the best approach to have for it. Number three, I notice the intercession of Abigail. So first she gets this information, finds out what the situation is, she immediately assesses the threat. With her insight, she comes up, we're going to be generous and we're going to be strategic. And she implements that. Now she makes her head her uh her intercession. Look at verse twenty. And it was so as she rode on Uh it was so as she rode on the ass that she came down by the covert of the hill, and behold, David and his men came down against her, and she met them Now I noticed this was uh she does this without hesitation. I mean she doesn't hesitate at all. I I think this is one of the reasons. One, to delay approaching David would be deadly. If he got to the if he got on the ranch before she confronted him, it's too late. It's over. So to to delay would be deadly, and for her to let her fear control her would be fatal. Was she afraid? I don't know. I can't imagine there wouldn't be some trepidation here. I can't imagine. This guy, some of you ladies will know, an angry man is unpredictable. I thought I'd get some amens there, but I didn't get any. Uh the I can get some amens on this one. An angry woman's unpredictable. Lord have mercy. God knows that. You guys are not helping me at all. Come on now So, nevertheless, whether she was fearful or not, she knew that lives were at stake and fear could not control her. Fear could not control her. So one, she acts without hesitation. I like this one, and in fact I almost use this for part of the title, is uh she's heroic. in her intercession. Look at verse 21. We read this. David had said, now I don't know if this just going back and quoting what David had said before, or David is muttering this to himself as he's coming down. How many of you guys ever do that? You get all mad and you just repeat over yourself over and over and over what you're mad about. Yeah, come on. You guys are go quiet on me at the worst times David had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow hath in the wilderness, so nothing was And he's just very, very angry. And um think about think about Abigail now. David is just rehashing this in his mind. He is steamed. Nabal is absolutely angry that David would even make this request. He's a fool. And Abigail's stepping in between. These two men. Wow. You talk about courage. You talk about someone that's willing to put their life on the line To step in between two angry and irrational men. Now here's the thing: Abigail is willing to face David's anger on behalf of her husband. She's stepping out on behalf of her husband. We're going to see this here in a little bit. Proverbs 29 verse 22 says this an angry man stirreth up strife. And a furious man aboundeth in transgression. That describes these two fellas. And she's stepping right in the middle of it. Anybody here ever see two dogs get in a fight Dog fight. Do you ever try and get between those two? No. You don't do that. You don't do that. What you do is you get the garden hose out You soak them down, that'll cool them all. She steps right in the middle between these two. The only thing I can think more dangerous than stepping in between two angry men is stepping in between two angry women Man, these are all drop bombing on me tonight. Yeah, I think so. So sh I see hero I see heroics on her part. She's willing to put her life on the line. She's stepping up between David and her household, between David and her husband, and um come what may. She's going to step in between. I see also humility on Abigail's part. Look at verse 23. And when Abigail saw David. She hastened and lighted off the ass and fell before him. What? Verse 23. On her face, and look what it says, and bowed herself to the ground, and fell at his feet. What is that an act of? That's an act of humility. An act of also shifting so close to humanity. Yeah. Yes. And uh she's not coming out confronting him. She's she's not coming out with uh uh with a raised fist, you're not gonna do this and none of that. She comes out in total humility, total humility. I thought of Proverbs 3, verse 34, it says this: speaking of God, he giveth grace to the lowly. James chapter 4, verse 6 says this: God giveth grace to the humble. You know what she was doing? By humbling herself before a very, very angry warrior. Very, very angry soldier with a whole team of men coming down to slaughter her household. You know what she was doing by humbling herself for her? She was getting the grace of God involved in this. She was getting God's attention. Now whether it doesn't say she did this deliberately to get God's grace to deliberately to get God's attention, but she was a wise enough, insightful enough woman that she knew humility would accomplish a whole lot more than pride would. And can I suggest that in our homes and in our marriages and in our relationships, humility will do a whole lot more to help you have a pleasant home than pride will? And grace and lowliness will do a whole lot more to make things right than anger and rebuke and pride will. And she is coming with a very humble, a very lowly thing. Why? Because God giveth grace to the lowly. You know why you get so angry at your spouse? You know why you get so angry in your home and it just makes things worse and worse and worse? Because you're pushing out the grace of God. God can't work in that environment God will not. God will not step in and work in that type of environment. Can I say this? God is not going to help a marriage. Where there is pride and anger and scorn and bitterness, you've pushed God completely out of that thing God doesn't touch that. And Abigail knew that, not just in a marriage relationship, but in any type of relationship, and she humbled herself before David. And I'm telling you, that gift and that humility changed the whole environment. Changed the whole atmosphere. The whole atmosphere. I tell you, I can I'm I mean I'm not But you can walk into a home where there's humility or walk into a home where there's pride and bitterness, and you can tell the difference the minute you walk in the door. You can sense it. You can feel the absence of the presence of God. The absence of the presence of the Holy Spirit. And I'm telling you, we shoot ourselves in the foot. We're killing ourselves. God is more than willing and ready to help us and make things right and bring peace. and contentment and joy into our homes and our marriages. But we're so sink and proud we won't humble ourselves. We allow our pride to push God out of it completely. Why won't God answer my prayer? Why won't God fix this? James tells us exactly, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the lowly. And so I see an Abigail, and perhaps she's used, perhaps she learned this in dealing with a very difficult husband. Perhaps this is something that she has picked up, but she has this tremendous insight, and her intercession is characterized by he She's getting God involved. She's getting grace involved in this. And the next thing I notice here, verse 25 through 26, in her intercession, she's honest. She's very honest. Look at verse 25. Let not, my Lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial. Even Nabal, for as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name and folly is with him. You say, ah, see, she's railing on her husband, she's trash talking her husband, she's Scorning her husband, no, no, no, no, she's not doing any of that. She's being honest to David. She's just saying, hey, listen, this is what it is Um she's I don't believe she's bad mouthing that Nabel. I think she's just being honest. She's not making any t attempt to excuse his actions Or justify his actions. She's just saying, David, we all understand what the circumstances are. We all understand what the situation is. But we're not going to respond to it the way you are We're going to deal with this graciously. We're going to deal with this humbly. We're going to deal with this in a spiritual way, a spiritually mature manner. And I don't know, maybe off-handedly she was suggesting, listen, this is what Nabal is. He is. And you're acting just like him. And you're responding in kind. Now she doesn't expressly say that, but I think it's implied there Oh yeah, well if you knew how my uh oh yeah until my wife starts treating me right I ain't going to treat her right. All right, so you're on the same level she is. You're doing the exact same thing he is. So how does that what what does that do? And I think uh I think uh Abigail in her wisdom, in her insight here, says, listen, I'm gonna be very, very honest about what we're dealing with, and maybe David will see You know, I don't want to be that way. I'm not going to respond in kind. And so she's very, very honest. And last of all, I can't believe I made it this far through here. But look at verse 27 down through 31. I notice the entreaty of Abigail. She made intercession. She put herself between David and Nabal. She humbled herself, she's very honest, and now she makes her entreaty. Look at verse 27. And now this blessing, which thine handmaid hath brought unto my Lord, let it even be given unto the young men that follow, my Lord. Now here's her entreaty. I pray thee. What's the next word? Forgive the trespass of Nabal. What is she doing here? Abigail, let me back up a little bit. Abigail is placing herself as a hedge, or God maybe, is placing Abigail as a hedge between David and a very, very foolish action. God is using Abigail to be a roadblock, to be a speed bump, so to speak, on David's wrath coming down. And God puts her there to be a hedge between them. By the way, this isn't the last time God uses somebody to be a hedge in David making a foolish decision. We're going to see that as we go through. When David was on the rooftop and he noticed Bathsheba bathing herself, he went to one of his assistants, and I forget exactly how it's worded. He goes to one of his assistants and says, Who is that woman? And the assistant immediately said, That is the wife of Uriah. You know what that was? Warning. Yeah, one of his mighty men. That was warning. David, maybe he picked up what David was thinking. David, that's Uriah's wife. That's one of your good men, your loyal men. It says wife, the warning, warning. God uses people to help us Uh later on, David's going to number the the men in Israel late way later on in his in his administration. And who was it? Um Brother Heimbel, who was the fellow spoke up? Joab, I think. He spoke up and said, uh he goes, Listen, you don't need to do this. You don't need to do this. God told us not to number them like this. Now I'm putting it in my own words here. So God has, God does throughout the life of David use people to speak up and say, hey, hey, hey, hey. To be a hedge between David and make a full decision. Now in Bathsheba, he climbed over the hedge and did it. In numbering the people, he climbed over the hedge, so to speak, and numbered them anyway, and he paid a heavy price. But here God's using Abigail to be a hedge. Now listen, doesn't matter who it is, it might be a friend, it might be a family member, it might be a preacher behind the pulpit, and he gets up and he preaches on something That's going on in your life, and he's saying, listen, think this through. You need to change your approach. You know what that could be? You know what it probably is? God putting somebody up a hedge to stop us from making foolish decisions. I tell you, I and I and this is not talking about me at all, but I wouldn't want to be a part of a per church where the preacher didn't preach against sin. And I wouldn't want to be a part of a per church where the preacher didn't preach against my sin. Easy to preach about the sodomites and the abortionists and all of that, but what about us here? We need a hedge. We need a hedge. And so Abigail makes her appeal here, her entreaty to David, but she's actually in doing so, God is using her as a hedge for David to not make this Foolish decision. Let me quickly go down through here. Verse 27 and verse part of 28, I just read. She pleads for forgiveness. And the interesting thing is, I highlighted there in verse 28, she takes responsibility for Nabal's actions. She goes, forgive thy handmaid. Well, she's not the one that did it, but she is a spokesman, so to speak. She's standing here on behalf of Nabal, and she's saying, Listen, forgive us. Number two, in the second half of verse 28 and verse 29, she praises God's favor on David. She reminds him in verse 28 that God's anointing is on him. She reminds him in the last part of verse 28 that David has been faithful to the Lord. She reminds him in verse 29: God has protected him. You know what I think she's saying to David? I think she's saying, David, you know better than this. God's anointing is on you. You've been wise in your dealings with Saul. You uh uh God has been protecting you. What are you doing? God's been so good to you. Seriously, you're going to respond this way? And it's a it's a Very insightful rebuke, I think, on her part to David. I think she's saying, David, you know better than to behave this way. You know better than to act this way. You know better than to talk this way And then she points out in verse thirty and thirty-one, she points out his future. Look at look at verse thirty. She says And it shall come to pass when the Lord shall have done to my Lord according to all the good that he has spoken concerning thee, it's talking about David, and shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel, that this shall be no grief unto thee. Nor offense of heart unto my Lord, neither that thou hast shed blood causeless, or my Lord hath avenged himself when the Lord shall have dealt well with thee, my Lord. She's exercising wisdom. She's saying, David, stop and think about this. What will the consequences be? She's saying, David, if you go through with this, the day's going to come when you will regret it so bad. You'll regret it. You're going to look back on this. I tell you, I wonder how often if we would just stop and think, what will the judgment seat of Christ, if I behave this way, what will it cost me? How would it affect my future? I meet people all the time. In fact, I do in my own heart and life look back with regret things I said and did rather than trusting God and doing it the right way. I look back, the man And she's saying, David, don't do this. You will regret it. Trust God. Do right. Be gracious. Be a Christian about it. It's a powerful, powerful entreat entreaty she's making to David. God uses people to help us. Wisdom is the ability to foresee consequences of my actions. How it's going to affect my children, how it's going to affect my ministry, how it's going to affect future generations. All we can here's we we get like David, don't we? All we can see is what we want and what needs to work now. What we need to do is cool our jets, stop, listen And trust God. Now, having said all of that, there's one statement here that bothers me. And I don't know what the application is. But notice at the end of verse 31. She says this, but when the Lord shall have dealt well with my Lord, then remember thine handmaid. What is she saying? I read that and read that. I thought, what do you mean, remember thy handmaid Now I got looking commentaries. I look up to see what others said, you know, just see if they see something I'm missing or whatever. And I found several pointed out that ancient Jewish Commentators on this passage before the time of Christ, they had commentators on this, they suggested that Abigail was being very, very inappropriate here. And that perhaps she caught David's eye, or David caught her eye. And maybe she's making it, I don't know. I don't know. But it's a it's an interesting statement, and it almost seems out of place in everything she's been doing. Did she have a premonition that God was going to deal with Nabal and eliminate him and that she would eventually be his wife? I don't know. How we have no way of knowing that I wonder, and this is just the cynical part of me, I wonder if she didn't look at David in the eye. Say, remember me. Do you agree with me? It'd be awfully enticing. You've got Nabal on one side, and you've got David, who we know is good looking. He's strong. He's incredibly successful. On the other hand, how many people agree with me? That might be a little appealing to her. You know what I'm trying to say is this: Abigail was still human. It was still human. And Yeah, I don't know. I'm speculating. I'll grant that. I am totally speculating on this, but it seems out of place that statement And I think what you and I need to remember in the midst of everything is that we have a sinful nature that can pop its head up at any moment and bring us grief. Now I I can't say for a fact that's what's happening But it's a thought. It's a thought. Yes, it could be nothing more than that. You're right. It could yeah, it could be nothing more than just, hey David, listen, just remember all we're doing before you make a decision what you're going to do. And that's probably the case. But I and I didn't even it just seemed out of place. And when I read what those commentators said, I thought, huh. And um now you make me want to take it all back, what I just said. She does give does give one excuse today. Yeah. If it is late time to culture But your young man came to my young man and not to me. Yeah. You know. So but when I found out that Yeah. So that could be. Look at verse thirty-three. You guys are ruining my message. It says, and blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou which thou hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood and from avenging myself with mine own hand. Yeah, that's the next message. We're going to talk at David's uh the impact this has on David. And it it accomplishes what she wants. But uh I should have left that last one off and just kept it to myself. I didn't think about the consequences ahead of time of what Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for Abigail and what a challenge she uh has been to me as I studied her life and her reaction here. And I pray you'd help us. Help us not to be, respond like David did and get in the flesh and angry and bitter, but help us to calm, help us to humble ourselves, and help us to do right and be gracious And trust you and do it your way. I pray that you would help us. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I could use some of the graciousness that Abigail displayed I could use some of that wisdom and that insight. Sure, my hand is raised. Anytime we're working with people, we're going to need this. So God will help us. God would help us if we ask Him. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name.