Samuel, 1 Samuel chapter number 25, if you would turn there. 1 Samuel 25. While you're finding your place, there was uh six of us went down to Washington, D. C. We left Monday at noon Got down there in the middle of the afternoon, got checked in, and then uh in the evening headed over to Independent Baptist Church. That's where uh uh Pastor Mike Creed has been for just about the same length of time I've been here, not quite as long. And uh his daddy was passed there many years, Doctor Pat Creed. We know Pat Dr. Pat Creed very well. Mike's been here a few times. But anyway uh had what's called the capital connection. And I think a lot of uh folks are familiar with that from years going by. I think this is the eighth year they've done it. I was seven of the eight been able to get down there. It's an amazing thing. What they do is they they call preachers, independent fundamental Baptists from all across the country, and uh get them to come down for a couple days, would preach to us on Tuesda on Monday night And then uh 7 o'clock Tuesday morning, we load up buses, about five, six buses. There are a hundred, between a hundred and two hundred preachers, I think, somewhere around there. and uh load up these buses along with church folk and we head down to Capitol Hill and we go, we try, we endeavor to go to every single office of every single representative and every single senator on Capitol Hill from the whole country. Of course we don't get all of them, but a m vast majority of them get uh get visited on Tuesday and then they were they went on back down again today. We had to come back And uh and it's a most amazing thing. I've been in conferences, I've been in big revivals, I've been in uh you know pastors meetings You name it, I've been to to about all of 'em over the years, the big ones. And there is I've never been to anything that's quite like what this is We get preached to, we pray like crazy, we pray, pray, pray, and then we go down. And here's something I learned. The first year I went down absolutely floored me. It's probably it was more well known than I realized. I didn't know it. But you can go to these offices where these senators and representatives are. You can go right, you don't knock on the door, you open the door and walk in. You just walk right in. You don't knock on it. And they keep telling us, they says, actually, we own those offices. Those are our offices, and they're our employees. And so you walk in, there's a desk there, every one of them has a desk, usually a young man, young lady, probably in her twenties, a lot of interns and that type of thing. And uh you just go and you say, um, I'm so-and-so, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church out in Oakland, Maryland. I was wondering if um uh Senator Ben Cardin would have a few moments I could visit with him and just talk a bit. And um if he's there, uh sometimes he's he's available, of course they're very busy. If he's available, they'll say just a moment, let me check. They'll go in the back and they'll say uh send her card and say come on in. He he'd be glad to see you. And you can just walk in there and sit down with these guys and these ladies and talk to them. Now we went we went to two on Tuesday. We went to um David Trone, our representative for our district Uh he was not available and and we didn't we were unable to make appointments. I was out of town of course on my mission trip so it kind of threw a wrench in that and we weren't able to schedule appointments, so we just stopped by to see if he was available. Uh he was not available. He was uh uh doing something. But the young man there was very nice. And I s he says, Well what's this what's this concerning? You know, what what are you what are you what's the issue you're concerned about? And we said we're not here for an issue. We're not here to lobby for anything. We're not trying to get any laws passed or anything changed. So we just uh I'm a Christian, I'm a pastor. These are folks from our church. There was another pastor with us. And we said we're instructed in God's word to pray for those who are in authority. And we're instructed to honor those whom honor is due. And I said, we just come by to assure him that we're praying for him, and uh we respect the position he holds, we honor the position we hold. And we had a book, the book they gave this year is beautifully uh done. And by the way, Shannon Lamont, the fellow was here Sunday night, they print them. And I and I have a copy of that. Maybe I ought to bring it Sunday and let you look at it. But what it is, it was George Washington's devotional book that he read every evening before he went to bed. They reprinted that. In fact, his mother read it to him as a child. and then present it to him when he moved out of the house. And um the one account that we have of that was every evening before he went to bed, George Washington at 9 o'clock would go into his study, he'd read this devotional, read the Bible, and pray for one hour, and then he'd go to bed at ten o'clock. That's the one account. And so they reproduced that and And we presented that to every senator, Senator uh Chuck Schumer, anybody ever recognize hear that name? Guess what he got? He got a New Testament, he got a gospel tract, and he got George Washington I'm reading it right now. It's tremendous. It's a ma it's a tremendous book. And um well, to be honest with you, they all do down there. And um who's the gal out in uh California not Pulaski. Pelosi. She got one and all the others, all of them. And um and so then after that we went over to Ben Cardin. Senator, he wasn't available. And we got to talk to the young lady there, and a young fella, and uh shared the gospel indirectly. We got to share the gospel with them, gave them all everybody in the staff, every all the sta Everybody in the office, all the staff gets a New Testament with a plan of salvation. They got a gospel track and we presented that book to them. Isn't that an amazing thing? Who'd have ever I would have ten years ago I'd have never dreamed You could do anything like that. And uh and so we appreciate your prayers, Dave, Heath, and Evan Wendt, James And um Hester Matt and Courtney and myself went down. And Gip tracks out all over everywhere we went. We gave tracks to people And just an incredible, incredible thing. And here's the thing, we don't approach them. We don't come and we're not visiting them as politicians, other than the fact that we're honoring their office and assuring them our prayers. But we're visiting them no very little as far as purpose is concerned, no different than when I go out here and knock on someone's door. The whole purpose is to share the gospel with them And I'm telling you, it is something else. And then we get preaching in the evening. Lou Rossi had a tremendous message last night. Some of the Christian fellows down there, and there's a number of independent Baptists, uh, representatives and ones that are in office. And they came, spoke to us, gave us their testimonies, men and women, and uh just an amazing, amazing thing. I am I wish uh we're down there, I'm just wishing the whole church could be here and and experience this. And so pray for that. The literature's there. The witness has been left. Now we're back up here. And I'm going to send some letters to follow up to them. And uh pray that God will use that uh in a tremendous way and see these people saved. And uh I tell you, Brother Creed's got something going on there. Mike Creed. It's a unique thing. And you know, uh my dad was for years involved in a ministry that targeted truckers. It was called Transport for Christ And they'd have literature and they kind of targeted truckers. Um there's uh athletic ministries that target athletes, try and reach them with the gospel. Well that's the exact same thing they're doing, except they're targeting these par politicians and Capitol Hill. And so um I just wanted to give you a little report on that thing. And I came back stirred up and you know in the morning I'm always nervous, oh you gotta go talk to these people, you know, they might have you executed. I don't know what they're gonna do. You know, my mind, I wake up, my mind's racing. They're gonna, you know, and uh and they're just as nice as can be and friendly as can be. And so um Again, we appreciate your prayers. All right, 1 Samuel chapter 25. Here is a future politician we're looking at. The life of David. He's going to be a king. And I want to begin reading in verse number 32. And I'm going to just read down through verse 35. Tonight is actually the last point in last week's message. And I just ran out of time, and uh so um uh I'll briefly review what we did last week and then pick up here, and that's where we're reading, we're picking up here uh where we left off last week. Verse 32, 1 Samuel 25. And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which sent thee this day to meet me. Now that may bring back memories some of what we were talking about last week. And blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou, which hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood and from avenging myself with mine own hand. For in very deed, as the Lord God of Israel liveth, which hath kept me back from hurting thee Except thou hast hastened and come to meet me, surely there had not been left unto Nabal by the morning light. Now he gets a little crude here, and that tells us the intensity, I think, that gives a hint of the intensity of his is uh wrath. He gets a little crude and he says, uh, surely there have not been left unto Nabel by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall. So David received of her hand that which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace to thine house. See, I have hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy person. We're talking about the intervention of Abigail. Let's pray, and we'll look at this portion here and see what we can learn Father in heaven, I ask now that you would bless our study of this portion of Scripture. And Lord, help us to learn from this how we can improve ourselves as Christians, how we can grow and mature in our faith, our interaction with others, and how we Lord I ask you would help us to grow in our maturity in responding to other people's unkindness. and other people being irrational, that we can respond in a spiritually, uh spiritual way, a Christian way, a mature way. So, Lord, I need this as much as anybody, and so I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body. Pray that you would help us and teach us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Abigail's intervention. Now remember, I know this is we've talked about this, but I just want to get the whole context together here In chapter 25, by the way, 1 Samuel chapter 25, there's not a whole lot of commentaries on it. There's not a lot of sermons. This is kind of a, in fact, the one set of commentaries I have that I lean on a little bit Um he completely skips this whole chapter. And he's a good guy, good guy, but he just for whatever reason skips the whole chapter. And so um Here in this chapter, we are introduced to a man and a woman, a husband and wife. And the names are, of course, the girl is Abigail, we just read, but just mentioned her, and the husband is Nabal. And Nabal is a fool. The Bible says he is churlish. He is unpleasant. And his name means fool. Abigail, as you remember, on the other hand, is a beautiful, brainy blessing. It's the way I describe her. She's very intelligent, she's very attractive, and uh she's a blessing to her husband. She helps her husband and she helps David, and uh she helps the servants And so he's a tremendous blessing. So David, the con the story here is, just to review quickly, David is fleeing Saul. He's out in the wilderness. He comes across Nabal, who's very, very wealthy, very, very powerful man. He has huge possessions. He has uh very large flocks of sheep and uh and cattle and whatnot. And David in the wilderness provide becomes a wall, so to speak for uh Nabal's uh uh uh uh cattle, his sheep. David provides protection from the Philistines and uh however hell uh whatever else they had need Well David's got six hundred men, he has to supply them, he has to provide for them, and uh he thinks, Well, I did Nabal a favor and You know, I provided protection and helped him. I'll just send one a couple of my men down there and uh just see if he'll reciprocate and help us out and provide some supplies for us And it's reasonable. It's nothing, he's not being negligent in any way. David has every right to do this. And so he gets down. And what does Nabal do? Talk to me now, what does he do? David insults him, he refuses to help him, in s and um attacks his integrity. And uh insults him is a good way to put it. Well David's men get back to him, and um David, I guess the way to say it in our modern vernacular is David goes off on him I mean, David, it strikes David wrong, and uh all spirituality melts away, and David is, if to use New Testament term, David is in the flesh. You read study Galatians chapter 5, the works of the flesh, bingo. They are all listed. We see them here in David And he is mad. He gets his men together. They put on their armor. He's coming down, 400 men, and he is going to wipe out Nabal. He's going to wipe out his household, all servants. Nobody's going to be standing when David's done with him. Question, is that a spiritual mature response to somebody insulting you? No. That's like throwing a hand grenade at somebody, you know, I mean he's just he's going overboard. Uh one of the young men that are in the household there, I don't believe it's a child, but somebody that's part of staff, I guess you could say. uh sees and hears what Nabal does and he gets word that David's coming down and is going to slaughter all of them. This is going to be a massacre And so he goes to Abigail, intelligent, she has some insight, and he sa and he tells her what's going on Abigail, boy, she responds immediately. I tell you, the more I study Abigail, the more I like her. She knew immediately what to do. She got on that thing. And if you remember, she put a bunch of food together, a bunch of supplies. I mean, went overboard, prepared it all. This is Abigail's catering service She prepares the meal, she prepares the meat, and uh gets a bunch together, puts it on a bunch of uh donkeys, sends the fellows up ahead, she goes, I'll come behind And uh she uh confronts David. She meets him as he's coming down out of the mountains to kill her household and Nabal. She uh and I thought this was interesting. She asked for forgiveness. She didn't say any of this, she didn't do any of it, but on behalf of her husband, she asked forgiveness. We saw that in verse 27-28. She uh uh reminds David of how good God has been to him. Uh she points out the fact that David, you've been uh and then she doesn't use these words, but she points out the fact David, you've been anointed by God. You're going to be the king. And she makes a very insightful statement. And she makes a wise statement And wisdom, if you remember, I've been emphasizing this. Wisdom is the ability to see the consequence, see tomorrow's consequences of today's actions. David is not being wise. And she says, David, and again I'm putting this in my words, she says, David, if you carry through what you're doing, if you go through with this and slaughter everybody. The day is going to come when you're a king, you're going to regret it. And it's going to come back and hurt you. And she presents him with the gifts and all that. Now that leads us up to where we are in verse 32. And so my points are, if you're keeping the outline, my first point was the information that was given to Abigail, verse 14 to 17. The insight on Abigail's part, verse 18 and 19, the intercession of Abigail, verse 20 through 26. And by the way, if you remember, I pointed out Here you have this dear lady that is standing in between two very angry men. And she's interceding. She's putting herself between David and Nabal. And both men are acting extremely foolishly at this point. And so we have the inner uh the uh intercession of Abigail. Then number four, we noted the entreaty of Abigail, and again that's where she apon she asked forgiveness. She explains these things to David. Now, that gets us to verse 32. My fifth point is this. The influence upon David. Abigail's actions, how do they influence David? Now, if we hadn't already read this and we're going through this for the very first time, at verse number 32, I would imagine we would Stop with bated breath. How is David going to respond? Now, how many people read this at some point in the past? So you know how David responds. But if we hadn't if we were watching this as a show or were reading a book and we hadn't read it before, our question would be, what's he going to do? Is he going to chop our head off? Is he just going to slaughter her, roadkill on the way down to Nabal? Or how is he going to respond to this? And that's what we find out. Abigail's actions had a profound effect upon David. She accomplished her end. Her attitude, her approach, the gifts she provided, everything that she did accomplished exactly what she wanted to accomplish and what needed to be accomplished. I put this down. Our actions do have an effect on people. The people who are willing to speak up Are the people who make a difference in our world? The people who are willing to take action Even if it's scary, even if it's dangerous, but she was willing to act, she was willing to speak up on behalf of her family. Now she did so very wisely, she had insight, she wasn't being stupid But she was willing to act. She didn't just run. Take off. Nope. She acted and her actions had influence on David. Again, the people who speak up, the people who take action. Make a difference in this world. Um what if now there's two people, now think with me, gotta go back here a little bit, there's two people that spoke up That saved Nabal and his entire household. Two people spoke up and saved them from slaughter. Who were those two people? One is obviously who? Abigail. She came up and she approached David. But there was somebody before that The young man. Now we got to give him credit. He didn't just run. He didn't just cower in the barn, in the corner of the barn, waiting and hoping nobody finds him. I don't know, we're not told this. I'm probably I know I'm speculating, I may be reading too much into it, but I can hear this young man saying, somebody's got to do something And I tell you, who makes a difference in the world, who makes a difference in people's lives, are the people who do something. Are the people who speak up the right way and the right timing and the right situations and circumstances, but people who speak up Here's my question. What if that young man hadn't told Abigail what was coming down? What if he'd have just cowered? What if he'd have hightailed it? They'd all be dead. We wouldn't have this story. They'd all be dead, no doubt. Um what if Abigail would have just, and we talked about this last week. But what if she'd have just said, here's my out. This guy's been miserable for years. I've been wanting out of this forever. Here's my chance. He'll be slaughtered. Nobody I escaped. I'm free. She doesn't do any of that. She took action. She took action. Does anybody recognize the name Edmund Burke? Anyone recognize that name? Edmund Burke. He was an English statesmen during the 1700s over in England. And he made a statement, and when I make this statement, you will immediately know who I'm talking about. Edmund Burke said this the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for what? For good men, the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing. To do nothing. And as I was reading this, Abigail's response and Abigail's actions and Abigail's words She fit that bill perfectly. She did something, and she stopped David from doing something very, very evil. Now I think we live in a day and an age where, I mean it probably always is, but it's our day and our age now. And so I think we live in a day and age where good men need to do something. We gotta speak up. We see apostasy in the churches. Um I I'm grateful there's a denomination, a worldwide denomination. We were talking about this down in New Zealand among some of the pastors down there. And the denomination is, I guess they're voting or debating or whatever to allow sodomy, accept sodomy as an acceptable lifestyle. and to uh you know allow it in all positions within the quote unquote church. And there's a certain element within that denomination, sadly, not in America, outside America, that is speaking up. And they're saying, no, not in our denomination. We are not. In fact, they're threatening to separate and come out We're an independent fundamental Baptist church. There's thousands of independent, tens of thousands of independent fundamental Baptist churches in America around the world. Send missionaries out, perhaps more than any other denomination if you want to use that name uh in existence. Uh send them out around the world. Independent Baptists Movement, if you want to call it that, the Independent Baptist churches are a result of a denomination going liberal and people speaking up and saying, no, we're not following along. We're going to step out. We're going to separate out from that. We're going to stay true to the Word of God. We're going to stay true to God's Word and the principles of God's word. And so Edmund Burke said, evil prevail for the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing. And so we've got to speak out. What if this young man had not spoken out? What if Abigail had not acted? Can you think of anybody else in the Bible? Now we could Spent a long time doing this, no doubt, but can you think of anyone else in the Bible that spoke up at the right time in the right way and were able to accomplish some good because they spoke up and took action Esther. Now Mordecai had to provoke her a little bit there, but if you remember, Haman had convinced the king To slaughter all the Jews. Esther was his wife, and you know the story. Most of you know the story there. If not, it's a fascinating read And Mordecai said, Listen, you're a Jew. If they slaughter all the Jews in the kingdom, you're going down too. You're here. God has put you in your position for such a time as this And she goes, well, I can't approach the king. If I approach him without being invited, that's in the Hebrew. He says, uh, he says, God put you there for such a time as this. And what was her great statement? She goes, If I perish, I perish. She went in and spoke up to the king, and God, of course, had his hand and all that, and the Jews were spared, and God turned that whole thing around. Isn't that something? What if she would have refused? What if Mordecai had said nothing? Can you think of anyone else in the Bible that spoke up at the right time in the right way and it spared a lot of people it spared somebody or people? There's a bunch of them in the Bible. Jonah, yes, very reluctantly. But he went to Nineveh and he said what God told him to say. Had quite an ordeal getting there. But a whole city got saved, to use New Testament terminology. I'm thinking of somebody else, kind of unlikely. Anybody remember Naaman, the captain of the Syrian army? He's a lost man, wicked, ungodly man. Developed, came down with leprosy. I tell you, he could conquer armies, but he couldn't He couldn't conquer leprosy. And what happened? Somebody spoke up. Little maid. Oh, that my master were with the prophets in Israel. They would heal thee of thy leprosy That caught his ear. And he was healed and he got saved. And uh so you go through the Bible, um uh uh there's there's four other fellas in the Gospels That took some action. Remember the guys with the bed, the guy in palsy, and they came in. I just referenced them recently. I like those guys. If they were living now, they'd be my friends I like that. Man, they get him tear the tile up and get Jesus down. The point I'm trying to make is what Esther, what Abigail did here Is a tremendous example of what I believe what you and I need to do many times throughout our lives in our ministries is speak up. Take some action You see things go bad, you see things uh falling apart. And if we just sit there and say nothing and do nothing, I like Acts chapter 2, when the Spirit of God came, and the Bible says Peter stood up and spoke up. 3,000 people got saved. He took some action. He took some action. Um and so uh Little maid speaks up. Four lepers. Oh, oh yeah. What about these guys? I put these guys down. Remember the Syrians had Israel had uh it was uh in the northern kingdom was it the northern kingdom had them surrounded and they're starving and um this is really gross but they're selling doves dung for money for food. Man I Whew I've eaten some nasty stuff, but I don't know about that. We didn't have any at the Wild Game Dinner, I don't think, last week And God intervenes and runs the Assyrians off. They leave all their spoil behind. And these four lepers say, well, let's go out there and If they're going to kill us, we're going to die anyway. We're lepers, and maybe we can get some food. They get out there. They're all gone. I mean, just food and money and everything. They're beyond their measure. And what did they say? They said, we do not well Today is a day of good tidings, and we hold our peace. And they went back to Israel and spoke up and told everybody boom. And Israel spared. So what Abigail does here is a tremendous example. It's a principle that good men have to speak up. Good men have to take action. At times, in the appropriate way, in the appropriate, an appropriate time, and in the appropriate way. I got thinking about this. I wonder how many people, I wonder how many people are in heaven today. Because somebody was willing to take the action and give them a gospel tract. Wonder how many people are in heaven today because somebody was willing to get up from beh in front of the TV. and go out on a track month road trip or maybe miss a ball game or maybe s alter their schedule a little bit And take some action and give some gospel tracts out how many people are in heaven today or at least on their way to heaven because somebody was willing to take a little bit of action. Um, I wonder how many people are in heaven today because somebody was willing to go out and knock on a door. And say, hey, I'd like to invite you out to church. I'd like to leave some gospel literature with you. I haven't told this lately But uh I work in every now and then because I really like to tell it. Um but uh you remember uh years ago um uh I visited a fella And uh somebody at church had asked me to visit. I went by, knocked on the door, and visited, there was others there, and um, man, he let me have it And uh he he said things to me that I wouldn't repeat right now and uh called me names and and he was just very upset that I come by. I apologize for listen, I didn't mean to offend you, I didn't mean to upset you. I walked out of there and I'm Now you would never respond that way, but I did. And uh I was the only one, it was kind of a rainy night, there's only a couple others came out visiting and I was by myself and I got out of there, I was aggravated and frustrated. I know this is very hard to believe And I was carnal and uh I said, you know, I'm just gonna get down to McDonald's, drink a coffee, eat some fries, wait a half hour. They think I'm visiting, then I'll come back to church and Bowie. And I'm walking out and um I glance back as I'm getting up to the car and the lights on the house beside, the lights are on. And I'm telling you, as sure as anything, God spoke to my heart and said, You need a knock on that door. And being the spiritual, godly pastor I am, I said, No, I ain't doing that. There ain't no way. I'm done. And I actually opened the car. I was getting, and man, did anybody ever know I'm talking about, man, that impression was so hard. I needed to go in and knock on that door. Oh no. And so I was like, all right I went and knocked on the door and Andy Clemens answered the door. I said, you don't want to come to my church, do you? Something to that effect. I was grouchy. I said, here you go. And um, you ever think about heaven or hell? Yeah, we really do. Really? Anyway, they invited me in, I shared the gospel with them, and Andy and Vicky bowed their heads and trusted Christ as Savior. You know, I've often thought, and what a blessing they've been all these years. I'd often thought, what if I'd have pressed on and not just said, no, I ain't doing it? I didn't want to. But what if not? Where would Andy and Vicky be? Now maybe God would have sent somebody. I trust he would have sent someone else, a little more willing, maybe. My point is this: what Abigail did Was profoundly significant in that she was willing, courageous enough, had enough faith and wisdom to say, somebody's got to do something. And I tell you, we live in a world that's going to hell. And I say, Somebody's got to do something. Somebody's got to get the gospel to Kazakhstan. Somebody's got to step out of their comfort zone. Somebody's got to exercise some faith and some courage and reach our community. Garrett County needs the gospel. They do. And so man, I was just challenged, just rethinking back through here How many people are are on are in heaven today or on their way to heaven because someone was willing to share the gospel with them? We were down there and I didn't plan this and uh just as I put it together I'm looking back over it fit right in. We were down there. I'm thankful for some people down in our nation's capital. They willing to stand up and say, no, that's not right And there's people down there doing that. Thank God for that. We need more. Anyone here recognize this name? Edmund Kimball. Anybody recognize that name? Edmund Kimball. You'll recognize it here in a minute. Edmund Kimball was a Sunday school teacher in Boston, Massachusetts. Taught young boys. I think it was like seven and eight and nine-year-old boys, somewhere around there. And he had a boy visited his class one Sunday. A visitor came in. He taught the class and got his name and address and stuff like we do, and the boy left. And boy, God worked on Edmund Kimball's heart so much. He was so burdened for this little boy. The boy's name was Dwight He was so burdened for this little boy, Dwight. He went and found out where he lived. He went down and he helped somebody. He was like an apprentice in a cobbler shop, a shoe shop. He went and found the boy, and uh the record I was reading, he was so nervous, Edmund Kimball was so nervous going in there, but he knew God wanted him to go and talk to this boy about his soul salvation So he went in, they said, Yeah, he's in the back. He went back there, spent about a half-hour and hour with the boy. Showed him from the Bible how to be saved, that he needed to be saved. And Dewite, Dewite Moody bowed his head and trusted Jesus Christ as Savior there in that shoe shop. The record I was reading, Edmund Kimball left there and he said to himself, to this effect, he said, I messed that up, that poor boy, I messed that up bad. He felt like he had stumbled through that so terribly that the boy didn't know what he was doing. Like Moody, as most of us know, ended up being one of the greatest evangelists in American history. Preached around the world powerfully, millions say, no doubt, by because one man, one Sunday school teacher said, I'm going to go visit a kid that visited my class. I'm going to talk to him about his soul. He spoke up. Now that's not the end of the story. Now, some will recognize this name. Does anybody recognize the name Wilbur Chapman? Great evangelists in the early 1900s. Wilbur Chapman was led to the, was saved in a D. L. Moody service. Wilbur Chapman became a great evangelist, preached all coast to coast, United States, Canada. I think he went over to England Wilbur Chapman was preaching, and a fellow, he was preaching at the Pacific Garden Mission in Chicago. Wilber Chapman was preaching there. There was a base professional baseball player sitting in the service. The professional baseball player got under conviction he had been drinking real bad. And uh he came forward, trusted Christ the Savior. That baseball player's name was Billy Sunday So Edmund Kimball decided, I gotta go talk to that boy, I gotta stay and do something. He went and visited D. L. Moody. D. L. Moody got saved, became a tremendous evangelist. Under the ministry of Dale Moody, Wilbur Chapman got saved. Under his ministry, Billy Sunday got saved. They say there's one million record, there's a record of one million people trusting Christ under the ministry of Billy Sunday. One day a fellow was at a Billy Sunday meeting. He came forward, trusted Christ. His name was Mordecai Ham. A lot of people haven't heard of Moore can't ham. Some have. He was in the early mid-1900s, held big meetings all across country. My pastor for a while, uh Lee Robertson would preach with Mordecai Ham. He preached down at Highland Park years ago. Under the early ministry of Mordecai Ham, a young fellow came to one of his revival meetings His first name was Billy. He walked the aisle, trusted Christ as Savior. Billy Graham got saved. Wow! All because one Sunday school teacher said, I'm going to do something. I'm going to speak up. I'm going to take some action. Isn't that something? Abigail said, one of the young men in the camp says, Somebody's got to do something. Somebody's got to do something. So he went to Abigail. Abigail said, We've got to do something. She knew what to do. She was an intelligent woman, so she put together the supplies, got together a little spiel, met David halfway. She's in between David and and um Abel And how does David respond? I said all that to get to my message. This is why it takes 17 years to get through one series. How does he respond? Let me give it to you real quickly. Number one, David's response, the influence that Abigail had on David, number one, he recognizes God's hand in Abigail's actions. Look at verse 32. And David said to Abigail, this is when she's approached him and she gave him her little speech, Blessed be who The Lord God of Israel, which has sent thee this day to meet me. Now nowhere do we find before this Abigail saying, God's tell me to do this. This is God's No, no, no, she's just doing it. But behind the scenes, who's the one moving and and acting? It's God. The providence of God. And David sees that And David seems this is more than just an attractive, intelligent woman doing the right thing. He said behind that he saw God's hand. This is God intervening in my life. This is God intervening in my actions. I thought about the message I preached on a couple weeks ago from Proverbs. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not to thine understanding. In all thy ways. That's what David was doing. Oh, this is God's doing. This is God intervening. You know what that tells me? He knew that what he was doing was wrong. And as soon as Abigail shows up in between him and confronts him about it, boom, this is God doing this. He saw God's hand. And so David immediately praises God, recognizes God is using Abigail to bring him to his senses. Listen, we need to understand God uses people in our lives. God uses people to help us grow. God uses people to be a roadblock sometimes to keep us from doing stupid stuff. I look back in my ministry, and there's different people, and I think at crossroads in my life, different people helped me make wise and right decisions. Sometimes the preacher gets up. We're going to have a revival here in a few days. Sometimes the preacher gets up and preaches on something that's going on in our life. And what we have to do is be able to look beyond the man standing there preaching it and say, Hey, that's God dealing with me Remember the story I told about the couple got mad at me. I preached on I somehow went off on liquor and uh they're going out the back door and they said, How'd you know? I said, how do you know what? How'd you know we had liquor in our refrigerator? I said, I had no idea you had liquor in your refrigerator. Well you sure preached about it. I said, that wasn't me. That was who? That was God. And so David recognizes God's hand in all this. Number two, in verse 33, I noticed David received Abigail's concern. He didn't go off on her. He didn't say, Get out of the way, woman. None of that. He received it. Look at first of all, he received her advice. Look at verse 33. And this is David speaking: Blessed be thy advice thy advice. And blessed be thou, which has kept me this day from becoming uh from coming to shed blood and from avenging myself with mine own hand. He receives her advice. That word advice there means this: discernment, discretion, insight. He's basically saying this, let me just really loosely paraphrase it. He's basically saying this, you know, Abigail, you're right. You're right, I'm wrong. And he received her advice. Thank you for your advice. Thank you for your insight, your discernment. I thought it was interesting. The one dictionary I looked up, the word advice there, Hebrew dictionary, it said Sanity. David was insane, acting insane. Abigail was being sane. And he says, thank you for bringing some sanity to what I was about to do. It's kind of what he's saying. Now ladies, don't look at your husband now and say, see, that's what I'm trying to do in your life. Bring some sanity. But that's David received that. And I tell you, my hats are off to David for being humble enough to recognize that and say, hey, you helped me He received her advice. He didn't stiffen his neck and say, no, tell me what to do. David praises her for using her head. I put this down. Her maturity, a sign of maturity, is the ability to receive advice and correction. From somebody that knows what they're talking about. I jotted down Proverbs chapter 12 and verse 15. And let me come back there and read that real quick. Proverbs 12 and verse 15. Um should have written that down. I think it's he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise. Uh Proverbs 12 and verse 15 says this. The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise. David, a few minutes before is acting very, very foolishly. Abigail's influence on him, now he's being wise. He's listening. He's paying attention. He receives her advice. Then he verse 35, he receives her supplies. Look at verse 35. So David received of her hand that which she had brought unto him, brought him He needed it. That was the whole issue that instigated this whole interaction with NABOL. He needed supplies. And so he very graciously, and I think in my mind very wisely said, Yes, thank you. You need this. And again, if you remember, this wasn't unreasonable on his part to request this and and look to them to help him here. He had provided them a tremendous service. And so he receives these supplies But again, there's an interesting statement there in verse 35. He received of her hand that which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace unto thy house. See, I have hearkened to thy voice and accepted thy person. That word hearken there means give heed to, obey, says, listen, I'm going to do what you said. What you said is good, it's wise, it's advice, it's sane. And I'm hearkening to it. I'm going to take heed to it. I'm going to obey it. I'm going to follow your suggestions. You know what? You know, sometimes the best thing someone can do for you and me is to help us not sin Sometimes what we need to hear is somebody who cares about us and knows what they're talking about a little bit, and just come and say, no, don't do that. That's wrong Amen? That's a good thing for a parent to tell a child. No, that's wrong But teach it, don't do that. Um, I want to suggest this to you. Christian friends help Christian friends do right. Do right. Now, Abigail's motive, no doubt, was to save her family. But what she did was help David tremendously, helped him do right. I put it this way, one of the best things someone can do for me is help me avoid sinning, help me avoid making mistakes, help me acting foolishly. And again, I mentioned this last week. That's where I think a role, that is a role that the church has in the life of a believer. We get together and help each other. We get together and encourage each other. One of the New Testament words that refers to the church over and over again is exhort one another. The word exhort means build up, strengthen, help do right, help trust God, help walk with the Lord. David didn't get offended Maybe he can go off and get mad at her. He said, thank you. I'm going to listen to what you said. What you're saying is true and right. And I tell you, I and I guess there's something we just have to continually rehearse and relearn, maybe But you know I've got to I've learned uh I like to think I learned early on is when somebody comes from the Bible and says, hey, this is right, this is wrong, to listen to that and accept it I know they're and I'm not perfect and I'm making mistakes, there's no doubt about that, but I know many times over the years, or I should say occasionally over the years, I would have to sit down with someone and say, Hey listen, we gotta go by the book and sometimes they'd listen and sometimes they'd take great offense and walk off. And my motive, I sincerely, my motive is sincerely just to be a help. You know, we don't want to make mistakes. We want to do right. And I've got preacher friends. I've got Dr. Pat Creed's one of them. I've sat down with him more on many occasions and said, What should I do? And he said, This is what you need to do. Don't do that. I thank God for that. I thank God for that. And so he recognized God's hand. He received her concern. And she helped him. He recognized that. Then last of all, and I'll end with this, he realized his folly. Look again at verse number 34. Come back up there. For in very deed, as the Lord God of Israel liveth, which kept me back from hurting thee, what did Abigail do? Nothing. She didn't insult him. She didn't do any of that. David's saying, Man, I was wrong. I was going to hurt some innocent people God of Israel kept me back from hurting thee, and except you had except thou hast come and met me, surely, and he goes on and uses the language he does and says I'd have slaughtered everybody What's he doing? Why does he rehearse that? Why does he say that again? I believe what he's doing is he's acknowledging God's mercy on him and acknowledging how foolish he was acting. God used Ah Abigail as a roadblock in David's road to ruin First Corinthians ten thirteen says, There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man, but God is faithful who will not suffer you to be tempted, above that you're able, but will with the temptation Make a way to escape. Provide a way to escape. That's what Abigail was, an out for David. And she redirected him and kept him from doing that. Uh he recognized God's mercy in his folly and he recognized the magnitude of his folly and I'll end uh and uh he he takes responsibility for his actions. He doesn't blame He doesn't blame Nabal and say, well, you know, no excuses, no blame. And then last of all, this is the last one. Number four, he responds with praise. He blesses Abigail for helping him. Last part of verse 35. I have hearkened unto thy voice and accepted thy person. He says, go up in peace to thine house. One of the most important characteristics in the life of a growing Christian is being teachable, being correctable. Let me ask this question: Are we correctable? Are we willing to be corrected when we need to? An immature Christian says, ain't nobody telling me what to do But a humble, submissive Christian like David is displaying here is correctable. I was wrong. And I need to be corrected. I need to be changed. Anybody here ever use Google Maps? At first I hated Google Maps. Ain't no woman on there telling me where to dry, where to go. And um Uh but you know what I found out? Sometimes I think this is the best route. Google Maps says go the other way. And I used to ignore it, but I learned a couple years ago they've perfected that thing pretty good. And I hate to say this, but They usually have a better route than what I come up with. Usually. And uh I forget. Uh oh, it's down New Zealand. I was telling Lewis about it. We're trying to find a place. I said, put Google Maps in there. He goes, ah they don't know nothing We're driving around, driving around, driving around. So we'll just try it. He put it in. Ting, we went right to it. And um God's better than Google Maps. Sometimes we think, oh, I'm going to take care of this. What we need is God to step in and trust him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord that uh you would help us, Lord, to be And to uh our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need the Lord to help me and lead me and direct me. And you like that Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jane plays the imitation, and maybe maybe uh just need to come in old-fashioned order this evening. And uh just ask the Lord to help us, trust him, ask the Lord to help us, be willing, uh to let him correct us and redirect us when we need it, be willing to acknowledge when we're out of sorts. Let the Lord have his way. See God's hand and the things he brings in our lives and the roadblocks and the The intervention, Seagard's hand, and all of that Oh yeah. Father in heaven, we thank you for David and Abigail and this whole event that we can learn from. Help us, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. May be seated. Ushers if you would.