2 Samuel chapter 3, I want to begin reading in verse number 12, and I want to read down through verse 21, extended portion of scripture here And uh we I want to try and cover all this ground tonight. And I tell you, I promise we'll be out by ten, and so don't uh don't get worried And 2 Samuel 3, verse 12, the Bible says this: And Abner sent messengers to David on his behalf, saying, Whose is the land? saying also, make thy league with me, and behold, my hand shall be with thee to bring about all Israel unto thee. Now notice how he phrases that there. We're going to come back to that. He says, Make thy league with me, my hand shall be with thee, to bring about all Israel unto thee. Verse 13, and he said, David, and he said, Well, I will make a league with thee But one thing I require of thee, that is, thou shalt not see my face, except thou first bring Michael, Saul's daughter, when thou comest to see my face. And David sent messengers to Ishbosheth, Saul's son, who was the counter-king in this counter-kingdom that's been set up Saul's son, saying, Deliver me my wife, Michael, which I espoused to me for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines And Ishbosheth sent and took her from her husband, even from Thaltiel. the s uh the son of Laish, and her husband went with her along, weeping behind her to Beharrim. Then said Abner unto him, Go, return, and he returned. And Amner had communication with the elders of Israel, saying, You saw it for David in times past to be king over you. Now then do it. For the Lord hath spoken of David, saying, By the hand of my servant David I will save my people Israel out of the Philistines. And out of the hand of all their enemies. And Amner also spake in the ears of Benjamin. And Amner went also to speak in the ears of David and Hebron. all that seemed good to Israel, and that seemed good to the whole house of Benjamin. So Abner came to David, to Hebron, and twenty men with him, and David made Abner and the men that were with him a feast And Amner said unto David, I will arise and go, and will gather all Israel unto my Lord the King, that they may make a league with thee, and that thou mayest reign over all thine heart's desire. And David sent Abner away and he went in peace. For lack of creativity, I just entitled the message tonight Abner's League with David. Let's look at this. There's a lot of interesting things here. Let's pray and ask the Lord to take what we read here and apply it to our lives as Christians. Let's pray. Father in heaven I thank you, Lord, for the Word of God and for David all these thousands of years ago, and yet he seems so relevant today And I ask that you would teach us from this in a practical way that our faith can be stronger, our Christian lives would be more like Christ. And uh we could learn to live by uh your word and the principles of your word. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit tonight, and it would not be me speaking, just speaking words, but I pray it would be your Holy Spirit speaking through me. your word to our hearts and minds and that our lives would be affected. So again I present my will, re yield my body to you and present my will and ask that you would uh Take me and uh use me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Uh lots of drama going on here in David's uh David's life. Actually, this account we're reading here and leading up and the verses leading up to this passage. is really a major turning point in David's ascent to the throne. Now we understand, we've been studying this long enough, we understand God had anointed David to be king of all of Israel back when he was a young man, probably a teenager. God didn't anoint him to be king just of Judah. That's what he is at this point Judah's the only one of the twelve tribes that recognized God's anointing, and they set him up as king. They anointed him publicly and uh recognized God's choice here. The rest of the tribes of Israel have not And God did not anoint David to be king just of Judah, he anointed him to be king of all of Israel. And so This is a key point, a key turning point in that taking place. Now, here's the interesting thing, as I was studying this. Here's the interesting thing about this. God is using This guy, Abner, who the more I'm studying his life, the less I like him. There's some people in the Bible I have a hard time with. And Abner is becoming one of those. Abner is a self-centered, unprincipled, self-seeking, self-willed man. I believe he was a conniver and uh worked his way around and uh pretty dishonest in a lot of ways. But here's the thing. God uses this fella, that I, my opinion of him, my assessment of him, God uses him to accomplish his will. Now, anybody here find it interesting, kind of ironic, that God uses sometimes wicked, unspiritual, self-centered people, yet he can still use them to accomplish his will. Anybody find that interesting? In fact, you see that throughout Scripture. We could go all through Scripture where God, not even individuals, but God would sometimes use a nation That was a very wicked, ungodly nation, but he would use them to accomplish his will. And this is something I learned right off the bat in the study in this passage here is this God's in control. God knows what he's doing, and God can accomplish his will regardless of who or what tries to get in the way. Isn't that an encouraging thought? And so here you have Abner. He set up this counter kingdom against uh David And yet God is using him to advance David towards what God anointed him to be. I've got four or five points to my this section here. I divide up into four or five thoughts. My first one is this. I want us to notice in verse number 12. I want us to notice Abner's defection. Abner's defection. Look at verse 12 again with me. And Abner sent messengers to David on his behalf, saying, whose is the land? Saying, David, hey, whose land is this? And of course the answer he's looking for from David is what? Who's the king of all this? Who's supposed to be rule over this land? And the answer from David would be David. He should have David's answer to that question, what Abner was fishing for here Was for David to say, hey, it's mine. God anointed me to be king. But before we have any response from David, Abner goes on and says, This, make thy league with me. And behold, my hand shall be with thee to bring about all Israel unto thee. He's uh setting David up. He's saying, Listen, whose land is this? And of course David in his mind is thinking it's mine. God anointed me. And he goes, Hey, uh, I'll make a league with me and I'll I'll get this done for you. I'll take care of this for you Now, if you remember, previous to this, Abner had established, set up this counter-kingdom, is what I'm calling it A counter-kingdom, he took one of Saul's sons, Ishbosheth, who was a very weak man, he's really a puppet of Abner And he puts him up in the kingdom, and he talks the eleven other tribes into recognizing Ishbaseth as the king of these eleven other tribes. And uh why did he do this? Uh I I suggested several reasons. One, I think is uh it was uh and this the Bible doesn't say this, so this is my surmising. This is uh what I think I think one of the reasons was Abner was reacting to David's public rebuke of him. Remember back, I think it was chapter 26 1 Samuel, where David took the sword the spear from Saul while he was sleeping, and he publicly says, Abner, you've not done well. You allowed somebody to come into your king and take that, I could have killed him, Abner. He's basically saying publicly, Abner, you failed. I don't think David liked Abner very much, to be honest with you Because he he makes a point to uh highlight the fact that Abner failed in this, then he publicly brings uh attention to it. So I think in the heart and mind of Abner, uh he's ticked. And uh he he's not going to recognize David. So he sets up this counter-kingdom. One reason is revenge against David, I think. But another reason he's setting this kingdom up, and we touched on this before, is I believe it's just flat-out rebellion against God. Now remember, King Saul knew what it was to rebel against God. He was a rebel against God. Prophet Samuel pointed that out. And I think uh uh what's what's the old saying, birds of a feather flock together. So no doubt if uh if King Saul was a rebel at heart against God It's not surprising that people around him would have that same attitude. I think Abner did also. Because we find out uh in w in in tonight, we're gonna see here That Abner knew that God had anointed David to be king. He recognized that. He knew that was true. Everybody knew that was true. And yet he deliberately went against the will of God. But so he gets King Saul's son, Ishbazath, uh he puts him up. You know, here's the uh captain of the host putting the king up there. That's that's highly unusual. And uh so he's setting Ishbosses up, he's this puppet king, uh Abner is the power behind it, he's pulling the strings behind it, and you know what, that doesn't last too long, and that thing falls apart And they get fussing among themselves. You know what I found out? I found out when people are out of the will of God, a lot of time they have a hard time getting along You ever notice that? And uh Abner and Ishpah seth have this falling out. And you remember if you remember he accused uh Abner of sleeping with one of his concubines, actually Saul's concubines And they have this fallen out. And Abner threatens, all right, you're going to accuse me of this. I'm out of here. I'm defecting over to David. He threatened to do that in the previous verses. Verse 12, he carries through with his threat. And he actually comes over to David and and uh defects over to David, recognizing David. Now here's my question in this And I want you to talk to me tonight. I want you to participate here a little bit. What is motivating What is motivating? What is governing? Let me put it this way. What is governing Abner's actions What is it that's dictating? I mean he's here, he's setting up kings, Isposatha, setting up him as king. Now they fall fall out. Now he's coming over here See if you get on the same wavelength with me. What's governing this guy's actions that he's going back and forth? Great, ah, somebody, I heard somebody say what I'm thinking. Self-interest. Now listen, that's where a problem comes in. What is governing Abner's actions are not scriptural principles. God had laid out very, very clear what his will was for Israel, for David, for everybody else involved. It was very clear what God's will was on this subject. But what God, the principle God has established, and the instructions that God had given Abner were not what was dictating and governing his actions. It was his self-will. It was his self-interest. Whatever happened to please him at that time, whatever happened to appeal to him at that moment, whatever was to his advantage, at least in his mind, or fit his agenda at that given time, that's what he's pursuing And at the drop of a hat, he will abandon his loyalty to one king and transfer it over to another king. There's not scriptural principles dictating his actions, governing his actions. It's self-will. It's his own agenda. And that is one of the biggest struggles, I believe, in the Christian life. And that is this, being able to put aside my self-will, being able to put aside my own agenda, being able to keep from reacting the things, and rather acting upon scriptural principles, and letting the Word of God dictate my actions rather than what I want at that given time. You follow what I'm saying And if you and I can get to the point where the Word of God and the principles of the Word of God govern our actions, govern our tongue. govern our behavior when the Word of God does and not what I want and my thinking, my understanding, and my own agenda, and I can crucify all that and live by the principles, boy, then we're on the road to spiritual maturity. And Abner has not attained that. And he is just whatever is to his advantage, at least in his mind at that given time. Brother, that's what he's for, not scriptural principles. So the one thing, the first thing I noticed here in verse number 12 is Abner's defection from this puppet king he set up That falls apart. Their relationship has fallen out. So he's now over here with David. Number two, second thing I notice in the first part of verse 13 is David's delight. David's delight. First we have Abner's defection. David's delight. Look at verse, the first part of verse 13. And he said, This is David speaking now. Well. I will make a league with thee. Now I got looking up that word well. I thought that's kind of interesting. It has in there. Abner sends some messengers, and uh they tell them what Abner's plan is And David says, well, well, I thought let's look up that word, well. And uh somebody said, well, that's a deep subject. Oh sorry. Uh so I looked it up and you know what I found out? It has nothing to do with a hole in the ground in water. The word well means this. Excellent. Wonderful Uh I can this is the way I imagine it. David gets word from these messengers that Abner is going to come over, and Abner says, I'll get all the other eleven tribes over behind you. You'll be king of all of Israel. David says, Well, this is great. Ah, wonderful. Man, excellent. And uh he's excited about this. This is the best news that David has heard in a long time. They've been in a long war between the tribe of Judah and the eleven tribes of Israel, and fussing and fighting and going on. This has been seven and a half years I don't know by anybody's standards. That's a long time to be waiting on God, waiting on God's will to be fulfilled. So finally Abner's messengers show up out of the blue and they said, Hey, this is what Abner will do for you. David says, Oh, this is wonderful, excellent. This is delightful. Well I think the interesting thing is here is David refused to take the kingdom by force. He could have amassed his armies and just went plowing in there, but he wouldn't do it. Uh he didn't connive with people and Made backdoor deals and stuff to get this. Nope. He just waited on God and waited on God and waited on God. Let me give you a second characteristic of a mature Christian The first one is this. I operate, I'm governed, I allow myself to be governed by God's word, not by my self-will. That's characteristic of a mature Christian. Second characteristic is this, the ability to wait on God. Wait on God. That's not easy. I don't know about you, but I noticed that the smaller the child is, the less patient they are. Anybody anybody here have a child who was born, grew up, and was just the most patient little baby? They just be happy until you come and feed them. They never cried or anything. And if they'll wait just patiently till you change their diaper. I'll know about you. But we never had any babies like that. Patience is something that takes maturity, takes discipline. And David had learned, he'd been through it He learned one thing I think he's learned here now. He struggled with it later on a little bit. One thing he learned, that's just let's wait on God. Let's wait on God on this thing. And he waited and waited and he did what he needed to do, and finally the day came where somebody shows up at the palace there in Hebron or wherever it was and says, hey, listen, we can bring this thing together Oh, wonderful. Wonderful. Uh my advice to young preachers often is this, learn to wait on God Learn to wait on God. Learn to be patient and trust the Lord. Don't react to things. I was talking to a young preacher this week called me from another state down south. And um he was had some situation, he said, Well, just you got anything, any advice? I said, Well tell you what, you just wait on God, just do what the Bible says, don't compromise any scripture or what You know, there's people rumblings in the church about stuff. You just hold the scripture. You just hold the scripture principles. Don't change anything, but don't react and don't blow up. You just wait on God, just keep doing right, just trusting the Lord, and God will bring that thing together. And that's what David has learned here, I believe. And so finally the day comes. He has the enforce this kingdom on them. He didn't connive. He just waited on the Lord, wait on the Lord. And to his delight, these messengers show up. Then I notice in the last part of verse 13, I notice David's demand. Abner defects over to David, and David's thrilled. He's delighted about that. But he's very cautious. David's no dummy. He's dealt with Abner before, and no doubt he was observing him. And David makes some demands here. Notice the second part of verse 13. He says, I will make a league with thee, but. One thing I require of thee. And notice he emphasizes this. That is, thou shalt not see my face. And then he gives what the requirement is. Now I want to stop here. He says, well, this is wonderful, delightful. Yes, this is what we've been waiting on. But wait a minute. I'm requiring something from you, Abner, and you're not going to see my face unless you meet this requirement. Now I notice his demand is pretty emphatic. David, what is David doing here? Amner shows up, his messenger shows up, says, Hey, I will get you the kingdom. I'll bring this about. I'll work this out for you. I'll take care of you. What's David doing when he says, hold it? Abner, I'm requiring something from you, and you're not going to see my face unless you do it. Anyone want to take, see what, see if you're thinking what I'm thinking? Establishing authority. David is taking charge. He knows Abner. He's seen how he manipulated and uh others and Ishpasat. And David immediately Establishes the ground rules here, and he says it's going to be done according to my requirements, and you're not going to see my face if you don't meet this. So he makes a very emphatic demand Um he's establishing the fact that that I am I'm in charge of this thing. I'm not letting you take over this and connive your way into this, Abner. And not only is it an emphatic demand, but I noticed this David's demand is a reasoned demand. Now at first I looked at this and I thought this doesn't fit the narrative But after I got looking at it and studied a little bit, I come to some conclusions. Notice here in verse number 13, he says, But one thing I require thee, and that is, and thou shalt not see my face. Except thou first bring Michael, Saul's daughter, when thou comest to see my face. Who is Michael, Saul's daughter? That's David's wife. That was his first wife. And he says, You're not going to show up unless you bring my wife back. Bring my wife back with me. Now, uh at first I thought, you know, we're talking about the kingdom here. We're talking about David being established and God's anointing being carried out. God's will being carried out. What in the world is he bringing up this Michael for here? Well, I think he's he's no dummy. There's several things here David's doing. Number one, one reason I think Now this is speculation a bit, but I think one reason he wanted Michael back was simply the fact that he maybe loved her This is his wife. This was his first love, so to speak. And she had been taken away from him by uh King Saul kind of pushed him out and was pursuing him. He had to flee for his life and Michael was left behind, if you remember, and then King Saul took Michael and gave him to this other fellow uh to be his wife And um I just think David was stung a little bit by that. And maybe he just loved the old gal. And he wanted his wife back. I think there's another maybe aspect to this, why David at this time In this situation, would require Michael to come back, require her back. And I think it's this. Michael is whose daughter? King Saul's daughter. And I believe that behind this request, this requirement on David's part, is I want the family of Saul and the people who were loyal to Saul to recognize That I am the successor to their king Saul. And remember, we had mentioned before and pointed out before, marriages were often arranged for political purposes as alliances and as uh treaties would involve the marriage of that. And I'm got a sneaking suspicion in the back of David's mind He is thinking, I want people to recognize the fact that if I become king of all of this, I want people to recognize that I am legitimate heir, I am the legitimate successor, I should say to the throne of Israel. Not just by God's anointing, but by taking Saul's daughter back. And that may or may not be the case, but I think there's another reason here. I think one, he just loved her Two, he's trying to establish some uh authority and some legitimacy here, perhaps. But I think there's another aspect, and I think he is not David is not allowing himself to become a puppet of Abner. He had seen Abner use and manipulate people enough. And he's saying this, Abner, um, listen, before we do any of this, you're going to do something for me. I want you to go and get my wife and bring her back. Uh he's not allowing himself to be Abner's puppet. Now, I think David saw what Abner was doing. There's no way in the world Abner was legitimately wanting David to be king He wasn't concerned. I don't believe for one minute Abner was concerned about the will of God or what is in the best interest of David. Abner was concerned about the will of Abner And what was in the best interest of Abner. He had fallen out with Ishbossad. I'll get over there, I'll get on the good side of David, and oh, he'll take care of me. I'll get a position in his administration, and I'll be well off. And David saw that. He saw what Abner was up to. I put it this way in my notes. David saw what Abner was doing, advancing himself, but David also saw what God was doing In advancing his will. Now let me throw this out here to you. We look around us and we see sometimes some very wicked, self-willed people getting their way, conniving, and advancing themselves. And we get discouraged and we think, oh, it's all gone, it's terrible, all this. I want to remind you, God is always at work. And I've been saying this over and over and over again for the recent months and years, over and over again, whenever bad stuff happened, whenever something Uh happens that looks like it's terrible. Always watch for the hand of God somewhere in all that's going on Watch for God doing something. I think David was able to see beyond what Abner was doing and say, God's using this guy To accomplish his will. So number one, my first observation was this, Abner's defection. Number two, David's delight. He's thrilled with this. Then he makes this demand And then fourthly I notice Michael's delivery. Now, Abner David gets a hold of Ishbasheth. And he says, listen, I need you to send Michael back over to me. She's my wife. Look at verse number 14 with me. Now this gets a little interesting. And David sent messengers to Ishbashath, Saul's son, saying, Deliver me my wife, Michael, which I espouse to me for a hundred and four skins of the Philistines. And Ishbush sent and took her from her husband, even from Faltiel, the son of Laish. And her husband went with her along, weeping behind her to Behura, then said Abner unto him, Uh this the way I put it. Get out of here. Get back there. Go return. And he returned. How many people grieved me? That's kind of a pitiful thing there. Man alive So, first of all, David makes a claim on his wife, Michael. Verse number 14. He says, Hey, hey, I paid a big price to for the dowry to espouse this this gal from King Saul. I met the demands. I did what was required of me. It risked my life. This was a big thing. I made claim to her. And by the way, he points out, he says, this is my wife. No other man had claim to Michael. This Faltiel, her second husband. Was not a legitimate husband. She was a married woman when he took her. Anybody remember what happened when Abraham went down to Egypt? And he told Pharaoh that Sarah was his sister, and Abraham was going to take her to be one of his wives. Pharaoh was going to take her to be one of his wives. Anybody remember that story? And what did God do? Well, God intervened and confronted Pharaoh and said, You're going to be a dead man. That's a married woman you're taking. And Pharaoh says, whoa! And he's not a godly man. He says, Whoa, I'm innocent here. And then I was reading my devotions, I think it was just this morning. Um Isaac did the exact same thing. And God stepped in. And so David's claim to Michael is a legitimate claim. This other fellow had no right taking her. She was David's wife. And so it was a legitimate claim. So the first thing I noticed is David's claim here under Michael's delivery back to him. Then in verse number 15, I noticed Ishbash cooperation. Verse 15, and Ishpasheth, I wish he had an easier name to say, sent and took her from her husband, even from Thaltiel, the son of Laish. So Ishbaseth cooperates. You want your wife back? Alright. It's his sister. Um, okay, I'll send her back to you. Now here's where I got a sneaking suspicion. We're not told, but I have a sneaking suspicion that Ishbosheth Doesn't know about the League of David and Abner. I got a sneaking suspicion that all Ispes is aware of that I get this message from David, the king over in Judah That he wants his wife back. Sure, no problem. I don't think he had a clue that that was part of Ishbazeth losing his throne And to David. And so he cooperates and he goes along and he does that. And then, this is where it's really pitiful, verse 16, you have this Fail TL's, her husband, second husband's, crying. Notice it says, and her husband went with her. They come in and say, hey, Michael David wants you back. We're shipping you back. We don't told how she responded. Maybe she was happy. Maybe not. We don't know. So they pack all their stuff up and they get it all together, and the king's men and messengers, maybe there's guards there and soldiers, and they say, All right, you come with us, we're taking you back to David. And this poor guy is like, uh I looked up the word weeping. It says he w uh husband went with her along, weeping behind her. And the word weeping means crying bitterly and wailing. I mean this guy, this poor guy, he is brokenhearted, he is crushed. He's losing his wife to David. Now at first I felt so bad for this guy, and I thought, this ain't right to do this to him. And then I got thinking and studying this, and I thought, wait a minute, this guy took another man's wife. He knew she was married to David. It doesn't matter what King Saul said. And so you have his pale tails Crying. And then last of all, quickly, I want to give you this Abner's diplomacy. So Abner's diplomacy David makes this demand. I'll make a league with you. Uh you go get this, you get the other eleven tribes on board with me, recognize me as king. But I require, you're not going to see my face, unless you bring my wife back. So he does that. He gets that take place and come back. And now Abner turns on the diplomacy. This is what Abner does best. To manipulate people and work them and get them to do what he wants them to do. Look with me real quickly. I want to buzz down through these. I notice the basis of his diplomacy. He offers two things as a basis. For the rest of Israel to come back to David. Look at verse 17. He says, and Adner had communication with the elders of Israel, so he's bypassing Ishbasheth. He's out of the picture. He has no part in this And he goes to the elders of Israel saying, You sought for David and time pass to be king over you. Huh That tells us a little something about what the elders of Israel were thinking before Abner put Ishbazeth in there. They were already wanting David to be king. This implies to me that all of Israel was okay with David being king. Ish uh Abner stood in the way of that And manipulated that. So he makes this appeal to the will of Israel. You wanted David to be king before? Okay, look what he says. You saw it for David in time past to be king of you? Now then do it Listen, we can make this happen. Now look what else the basis. For the Lord has spoken of David, saying, By the hand of my servant David, I will save my people Israel. And out of the hand of the Philistines and out of the hand of all their enemies. He's not only appealing to the will of the elders of Israel. This is what they wanted in the first place anyway But he appeals also to the word of God. God has said David was going to be king. Abner knew the whole time that this was God's will. The whole time And so now he comes back. He's not governed by principles or scriptural principles at all. He's his own will. And so now all of a sudden he's concerned about the will of God being done. And he uses that as a basis of his diplomacy. Then I notice his bargaining. Now look what it says here, verse 19. And Abner also spake in the ears of Benjamin. He picks this one tribe out. He goes to the leaders, the elders of the tribe of Benjamin. And Abner went also to speak in the ears of David. So he's going talking to the elders of Benjamin in their ears. Then he comes over to David. And they're going back and forth. We're not we're not told what he's saying. But he's got this backdoor stuff going on here. And um And in the ears of David the Hebrew, and all that seemed good to Israel, and that seemed good to the whole house of Benjamin, listen, this is going to be good for you guys. It's going to be great. David get- we'll recognize him as king. Now why do you think he singled out the tribe of Benjamin? Are you everybody still with me? This might be getting a little long here. Why would he single out the tribe of Benjamin? Why not the tribe of Naphtali? The tribe of Asher? Why Benjamin? Not bigger. Wasn't smaller. It was the tribe that King Saul came from That's where his family would be. If any tribe is going to be loyal to King Saul, it's going to be Benjamin. And Abner knows that and he goes and he I don't know what these sweet deals are he's making. Maybe he's going over, listen, I'll talk to David and he'll give you tax exempt for one year If you guys go for it, David, listen, uh, they're they're really loyal to King Saul, but if you do them some favors, you know, maybe uh if you give them a stimulus check, and uh they'll really get on board with you And uh don't require masks or anything, just of them. They can get away with it. And uh and he finagles here, and uh he gets Benjamin on board, so he does this bargaining And then I noticed, last of all, verse 20 and 21, the benefit of his diplomacy. Madner said to David, I will arise and go and will gather all Israel unto my Lord the King. That they may make a league with thee, that thou mayest reign over all thine heart over all that thine heart desireth. And David sent Abner away, and he went in peace. Success! Abner got his deal done. David got the kingdom now. I thought, what's the application? What do we take away from this? Looking at Abner, he's a key player in David's ascent to the throne of all of Israel. He's a rascal. What Abner does is he acts on personal agenda, not on scriptural principle. And if you and I can get to the place Where it's not my will, but it's Lord's will. And every action I take and every part of my behavior is governed by what God instructs me here Rather than what my head and my heart want here. Brother, I'm on the way to growing spiritually. Amen? You follow what I'm saying? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you would help us to learn. From Abner and his behaviors and what his apparent motivation is. I pray you'd help us. Help me Do what my pastor years ago said over and over, die to self. Follow the live by be governed by the Word of God. I ask you to help us to do that. I wonder with our heads bowed eyes closed. I wonder how many of us would say, preacher, you know, I can look at areas of my life and I see, I see me. I see me running the show, me sitting on the throne. Maybe some of us have some areas where you need to just say, you know, I need to get off that throne and let the Lord, the Word of God Be the one in charge. Is there anything like that? Preacher, I see some areas in my life where I really need the Lord. God bless you. My hands raised. I'd so as I was studying this And so maybe tonight we just come and online, folks along, just take a moment and just pause and kneel, maybe an old order, and say, Lord, I want you to have your way, your way. Help me not to react to things, but help me act. Upon the Word of God, the principles of Scripture. Father bless invitation I ask. In Jesus' name, Amen