20. All the way down there. Verse number 20 of Romans chapter 5. And uh we're going to zero in primarily on the second half of that verse. We're going to consider the first half But notice what the Bible says in verse 20. Moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound. Now I want us to look at that. Now I'd like for us to read that next phrase together, the rest of the verse together. You got it there. We're at chapter 5, verse 20, second half. Let's read it together. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. Can anybody say amen to that statement right there? Phew. Where sin abounded Grace did much more abound. I want to speak this morning and try to ask the Lord to help me on abounding grace. Abounding grace. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven. Lord, it's sure been a blessing to be in your house today with your people. The fellowship has just encouraged my heart today. The music has been a blessing. He's sure been good to us, Lord, like the choir sang And blessed assurance, Lord, my heart stirred. I ask now that as we look into your word at this very key passage, important teaching, That you would help us to receive this, understand it, and that it would affect our lives, our faith, how we live on our daily lives. Lord, I have nothing in of myself to say about this that's of any spiritual value. I understand that, Lord. And so I come to you and I yield my will to you and I present my body and I pray that you would speak through me your word and apply it to each of our lives as we have need, as you know we need it. Lord, I have no doubt there's some people under the sound of my voice, whether here in the auditorium or on the airwaves, that have never trusted Christ as Savior, that have no assurance of their soul's salvation. Lord, maybe today your grace would break through and they'd see that and believe, be born again. Lord, I'm pretty confident talking to some folks, maybe here in the auditorium on the airwaves. That have trusted you as Savior, but sin has crept in. And maybe describe themselves as backslidden or carnal, out of the will of God. I pray your grace Would become evident in their lives and they would turn and find victory and get back in fellowship with you. So either case, Lord, I pray you would have your way and help us to trust you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I want to begin this morning by making this statement. We do not apologize one iota For believing that this old book is the preserved, inerrant, perfect, inspired Word of God. This book right here I hold in my hand is the sole authority For all of our faith and practice. Everything we do as a church, our authority comes from this book right here. Not from some denominational hierarchy. Not from some government agency. Not from some Pope. The Word of God, the Bible, is our sole authority. And we want that to be clear. We want our community to know that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is a Bible-believing, Bible-preaching, and hopefully a Bible-living church. We want that to be clear. I want to make this statement. We make no apologies for teaching and preaching that Jesus Christ is the sinless, perfect Son of God. And he died for every man, woman, and child that has ever lived or ever will live. On that cross, he paid for the sins of all of mankind. You say, preacher, are you saying that because Jesus down the cross everybody got saved? No, I'm saying because Jesus is down the cross, anybody can be saved. If they'll come and trust them as Savior. Nobody's left out. Nobody's excluded, every single person, no matter their background, no matter their education, no matter their nationality If they'll come in humility, turning to Christ, trusting Him for forgiveness and cleansing of sin, that He died for them, buried, rose again, Jesus Christ will save them. We don't apologize for that message one bit. In fact, we want to make it clear that is exactly what the Bible teaches, and that's what everybody needs. I tell you, there's no greater joy than having the blessed assurance of my salvation. And that's what we want to declare. That's our message. Whether it's on the radio waves, whether it's from behind the pulpit here Whether it's out on the house uh doorsteps in the community, uh in screens on the uh at the food store, uh in the newspaper, we're putting a big ad in the newspaper for our Bible time route. We want people to know Christ. And we make that clear. One last statement I want to make. Then we'll look at our passage. We make no apologies For declaring, preaching, and teaching that salvation is by grace through faith plus nothing and minus nothing. It's by grace through the Lord Jesus Christ. We cannot earn God's favor. We cannot earn God's forgiveness. We cannot earn eternal life. Now I think a Christian ought to serve God, amen. One capacity or another, every child of God ought to have a ministry, ought to have something they're doing for the Lord, serving the Lord. But serving the Lord doesn't make me acceptable to God. Only Christ can do that. By grace through faith. Forgiveness and eternal life cannot be earned. It's by grace through faith. Now I said all that to get to this point. The book of Romans Is a divinely given book on the theology of salvation. Now that's a big term, theology. Theology, the word theology simply means this: the study of God. And things about God. Anybody here ever think about God? You're in church. If you haven't before, I hope we've already got God on your mind a little bit. But anybody who has ever thought about God or given consideration to God or even said, I wonder what God is like, I wonder about God this, if you've given every thought to God, you are to some extent a theologian. Theology is the study of God, the consideration of God. And the book of Romans is a divinely given theology book on particularly the grace of God. Some people refer to the Apostle Paul, who is the penman of the book of Romans. God being the author, but some people refer to the Apostle Paul as the grace preacher of the Bible. Now that's not a bad statement. I'll give you some little trivia statistics here in a minute. But the fact of the matter is, all of the Bible is grace. All the way from Adam and Eve's restoration when the Lord appeared to them after they fell, and God in grace Made it possible for their relationship with their Creator to be restored up through Noah, who found grace in the eyes of the Lord. All through the New Testament. Salvation always has been and always will be, by the grace of God. Nobody ever earned their salvation. It's all been by the grace of God. And so Romans is a divinely given theology book on salvation by grace. I said Paul is referred to sometimes as the grace preacher. He references grace fifty times in all of Paul's writings, more than any other Bible penman. He references grace fifty times. In the book of Romans Sixteen chapters of the book of Romans, he references grace 20 times, all through the book of Romans. In Romans chapter 5, more than any other chapter of the Bible, grace is mentioned Six times more than any other chapter of the Bible. The grace of God, the grace of God. Salvation by grace is a Bible teaching. Now sometimes we get criticized a little bit. Folks say, well, you've got to live it, or you've got to do this, you've got to be baptized. We had a preacher years ago My sermons wouldn't be so long if I didn't keep thinking of these stories. But we had a preacher years ago. That was from a different denomination that believed and taught, he preached, that you have to be baptized to be saved. And his kids came all week long to Bible time. I was a bus driver, they lived here in town, and I was a bus driver, and after the first day or so, he came out with the kids. And I knew who he was and he he walked out to the bus. I'm sitting behind the bus and he came walking out and thought, oh boy, here we go. I was ready to slam the door shut if I needed to And he came out and he said, Pastor Leatherman, I want to thank you. He said, My kids have never studied the Bible. They have never worked on memorizing verses. They had never have never had more fun in the things of God than they are having this week at Neighborhood Bible Time. Isn't that something? I said, well thank you. I said, we're trying hard. I said, if you keep them coming, I think they'll enjoy it And lo and behold, on Friday night at the closing program, guess who showed up? Their daddy, the preacher, the baptismal regeneration preacher. I gave a simple gospel. I knew he was there. And just by coincidence, I worked in that baptism won't save your soul. And I showed from scripture. I used scripture. Just gave the plan of salvation. Never gave it another thought. People left, Bible time was over, we packed up, put the stuff away, tried to follow up best we could Several months later, one of our folks in the church worked with this fellow. And he said, We got talking to him. They found out where I was at church. He says, um, listen to this. He says, I got saved At the Friday night closing program of your church, he said, I realize that it's not baptism, it's trusting Christ that saves the soul. Isn't that something? Eventually resigned to church and he's gone uh somewhere they moved out of the area, I don't know where they ended up. But all I'm trying to say is this salvation always has been, always will be, by grace through faith. It's not baptism. Is baptism important? Yes, very important for a new believer to follow Lord in baptism, first step of obedience. But it doesn't save our soul. We can give all the money in the world, and the offering plate is not going to save our soul. You can't buy heaven. It's not for sale. Not for sale. Um now it's not to say you shouldn't put money in the offering plate, but uh But salvation always has been and always will be by grace. Now I don't know why God laid this passage on my heart. I don't know why this uh was in my heart and mind to preach on. I felt impressed early last week uh to preach on this passage, but I got thinking last night as I was looking over it, I thought I don't know why God would put this particular passage on my heart, but maybe there's somebody needs to hear That salvation is by grace through faith plus nothing and minus nothing. There may be some person that's never trusted Christ, is lost in their sins. Maybe God's been dealing with your heart. You know you need to be saved. And this morning God's saying, all right, here's how it happens. Abounding grace. Maybe there's some Christian. You've known the Lord and trying to live for him, but man, you've messed up. And sin has crept in There's something there. I said, man, how in the world? I'm a child of God. What in the world? I was mentioned in Sunny School, I was in a ordination uh yesterday of a young man and one of the old preachers there I used to be able to refer to a lot more people as old preachers than I do now. That list is getting smaller. Old preacher there made an interesting statement. We were challenging the young man to stay close to the Lord. Don't let sin creep in. The old man said this. He says, you know, we can be very spiritual right here and now in this setting. He said, but ten o'clock tonight, you could be the most carnal Christian in this county Although, boy, there's a lot of truth to that. A lot of truth to that. I'm grateful for the abounding grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that can save the worst of sinners. And give them a new life, pure heart and mind, eternal life. And thank God the abounding grace of our Lord Jesus Christ can take the most backslidden Christian Mess their testimony up and hurt other believers. Abounding grace of grace can take that and restore them and get them back to where God wants them to be. Amen? So let's look at this. I got three thoughts from this verse. Romans chapter 5, verse 20. The first thought comes from the first half of the verse. Notice he says here, he says, moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound. The offense of the law, offending the law. What would be, what would we call offending the law of God? That would be what? That'd be sin. That'd be sin. So I want us to notice, first of all, the effect of the law. God gave the law to Israel on Mount Sinai. The law was pretty elaborate. There was a lot more to it, but we have it condensed, summarized in the Ten Commandments, and most of us are familiar to some extent with the Ten Commandments. And God gave us the law. And Paul, under the inspiration of God, is telling us here the effect that the law has on mankind. When the law came. I want us to notice, first of all, the effect of the law, it does not remove sin. God's law, keeping God's law, does not take away sin that has already happened. You follow my thinking? It does not remove sin. Somebody comes and God deals their heart and says, Oh, I'm going to keep the law, I'm not going to sin. Well, that's wonderful. That intention is wonderful. God bless you. But that doesn't do a thing for past sins. It doesn't remove them. If you would, uh listen to Galatians chapter 3, verse 11. Listen to what Paul says in Galatians, another great gospel Book of the Bible. He says, no man is justified by the law in the sight of God. No man. Now, is the law good? Yes. The law has a purpose. The law affects man, but one of the effects of the law is not bringing salvation, removing my sin. I mentioned a number of times I was visiting a fellow out off King's Run Road back in there. I don't remember his name. This was years ago I knocked at his door. I asked, you know, introduced myself, went through my little little script I always say. And I asked him, you know, for sure, if you died right now, you go to heaven. He says, and without hesitation, he said, absolutely, yes, I know I go to heaven. It kind of caught me. I said, really? I said, well, how do you know? What gives you that assurance? What makes you so confident That all your sins are forgiven, and God will accept you into his presence to spend eternity in heaven with him. He goes, oh, I keep the law. I said, really? All of it? He goes, yeah, I keep the law. We talked a little bit, and I showed him from Ephesians, for by grace are you saved through faith. I tried to explain to him that we cannot keep the law I didn't think about it. I should have asked him if he could name the Ten Commandments for me. I've had people say, yeah, I keep the commandments, but they can't name half of them. So my point is this: the law doesn't take away our sins. Even if we could keep it from here on out, it would do nothing with my past debt of sin. You follow my thinking? I can go to the bank and say, all right, I'm going to make payments. I'm not going to borrow any more money. I'm not going to go any farther into debt. Well that's wonderful, great, but you doesn't do anything for the debt that's already been established. And so the law cannot take away our sin. Now, this next statement: God's law does not increase sin. Now, the reason I say that is because some folks take that first part of verse 20 and they try to suggest that when the law comes in, it makes people sin more. Look what it says. Moreover, the law entered that the offense, sins, offending the law, sins might abound. Listen, that is not suggesting that if you give somebody the wall, that's going to prompt them to sin more. In fact, if it did, the law would be sinful. Anything that makes people sin would be sinful, right? And the Bible says the law of God is holy. And if God's law made people sin, or instigated sin, or for some reason prompted people to sin, you could not call it a holy law. So God's law doesn't take away sin. God's law doesn't produce more sin. What God's law does is this. The law of God, thou shalt, thou shalt not. The law of God reveals our sin It shows us how sinful we really are. It makes us conscious. of our sin. If you would, look with me at chapter 3 of Romans. Keep your place here. Just go back a page in your Bible. Chapter 3. And verse number 19, pay close attention to what God says here in Romans chapter 3, verse 19. Now we know that whatsoever things the law saith It saith to them that are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. So whatever the wall says, it says to everybody that they're guilty before God. Now he goes on and explains in verse 20. Therefore, by the deeds of the law, there shall no flesh be justified. It can't take my sins away. It can't make me right with God in his sight. Now look at this last statement. I underscored in red this last statement of verse 20, chapter 3, verse 20. For by the law is what? The knowledge of sin. Come over to chapter 7 of Romans. And verse number 7. Chapter 7 and verse 7. What shall I say then? Is the law sin? Well, God forbid. The law certainly isn't sin. It doesn't cause sin. It doesn't promote sin. Is the law sin? God forbid. Nay! Look at this. I had not known sin, but by the law. I underscored that. Paul said, the law of God shows to me that I'm a sinner. The law of God makes me conscious of my sin. Fact of the matter is, you and I were sinners long before we realized it. You and I were sinners long before we realized. How many people here are aware of the fact that you're a sinner? How many people here are aware of the fact your preacher's a sinner? You don't have to be so enthusiastic about that part right there Yeah, we're all sinners. Now, I don't know when it was for you, but you became aware of the fact that you were a sinner We probably knew it, but not didn't give it a lot of thought. I can think back in one time in particular That it became painfully aware of the fact that I was a sinner was in camp, actually, when 12 years old as a boy. Parents sent us off to a church camp up in uh Poconosa, Pennsylvania And it wasn't a Baptist, it was Bible believing to some extent, and they did preach the gospel that week And on the Friday night, a fellow got up, and what I remember of it, some of it pretty clearly, all things considered, is he gave the gospel and invited campers to come forward and trust Christ be saved. And I still remember sitting there in that camp tabernacle and that wood floor and dirt that wood pews and dirt floor, thinking, man, I need to be saved. I was under conviction. I knew at that point he had preached the Word of God, to some extent the law. That showed me I was a sinner. Now I wish there was a good ending to that little incident. I responded. I came forward. There was a whole slew of campers. I mean there was probably eight hundred or a thousand campers there, and there was a whole slew came forward. They took us out back, I still remember this very clearly, they took us out back behind the tabernacle, were out under the trees, had flashlights. And they said, now you all came forward tonight, and so we're going to get your names. We're going to send your name and give it to your preacher back home and they'll get in touch with you about the reason for you came forward tonight. Nobody opened the Bible. Nobody helped me make any kind of decision to trust Christ. They just got our name spelled out a card. I got back home a couple weeks later. The preacher of the church we were attending then showed up at the house. He said, they call me, they call me Denny. And uh he says, I understand Denny came forward the invitation, he wants to join the church. And I said, yeah, I didn't know. So I went through a little class, joined the church, they poured water on my head No gospel, no opportunity to trust Christ. I often wondered how different my teen years would have been. If somebody would have just taken an open Bible and showed me what I was aware of, the fact that I was a sinner, the law showed that to me. The preaching of the Word of God showed me I was a sinner. If somebody would have just showed me how to have that sin taken care of, how different my teen years would be How different my teen years would be. Fact is, we were sinners long before we were realized it. You know, I was about twelve years old. I realized then I was a sinner. But you know, I was a sinner when I was ten years old I was a sinner when I was eight years old. I was a sinner when I was five years old. In fact, according to Psalm 51, I think it's verse 5, David said, In sin did my mother conceive me. Now, he's not saying that the act of conception on the part of his parents was a sinful act. What he was saying was, from conception, he was born with a sinful nature. We are born sinners. How many people understand that? If you don't, you ought to spend time with a little baby. Don't take long, figure out that little creature is a sinner. Oh, but preacher, they're so cute. Yeah, they're little liars too, I'll tell you Wake you up in the middle of the night, you think they're dying? They good night there's a mamba snake in the bed with them, they're gonna die, they're screaming high, you get over there, pick them up, eeking They just wanted some attention. Am I right or wrong? Now maybe not the snake part, but Fact is, we were sinners long before we realized it. We were born sinners. We were born with a simple nature. You never have to teach a child to tell a lie, you don't have to teach a child to be selfish. You don't have to teach a child how to be naughty. comes natural. In fact, if you would, take your Bibles, turn with me real quickly. I'd like for you to see this. Mark chapter 7. Now just real quick. Keep your place there in Romans. We're going to get back there here in just a moment. But in Mark chapter seven, there was a little issue came up with the Lord Jesus Christ. About a parable he had said. And notice in verse number twenty-one, Jesus says this: for from within Out of the heart of men proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornication, murders, thefts. Covetousness, wickedness, that's just a general term, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, that means unbraided lust, uncontrolled lust An evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness, all these evil things come from within And defile the man. You know what? That's the heart that you and I have been born with. It has all that potential wickedness. All that sinful nature comes from within. No the world wants to say, Oh If we just get him in a better environment. Now there's no doubt the environment affects our behavior to some extent, influences our behavior. There's no doubt about that. But man's a sinner regardless of what environment he's in. You know, some of the most popular thieves, biggest thieves in the world are very wealthy people living in tremendous environments. You can have people out of a good, strong, godly, Bible-preaching church and still have people go bad and sin terribly. So this is the heart we're born with. So what is the effect of the law? God gave the law to mankind in Mount Sinai And what effect does that have on mankind? It doesn't take away our sin and it doesn't promote more sin. It simply reveals to man that we are sinners And man was sinner long before Israel received the law on Mount Sinai, all the way back to Adam and Eve, all the way through there. Man sinned and died. If you'll read through Genesis, and he died, and he died, and he died, and he died. The wages of sin is death. Death, uh sin was in place. Sin was rampant. Sin was bearing its fruit, death. But when the law came, then it says, all right, here's what sin is. Man, it revealed to mankind it was far worse than they thought it was. I made the statement you and I have been sinners long before we realized we were sinners. Let me make a second statement. You and I are far worse sinners than we think we are. We think we are. I don't know about you, but I think for the most part people have a tendency to downplay how sinful they really are. We can justify it, we can excuse it. We think, well, I'm a sinner, but I'm not that bad. Large jail down there. hundred times size here. They just had, I don't know how many inmates. It was huge. We go down once a month, had a service on a Sunday night after the evening service And the pastor and I were there, we preached, had a little service, and they had it set up where we could sit one-on-one with some of the prisoners if they responded. They wanted counsel. And the pastor and I, I was this youth pastor, we had this one fellow, we got talking to him, and he's explaining to him that we're sinners. And he said, he said, You understand you're a sinner. Now, this is a guy that's in jail. You know, you understand you're a sinner. And uh by the way, the sinners in jail aren't just on the back side of the bars They're on both sides, right? I just wanted to point that out. President company excluded, I'm sure, but So he said to him, You know you're a sinner. And he goes, Yeah, I'm a sinner. And he explained about hell. He goes, he said this. He said, Listen, I'm not I'm a sinner, but I'm not that bad And we got talking to him, and he made this statement, not so many words, but this is a statement he made. He says, uh I only killed one guy. That guy next to me, he killed two or three You know what he's saying? Well, I'm not that bad. And that's kind of the way we are. We might not say it that way, but well, at least I'm not like them. Well, I would never do something like that. You know what? We're a whole lot worse sinner than we think we are. And that's what the law points out to us. That's what the law shows us. Not only are we a sinner, we are wretched sinners. Our heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. And that's what the law shows me. And I look into the law, I look in the mirror of God's law, as James refers to it, the glass of God's law, and I see myself in light of the standard that God has established. And I realized, good night, I have fallen so much farther short of that than I ever dreamed I had. So a little boy came in at suppertime, just a little tot, and he said, Daddy, I'm twelve feet tall. He said, Really? He goes, What makes you think you're twelve feet tall? He says, I measured myself. Twelve feet tall. He said, Is that right The boy just kept on and on. Finally dad says, Well, what in the world? How'd you measure yourself? He said, I got this stick out in the yard. It's just a little about a four-inch stick And he measured himself, and that was 12 sticks, 12 feet tall. He said, son, let's get the yard stick out. And he measured him. He wasn't twelve feet tall. He was about three and a half foot tall. See, he was a lot shorter than he thought he was. And you and I think, well, you know, I'm not perfect, but I I'm a decent person. I'm not that great. I mean I'm not that great, but I'm not that wicked And God brings the guardstick of his wall out. And I realize, good night, what a sinner I am. In January of 1979, I made a New Year's resolution on New Year's Eve. It was actually December, going into January 1st, 1979, I made a New Year's resolution. I was going to turn my life around, I was going to be a new man. I'm not going down this road I'm going down. I want to be completely different. I want to straighten my life out. You know how long that lasted? About five hours. I was right back in the same sins that Dom had dominion over me I began crying out to God, God help me, God help me. I don't want to be this kind of person And he prompted me to read the Bible. And I started reading the Bible, the wall of God, the Word of God. I found out. The more I read that thing, the more wicked I realized I was. I remember one time we were sitting in a parking lot, we'd hang out, a bunch of those guys hang out in the parking lot and drink and smoke and everything. And I kept sitting there, I was sitting there, and I was thinking, I am the most wicked man on planet Earth, and I could see nothing good in me. I'd go home and say, God help me. And God's word showed me that I was far worse than I even thought I was. A hopelessly lost, wretched sinner. Say, preacher, that's not It's not a very pretty picture of mankind. You study what the Bible said doesn't doesn't paint a very pretty picture of mankind. It's pretty dark Our hearts are sinners. So the effect of the law is to reveal how sinful we really are, and to reveal how sinful our sin really is. We had the young men train in Bible Come and I used to help train them. They'd, you know, they're just young guys, they're just starting out, and boy, they'd come in, we'd have, we would critique their preaching before we sent them out. They had to go through some preaching critiques and training and help them to uh you know uh uh improve their communication skills and all. Some of these hotshots would come in there, you know, they're called up God, and I got my King James Bible, they're gonna and they get in, and it would be terrible message. I mean it was just awful. They were just it was great And uh we would go through and say, well, you know, don't pick your nose when you're preaching and don't do this and and we go down there and show them all these things, idiosyncrasies and stuff, that you need to not do that when you're preaching and different ideas. And uh they'd walk out of there thinking, man, I thought I'm not near as good a preacher as I thought I was. We look in the perfect law of liberty and we walk away and we realize I'm not nearly as holy as I think I am. And so the effect of law is to reveal to us our sin and the sinfulness of our sin. In revealing how sinful we really are, the law reveals to us how desperately we need a Savior. If you would, come with me to Galatians chapter 3. Is everybody with me? Everybody alright? Alright. Do we have any sinners here today? If not, I'll keep preaching until we get them. Look at Galatians chapter number three and verse twenty-four. Galatians 3. 24. Wherefore the law was our what? Schoolmaster. It's teaching us how sinful we are, how sinful our sin is. To bring us unto Christ that we might be justified by faith. The effect of the law is to Show me how sinful I really am and how desperately I need a Savior. And what I want to say is this. Every one of us need a Savior a whole lot worse than we probably realize we need that Savior. And Mountain Lake Park and Oakland and Garrett County and this mid-Atlantic region, every single person needs a savior a whole lot worse than they realize. They need a savior. And by the way, the mayor of the city needs a savior just as much as the crackhead in jail needs a savior. No respecter of persons. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And the wall shows me that. And it shows me how desperately I need to be saved, and how hopeless my condition is outside of Christ. It's like, suppose you had somebody, this is just, we'll just say this, suppose there's somebody going to Baltimore. And they're traveling down Route 70, and the speed limit as you approach the city is 70 miles an hour. Which means that all three lanes are going about 85 miles an hour. So you're going down 70, 70 miles an hour. Let's say we have somebody that's driving along. They're going 75. They're just a little bit over, just enough to stay off the radar, but they're going, they're sending But not real bad. When you go past the beltway, that speed limit drops to 40 miles an hour pretty quick. And then as you approach the end of Route 70s, you come into the town, into the city, it drops to 25 real quick. Let's just imagine we have somebody's wife is driving down Route 70. I shouldn't have said that. And they're just cruising along, going 70-75, not paying attention. They pass the beltway and they're just cruising right along. And they go past this forty mile an hour zone and then they hit the twenty-five mile zone and they haven't cha adjusted their speed one bit And then this car with pre-lights. And suddenly they realize the wall shows up. And they realize how bad they've really been sent sinning, speeding. That's exactly what the law of God does. Come and say, man, I know it wasn't perfect, but man, I have fallen so short of God's standard. I'm a sinner. I'm a sinner. You know what? There's nothing wrong with America that preaching the word of God could not solve in our communities. If we would see ourselves for what we really are as wretched sinners, not self-righteous people out in the street demanding our rights. But rather, as wretched sinners that need to fall before a holy God, cry out for mercy. When this pandemic hit, I started telling right away, our response as Christians ought to be humbling ourselves before God and seeking his mercy. I know God sent this to try and get us to humble ourselves. No doubt in my mind. Every pestilence in the Bible has been for the purpose of people humbling themselves and turning back to God. The effects of the law. Number two, let me quickly give you the abundance of sin. Come back there if you if you would, real quickly, Romans Chapter 5, verse 20 says. He says, Moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound, so the awareness of it, the seriousness of it, becomes abounds, it becomes evident. And he says, where sin abounded, the abundance of sin, that word abound means to increase to great abundance. It has an idea of a progression, getting more and more and more. Once sin entered the human race, it spread like wildfire. When Adam and Eve disobeyed God, That sin now entered our experience, and now a man became a fallen being, a sinful being. And that sin spread like wildfire, and within one generation, you have a son of the Adam and Eve, our first parents rebelling against God and saying, I'll offer the kind of offering I want to offer, not what you say. And Cain brought the fruit of the field. Within one generation, you had rebellion against the Creator God. Within that same generation, you have murder of one brother murdering another brother. And sin is spreading polygamy. By the time you get to Genesis chapter 6, you have God looks down on all of mankind and he says their hearts were wicked, and every thought of their imagination was set on evil. God said it grieved him that he even made mankind. And in judgment, in his holy judgment He poured out the flood on the earth. But one man found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Noah and his wife and his kids. God spared him. The abundance of sin. Sin entered the human race, it spread like wildfire. Sin is never static, it's never stagnant. It always spreads, it always abounds. You let one little sin and say, Well, I know this isn't right. I know God says I ought not to do this, but I'll just keep it. You better mark my word. That sin will spread like cancer. Cannot be contained. It is abounds. It abounds. It spreads and grows. The more I understand God's holiness and God's law, the more I realize how sinful I am. Even after I got saved as I would study the Bible, I'd see areas of my life. I was listening to music, the world's music. I never thought of that. Even the weeks after I got saved, I never thought about my music and reading the Bible and I'm listening to my music. And I said, wait a minute. This isn't right. I remember out in the garage. Anybody remember eight tracks? They were great. I had them all stacked up probably that high in the garage. I mean a whole big pile. I got 'em out of the uh my trunk and my car and out of my room. Pile my my mom was there that and uh she stuck her head out. I said, What in the world are you doing? I said I'm s I had a sledgehammer. I'm smashing them, smashing them. And um, you know, I'm saved like two, three weeks. And she goes, well good grief, why don't you even sell them? There's a thousand dollars worth there. Why don't you sell them I said, then I'd just be giving my sin to somebody else. I never thought of that But as I studied the Bible, the law of God, I realized these areas I never thought of. Wait a minute, that needs to be addressed. That needs to be addressed. Where sin abounded. And last of all, I want to end with this. Not only the abundance of sin, but the superabundance of grace. This is what I've been wanting to get to, really. But where sin abounded, look at that last phrase. Would you read it with me? Grace did much more abound. You notice he injected much more. That's the super abundance of grace. All throughout man's history, there have been two spiritual forces fighting for man's heart: sin and grace. Sin and grace. They are both powerful. Never underestimate the power of sin. Sin has been used and is being used by Satan. to destroy and damn us to hell. And then you have the grace of God. And that grace is offered to us by God to save and redeem us from our sin and from hell, give us eternal life, a new life, and a home in heaven. Two forces influencing our hearts. The only counter to sin is the grace of God. And by grace we mean God's free offer of complete and eternal forgiveness. Pardon from sin, the grace of God. God offers to you and I, free his forgiveness His restoration. If we're unsaved, eternal life. Undeserved. We simply come in faith, trusting Christ Once we're saved, we simply come in humility, confessing, forsaking. And God restores us. The grace of God. This is a stupid illustration, I'm going to tell you right up front. But this is what I kept thinking of while I was studying this. It's like, I like boxing a little bit. It's like a boxing ring. And a one side climbs over the ropes, sin. And on the other corner climbs over the ropes grace. Santa's abounding, it's strong, it's powerful, destroyed a lot of people. There is grace, which much more abounds. And I know this is dumb, but they got in a boxing match, sin and grace, and grace beats the daylights out of sin. Now that's dumb, but I like it. Grace beats the daylights out of sin. And you can take, you come up with the worst sin you can possibly ever think you've committed. And it's probably worse than you realize. You bring that to the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ where the grace of God was displayed like never before. That grace will beat the daylights out of your sin. You put in the hands of Christ and Christ will forgive and cleanse. One last illustration. Years ago I got a phone call. I was asked to go and visit a man who was dying. He didn't live in the area here. He was just staying up here. He wanted to die at Deep Creek Lake. But he didn't have a pastor and no church background They called and said, Pastor Latin, would you visit this man, an elderly man? He's dying. He'd like to have a pastor visit him. I said, I would be glad to. I went out to the place where he was staying. Again, he didn't live there. He was just staying. There was some family. Introduced myself. They said, thank you for coming. They took me in the back room where he lay in bed. Elderly man. He was a World War II veteran He fought in in uh North Africa. We walked in there and we visited a little bit and introduced, talked. Finally he was sweeping. He said, I'd like to speak to you, Pastor Leatherman, alone. He asked the other Family members and friends there. He asked if they would step out for a few moments, and they did. They closed the door. I sat down beside him. I said, what is it? He began sobbing and sobbing and sobbing I let him cry and finally got himself together and he said, Can God ever forgive me and save me? I said, well, I'm not sure what all's bothering you, but I assure you God can. He goes, I don't think so. He said, let me tell you what I've done. He told me, I'm telling you, in 35 years of ministry, he told me the most horrific thing that I've heard that took place that he did overseas to a couple women. And he is sobbing so hard. And he's saying, God can never forgive me, God can never save me. Oh, my little New Testament I carry with me, and I went to Romans 5 verse 20. I said, where sin abounded. Grace did much more abound. And I said, let's take that sin, as horrific as it is. And let's bring that to the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm telling you, He'll forgive you. Before I walked out of there, he bowed his head with me, calling the Lord Jesus Christ to be his Savior. We cried together and wiped the tears from his eyes. I said, Did you mean business? He says, I sure did. I said, then God meant business too. You trust Jesus Christ as Savior, He forgives you, gives you a new heart, a new life, a home in heaven. He thanked me. He was still, it was, he was so shaky. He said, I hope I hope. I said, you don't have to hope. God cannot lie. God said, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. It's settled. He said, Thank you, preacher. Thank you, preacher. Within a few days I got a phone call. So-and-so passed away. Took them downstate. They're doing a funeral down there. I never saw him or the family or any connection with them ever whatsoever all these years I know this, the grace of God is greater than any sin man can come up with. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. To bring our sinful hearts, our failures, our rebellion Help us to bring it to Christ, who is the embodiment of the grace of God. Help us to believe. That you can and will forgive and restore. Because you promised. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved, there's no doubt about it I tell you, this old sinful heart of mine, this old sinful tendencies, they sure get me down. You'd say, preacher, I just want to get a new vision of the grace of God and understand that God can and will restore and help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? I know I'm saved But boy, this old sin just hounds me. Maybe some away from God. You say, preacher, I need to come back. Will God bring me back sure? Will he take me? Yes. The grace of God is super abundant He'll fix things and he'll make it right and he'll restore. We just trust him. Is there some here say, preacher, I've not been saved? I don't have assurance in my heart and soul that my sins are forgiven. I'm telling you, that's your desperate need. God is so gracious. It doesn't matter what you've done, God's grace is greater. You can come and trust him, and he'll forgive and save and give you a new life. Eternal life. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need to be saved. Father, bless our invitation time now. I know most of us know folks that need Christ. Help us to be a good witness of the grace of God, a good testimony of the grace of God. In Jesus' name, let's stand together and