Verse number five with me if you would. I read this passage in my devotions about a week ago or so, and just this section stuck out in my mind a little bit. And uh verse number five says, And Lot also Went with Abraham, had, and Lot also which went with Abraham, had flocks and herds and tents, and the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell together. For their substance was great, so that they could not dwell together. And there was strife between the herdmen of Abraham's cattle and the herdmen of Lot's cattle, and the Canaanite and the Perizzite dwelled then in the land. And Habraham said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, between thy herdmen and my and thy herdmen and my herdmen and thy herdmen. For we be brethren. I just want us to consider this morning these two men, Abraham and Lot. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts and help us in our walk with the Lord. Father, I ask now you'd bless our study of this portion of Scripture. We thank you for all that's going on. The Sunday school hour was a blessing. We're grateful for all our workers and teachers and buses and That worked so hard to teach the Word of God and advance the gospel. And now, Lord, we've all assembled together here, regular service. We're asking you to meet with us Lord, we've sung hymns to you sincerely from our heart. We fellowship together a little bit, greeted one another But now, Lord, I'm asking that you would meet with us in a special way. That you would speak to our hearts. Lord, our prayer and our burden for this year is revival. I would need revival in my heart. We need it in our homes. We need it in our churches. In our church And so I pray that you would speak to us from this passage of Scripture. Address those areas of our lives that need to be addressed. Or those little issues and conditions that we kind of brush aside, we don't give a lot of thought to, but are so important. I pray you bring them to the forefront of our minds. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, I acknowledge sincerely I have nothing in and of myself to offer of any spiritual value. We have to hear from you, Lord. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I pray with all my heart that you fill me with your Spirit and speak through me and revive us again. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Great thing about the Bible is that it is a book of reality. And what I mean by that, it's not fantasy, it is reality. The Bible deals with, and this is what I'm trying to get at, the Bible deals with life as it is, not as we dream it should be. We get in our our heads things ought to be this way or things ought to be that way. But the Bible just nails it, this is the way it really is. This is what life is, and this is how it operates, and this is how we need to deal with it. The Bible deals with humans as we are. The Bible deals with its heroes in an honest way. It does not cover up the blemishes of God's people You study the Bible very carefully, you find that those who the Bible praises the highest, those the Bible lifts up as a pattern, as a model for us to follow That same Bible tells us the blemishes and the faults and failures of those same men. It doesn't paint a false picture. Tells us it doesn't uh cover up the blemishes of God's people. It doesn't cover up the sins and failures of God's people Some of God's most celebrated heroes were sinners just like you and I. Some of the people in the Bible that God used in the greatest ways struggled with covetousness. They struggled with doubt, fear, and anger. And they dealt with many of the same weaknesses that you and I deal with. What I'm trying to say is this: the Bible is a book of reality. When we read about great men in the Bible, we read of them as they were, not as we would like for them to be. Hollywood comes up with these supermen and and these um uh what do they call them uh uh superheroes And oh, they're just fantastic in all these ways. I'm telling you, God's superheroes were no different in many ways than just you and I. Just ordinary people with an extraordinary faith in an all-powerful God. Abraham is one of God's heroes. He is one of the greatest men of faith in all of Scripture. In fact, he's referred to as the father of the faithful. Do you want to know what it means to live by faith? Study the life of Abraham. The Jews had and to this day still have tremendous respect For Abraham. For Abraham. And yet we're going to see here in a bit, Abraham was a sinner no different than you and I. Anybody here, now let's be honest, it's just us. Anybody here ever struggle with doubts? Yet sometimes, man, you get it down. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Just say, I don't know. Do you know Abraham, the father of the faithful, the most respected man among the Jews, the most respected man perhaps in all of history, one of them at least? Do you know he struggled with doubt? Anybody here? Let's be honest. This is therapy, okay? My name's Bob. Hi, Bob. Let me ask you this. Anybody here honest enough say you've ever struggled with fear? Fear. Sure. You know, I thought as a young man, starting out in the ministry and Uh back in my twenties, I thought by the time you hit 60 or so, fear, you'd have that all blicked. You know, the fear would be all that. You know what I still deal with fear at 62 You know what? Abraham got one of the greatest men of faith in all of history. Abraham struggled with fear. Isn't that something? And God used them in a great way. Doubts and fear. We won't get into anger and covetousness. The Bible is a book of reality. And we find that God's greatest men are just men. Like you and I, like I said a moment ago, ordinary men with extraordinary faith and an all-powerful God Where our passage here was we begin in chapter number 13, Pastor Matt read a few moments ago, the first several verses is actually Abraham recovering. From a major lapse of faith. God had called Abraham. He was minding his own business. So we're not given a lot of information, a lot of the details of the call of Abraham by God. But he was living his life. He was going about his business and his daily schedule, no doubt. And God, in some form or another called Abraham to leave his home country, to leave his family, and go to this land. And Abraham didn't know where it was. He didn't know how far it would go. He just knew that God was calling him to go to this faraway land where God would bless him and establish a nation from his offspring. And lo and behold, by faith, he says, Okay, God, I'll go. He packs up his belongings, grabs his wife, some of his family tags along with him for part of the journey. His brother goes along with him, and as they're traveling to this land that God is calling him to, his brother passes away. His brother's son is named Lot. And Abraham takes Lot under wing and takes care of him in the death of Lot's father, which would be Abraham's brother, so Lot being his nephew He gets to this land finally where he didn't know where they were going. Can you imagine, I say this often, but can you imagine Abraham approaching his wife Sarah and saying, Sarah, pack your bags She says, Where are we going? She says, I don't know. How long are we staying? Probably the rest of our lives. Well, how do you know we should go there? God told us to Uh I don't know about you, but um some ladies might have a struggle with that. What do you mean? But to her credit, she cooperated and went along with them. They travel, they take this journey, God's leading them one way or another, God's leading them. And finally they get to the land where God has called him to. And notice back in chapter number 12, look with me if you would at verse number 10. Now I would imagine that Abraham's mind is working away, trying to anticipate what this land is going to be like. Oh, there's going to be. Of course, he's a cattle man. He has sheep and flocks and herds. And uh he's anticipating great pastures and great farmland. And I would imagine in his mind he's picturing just this wonderful opportunity, this land of promise. And look with me at verse number 10, and look what happens when he gets there. And there was a what? Famine in the land. He shows up, he believes God, he trusts God, he leaves everything behind. Uh he leaves his family, his homeland. Folllows God not knowing where he's going and finally they get there and God and I'm uh I'm at living here a little bit but God says this is it Abraham this is where I called you to and he looks around and the place is in the middle of a famine How many people w would like me you'd you say, I'd probably be a little disappointed in that. They had more food back where I just left. They had better fields back where I just left. There was better uh uh resources for my herds and flocks back where I just left. What do you mean you called me here to a famine? You know, sometimes God doesn't work the way we think he should work. Sometimes we anticipate God doing something, we anticipate something working out somehow, and God works it out a completely different way, and if we're not careful, that can throw our faith. And it threw Abrahams. And notice how he responds to this, I would imagine, great disappointment. It says, and there was a famine in the land, verse 10 of chapter 12, and Abraham went down to where? Egypt. His faith was rattled. And he leaned on his own understanding, and he took things into his own hand So to speak, I'm just putting words in his mouth now, but Abraham perhaps said something like this, I know God's called me to this place, but this place is in the midst of a famine I'm going to correct this. I'm going to take things into my own hands. We're heading down to Egypt. And he does. And this man of great faith, this father of the faithful. Has a tremendous lapse of faith. And by the way, this is very early on in his life of faith. He's just starting out in his walk with God. And he has this lapse of faith, he goes down to Egypt. That doesn't work out so good down there. In fact, while he's in Egypt, not only does he have a lapse of faith But Abraham has a lapse of integrity. He gets down there And of course, Sarah is considered by the Jews to be one of the most beautiful women in all the Bible. She's one of the top five most beautiful women considered by the Jews. So Sarah is this beautiful, his wife is this beautiful woman. He gets down to Egypt. His thinking is these people are a bunch of pagans. They don't care about right and wrong. They don't care about marriage vows. They don't care about adultery and faithfulness. They don't care about any of that. Sarah, I want you to do something for me. What's that, Abraham? I want you to tell everybody that you're my sister. Don't tell them you're my wife. Now question, is that the truth or a lie? It's a half-truth. She was his half-sister, partly, but she was also his wife. And Abraham lies, and he talks his wife into lying. Now, what was his motive for lying? Why would he not want them to know that she was his wife because he says they will kill me in order to get you Sarah, I want you to lie. Don't tell them you're my wife, because they might kill me if they find out you're my wife. I wonder how Sarah felt about that formula. You're out for your own head. You don't care if they take me and do whatever they do to me, but as long as you stay alive, you're okay with that. Abraham had a major failure in his integrity. Would you agree with me? This is bad. This is bad. Abraham The father of the Jews, the father of the nation of Israel, the father of the faithful, and he's lying. And he's sacrificing his wife for his own neck. And he takes everything in his hands. He disobeys God. Major failure. However, Abraham has enough character about him. That when he realizes what he's done and he comes to face to face with his lack of faith and his lack of integrity, he deals with it. And he has enough character to get back up, to deal with what he's done, and go back to where God intended him to be. Do you know sometimes it takes as much faith to get right with God as it is to stay right with God in the first place? Sometimes it takes a lot of faith to get back up after a failure, brush yourself off, and say, all right, I'm going on for God. I'm never we're never happy when somebody fails, amen or not. We're never glad when somebody fails But I tell ya, my hat's off, my respect for that man or that woman or that young person that when they do mess up, they have enough character about them to acknowledge it, brush themselves off Get back up, get right with God, and go on for God. My hats off. I tell you, sometimes it takes a lot of faith. To be able to get up after I've blessed up after I've blown it, get back up, get back to where God wants me to be, get back doing the what God wants me to do. Sometimes that takes as much faith as it does to avoid getting in that mess in the first place. There was a man down one uh one uh down in Tennessee who was on staff at the church and he messed up and he messed up bad I mean bad, bad. And it came out, and the church dealt with it scripturally. I tell you, it was a great lesson for me as a young preacher boy. Young in the ministry to see how to deal with something like that. They dealt with it exactly the way the Bible teaches. And I'll tell you, to this day, I have tremendous respect for that man, not for his failure. But for his response to his failure. That was a Sunday night, they dealt with it publicly, large church. That next Wednesday night, that fella, who was it was shame, it was he was humiliated, he was humbled. But that next Wednesday night, midweek service, he was sitting in the pew, not on the platform, he was sitting in the pew down front in church, and where he ought to be. Next Sunday morning, he was where he ought to be. Sunday night, he was there. Thursday night visitation, he came out visiting. And I'll tell you to this day, I have tremendous respect for that man because he had enough character to get back up and do right again. Proverbs 24 and verse 16 says this, a just man falleth seven times and rises up again. I don't like it when somebody falls. I don't like it when somebody messes up. But I'll tell you when I get worried is when they don't get back up again. Then there's trouble. Then there's trouble. So in chapter 13 of Genesis, we have Abraham coming back. Look with me, if you would, at verse number one there again, real quick. It says Abraham went up out of Egypt. That's where he messed up. He and his wife and all that he had and lot with him. Into the south. And Abraham was very rich in cattle and silver and gold. By the way, let me throw this out there. Your wealth has nothing to do with your spiritual condition. Being rich doesn't make you spiritual. Being poor doesn't make you spiritual. You can be very wealthy and be a very great man or woman of God. You can be very poor and be a very great man or woman of God. Abraham was rich and he messed up. Abraham was rich and he got back right. But he was a rich man. And that becomes a factor here in a bit. And Abraham was very rich in cattle and silver and gold, and he went on his journeys from the south even to Bethel. Look at this, unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Hai. Unto the place of the altar which he had made there at the first. And there Abraham called on the name of the Lord. What's he doing? He's getting right with God. He's coming back to Bethel. He's coming back to the place where he left. And he goes to the altar, and there he calls on the Lord. We're not told exactly what that call involved. I want to speculate a little bit. I think he's saying this, Lord, I messed up I took things into my own hands. I lied. I endangered my wife and family. And Lord, I was wrong, and I'm calling on you to forgive me and restore me. I am so glad we have a God that forgives and restores. You say, oh, God is the God of the second chance. And I say amen to that, but I amend it. I say God is the God of the third and fourth and fifth and sixth and seventh chance. Abraham came back and he got through came to the Lord. And God, in his love and mercy and grace, forgave him and restored him. I say once again, sometimes it takes as much faith to get right with God after I messed up as it does to keep me from messing up in the first place. Sometimes it takes, see, listen to this, sometimes it takes faith to accept forgiveness From God. I've had people, and I've thought this myself on occasion, but I've had people say to me, Pastor, I don't see how God could possibly forgive me for this. I don't know how God could ever use me again. I don't know how God could ever bless me again after what I've done. You know what I have to do? I have to, by faith, come and say, God, you have forgiven me, and accept that forgiveness by faith. You follow what I'm saying? 1 John 1 9. If we confess our sins, he is help me. What's the next word? Faithful and just. To forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I thank God. I say again, I thank God for a God that is faithful and just to forgive us. And cleanse us when we humble ourselves and acknowledge our sin. It's faithful. And sometimes it takes faith to say, all right, I accept that promise of God. Say, preacher, how do I know I'm forgiven? I messed up and I confess it. How do I know I'm forgiven? By faith. Take God at His word. God said He's faithful and just to forgive us our sin. Say, preacher, well, I don't feel very forgiven. Doesn't say that God is faithful and just to make us feel forgiven. He says he's faithful and just to forgive us. Well, it doesn't seem like he would do that. It doesn't matter whether he seems like you do or not. We take him at his word. Faith is taking God at his word. So Abraham comes back and he calls on the Lord and God restores him. Now we come here, verse 5, and we're introduced to this fellow Lot. Now he's mentioned earlier on occasion, a couple, two, three times earlier. His name is mentioned. But here we meet Lot. And we find out a little bit who he is, and more importantly, we find out a little bit what Lot is like. What kind of person he is. Now, previous to this in Scripture, we'd have no idea what kind of person he is. He's Abraham's nephew. That's all we know. His daddy died. At some point, we're not even given any information about that, really. And so now we get to chapter 13 and verse number 5. It says, and Lot also, which went with Abraham, had flocks and herds and tents. And so we're introduced to Lot here a little bit who he is and a little bit what he's like. And I'm thinking about Abraham and Lot, these two fellows. And I notice, as I look at both of these men and what the Bible tells about them, I notice, as I said, they have the same family. They come from the same background. Abraham is Lot's uncle, as I've been saying. So that means they have basically the same background. They grew up in the same family. They and back then the families were often all together. It wasn't just the little mom and dad and the kids. A lot of times it was mom and dad and the kids and the grandkids and the brothers and sisters and aunts and uncles all living in the same compound together. So most likely they had very similar backgrounds, most likely very similar upraising, very similar environment they grew up in And so they have a same family. You know what I noticed over the years? Sometimes people grow up in the same family. You'll have siblings. You'll have a uh children grow up in the same family, in the same environment, in the same training, the same background, and yet end up being very, very different. And that was Abraham and Lod. Of course, Abraham's quite a bit older, no doubt, but nevertheless, they have the same family. They have the same finances. Both are very, very rich. They're very wealthy. Notice verse 5, but Lot also which went with Abraham had flocks and herds and tents. And the land was not able to bear them. I mean, these guys are loaded. They've got more herds, they've got more possessions than the land that they're living in can sustain. They have overwhelmed the resources of the land where they're living. They are both incredibly wealthy. I don't mean that they have a lot of sheep. I mean they have really, really, really, really a lot of sheep. I don't mean that they're carrying a hundred dollar bill around in their pocket. They're carrying thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of dollars around their pocket. Kind of like Ed, a couple of those people like that here. Just loaded. Look at his pickup truck. You know he's got money Do you get do you get the uh yeah you get what I'm trying to say? These guys are rich. They would be in our environment, they would be in our economy, they would be multi, multi, multi, multi-millionaires. They're looted. And so they have the same family, same background, environment, training, experiences, they have the same level of finances, they're both very, very wealthy, but they both had very different values. I said a few moments ago, do you know a rich person can be a good Christian? A rich person can be a very sorry Christian. Do you know a poor person can be a good Christian? I'm glad for that. Do you know a sorry, a rich, a poor person can be a very sorry Christian? These guys were rich. One was a tremendous man of faith. The other was had totally different values So they had the same family, they had the same finances. Let me throw this out. This one might throw you a little bit. They had the same faith They had the same faith. This is what I'm trying to say. Abraham, both Abraham and Lot were both saved men. Say, what? A lot? Yeah. Do you know you don't get saved by how you live your life, you get saved by your faith in God. Take your Bibles here with me. I want you to notice a few things here. I want to verify what I'm saying from Scripture. Turn with me over to chapter 15 of Genesis. Just a page over there. And verse number 6, Genesis 15 and 6, the Bible says, speaking of Abraham, it says, and he, what's that next word? Believe, I circled that word in my Bible. It's key, it's an important word. And he, Abraham, believed in the Lord. He's trusting in God. He's putting his confidence, his hope is in the Lord. And he counted it to him for what? Righteousness. You know, without righteousness, there's no way we can see the Lord, be with the Lord. Do you know how Abraham got his righteousness? By faith. In the Lord. You say, all right, Abraham saved. I don't have any problem with that. He was righteous. He believed the Lord. He was righteous. You say Lot was saved also, and I'll be honest with you The first you read about Lot, if you didn't know anything about the Bible, but you would read about Lot, you would think he was an unsaved man until you get to 2 Peter. Turn with me To the book of 2 Peter. All the way back to the New Testament. I want to show you something here. Now, this uh this struck me years ago when I first Saw this and was exposed to this, what the Bible says about Lot. 2 Peter chapter 2, way back at the end of your New Testament, 2 Peter chapter 2. And notice what the Bible says about this fellow Lot. Verse 6, 2 Peter 2, 6. And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, he's referencing God's judgment on Sodom and Gomorrah. Condemn them with an overthrow, making them an example to those that after should live ungodly. Now look at verse 7. And delivered, what's the next word? Just Lord. That word just comes from the same word as righteous. Deliver just Lot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked, there in Sodom and Gomorrah. You know what that verse is saying? That verse is saying Lot was a saved man. In the eyes of God, he was just. Positionally, he was just. Now, the way he lived his life wasn't. But his standing with God, he was just. And notice what it says. He was vexed with the filthy conversation. In other words, he was convicted. He was uncomfortable. I think he was under the chastening hand of God, living where he was, the way he was living, as a just man, it tore him up. Anybody here? No, we're being honest this morning, okay? Any normal time, we don't worry about it, but now we're being honest. Okay? Anybody here ever get out of fellowship with God and man, it just killed you? Anyone know what I'm talking about? You get away from the Lord and man, you're just vexed. I submit to you, some of the most miserable people in the world are Christians out of the will of God. No, I'm not right. Holy Spirit's dealing with me, convicting me. That was Lot. He was a saved man living in a wicked environment, living in a godly lifestyle The Bible says his soul was just vexed. He was just. In fact, look at the next verse. You don't buy that? Look at the next verse For that, what? Look at verse 8 there, 2 Peter 2. For that what? Righteous man. Talking about Lot. A righteous man. You don't find that phrase used for any unsaved people. That is only used for saved people. For that righteous man dwelling among them, seeing and hearing, vexed his what? Righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. Three times the Bible says that Job was uh or Lot was a righteous man, a just man, a righteous man. Do you know it's possible for a saved man to live a terrible life? But I'll tell you this, a saved man outside the will of God does not have the peace of God in their heart and life. I may be talking to someone this morning and you're away from God and you know you're away from God and you know you're not right with God and down inside your heart and soul There is a lack of peace that you know only God can give to you. That's where Lot was Vexed his righteous soul. Saved man? Yes, by faith, by grace. The only way a person's righteous is by faith in Christ. Now, Abraham and Lot are looking forward to faith in that the Messiah will come You and I look back that he has come. So they had the same family, same background, but two different people, same finances, but two completely different values. Same faith, but two completely different lifestyles. I would like to believe that every saved person is living like they should I would like to believe that every person that has trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I would like to believe this, that all of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, that we are living the life that we should be living. I would like to believe that. But the Bible is a book of reality. And the Bible tells us that how things are not the way we would like for them to be. And reality is, saved people can live out of the will of God, under the chastening of God, and have and miss the peace of God in their life. A saved person can We're praying for revival. You know what revival is? When saved people get back into the will of God. Get back into the place where God wants us to be. Abraham experienced revival when he left the land of Egypt and he came back to Bethel and he came back to the altar and he called on God. And he was restored and revived. And Lot never did that. Lot never did that. So you have Abraham and Lot, same family, same finances, same faith, but they had a completely different focus on life. And look with me if you would. At verse 5 through 7, I noticed this produced a conflict. It says Back here, let me get back. Genesis 13. Notice it says, and the land, verse 6, was not able to bear them. Verse 7, and there was strife. I circled that word strife. And uh the herdmen of Abraham's cattle and the herdmen of Lot's cattle, the Canaanite and the Perizzites dwelt there in the land. If you come back up verse 5, it tells us what Lot had. But it also reveals to us what he did not have. And Lot also, which went with Abraham, he had flocks, okay. He had herds, okay. He had tents, okay. He had possessions, he had a nice place to live, he had a lot of goods put up, he was wealthy, we understand that But there's something conspicuously left out that Abraham had that Lot did not have. Anybody want to take a shot what that was? His altar. Come back up to verse number four. And the place and unto the place of the altar Speaking of Abraham, which he had made, you find nowhere in Scripture, no record of Lot, do you find him having an altar to the Lord? He had nice, he had tents, he had cattle, to put it in our context, he had a beautiful, beautiful home. Brother, he had the latest vehicles, the latest model cars. He had the finest designer clothing He was incredibly successful in the farming and agricultural business. He was the envy, no doubt. But one thing he didn't have, even as a saved man, he did not have a personal walk with God. No altar. You find Abraham everywhere he went, he built an altar, build an altar, build an altar. You know what an altar is? That's my personal walk with God. That's my daily devotions. That's my trusting the Lord, submitting to Lord throughout the day. It's Lord saying, Lord, you are God, I'm not. You're my Lord, I'm your servant. Lord, I'm walking with you. I want to please you. I want to live for you. I want my life to honor you. Lot didn't have any of that. And so here you have Abraham, wealthy, same family. He has an altar. He's walking with God on a daily basis. He's sincerely wanting to stay right with the Lord and please the Lord with his life. Here's Lot. He don't care about any of that. I don't got time for that. Build an altar? What are you talking about? I got all these sheep. I got this job. I gotta handle these finances. I don't have time for an altar And because of that, there was a conflict between the two. Now the Bible says that the land couldn't contain them, so part of the conflict was there just wasn't enough resources for both their herds. But I want to submit to you that the conflict went deeper than simply not enough resources. It was two different values. Two different perspectives on life, two different priorities. For Abraham, the highest priority was pleasing my Lord and living for my Savior. For Lot, the highest priority is getting more and making sure my possessions, I've got everything, and just getting and grabbing and getting more. That produces a conflict. Whenever we get our priorities out of whack, and we get our focus on ourselves and on things, there's going to be trouble Amos chapter 3 verse 3 says, Can two walk together except they be agreed? And the answer is what? No. And Abraham had two different values, Abraham and Lot had two different values. It wasn't just a lack of land, it was a difference of values, a difference of priorities. And the Bible clearly teaches, and we tell our young people over and over again A young person ought never to marry an unsaved person. You're just asking for trouble. Two different priorities, two different values. You say, oh, but he's so handsome. That's what all the girls told me when I was younger Not. Listen to me. Oh, she's so beautiful. She's a heathen, but she's so beautiful Huh? I tell you, I tell you, we tell the young people and we meet it with all I'm joking around here a little bit, but you study Corinthians. You better both know the same Lord. And not only should you marry not only should a young person make sure they marry a saved person, they need to marry saved persons that are dedicated to the Lord. Some saved people are a mess. Amen or not. Same thing in all areas of life. By the way, it ought to be true in the church. Did you know that one of the policies of a biblical church is saved baptized membership? You have a church and start bringing unsaved people and have different values, different, different perspectives, different priorities, that church is going to be a mess. Amen or not There was conflict between Abraham and Lot because there were two completely different sets of values, two completely different sets of priorities, two completely different focuses and perspectives on life. Both saved. Very, very different. So there was conflict, then there was Abraham's concern. Look with me if you would at verse number 8. Abraham said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee. And between thy herdmen and my herdmen and thy herdmen, look at this last statement. For we be brethren. That's where we're family. We need to get along. We need to as much as possible be at peace with one another. You know what I think? This is Leatherman. Alright? This is what I think. I think Abraham realized there's no reconciliation of our values. There's no reconciliation of our priorities. Lot is living for a whole different purpose in life than what I am. The only thing we can do is separate. Now, the land was a factor, I acknowledge that, but I think there's a whole lot more to it than just the lack of resources. It was two different values. Abraham's not content to just let the strife go on. He takes the initiative and he makes a plea for peace And you know, we ought never to be content to just let strife go on Whether it's in a home, in a marriage, in a ministry, if there is a fuss, if there is division, if there is conflict, if harmony is missing, it must be addressed. We got people that are just content to live with strife. We got people that are just satisfied with being mad all the time. And Abraham says, we're not going to live that way. We're going to make this right. One way or another, we're going to deal with this strife. And he takes the initiative and he steps up and he says, listen, here's a plea for peace. Notice he's concerned about their testimony. You know, as a Christian, there's more to my living for the Lord than simply what I get out of it. There is a testimony for the Lord at stake also. Well I'm not f well I can I can live my life the way I want I'm not affecting anybody else. Well if you name the name of Christ you are affecting somebody else Notice verse number 7. Look at the last part of verse 7. And the herdman of Lot's cattle, and the Canaanite and the Perizzite dwelleth then in a lamb. Why did God include that? That's not even an issue in this conflict. Uh yeah it is. These are unsaved people and they're watching. And they're seeing how you and how Abraham and Lot behave. And they're watching how you interact, how they interact with each other. And they're making an assessment of Abraham's and Lot's God based upon how they treat one another. By the way, the world's still doing that. You get a church that's fussing and fighting and carrying on, the world's watching. I wonder how many people dying without Christ, dying their sins, ends up in hell because a bunch of Christians couldn't get along and fussed and turned those people so off to the things of God I don't want nothing to do with Christ or their God. And they end up in hell. Huh? World watches. I thank God for this church and I I want to be careful, I don't I don't want you to take this the wrong way. But our church for a period of time there didn't have a very good testimony, right, Helen? You folks that were here, you know I get out when I first came I and I don't say much about this, but I'd get out and start knocking on doors, I'd have people say, Oh yeah, we heard about your church And I say, well, I don't know. I won't hear. But let me tell you what we believe. And I'll tell you, by God's grace and with his help, and the people that were here rallied around. We worked hard to rebuild a testimony in our community for the Lord. For the Lord. Now not everybody appreciates our stand. But I'd like to believe we have a little bit of respect. I'd like to believe that. I'd like to believe that. So the old world is watching, and Abraham says, this can't go on like this. This can't go on fussing like this. We've got to do what we need to do. He takes in ifshib and he steps in, he offers a solution. I'm telling you, you've got fussing going on in your marriage and in your home or with your brother or sister. I'm telling you, this world is watching. And they're assessing our Lord. And they're assessing the goodness of God based upon how we get along. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have Love one for another. Love one for another. It's how they know we're Christians. I hate to say this, and it's extremely rare, and it hasn't happened for a long time. But I have said people say something like this, if that person's part of your church, I ain't coming to your church. Because they had such a sorry testimony. I had a fellow one time, we were going busy And uh I was paired up. I said, um, hey, I got this family, we're gonna go visit, invite them to church, talking about the Lord. And he goes, Oh no, I can't go there. I said, What do you mean we can't go there? He says, I can't. Why not? Oh, I got a terrible testimony. I can't go talk to them about the Lord. I said, what in the world? If there's somebody I can't talk to about the Lord because of how I'm living my life, I need to get right with God. Abraham said, We have a terrible testimony. We're acting and we can't get along and we fight and angry and fussing and striving. We gotta fix this, we've got to settle this. He was concerned for his testimony. The unsaved were watching. He was concerned for his family. He says, we be brethren. Fussing and fighting does more damage to our children than living in poverty does. It's better. Proverbs 17. 1. I gotta Wind us down. Proverbs 17, 1 says, I'm putting my own words, it says, it's better to live in poverty and get along with a family than to be rich, have great sacrifices, and strife thereof. Well if I just had a little more if I get my kids a little more of this and buy them a little more of that and get them a bigger this and get them a better that Then they'll turn out okay. Then they'll be all right. I'm telling you, division and strife in the home does more damage to the children in that home than poverty does to that home. That's what the Bible says. Abraham says, we be family, man. We can't be acting like this. He's concerned. He's concerned for the family. A poor and humble home that's right with God is better than a rich and angry home. Outside of the will of God. And then there's choices made, and we really don't have time. Abraham says in verse number 9, he says, Is not the whole land before thee? Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me. If you take the left hand, I'll go to the right. If you go to the right hand, I'll go to the left. You decide, I'm deferring to you what a tremendous man Abraham was. He deferred to Lot. Lot's the least spiritual of the two. He says, you take what you want. Abraham died to self. It's not about me. It's not me getting anything. He just depended on God. And he expressed this, but it's implied. I'm just going to trust God. You take the well-watered plains down there, fine. You have them. I'm just going to trust God. God will take care of me. Deferred to Lot, died to self, depended on God. For Abraham, doing right was more important than getting rich. And then there's lot. And by the way, the decisions we make are strong indicators of the condition of our heart. The decisions we make, the choices we make, determine the direction of our life and home. And Lot made the decision. And he looked down towards Sodom, the plains of Sodom, and boy, they were well watered. And there was great meadows and great hay and feed for his herds. There's plenty of water. That's perfect for raising cattle. That's perfect for making more money. That's perfect for increasing my possessions It was good for his cattle, but it was disaster for his children. And Lot chose possessions over the will of God. And he sacrificed his character for his cattle. And he went down to Sodom. Did you catch that verse 13? But the men of Sodom were what? Wicked and sinners before the Lord exceedingly God had no concern for his spiritual well-being, never built one altar. He had no concern for his personal testimony. He could care less when anybody else thought about him. And by the way, later on, when God finally does judge Sodom and Gomorrah, he has to pull Lot out of the city And when Lot confronted his son-in-laws about getting out before God judges it, the Bible says he was like one that mocked. In other words, his testimony was a joke. Pulled him out. Pulled him out. He had no concern for his spiritual well-being. He has no concern for his personal testimony. He had no concern for the good of his family. His focus was on the temporal. His focus was on the material. And it destroyed his life and his family. Like I said, he was more concerned for his fortune than his family. He was more concerned about his cattle than he was about his children. He was more concerned about getting his way than what was best. For his household. Abraham, on the other hand, I want to please God. I want to do right even if it costs me everything. I'm going to do right. I want to do right. Let me ask you this. Which describes your life? Which describes your spiritual condition? Abraham or Lot? Which is closer? If you're here this morning, say, you know, I see some characteristics of Lot in my own life. I'm here to tell you, there's a God in heaven that's faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and we can come to Him and He can turn our heart and we can live for God like Abraham did You say, preacher, I'd like to believe I'm I'm like Abraham. I'm trying to live for God. Then I say to you, you keep that altar. You keep that older going. You mess up, you get back up again and go on. Come back to Bethel. Abraham was more concerned for others. I am with this, Christmas Eve, 1910. Over in London, General William Booth. Anybody recognize that name? He's the founder of what? Salvation Army. At the time, he was the general of that army, so to speak. But he was extremely elderly And he was near the very end of his life, and he could not attend the annual meeting on Christmas Eve 1910. They were having their annual meeting for a salvation army, and he could not attend. And uh some of his uh associates and leaders in that ministry approached him and said, You really need to go to this. We don't know if you'll ever be. He says, I can't. It's physically impossible. I'm too elderly. I can't go to it. They said, well then you need to at least send a telegram. And give a message to your people and give a message to the folks that are working and let them know. Let them hear from you. Well, of course, telegrams then were very expensive. If I understood the history book correctly, you paid by the letter. For send the telegram, you paid for the letter. Of course, being in the ministry, he wasn't a very wealthy man. So he sent one word, sent one word by telegram to that national meeting on Christmas Eve, 1910. I had that great convention, the places, thousands of people there, workers and all. And the fellow got up to start this the meeting, and he says, we have a word from our founder. He sent a telegram. He could not be here. We have a word. Here's the word. William Booth sent this one word. Others. Others. That was it. What was he telling them? He was telling our life is not about ourselves, it's about helping others It's about living for God. Lot was wrapped up in himself. Abraham said, You take what you need, others. I want Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I want a revival of a concern for others in our church. I want a revival of our concern for our walk with God in my own heart. Walking with God and others. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord, to follow Abraham's example. Not perfect. When we mess up, get back up again. But help us keep that order. Help us stay focused on you. Help us to stay in your will. And not be like Lot. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, preacher. Man, God's touched my heart. I don't want to be like Lot and sometimes I see in my life some characteristics there. I need that. I need to be like Abraham. Anybody at all say preacher God dealt with my heart this morning in some areas there I really need attention. Any at all? God bless you. Hands all around. Sure. Who would not want to be like Abraham rather than Lot? Now, maybe there's some specific areas God dealt with your heart. Maybe that daily altar, maybe a family altar, that daily walk with God. Maybe you've gotten away from the Lord. No shame in that. But you say, I need to come back. I need to come back. Is there any say preacher? There's some specific areas God dealt in my heart that I need to make right. Maybe that altar, maybe coming back, dealing with something. Anybody like that? Some very specific areas I need. God bless you. God bless you. Now maybe there's some here today you're not saved. Lot was a saved man, as surprising as it is, but maybe you've never trusted Christ. And you say, preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need to get this settled. Any at all? Any at all? Father, bless our invitation now, I ask, in Jesus' name