If you would, Genesis twenty-two. Uh boy there was a lot of drama at the symphony last night. It was the bottom of Beethoven's ninth and the bassists were looted. Get it, yeah. How many how many people appreciate that? Raise your hand. How many people say forget the jokes just preach? Yeah. I thought that was cute Genesis 22. I was able to speak for Brother Ken Lake last night. They had their couple's banquet over in Winchester, and uh we had a great time. Brother Ken is doing a really good job down there in Romney. I just appreciate it. It's hard to believe. He's been down there eight years now. And just pastoring and they had a young couple there. They had just wonder the Lord and and just exciting what God's doing. So keep Brother Ken in your prayers Genesis chapter twenty-two. Look at verse number one with me if you would. The Bible says it came to pass after these things that God did what's the next word? Tempt Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here am I. This passage to me is intriguing. I know I've preached from this text and this chapter uh many times over the years. Seems like every time I come through in my Bible reading, I get to this chapter And it just captures my attention. To me, this is one of the most fascinating events in all of Scripture. Um But it's important before I pray and get in the message, I do want to point out in verse 1 that word tempt there. It's important we understand Bible terminology. You have to look at the meaning of a word, you have to look at the context, or you can come up with the wrong conclusion. What do we normally think of when we heard that hear that word tempt? What other word would you associate with the word tempt? Sin. We think of tempting to sin. We're being tempted to do wrong. Well, God does not ever tempt someone to sin. Amen? James makes that very clear. So what's he talking about here when he says that God did tempt Abraham? He's not trying to elicit Abraham to do something sinful. The word tempt is also used in the Bible to express the idea of testing something or proving something. So he's putting Abraham through a test here. He's proving Abraham. Abraham is in the school of hard knocks. God is giving him a final exam, and Abraham will see if he passes that test or if he fails it. I've entitled the message Abraham in the School of Hard Knocks, or I thought of an alternate title would be Abraham's Final Exam. The interesting thing is after you get past this chapter, Abraham faces very few tests after this. Before he had a whole series of them. But after chapter 22, there's not a whole lot of real tests that Abraham goes through. So it's kind of his final exam in the school of hard knots. Let's pray. I want to share some thoughts with you this morning. Father, Lord, I'm grateful for the privilege to be in the house of God on the first day of the week. What a blessing. I thank you for the folks that have come out and and uh folks that are visiting with us and I just pray that uh the following moments would be a time when you speak to our hearts, dear God, and our faith in you would grow. We'd be better equipped. uh to deal with the trials of life that are inevitable. I can't, Lord, I have nothing in and of myself to to help anybody, Lord. All we have is your word and your Holy Spirit. So I yield myself to you. I present my body anew this hour, Lord, and I ask that you would fill me with your spirit. Dear Lord, I pray that you would speak through my mouth. Through my gestures to each of our hearts, and we would learn from Abraham. Lord, I pray you would impress on our hearts that we can trust you. That we can follow your leadership and know you're going to do right and you have a plan and a purpose. Help us to see that, I pray, this hour. In Jesus' name. Amen. Abraham's final exam in the school of hard knocks. Here's a question I'm thinking of as we go into this message: What is it that makes a man great? What is it that makes that person great? What are the ingredients that go into what what is it? I think we would all agree Abraham was a great man. You agree with me on that? One of the greatest influenced the world. Every corner of the world has been influenced by the life of Abraham and God's inspired record of that life. So what is it that makes a man great? I want to offer two suggestions. We could sit down and discuss this, come up with a lot of things. Let me offer two suggestions. What it is that makes a man great. First of all, I put this, uh the decisions a person makes. Are what make them great. Fact of the matter is, you and I are the result of very much the result of decisions we made in the past. Where we're at now, a lot of the situation we find ourselves in are the results of decisions we make. And so a man is great, a man's greatness is often the result of the decisions he makes. If we make wise decisions, then things will turn out one way. If we make foolish decisions Then things turn out another way. How many folks here ever made a decision? You're thinking of a decision right now you made, and you're really glad that you made that decision. Time has proven that that was a good decision to make. How many folks are thinking of a decision you make? Alright, very good. How many folks are thinking of a decision right now that you made? And boy, you'd do anything in the world to go back and change that and take that back. Anyone there? Sure. We've all been there So the decisions we make, but I want to throw another ingredient out. What is it that makes a person great? In the eyes of man, in the eyes of God. I think it's not just the decisions they make, but I think also the circumstances that God places that person in. Sometimes God brings circumstances in our lives that are determining factors into what we become. I've often thought of this. A great man in my life that has influenced me tremendously, that I admire. He's with the Lord now. But Dr. Lee Robertson. I don't know if anybody, many folks are familiar, Dr. Lee Robertson. I'd often thought the decisions that he made as a young man growing up to follow the Lord's leadership and God's call in his life. But also, I'm often wondered driving down the road. I wonder how many uh fellows there are behind the wheel of a truck. That have just the same characteristics, the same character, made many great decisions, but they were never put in for whatever reasons, God's plan first, they were never put into a position where they would Hold the position that Dr. Robertson at. You follow what I'm saying? So a great person, but God puts people in different positions I want to suggest to you in Abraham's day, no doubt there were some people in Abraham's day that loved God just as much as Abraham did Had just as much character and faith as Abraham did. But God, in his sovereignty and his wisdom, had a plan for Abraham's life. So Seems like the more difficult the circumstances are, sometimes the greater the opportunity to have influence for the Lord. Here we have Abraham. God challenges them, overwhelming circumstances. And the decision he makes here, as God says to him, Abraham, take thine son, thine only son. The ye who now loves. And get thee, verse 2, get thee to the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains, which I will tell thee of Man alive. What a circumstance to be placed in. Abraham's going to make a decision. He's either going to trust and obey God, or he's going to resist God. And handle things his way. The result of that decision is very much going to determine his future. It's going to determine how he's used of God and what influence he has. I think I'm trying to say this. We must never underestimate the importance of making right decisions. How many times we look back on our life and we decided something that at the moment seemed so insignificant At the moment it says, well, this is nothing. And years later we look back and say, boy, that one decision had a powerful influence and affected my life. You know what I'm talking about? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Even the insignificant things, are you listening? Even the insignificant things, and we make a decision, and that decision has consequences Um here Abraham, we're dealing with the decisions here. But he's facing a trial in life. How many people agree with me? This would be a trial. Good night. That's an understatement. He got up that morning. I can't imagine that he would have dreamed That he was going to have to face something like this, make this sort of decision. I've found that some of the most difficult trials in life are not necessarily physical or financial. We looked at Job two weeks ago in the school of hard ox. His trial was very much physical. Would you agree with me on that? It was his physical pain, the loss of loved ones. It was that type of thing. Abraham's trial is very, very different. Some folks face physical trials. Brother George is here this morning. Just went through heart surgery. And I would say that was a trial. to some degree. Uh brother Tom uh went through last Paul and uh unexpected comes out of the blue and suddenly this trial. That's not what Abraham faced. He was his health was fine For others, it's financial trial. The work that you're with collapses, they go out of business, suddenly you find yourself with no work. And uh no income. And mercy, what a trial that would be. And many folks in our church have faced that. But here, Abraham's trial is a little different. It's a it's a trial of decision. All right, here's what God wants me to do. I don't want to do that. That makes no sense. This is ridiculous to ask of me to do what God is asking me to do. So what's he going to do? Is he going to trust and obey God? Is he going to say, no, God, that's crazy. I'm not doing that. And take things in his own hands. Abraham decides to trust God. Does it make sense? It goes against everything that the natural mind would think is right. Well he said I know God. I know God. And I can trust him and whatever he's up to. Whatever is behind all of this that he's asking me to do, I know that God is good. And I can trust him, and it's going to be okay. That's tough. That's tough. But few men have influenced the world to the degree that Abraham influenced the world. Very few people have exercised faith like Abraham exercised faith. And God used them in a great way. This passage, as I said, just captivates me. We go through the life of Abraham. In fact, I'm tempted to do a series sometime on the life of Abraham What an amazing study that would be. In a very real way, his entire life, as recorded in Scripture up to this point, is just a series of tests, one after another after another after another. Then finally the tests of all tests. When he's asked to sacrifice his son, and uh I can't say every time he came through, but this one he did. Now, here's the two thoughts I want us to have. Uh first of all, I want us to consider the faith of Abraham The faith of Abraham. One thing as we study the Bible record of Abraham, we find this: Abraham loved God. Abraham trusted God. It's interesting, you will not find one house that Abraham ever built. As he traveled around the Middle East there, he didn't leave any houses behind. He built no cities. But there was one thing, you could follow Abraham's movements, one thing he left behind everywhere he went. Does anybody know what that is? His son dug the wells, but there's another. Altars. Everywhere you read over and over again, Abraham built an altar. Abraham built an altar. Abraham built an altar. Well, you can tell Abraham's been here. Look at all these altars. Where'd Abraham go? I don't know. Just follow these altars. You'll find them. He was a man who knew God. He is a man that had established a relationship with his Creator. And it characterized his life And now he's at a point where God says, Abraham, you've left the Ur of the Chaldees, you've left your entire family, you've struggled through various famines You've dealt with uh having a child late in life miraculously. You've trusted me, you've followed me, sometimes you did better than other times But you've learned that I am good, that I have a plan, and you can trust me. Now, Abraham, here is the test of all tests. I want you to take your son and sacrifice him up. Your only son, the one you love. Kill him. Offer him a sacrifice. I tell you what, that takes faith. God I'll trust you. God I'll trust you. Here's the thing. Abraham's faith in God enabled him to recognize that God was speaking to him. Look at verse 1 with me. It came to pass after these things. That God did tempt Abraham and said unto him, I tell you, God recognized the fact recognized the fact that God was working in his life. God was working in his life. Here's a real tragedy, I think, in many times in our lives. God is doing things God is trying to lead us and direct us, but we're so consumed, we're so caught up with what the here and now is, we're so caught up in having fun and paying our bills and working and doing this that we're completely deaf. To God speaking us and leading us and directing us. I'm telling you this morning, God is working in your life. Whether you see it or not, whether you recognize it or not, God is trying to lead you. God is trying to work in your life. And Abraham had such a relationship with God, when God was leading him, he could hear it. He recognized the voice of God. Now, I want to point out very quickly, I think we understand this But I want to emphasize God speaks to us not audibly in this day and age. He speaks to us through his word. Period. Alright. So uh don't go and uh say preacher I had this dream and this is what God told me in the dream. Brother, I had some dreams this week. I was telling my wife. I dreamt about Greta Van Sustern this week. Isn't that weird? That one God speaking to me, I'll tell you that right now. Don't ask me about it, or don't ask me about it. But God speaks to us through his word. And we need to be open to the Lord. How many times we're out knocking on doors? Hey, I'm Pastor Leatherman from Mount Lake Baptist Church. We're visiting in the neighborhood. Want to leave an invitation? Come visit us. Uh do you attend church anywhere? Uh no, when I was a kid I did. Uh well listen, we'd love to have you come out. You know we always tell folks going to church is important, but more important than that is knowing for sure that when we die our sins are forgiven and we go to heaven and not to hell Do you ever give that any thought? Well, yeah, a little bit. I think about it. Uh well, could we take a moment, share? Sure. Get the Bible out. I'll say something like this. I say, let me ask you a question. Have things been happening in your life recently to make you think about God or about where you'll spend eternity? You know what answer I get almost every time I ask that? You know what answer I get? Yeah, you know what? There have been things happening lately Yeah, there has been stuff that made me think about that. Hey, you know what that is? That's God working in a person's life. That's God trying to get a person's attention. God is active in our lives. God is working. God is speaking to us. He wants to direct us. And Abraham was able to recognize that. He knew God's leadership in his life. He knew that God had a direction for his life, and it is so important. That you and I as individuals, we humble ourselves before the Lord and we listen to him leading and directing us. That's why getting in preaching services is so important. God speaks through his word. And God directs us. He touches on something in our life that needs attention. He touches an area of our life that needs some changing, some rearranging, something he's calling us to do, to get involved in We've got to hear that. We've got to let the Lord speak to our hearts and have our way. I'll tell you, it is amazing to me. One of the most exciting things about being a preacher of the gospel. is to after a service have people come up and say something, preacher, uh boy, that was a great message. And God really spoke to my heart about this in my life. And they mentioned something that is nowhere in my notes. I don't remember ever saying anything about that. But the Spirit of God is working and leading in their life. Do you follow what I'm saying? And so Abraham's faith in God enabled him to recognize God speaking to him. Hey, if you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die you're going to heaven, I'm telling you, God's trying to get your attention. God's trying to speak to you to trust Christ. There's folks here this morning. You're facing some very important decisions. God has brought circumstances into your life where you're going to have to make a very significant decision. My suggestion is Get in the Word of God. Ask God to lead you. Ask God to direct you. What is the right thing to do? What is the best thing to do? And so Abraham, uh, his faith enabled him to recognize God speaking to him. A second thing about his faith, I notice his faith enabled him to respond in complete surrender Verse 2, look at verse 2. And he, Abraham and God, said, Take now thy son, thine only son, whom thou lovest, and get thee unto the land of Moriah, offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains, which I'll tell thee of. Look at verse three And Abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled his ass and took w two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clay the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up and went to the place Went into the place of which God had told him. I just read that. Looking at that there, I don't see any indication that Abraham is in shock. I would be in shock. If I woke up tomorrow morning and God said, Dennis Uh he doesn't call me Denny like some folks. Uh God said, Dennis, I want you to take your son, your your and uh offer him up. I would be in shock. How many people would know what I'm talking about? That would that would be unbelievable. Uh, how many folks here, if that if God would ask of you what he asked Abraham, you would hesitate. Anybody here? Yeah. Good night I don't see any indication of hesitation. I don't see any resistance. I don't see any reaction other than complete and immediate obedience. How did he do that? How do you get to the point where God asks something, asks everything of you? And without hesitation, okay, Lord. Alright, Lord, it's yours. I want your life. Okay, God, it's yours. I want that which is dearest to you. Alright, God, it's yours. That's an incredible level of faith that few people reach. Um, Abraham learned when he left Earth the Chaldees. Didn't know where he was going, packed up everything, left his family and his uh his home and the place he grew up and went out not knowing where he's going. You know what? He learned he could trust God. He learned that God would take care of him. When he got to the land of Canaan, and the very first thing that happened a few chapters earlier is they hit had famine. And Abraham, rather than trusting God, took things into his own hand, went down to Egypt. That ended up disaster. And he learned a lesson. I can trust God. Comes back to Canaan and uh gets established. God says, uh God says, you're gonna have a son. And uh uh What did Sarah do when she heard that God said she was going to have a son? She's 90 years old? She left. You know where she got that from? The chapter before, Abraham left. When God first told Abraham, I'm going to give you a son, your old age, Abraham went, Yeah, right, God. Well, you know what he found out? God can and will do what he says he can and will do. And he learned a lesson. I can trust God. I can trust God. Um Now he faces the test of a lifetime. I'm here to tell you, we can trust God no matter how difficult the trial. We can trust God. We can trust God no matter how unreasonable it seems to us. The request, we can trust God. I'm thinking of Brother Jua Adams God calls a young man. God comes in a preaching service and touches the hearts of a young man and his young wife and says, I want you to go to a third world country. Where there's no witness, very little witness at all. I want you to leave everything. I want you to leave your home country, leave your family, uh your uh extended family, take your wife and children Raise up the money and go to this country and be there by yourself and serve me. You know what this young man learned? He learned, I can trust God. God has a plan. So God can be trusted. One thing stands out in my mind about Abraham, and that's this: his complete unwavering faith in God. So the first thing I notice here Is Abraham's faith in God. Now, here's what I was trying to get to in this message. There's something else I never noticed before. I've read it scores of times, maybe a hundred or more times. And I saw something. God showed me something this time. Not just the faith of Abraham, but get this: the faith of Isaac. How about that? I got looking at how Isaac responded. His daddy shows up, says, son God told me we're supposed to sack uh make a sacrifice, Mount Moriah. Get your things together. It's going to take a few days. You're going with me. Okay, Daddy. How old was uh Isaac here? Probably his mid-late teens. Gets his uh packs his stuff together, he gets his servants, they load up and they head off. They finally, after three days, they get to Mount Moriah. They're getting things together. He says to the servants, you guys wait here, Isaac and I are going to go up the top of the mountain. I'm going to build another altar. Built scores of them We're going to build another altar and we're going to sacrifice to God. Isaac is carrying the fire, the wood that's going to be used for him. Up top round. As they're going up, Isaac says this. I mean, he's not a dummy. He knows what sacrifices involve. He's seen stuff hundreds of them. He knows there has to be an object that dies. Something living has to die. There has to be bloodshed for it to be an acceptable sacrifice And they've got wood and they've got the fire. The stones are up there, they'll just arrange them. But where's the offering? Abraham says, God will provide himself an offering. Isaac's thinking, just put yourself in his shoes. He's thinking, okay, how's that going to play out? We've never done this before. They get up there. He's helping his father put the stones in place. They get the altar built the way it's supposed to. Break the wood and break it down, get the kindlin down under there, and then a little bit heavier wood on there. It's a about a human-size off uh altar. The wood's all laid out on it. The Kinlan's down underneath there. Paul uh he has probably a um uh some sort of um uh ceramic uh What's the word I want? Um vase type thing that has the fire in there, the uh the ambers burning, and they're getting all this together, and finally Abraham comes over. He says, son, I need you to get up on the altar. Isaac knew what was up. He wasn't stupid. He'd seen hundreds, thousands of lambs and rams. Placed up on the altar. Maybe his father picked him up. I can hear Abraham. There's no record of this, but I could imagine Isaac saying, Daddy. Daddy? Me? But here's the amazing thing as I got studying this. I see no resistance on the part of Isaac. I see no rebellion. I'm telling you, I'm convinced in studying this, Isaac had a level of faith. That is very unusual. That he could trust his father and his God to put himself Allow himself to be placed on that altar. I don't see any struggle. Only one thing I see in response of Isaac, and that is he questioned his daddy. What's the offering? His father explained, and he accepted it. What a tremendous level of faith. I put this down. Isaac's uh Isaac placed an exceptional degree of trust in his father. What was it about Abraham that Isaac could trust him to this level? What was it about Abraham that his son could say, you know, I'm going to put my life in my father's hands, and I know it's going to be okay? I know it's good. I know it's right. Can I suggest to you his father's, his father's faith in God? Enabled Isaac to have faith in Abraham. You follow what I'm saying? He knew that Daddy believed and trusted God He knew that Daddy would follow God's leadership and daddy would obey the word of God and he could trust Daddy. He could trust Daddy. What a challenge to me as a father. That my testimony, that my walk with God would be of such faith that my family could say we can trust him. We know he's going to do right. He know he's going to follow God, even though it doesn't make sense. Family, uh, God's called us to Kosak stand What? God's called us. You know, Daddy's always walked with God. Every time Daddy did what God said, God took care of us. God met the need. It worked out fine. Okay, Daddy, we trust you. We believe you're following God's leadership. How about that? An aspect of this story I never saw before The faith of Isaac, the faith of Isaac. Let me say a word to our young people. If you have a Christian mother or father, you ought to thank God for that. If you're in a home where the Bible is trying to be followed and the Bible is trying to be taught, you ought to thank God for that. Amen You want to thank God for that. Listen, if your parents or your guardians, those who God has placed over you, are trying to help you live for God, you ought to listen to your parents. I was thinking how many times? Young people, and and I thank God for our young people. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying. Look at them sitting down here. Don't they look great? They probably look better from that side than this side, but uh how many times a young person will get a certain age and suddenly they know everything about life. Huh? Of course they've not they're not they've not even spent two days as an adult yet. But they know everything about life, and they want to make decisions that are going to affect the rest of their lives. And they don't listen to a word That people have already been through it have to say to them. No, I know. How long have you been an adult? How many days have you spent as an adult? None. But yet somehow you know how to live as an adult. Isaac knew he could listen and trust his father. His daddy had walked with God for a long time. His daddy had made some tough decisions. Hey, his daddy had made some bad decisions and learned from them. And what I want to say to our young people is this, God bless you, I love you. But don't be stupid. Help me out, parents. I'm awfully lonely up here right now. Don't be dumb. Listen to the people who have already been through it. Yeah, but they made some mistakes. Yeah, and I'll bet they learned from them. Listen to them. Son, I don't think it's a good idea to do this. What do you know? Well, how long have you been alive? How long have you been on planet Earth? Hello? It'd be uh Well, anyway, I'm off the radar. Let's get back on the track here. He learned he could trust his father. His daddy had walked with God. His daddy made some bad decisions. But Isaac said, you know, I'm going to trust him. I put this down. Isaac responded in faith, not with worldly reasoning. What would the world say to a young man whose father is about to offer him up on the altar? The world would say, good night, get out of there. You fight, you do anything you can. Now listen, I'm not listen, parents, I'm not telling you to put offer your kids up as sacrifice, alright? Nobody in history has ever been asked to do this other than Abraham. Parents, you're not Abraham. But what I am saying is this. A parent say, uh, hey, you know, we got a dress standard for our kids. We got we got this. We want we're gonna We understand the Bible. We think this is the right thing we should do. This is what we don't want you to do. And the world says, your parents are crazy. You don't have to do what they say. Just yell at them. You don't have to listen to your parents. Call the social services and report them. That's worldly reasoning. You know what the reaction of faith is? Okay, daddy, you want me up on that altar? Okay, daddy. Is that the right thing to do? It's what God said. Okay, Daddy. If Isaac had not submitted to his father, he never would encounter God's power. He never would have seen what God can do in his life if he had not submitted to the will of God. Here's a tragic thing. We have people going through life and they're struggling and it's a mess and they're angry and they're frustrated and everything's a disaster. And they never see what God can do for them because they're constantly fighting the Lord's leadership and direction in their life. Am I making any sense this morning? What Isaac would have missed out on if he would not have followed it. Abraham is the only man in the Bible that was tested in this fashion. You and I aren't going to be asked to do what Abraham was asked to do. Job was the only man in the Bible that went through the testing that he went through. God knows what each of us as individuals need. God knows where our weaknesses are, where our strengths are. And God will design the course, our curriculum, in the School of Hard Knocks. He will design it particularly for you and I. He knows the areas that Brother Dennis Leatherman needs to be strengthened, and he will test me in those areas. He knows the areas in your Christian life where your faith maybe needs to be developed, and he will test you in those areas. And where he tests me May not necessarily be in the same area he tests Brother Jerry. And where he tests Brother Jerry may not be in the same areas that he tests Brother Dave. God works with us as individuals And every trial, every difficulty that comes into our lives is custom designed by God. To strengthen my faith, to develop my influence, and make me the person God intends for me to be. Now here's the thing: we've got to hear God. We've got to be open to his word in his direction and let him have his way. Each of us can be great for God in our own sphere of influence. Hey, our my burden right now, as talking about in Sunday school, is bus ministry. We've got buses down, we've got kids that we've got to bring in, families that got to be reached. And our buses are down. I'm telling you, a person that gives himself to the Lord fully, 100%, in a bus ministry type setting, you can be great in the lives of people who need Christ. If we'll just trust Him. If we'll just follow God's leadership. In a Sunday school class, out knocking on doors, whatever it may be in our lives, we can be great for God. If we'll just trust him and follow his leadership. How many people recognize the name Adrniram Judson? Adonairam Judson, great missionary. He is, I put him down this way, he did graduate work in the School of Hard Knox. And he became one of the greatest missionaries in all of history. Let me read you a little incident in the life of Adonairam Judson. Adonairam Judson endured untold hardships reaching the lost. He arrived in Burma in 1812 When he got there, there was not one known Christian in a land of over a million people. He and his wife Anne were utterly alone. A baby was soon born. But only lived for a short time. Eight months after he was born, their son Roger William Judson died on the mission field Six years, six long, soul-crushing, heartbreaking years passed before his first convert was baptized. During one period, Judson was imprisoned for 17 months and horribly mistreated. For the rest of his life he carried the ugly scars made by the chains and iron shackles which had cruelly bound him. Listen to this. This is what I was trying to get to. Upon release, he asked for permission to resume his preaching ministry. The godless ruler indignantly denied his request, saying, get this, my people are not fools enough to listen to anything a missionary might say But I fear they might be impressed by your scars and turn to your Christ. Impressed by your scars. You know what that was? That was influence of a man who had been through incredible trials for the Lord and became a great man. You follow what I'm saying? When God brings a test or trial in our life, we can choose to trust Him and have faith in Him and follow His leadership, and when we come out of it, we may have some scars. But we have something more than a scar. We have influence with our children, our families, and in our community. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask if you would help us. Lord, when the difficult decisions come, when the trials come, help us to trust you. Help us to obey you. Help us, Lord. To walk with you and know that you're a good God, that you have a plan and purpose for our lives. With our heads bound and with our eyes closed. And I don't know, this is between you and God. Let me ask you this question. Is there some here this morning you have a decision that needs to be made? God's been working in your heart, perhaps. God's been leading and dealing with you. And God has put you in a circumstance where you've got to decide whether I'm going to trust Him and obey Him or I'm going to handle things my way. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. You say, I want my faith to be strong. I want to be able to trust God in this situation. I want to be able to trust him and obey him, know that in the end he'll work it out Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, it's just circumstance, situation in my life, a decision that needs to be made. Pray with me that God will help me trust and believe. How about it? Any like that by the uplifting? God bless you. Several hands around. Several hands around. How many would say, Preacher, I want my walk with God needs to be better? Trusting Him and walking with Him So that others can see me and know that, hey, there's a person that knows God and uh is going to do the right thing. How about your testimony of your walk with God? How many of you say, preacher, pray with me I gotta have a better testimony in my walk with God with my family. How about it? Any uplifted hand? God bless you. One last question You're here this morning. Do you know for sure when you die your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? Do you have that settled? If not We urge you to trust Christ. Is there any? Say, preacher, pray for me. I don't know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. Say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me. Settle that. Is there any at all? God bless you. How about it? Any others Preacher, I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. How about it? Any others? Father in heaven, you know our hearts. You know where we're at in life. I pray you'd work in our lives, lead us and direct us. Help us to trust you And uh have your way. Many hands raised, Lord. Help us make the right decisions now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's just going to play a few verse of invitation God spoke to your heart this morning. Whatever that need is, whatever the situation, why don't you come on? Bring that to the Lord. Say, Lord, I'm going to trust you in this matter.