Turn in your Bibles this morning to Genesis chapter number fifteen. Genesis chapter number fifteen. And I hope this will be an encouragement also. We have a heavenly father. Amen. And uh he his compassions fail not Great is thy faithfulness, and uh I thank him for his promises. Amen. Uh we're going to go look back at one of our patriarchs this morning in Genesis chapter number 15 And we're gonna he wasn't a perfect man, this man wasn't, but but uh God made promises to him and uh he came through And uh he he's the the father of the Jewish nation, the Hebrews. He was the first Hebrew. And uh we're gonna look at the life of Abram this morning, later became Abraham And uh God gave him some promises, and I want to encourage you with some promises from God's Word. I'm thankful for the promises don't depend on us When God gives us a promise, He He comes through. We don't have to worry about it. You can take it to the bank, so to speak. Amen. I'll read a verse of scripture before we go to Genesis 15. Genesis 18, 19 says for I know that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment, that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he has spoken of him. This was a promise that Abraham, even though he's getting on up in the years, that he's going to have a child when this scripture was written. Genesis 18, 19, he didn't have a son yet. Isaac had not been born So we see that God always keeps his promises. It's not up to us. He will keep his promises. Genesis chapter number 15. I'm going to start reading And verse number one, Genesis 15, verse number one, the Bible says, after these things, the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram. I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward. And Abram said, Lord God, what wilt thou give me? Seeing I go childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed. And lo, one born in my house is mine heir. And behold, the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, This shall not be thine heir But he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir. And he brought him forth abroad and said, Look now toward heaven and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them And he said unto him, So shall thy seed be. And he believed in the Lord, and he counted it to him for righteousness. And he said unto him, I am the Lord that brought thee out of Ur the Chaldees and gave it uh to give thee this land to inherit it And he said, Lord God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it? And he said unto him, Take me in heifer of three years old. and a she-goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtle dove and a young pigeon. And he took unto him all those and divided them in the midst, and laid each piece one against another, but the birds divided he not. And when the fowls came down upon the carcasses, Abram drove them away And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram, and lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him. I want to read verses seventeen and eighteen too. The Bible says, and it came to pass that when the sun went down and it was dark, behold a smoking furnace and a burning lamp that passed between those pieces And in the same day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, Unto thy seed have I given this land for the river, from the river of Egypt, and to the great river, the river Euphrates. Let's pray. Our precious Heavenly Father, we come to you in Jesus' name this morning, just thanking you, Lord, for the privilege of being called a Christian, Lord. We're thankful for the salvation that only Jesus Christ could bring to us through his death, burial, and resurrection, his suffering for our sins, Lord. And Father, uh it's also a privilege to be called a dad or a father. Uh and Lord, I I thank you for all these men in this church this morning that can claim that and and uh all of us have a dad, Lord, so help us to be respectful. Help us to uh obey our parents and and honor them. And Lord we'll be careful to thank you. We pray, Lord, if there'd be one in our midst that's never trusted as their Lord and Savior or they're struggling with something, that today would be the day they get some help And Father, we'll thank you and praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. I just want to look at a lesson from the life of Abraham this morning. A lesson from the life of Abraham. The title of the message is Abraham's Assurance. You know, that's something that uh you know the denomination I grew up in, I struggled with assurance once I got saved for just a little bit of time. Uh I thought, well, did I say the right words? Did I did I mean it? But I I later took God's word to my heart and said, you know, He He keeps His promises Uh he it's what Jesus did and not what I do or what I say, but it's the condition of my heart. I had a repentant heart uh for my sin towards Jesus Christ. And he saved me And uh but I think uh some people that grew up in a in a denomination sometimes that believe that you can lose your salvation, sometimes they struggle with that. But I want to be a help to you through the Word of God this morning. Abraham struggled Abraham had struggles, but he guide assurance, and we're going to look at it this morning. I just want to look at this lesson of the life of Abraham. What we just read in the scripture is a conversation that's taken place between God and Abram. His name has not been changed to Abraham yet. Uh uh Maze Jackson said whenever Uh uh he went to Melchazedek and paid his tithes, then uh God added a hand to him. Amen. But but uh he's Abram uh what we're reading about right now. So we're able to kind of listen in on some very intimate conversation uh uh between uh God and Abram, some private communication You know about Abram in the Word of God, he's referred to as the friend of God. Wouldn't that be something when we get uh home to heaven someday that that God will say you're my friend Jesus called his disciples, he even called Judas Iscariot friend when he came and betrayed him. His innocent blood. He called him friend. But I hope we're all friends of God this morning. Um, if you're not, you can get in today. Amen. This is a very unique title though, friend of God. This is a friendly conversation. It's not necessarily a comfortable uh uh conversation for Abraham Uh he's he's got some tough questions and and it's okay sometimes to question God and ask him, you know, this is going on in my life, can you help me with it, God? And he'll give you assurance Just as he gave Abram uh in this scripture this morning. So these are friends. These are two that love each other and respect each other and are talking to each other But I find it interesting about what we learn about in this conversation this morning Just by way of introduction, I'll give you some thoughts and then get into the message. But first of all, when I read verse number one, I'm looking at this conversation. My observation was, what abundance. What abundance. Verse 1 again says, after these things the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward. I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward. We see abundance right there. Have any of you lived abundantly since you got saved? Lord just took care of some things for you. He doesn't promise us to be millionaires or billionaires or anything like that, but I'm talking about spiritually and blessings that cannot be paid for by money God has been abundant to us. And what I mean by that is look at what God tells Abraham there, Abram there in verse number one. It says, I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward. We often use the scripture during Sharathon. Now to him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we could ask or think. That's the God that we serve. He is an abundant God. He owns everything. He owns the cattle on a thousand hills. He owns the, as we say, the taters under the heels. He owns it all. None nothing that we have is he is a he only asked for a tenth of it back, but then an offering. But you know the more you give, the more you get. You can't outgive God. But what abundance Abraham had in God. I tell you what, if you have him, you have everything that you need Do you have God this morning? Do you have the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior this morning? If you do, you're abundant in rewards. You can find everything that you need in God You know, I'm almo it almost seems uh a little random, uh, but God uh he says, Okay, God, you're my shield and my exceeding great reward. It it seems a little random, but but really it's not Uh uh Abram just comes out of uh out of the middle there, he says, uh, and God tells him, he says, I am thy shield and thy exceeding great rewards. This is verse number one. What can he be getting at right here If you look at the very first phrase of verse 1, it says, After these things, the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision. After what things? Well, you've got to go back to chapter number 14 to see what took place in chapter 14, why God would say that I'm your shield, I'm thy shield in thy exceeding great reward. There's a couple of things that happen in chapter 14. Abram goes out to deliver his nephew Lot. He goes to deliver him. He is being kidnapped and And uh Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding towns, they had been taken captive. And and it says there was uh fi uh Uh four kings that came in and their nations and they came and and just took over everything and took their wealth away and took them as captives, going to make slaves out of them Uh so one thing that took place when he was kidnapped, he had to go and deliver him. Abram had to defeat four kings. Then, after Abram defeated the four kings, the king of Sodom, one of the kings that benefited from Abram's victory, came to Abram and said, I'm getting ready to write you a big check. That's a Gerald Millerism. He said, I'm going to make you rich. I'm going to give you the things that you brought back to me as a reward to you, as a thank you note uh for coming and and uh uh taking care of us. Thank you for everything that you've done and and have helped us out. You've saved our city We'll just give you anything that you want. You know what Abraham does? What Abram does? He turns it down. He turns it down. He says, I don't want any of that. I don't want anything from you. He pretty much said, uh, I've got the Lord and that's enough. You know, if you've got the Lord this morning, that's enough. You don't have to have the finest car, the finest house, a mansion here on earth. You're going to get a nice mansion when you get to heaven. Amen. But God will provide your need while He's here, when you're living in His will and seeking Him. What confidence, what courage, uh what commitment it took to defeat five four kings And then deny one king. He denied him. But we're in the next chapter How many of you know that it's after moments of great courage that you face moments of great fear? Abraham went in. He destroyed, I mean he went in and he took everything back that was Lot's Everything that was the king of Sodom and those other cities that were round about, he took it all back. That took some courage right there Uh i I don't even think he had to even think about it. He just went in and destroyed and took them back Have you ever just stood up and made a great stand? Only for the next day or two you got to thinking, what did I just do? I can think of times in my life where I had to take a stand against heresy, against false doctrine And look back and think, what did I just do? I mean, some of my friends ain't around anymore. My family don't understand what just took place here. What in the world did I just stir up? I think that may be where Abram's at. I think he's afraid and uh maybe he uh The reason I say that is because he comes to him in chapter 15 and says, Fear not. After these things the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not. Abram's struggling with fear right here. That's why God said that to him. He knows Abram's heart. He knows what he just did And now I think Abraham's ti ha he's had some time to think about it. He's fearful, and God sees that fear and he says, Fear not Why would God say, fear not? Because Abram's struggling with fear. What would he be afraid of? Well think about it. He just defeated four kings, four nations. Israel just bombed nuclear plants over in Iran. They're ready for retaliation. They have maybe a little fear. They're showing great strength. And God's going to protect them. Amen. He's going to look after them. But here's what Abram's going through right now. I believe the same thing. You know what I mean? There's four kingdoms that have Abram on the naughty list And they're thinking, hey, let's regroup. Let's get back after him and take back what he took from us. They don't like him. He's the enemy number one. So Abram might be looking over his shoulder a little bit, thinking, Are they going to come after me? Are they going to retaliate, seek revenge, and and then he just turned down a big check from the king of Solomon and pretty much told him, I don't need your money. I've got God. We're going to see some things about Abram too that has changed in his life. He may be thinking now, well I I wonder if I um May should have taken just a little bit of that money. Maybe I should have took just a little bit of the cattle. I don't know what he was thinking, but maybe he was thinking, what was I thinking to turn down that money That was crazy. So now, while he's struggling with fear, while he's struggling with doubt and confusion, God comes to Abram and says, Abram, fear not. I am two things in your life. I am two things. I'm your shield. I am your shield. Hey, if God's your shield, should you fear anything? If he's your shield, should you worry about anything? Can't one hair of your head fall to the ground except God knows about it? You don't have to worry about all those kings and nations just that you just defeated. Abram, I am protecting you. Can I tell you something? If if you've got God protecting you, you've got the greatest protection you could ever have. All these alarm systems and doorbell uh uh cameras and all that Can't compare to the to the protection that we have in God. I'm not saying you shouldn't have those things. But I guarantee you, every redneck in here this morning has a safe full of guns at the house. Amen. If you don't, get you one, amen. And I'm all for it. But I think I think you ought to I think you oughta have it. I think you ought to protect your family. But can I tell you who's really protecting you? God Almighty is protecting you. And He's watching over you. It's the creator of the universe. He's the one protecting you. He says, number two, Abram, I'm your exceeding, that's abundance right there, I'm your se exceeding great reward. He said, Don't worry about turning down all that money from the king of Sodom. Don't worry about it. He said, I own all that he's got anyway. He said, It's all mine. Everything is mine He's you his exceeding great reward. If you look it up, it literally means paycheck. If you look up great reward, exceeding great reward, it means a payday. It's a paycheck I'm your payday is what God is telling Abram right there. I'm your payday. Uh I I'll render it to you when it's time. Not only did God tell Abram, I'm your abundance of protection, but I'm your abundance of provision. God was definitely going to take care of him. If you've got God, you've got all that you need. You go with God, you trust God, He will take care of you. So God tells Abram, I'm your protection and abundance. Then as I re uh uh this conversation I was thinking uh number two what allowance what allowance right there because we see in verses two and three We find out Abram is struggling with a little bit more than just kings and kingdoms and paychecks and all that. He said in verse number two, he said, and Abram said, Lord God, what wilt thou give me? See, and I go childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus. Lord God, what wilt thou give me? That's an interesting question. God, what are you going to give me? I turn this down and you're my great reward and everything because God just told him I'm your shield, I'm your exceeding great reward, I'm your paycheck, but Abram said, What are you going to give me? If I was God, I'd have probably, if I was sitting on the throne, I said, Zap, you're done. Don't question me on that. I just I just protected you. I helped you to defeat four kings. Uh, I'm your provision. I told you I'm your shield. Uh zap, you're gone. But that's not what God did. That's why I'm not here brow beating dads this morning. Amen. I need encouragement We all need encouragement from the Word of God. God might have said, Don't ask stupid questions like that. No, that would have been me. What do you mean? What am I going to give you? I've given you me. What else do you need? That's why I call it what allowance. Don't you see God allowing Abraham to struggle with him just a little bit? He's struggling. God is allowing Abraham to speak, and Abram not being disrespectful here. He says, Lord God. He's being respectful. He calls him Lord God, but he is being honest. Can I say something there? You might as well be honest with God. He knows your heart anyway. When the Lord died on the cross at Calvary, when he gave up the ghost, the veil of the temple was written twain from top to the bottom. We don't have to go through a priest. Jesus became our high priest. We go through him. We can go directly into the throne room of grace and talk to our Heavenly Father. He knows what's on our heart I mean you can come to him and act like you got it all together, but that's not real. It's fake. He knows what's going on in our life. We can put on a facade in front of people I used to call that fake aid. That's how it's fell, but it's a facade. It's not the truth. I mean you can come to him with anything and he knows what's real There's times we pray and it can be routine things that w that's that's fine. We can pray and ask for the same things. We come to him and when we see God answer that prayer, we thank him for answering the prayer, having mercy on us, but there's Sometimes you just need to hit your altar and just tell God what's going on and get honest with God Don't try to do it all yourself, dads. God is there for you. He's for you. He's not against you. He is full of tender mercies, as David said. And that's what he does. Lord God, what are you going to give me? He tells God what's really on his mind. He says, seeing I go childless. That's what's really on Abram's mind right here. This issue is not of not having a child. You see, that was promised It had been already promised to him. He already had the promise, but he hadn't seen it come to fruition yet. He hadn't seen it materialize yet That was part of the deal in chapter number 12. Leave home, go out, and I'll make you become a great nation. It was a promise. Abraham had the right expectation that God was going to give him a child Years have gone by right here when we're in these chapters right here. Years have gone by and it hasn't happened yet. And to make matters worse, he says, the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus. And then uh we we look at that there in verses two and three. Uh let me get back there. And Abram said, Lord God, what will thou give me? See that I go childless and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus. And Abraham said Behold, to me thou hast given no seed, and lo, one born in my house is mine heir. If Abram was to die right then, the promise had not come to fruition, then the the the servant of the house, his son would have become the heir of every ha thing that Abraham had. He said, he is uh the heir right now. He said, not only have you not given me a child, but my my my right-hand man, his main servant, his assistant. Some believe Eliezer is the one that was sent out to get a wife for his son Isaac when the promise did come, that that same Eliezer was the one that was sent out to get a bride for Isaac He said, he'll be the heir. Abraham and Sarah are waiting on a baby, but yet they're having to throw a baby shower for somebody else. Have you ever been through that situation in your life? Maybe sometime God says no. We had a a quiver full of children, but we lost five, the miscarriage, and My wife has a necklace, a charm, it says, and if not, they were real human beings and they're in heaven. They don't have to go through all this sadness and heartache that's down here. And God knew that, and he took them to be with him. Have you had to celebrate a baby shower for somebody else? Have you had to celebrate something that happened to somebody else and you wish it would have happened to you? God knows all about that. You see, sometimes you have to rejoice with other people who get things you wish you had. That get things you feel like you deserve and you feel like are more worthy of. That's not always easy. God's touched with the feeling of our infirmities. Casting all your care upon Him, for He careth for you. Sure, he just had a great victory. He turned down a big paycheck. He met Melchizedek, but there's just something gnawing on him on the inside that he's struggling with. And by law, legally, if he didn't have children, his inheritance would be passed down to his servant or servant's son, Eliezer. So he's struggling. God, I don't see you doing what you said you would do. I'm getting up in years. Sarah, my wife, still Sarai right then. My wife, she's getting up in years. I'm not seeing the promise coming to materialize God. I'm struggling. I need your help. And that's what Abraham and and uh God are communicating back and forth here. There's fear. There's doubt There's confusion. And I want well what I want you to see for the rest of the chapter is God giving Abraham assurance. Giving him assurance. So we not only see what abundance, and number two, what allowance, but we see what assurance God gives to Abraham. I'm glad, aren't you glad? That we have a God, that when you're struggling, and that when you're confused, and that when you don't understand I'll tell you what he'll do. He doesn't always come and rebuke us and and he always responds. He doesn't always reprimand us or or zap us And send us out into eternity, He will come to us and give us what we need for assurance. He will come to you And pick up your head. He'll lift up your head. David talks about that in Psalm. I think it's Psalm 3 Read it when you get a chance. I'm not going to take the time this morning. But he'll lift us up, and he'll help us to understand some things, and he'll give us the assurance that we need. Because God is not insecure. Sometimes I get insecure about some things. What's going to happen next week? I don't know. We have insecurities about some things. We have some fears about some things. We have some confusion about some things. But God is not insecure with who He Himself is. He doesn't get mad when we ask questions, when we don't understand because he's not insecure uh with who he is and he knows uh what he's doing. So he's going to help some of us when we're struggling sometimes. And what he comes to give Abram, he gives him some important truths and assurance in a very desperate time in Abram's life. And I just want you to see here that what God gives Abram, God has also made available to you as well. You say, Well, I'm not a Hebrew. I don't have Jewish blood. The Bible says in the first in in the book of John, the Gospel of John, we didn't come by Abraham's seed. We're not of his blood, but we are grafted in We had the same privileges and the same promises that the children of Israel had today. And we had the Savior. Here's what God gave Abraham for assurance. And I hope it'll help you with assurance as well this morning. May not be it struggling with your salvation, but it could be something that's critical in your life and you don't understand what's going on Anybody with any problem this morning can get help from this assurance that Abraham got. Maybe you're struggling about who God is. Does he still love you You know the easy answer is yes, he still loves you. But you say, well, I'm just not feeling it right now. Uh how could God allow this to happen to me? Hey, be patient. God's got it all under control. He's always in the present. Amen. He knows what you're struggling with. He knows what you're struggling about. You might be struggling about with who who God is, or does he still love me? What's going on in my life Does he care about me? Am I saved? We have all kinds of struggles and doubts in in life. Every single day. The devil is a doubt thrower. You know, the Holy Spirit will put conviction on you if there's something like salvation. If if you've never been born again, the Holy Spirit of God will convict you. He will draw you to himself But if you're saved, the devil will try to that make you doubt so he can render you useless If we'll just get a hold of these things we're going to look at here, it'll help us when struggles come. And it's not mind-blowing. It's really simple, but it's what God gives Abram And it's what God makes available to us. Number one, the word of his promise. The word of his promise. Now I'm going to try to be brief. The introduction's longer than the message. Amen. But the word of his promise. Verse number four Let me read that. And behold, the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, This shall not be thine heir, but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowl shall be thine heir He's already said, I'm your shield, I'm your abundance. Fear not, Abram, I brought you through all that. Cannot I do this? And behold, the word of the Lord came unto him He had the word of the Lord right there. Well, you say he's already had the word of the Lord. God's already told him. Uh hey, God's not giving uh going to tell him anything he's not already told him. He's not going to tell you anything he's not already told you. We have it, it's sealed in the Word of God It's going to be expanded and specified, but it's the same thing he's already told Abram. And you're going to find what you need When you're struggling in the Word of God. Don't go anywhere else except for on your knees in prayer. You if you're really struggling, need some help And can't find it in the Word of God, go to your pastor, and He will help you with it. He will show you in the Word of God where you're struggling and what the answer is sometimes. But God uh will help you in your struggles And you're going to find what you need when you're struggling in the Word of God. You say, I need something else. You don't need anything else. You just need the Word of God. Look no further. Your answer is in the Word of God. You just need to read it again. You just need to hear it again. Amen. You just need to believe it again Keep it ever before you. You need to see it again. Remember it again. Know it again This is where your assurance comes from. It comes from the Word of God. How do I know God's real? The Word of God tells me that He's real. In the beginning, God It starts that way and we hit see God all the way through the Word of God. How do I know I'm saved? Because his word tells me that I'm saved. How do I know that I'm loved? Because his word tells me that I'm loved. How do I know that I'm going that he's going to take care of of the of this situation because his word says he will. How do I know there will be grace for every mile and grace for every trial? Because his word says that there will be grace How do I know he's coming back one day? Because his word says he's coming back. And I believe every promise, every word of God is pure, is forever settled in heaven. We have God's word on the matter. I'll tell you, when you're away on or distant from your Bible, you'll be filled with doubt. We get our assurances from the Word of God. Man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. I like verse number five. It says, and he brought him forth abroad and said, Look now toward heaven and tell the stars, if you be able to number them. And he said unto him, So shall thy seed be. That's amazing. God let him see something, but by the end of verse 5, the foundation is not the stars. It's not what he showed him. Look up and number the stars if you can. It wasn't that. It's not in in what he showed Abraham or Abram. It's in what he said to Abram. And he said, So shall thy seed be. The word of God right there It wasn't in looking up and seeing God's creation and he made the stars also. It wasn't in that. It was he said, So shall thy seed be So many are looking for some mystical sign. They're looking for assurance in all the wrong places. A rainbow and a pretty butterfly landed on I saw a pretty rainbow yesterday, but it's gone today Amen. Uh but that's a sign from God. But some people are looking for that. Uh or or a daisy in the breeze to hit their face or or whatever. They're just looking for a sign, throwing out the fleece, as we said this morning That may make you feel all warm and fuzzy for a minute, but it won't help you permanently. You've got to have more than some sign. You've got to have God's word on the matter. If you want to know even what Peter thought about this issue right here, he said, we went up with Jesus on the Holy Mount. We saw him transfigured. We saw his glorified body. We saw his glory. And you know what he said about that? What Peter himself said about that? He said But we have a more sure word of prophecy. He put the word of God above what he had actually seen with his own eyes. We have a more sure word of prophecy. He said, I don't even trust my own experience. I don't even trust my own memory because when my experience is bad and my circumstances are bad And my memory is bad, and all that fails me, and my emotions are down, and my feelings are are not what they ought to be. The word of God stands forever. We don't trust feeling or emotions. That's what we call amusement park Christianity. Up and down, in and out, around, makes you dizzy. You put your assurance and anchor in the in the mount mounted in the Word of God. It's fixed, it's final, it's for sure, and it's forever. It never changes. You might say, I don't feel loved today. Well, you might not feel like you're loved today, but that's a lie. You are loved today. I can tell you one that loves you, the Lord loves you, I know this pastor loves you, I love you, and your brothers and sisters in Christ love you. Even if you're here this morning and not saved, we're thankful you're here and we love you and we want to see you saved. And we had the word of God for truth. Verse 6 says, and he believed in the Lord, and he counted it to him for righteousness. Don't have time this morning, but you can go to Romans 4, and that whole chapter 4 deals with that one verse right there. His righteousness, it was it was counted unto him for righteousness It's all about salvation. Amen. Let me tell you, there's no Old Testament salvation and no New Testament salvation. It's all Bible salvation. You put your faith in God, and he imputes his righteousness to you. For our message this morning, verse number six says, And he believed, and he believed in the Lord, and he counted it to him. For righteousness. He believed. It doesn't say he believed in the stars that God just showed him. It didn't say that he believed on those stars. Oh wow, I I'm glad you showed me those stars. Now I can believe. Now he believed what God said, not necessarily what God showed him or a sign. He wasn't looking at circumstantial evidence. He he gave to give him assurance. He put his faith and trust in the Word of God. Hey, get your assurance and faith in the Word of God. Read it and believe it. There's so many today turning from the faith. Calling it Recovering fundamentalists. What are they recovering from? The Bible is our uh our word of God for faith and practice. doctrine, fundamentals of the faith that tells us how to live and how we ought to be and what God has done for us, what He's promised us. I'm not re I don't want to recover from that. Well it is they just don't want standards in their life. They want to live like they want to and not be so hardcore So the first thing God gives Abram when he's struggling with doubt, he gives him his word. Or his promise. Secondly, God gives him the work of his past. Verse number seven. And he said unto him, I am the Lord that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees to give thee this land to inherit it. Very quickly, just this one verse, God flexes a little bit. He flexes it. I do it this morning, but I like this coat and I don't want to rip the sleeves out of it and everything. Y'all understand, but but God is showing his power right here. He i I I'm not going to go so far and say that God brags or anything like that. He doesn't. He's humble and and he loves us and everything, but at the same time we respect him for who he is He is God and he's flexing right here just a little bit. I won't illustrate. But a flex is almost like a brag. It's like they bring up something so you know who they are So we know what they are capable of. That's what God does right here. He's saying, Abram, am I not the one who brought you up out of the Chaldees? You were a pagan In Ur of the Chaldees, living in idolatry and living in darkness. They say, folks, uh there in Ur of the Chaldees worship the moon. He said, Before I found you, you were worshiping the moon Uh how silly is that. Interesting how he showed him the stars and then uh I think it brought Abram back to uh to his mind thinking, Yeah, I used to worship the moon. But he was worshiping the moon when God found him and and in Acts uh chapter seven Stephen said The God of glory appeared unto our father Abraham, and can you imagine what that day was like? For Abraham. He didn't know God. We say Abraham was the father of the faith. He wasn't born the father of the faith. He was a sinner. He was a pagan. Idolatry was all that he knew till God in his mercy came to him and lit up his world. Isn't that what happened to you whenever you saw the light of the gospel and you trusted in what Jesus did for you? It's like you had a whole new day A whole new life, and everything changed in an instant. He was worshiping the moon and then the sun showed up. Amen And it changes his life forever. God says, Abraham, you you think you packed your bags and left town, but no, I'm the Lord that brought thee out of the Chaldees. I'm the one that brought you out of there. Whenever your doubt and uh is high and your assurance is low, you just need to remember where you were when God found you. He found you in the hog pen, the pit, the muck, and the mire that God scooped you out of one day. And let me tell you, if he can do that What can E not do? You think he brought you up out of all that just to fail you now? Oh no. He brought you out that he uh may also do it. God never has failed you, he never will fail you. We fail one another, we fail ourselves He didn't bring you out to drop you off somewhere. He brought you out because he's going to fulfill every single promise he's ever made in your life. Faithful is he that calleth you who also will do it. Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. He's not going to leave you. Hang in. Uh he's not going to leave you hanging there. He's going to fulfill every promise that he's ever given you. You just need to go back and remember where you were when he found you And remember some markers along the way. Remember other times God brought you through. Put up a stone, a marker, a memorial of remembrance. Testimonies of God's faithfulness and power. Just think about those times when God brought you through something and you thought it was impossible. How are we going to make this bill? Uh we don't have anything to drive. Where's that going to come from? And then all of a sudden it was there. God keeps his promises. God shows Abram not only the word of his promise, the work of his past, but look at verse number 8 quickly. It says, and he said, Lord God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it? How am I going to know it? Uh we see the work of his past, uh, but look at verse 8. Abraham still has some questions. Whereby shall I know it? I don't think this is Abraham necessarily doubting as much as it is that he was desiring an answer from God. Abraham is saying, Lord, I really, really want you to come through with this. I need to know. Give me assurance. So God not only gives him the word of his promise, the work of his past, but the witness of his performance. the witness of his performance. In verse number nine, it says, And he said unto him, Take me an heifer of three years old, and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtle dove and a young pigeon They haven't built the tabernacle yet. Moses hadn't been instructed, but these are the same animals, the same ages that Moses would later use in the tabernacle as a sacrifice to Almighty God that represented Jesus Christ through his life. The witness of his performance. God says, Abram, I want you to take these animals and get them ready for this ceremony. We're getting ready to go through uh to to do together. Abraham knew what would take place because God is getting ready to enter into a covenant with Abraham. Abraham had no doubt seen this over and over again It was how instead of shaking hands like we used to do, now you have to have a a a long lawyer paper saying this is a promise that you made to this person. But back then Uh we uh back years ago we just shook hands on something. We didn't have to put anything up for collateral. Uh but right here we're seeing what took place in Abram's day. In ancient days, two men were going to make a promise or a covenant about something, they would uh uh had this ceremony. They would split the animals in half from top to bottom and they would place each half on either side of a walkway or a path And then the two men who uh covenanted together would lock arms and they'd walk in the midst in between Those split animals, that was a gruesome sight. It was a bloody sight. So that showed the severity of making a promise to somebody You say that'd be a a pretty awful thing to witness, and that's the point It'd be a bloody sight because of the force of the contract, the binding power of the covenant that they're saying if I break my part and deal uh uh the deal of of the promise or this covenant or con or contract and make my life as one of those animals. Split me in two. So they're pretty much swearing upon their life. If I break my apart, split me in half, mutilate me, destroy me. So Abraham gets these animals together, and he's literally waiting on God to show up. He's got them together. He splits them because when God shows up, Abram knows that him and God somehow are going to walk together. Through these pieces, and there'll be a binding covenant, and Abraham will then have assurance that he is going to have a child. Abraham will know for sure that God is going to hold up his end of the deal of his covenant. The only problem is that it it doesn't happen like Abraham thought it would. Verse number twelve uh says, and when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram and And lo and horror of great darkness fell upon him. A deep sleep and a horror of darkness. Uh he's trying to keep the fowls away or the buzzards from eating the pieces. Uh he does it a while Uh, where's God? Where's God? When's he going to show up? I I'm doing the best I can keeping these vultures off off this mead and these animals. The sun goes down, darkness falls on him, and he pretty much falls asleep Then look at verse 13 through 60. I'm not going to read right now, but God comes to him during this time And it's a prophecy about Israel going into Egypt and coming out and and all that they do. He skipped this, uh uh we skipped it uh so don't have time this morning, and and it's important but But don't have time to deal with it right now. But verse number seventeen uh says, And it came to pass that when the sun went down and it was dark, behold a smoking furnace and a burning lamp that passed beyond those uh beyond those pieces. This is what I want you to see this morning. I'll be done. This is what is unexpected. Abraham thought God was coming down, and they would walk together, arm in arm, between those pieces But what actually happens is God does come down in the form of his smoking of this smoking furnace and this burning lamp By the way, there are revelations or representations of the presence of God. God's presence in the Bible is identified with smoke, clouds, and fire. That and that's what you have here, smoke and fire. Whenever uh he led Israel out of Egypt, how did it how did he do it? He led them by a cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night That smoke and uh uh fire and the furnace that took place there. So Abraham thinks that we're gonna walk through these pieces But he's pushed aside out of the way, and when he looks up, instead of it being Abraham and God walking, he sees God and God walking. In the midst of the sacrifice, in the midst of those pieces. One pastor said it's God locking arms with God. What does that mean? The problem is if God made a covenant with Abraham, God will keep his end of the deal, no problem. There, but what about old Abraham? He might not keep his end of the bargain. He might not be able to uh to keep his end of the contract or that uh that promise or that commitment. He could struggle to keep his promise. As a matter of fact, only one chapter later, Abraham is already struggling again. God did not want Abraham's assurance to be based on his own performance, that it was me that walked with God through those pieces. It wasn't on Abraham's performance that God wanted Abraham to have assurance. It was based on God's performance. Hebrews 6 13 says, For when God made promise to Abraham because he could uh because he could swear by no greater, he swear by himself. God moved Abraham out of the way because God doesn't lie He doesn't go back. He doesn't make mistakes. He doesn't fall. He doesn't fail. I just want to uh want to say I'm glad my assurance this morning is not based on the performance of Gerald Miller before just And Almighty God. It's on what Jesus Christ did on the cross of Calvary, how He suffered for my sins, how He paid the penalty for my sins, and He rose victorious over the grave. It's not the faithfulness of Gerald Miller that I'm looking to for assurance. It's the faithfulness of God because I fail him every day And that's why we struggle with assurance because we're looking in the mirror. We're looking into ourselves. Now we need to look in the mirror for self-examination. That's a good thing. But Robert Murray McShane said, for every look at yourself, take ten looks at Christ. Look at him. So if we're constantly looking at ourselves, when we feel good, we'll have assurance. But when we feel bad, we'll struggle with assurance. He loves me. He loves you this morning. He saved me. He saves you this morning. He keeps me He will keep you, and he provides for me, and he'll provide for you, not because I'm good, not because you're good, but because he's good this morning That's how I know I'm saved for all eternity because when I got saved, I didn't make a deal with God I I didn't make a covenant with him. He made a covenant with me. Calvary wasn't uh man making a deal with God. Calvary was God putting his son in darkness Uh moving us out of the way. And God made a covenant with His own Son. My salvation is not me keeping up my end of the thing. It is If it was, I wouldn't be saved right now. I'd have to get baptized every service. But my eternal salvation is based solely on the performance and work of Jesus Christ, his death, burial, and resurrection on the cross. God the Father and God the Son, sealed by the Holy Spirit of God, you can't break a contract that you didn't sign You can't mess up a covenant that you didn't make, and Abraham didn't sign anything. He didn't walk through anything. He didn't uh do anything. He was uh substituted out And brought in by grace through faith and not of works. So when your assurance is low, go to the Word of God. When your assurance is low, go down memory lane to all those times he's come through for you. And when your assurance is low, remember this salvation is not based on us anyway That would be work salvation. It's based on his performance and who he is and what he did for us. We do have to place our faith in him. That's not a work. That's something that the Holy Spirit does in our heart. He draws us and he saves us when we put our faith and trust in Him. That faith that Abraham had, it was counted unto him for righteousness. It was imputed to Abraham, and it is imputed to us whenever we see Jesus for the who he is the Savior that saves us from our sins. Father, I pray Lord's pastor comes right now that that you will do a work in people's hearts. Maybe someone's struggling with assurance of salvation Could be somebody here that's never been saved, Lord. I pray that you'll do that work that we can't do right now. I can't save anybody. Pastor can't save anybody, only you can. I pray, Father, that you'll do that work that needs to be done in hearts. And we thank you, Lord uh for what you'll do in Jesus name, Amen