Bible says this. It says, For I know him. Of course the context here is speaking of Abraham. For I know him that he will command his children and his household after him. And they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment, that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he has spoken of him. God said, I know Abraham. And in so many words, the Lord is saying here, I can trust him. He's a man of integrity, he's a man of character. He's a man of faith. He's a man that I can have confidence in, that he's going to do right, and he's going to raise his family right, and he's going to honor me and he's going to glorify me. And this morning I want to speak about Abraham for a few moments. So let's pray together, ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, we come to you this morning, and our hearts are grateful for your goodness to us, your blessing. Lord, I'm confident I speak for the church. When we tell you, Lord, we love Brother Miller. We thank God for him, what he's meant to us as a body of believers and me personally, and to so many in our church. This morning we want to glorify you, Lord. Lord, we want to exalt the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And God, I ask that in this message, through the songs this morning, in this message, The scriptures that are presented, the truths, the principle, I pray that people would be drawn to the Lord Jesus Christ. And our faith in you would grow and be stronger. Our confidence in your word and your will for our lives would be stronger. Our commitment to live for you and be a witness and a testimony for you would be stronger. So, Lord, we need your Holy Spirit to do that. And God, as preacher this morning, I yield my will, my mind, my thoughts, reasoning to you. I pray you would take over my thinking. It would not be my reasoning, my rationale, but your word that is preached, your will. I yield my body to you, presented anew. That you'd fill me with the Holy Spirit that indwells me, and that you would speak through me and teach us, Lord, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Of course, I enjoy studying the Bible. It's my life. There's a lot of different ways. There's a lot of different methods of Bible study. You can study the Bible, just going book by book, chapter by chapter, verse by verse. Do a study, and from a preacher's perspective, do a study on that, then preach on what it teaches, what it says. We do that on Sunday nights as we're studying the book of 2 Peter right now. We're going verse by verse through the book of 2 Peter. And by the way, you ought to get out in on these on Sunday nights. You ought to come on out And um so we go verse by verse. Somebody said, philly on that, we go word by word through that But that's a method of Bible study. It's just taking a book of the Bible or a passage of Scripture and just working your way through that, studying it. Another method of Bible study is what we would call topical Bible study. That's where you take a topic or a subject and you study what the Bible says about that subject, that topic, and then you teach or preach on that topic. For instance, baptism. What does the Bible teach about baptism? Who is it for? How does it take place? How is it done? You know, and all these things about baptism. You study what the Bible says about that, then you teach it and preach it Maybe the second coming. Study all the Bible says about the second coming. And so there's different ways of studying and teaching and preaching the Bible. Verse by verse. generally referred to as expository study and preaching, topical. Then there's another, and this one is one of my favorites. And that is doing a character study In other words, finding somebody in the Bible, taking an individual character mentioned in the Bible, and then studying everything you can about that individual. And I want to learn their strengths. What does the Bible tell me their strengths are? What does the Bible tell me their weaknesses are? How did they respond to the Lord? How did God respond to their actions? What was their motives? What was the context, the day and age that they lived in, and what impact did they have? I loved character studies In fact, we're doing Wednesday nights. By the way, you ought to get in on Wednesday night service, too. It's very good. We're studying the life of Joseph, and what a fascinating study that has been, at least for me. This morning, of course, we can't do an exhaustive study on the life of Abraham, but I do want to look this morning at this fellow named Abraham. Best I can tell, there are nearly 3,000 individual men and women mentioned by name in Scripture. 3,000. Some of them are just a name in a list, so-and-so begat so-and-so, and begat so-and-so, and begat so-and-so Sometimes it's a list of leaders in Israel, and they'll have a long list of just have these names, and that's all we're told about them. That's all the information we're given about them, just their name And sometimes you study their names and find out family and what you can, and there's lessons to be learned. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, it's profitable. So even these lists of names we can learn some things from. Others, we have a little bit more record of what they did, their life and their exploits, or given more details of their life. For instance, we did a Wednesday night series on King David. And one of the longest portions of Scripture is dedicated to the life of King David. Almost an entire book, 1 Samuel. And chronicles and others. Um So some folks are mentioned in the Bible. We're given a lot more information about them. uh told uh some uh some in some cases intimate details about them and uh we can learn a lot Romans chapter 15, verse 4, says, For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning. That we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. And I think what he's telling us, God has written for us, and he's referencing the Old Testament in that Romans passage I just read He's referencing the Old Testament and he's telling us these people mentioned in the Old Testament are recorded there on purpose. It's not just to fill space. It's not just historical knowledge. We're giving accounts of these people like Abraham and Joseph and David and Moses. We're given the accounts of their lives because there are lessons there for you and I to learn, examples to follow. Patterns that they leave for us that we can emulate in our lives. So that our faith in God is stronger, our hope in God is stronger, and we're better Christians. And so we study the lives of these people, Abraham, we find a few things. We find out that these Bible characters are very real people. They're not imaginary figures that the Panman came up with and and gives us these fantastic stories of imaginary people. That's not it at all. These Bible characters, these Bible individuals are very real people, just like you and I And I found, with very few exceptions, as we study these people, we find out that they had their ups and they had their downs. And they had their strength and strength strengths and they had their weaknesses. And can I say this? They had their successes and they had their failures. What I'm trying to say is this: these Bible people that we look at and study. They're just sinful human beings, just like you and I. Just ordinary folks like Dr. Pat Creed will often say they put their pants on the same way you do You men. Um and so uh and so they're people just like you and I. They had simple nature, just like you and I have a simple nature Anybody here ever how many folks here this morning you're saved to know it? Say amen. How many folks here since you've been saved you had to deal with temptation? See, some of y'all are tempted right now. You didn't raise your hand You know what? These Bible characters had to deal with temptation also. Now I'm not going to ask you to respond to this, but it'd be curious how many folks dealt with temptation and how many ever gave in to it. I would say it's the same amount that raised their hand before. In fact, more than raised their hand before. And you know what? We study these people's lives. Guess what? They gave in to temptation too sometimes We study Abraham, David, Moses, Joseph, Paul, Daniel, Samson, these great men mentioned in the Bible, Deborah, Esther, Ruth. These great women mentioned in the Bible. We find out they're people just like you and me. Just ordinary folks with a sinful nature. Some were more educated than others, some were had noble positions, others were farmers and shepherds and fishermen, but they were people. People with sinful natures, people with hearts and desires and dreams, just like you and I. Things they long for, things they hope for, disappointments and failures. People just like you and I. We find that there were people, that these are folks with real struggles. Abraham had his struggles. Moses. They made mistakes. They had faith in God. In spite of their humanity, in spite of their the sinful nature and the struggles they had. We read of people in the Bible that had faith in God. Just ordinary people, but they made a decision. I'm going to trust God. In many cases we see God do great things. Through ordinary people that put their faith in an extraordinary God. They had victories We study their lives, we see what challenges they face. I like to particularly notice when some individual in the Bible, in our case here, Abraham, When they faced a challenge, I like to study very carefully how they responded to that challenge. Because how you and I respond to the challenges of life is very much going to determine what the outcome of that challenge is going to be. I cannot control the circumstances that God allows in my life many times. I have no control over it Many times I have little or no control over the storms that hit me and the difficulties and the ad and uh the afflictions maybe I deal with. Many times I have no control over that. But one thing we do have control over, and that is how we respond to those things that come in my life. And so I want to study the lives of these men and women who trusted God and were blessed of God and used of God. I want to study how did they respond and then incorporate that in my life. You with me? So I like character studies. It's helped me. How they responded, how God responded to their actions When they did right and they trusted God, how did God respond to that? When they did wrong and they took things in their own hands and leaned on their own understanding, how did God respond to that? I want to learn from that The consequences of their actions. I think, as I kind of mentioned here a git bit ago, I think Abraham's one of the most significant men in all of Scripture. He's called the father of the faithful. He is the man that God called from a pagan society to come to the promised land, the land of Canaan. And God, through the Abraham and his descendants, established the great nation of Israel. And for all these many thousand years, Israel, the offspring of Abraham, have been. The people of God. And I want to remind you this morning, has anybody notice? It seems like Israel's always on the front page. Notice that? I mean you'll go a little bit and maybe you won't hear it, but sooner or later there's going to be something going on in Israel. And I want to remind you today, in a time when Israel is looked so down upon by so much of the world, I want to remind you the people of Israel are still the people of God. They are still the chosen nation of God. And God has a plan and a purpose for Israel And one of these days, Jesus is coming back again, and he's going to establish the renewed kingdom of David, and he will rule literally from Jerusalem over the people of God and the whole world. And all these people, this nation comes from the loins of Abraham. Abraham, would you agree with me? Pretty significant guy. Pretty important figure in the Bible. Abraham. Abraham. I studied the life of Abraham. I got looking at this for the last several months, anticipating today There's a lot of things that we can say. We could do a five year series on Abraham, and maybe I will when I'm a hundred. But there's one characteristic of Abraham that stands out in my mind. And that was this. His faith in God. Regardless of what was going on, regardless of what circumstances he found him, regardless of what anybody did around him. Now he had his ups and downs, and he had his struggles But the one thing that stands out, you look at the life of Abraham overall, and you see a man that had tremendous faith in God. Genesis 15 6 says he believed in the Lord. What a statement. Romans 4:3 says, Abraham believed God. God said it. It didn't matter how ridiculous it seemed in his own rationale. If God said it, I'm going to believe it. Galatians chapter 3 and verse 6 says again, Abraham believed God. James chapter 2 and verse 23 repeats that again. Abraham believed God It's like God goes out of the way to emphasize in Scripture the fact that Abraham was a man of faith. He believed God. He believed God. He believed God. Faith in God. I want to challenge Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I want to challenge all of us as individuals. I'm here to tell you this morning, you can believe God. Believe what God says. Our theme this year is standing on the promises of God, the Word of God. And we believe this book and we hold to it and we trust it. Abraham believed God. He believed God. Regardless of the circumstances, Abraham trusted God. Regardless of what God asked from him, no matter how outlandish it seemed, if God requested something from Abraham, Abraham believed God and trusted God And he gave to God what God asked of him, even when it made no sense. He trusted God. Abraham, regardless of what others did around him. His nephew, Lot, others mistreated by the locals, and yet he believed God, he trusted God. Listen, we need to get to the listen. We need to get to the point where we get our eyes off of what others are doing and not doing, get our eyes off of how awful the circumstance is, and put our eyes back on the Lord Jesus Christ And just start trusting him again. It's what Abraham did. He believed God. The outstanding characteristic of Abraham, he's a man of faith. Now, was his faith perfect? No. No. Wasn't perfect. There was times when he struggled. And we could take uh time and Study w goes down to Egypt when he should have stayed in Israel, uh in the ki in the promised land, and a famine hit, and he he got leaning on his own understanding and he rationed in his mind and he went down to Egypt out of the will of God. We can study that. He wasn't perfect in his faith. He had his struggles. But the thing about Abraham was this: he overcame his struggles. And when his faith wavered, and when he saw what was happening, and he saw the consequences of his doubt and unbelief, And his own rationale. He caught himself and he turns around, he comes back, and he trusts God anew. One of the great lessons we learn from Abraham and so many others in the Bible is we get away from God. We can always come back to God. He never locks the door on us. He that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. And Abraham came back, became back, became back. His faith in God. No matter what God would ask of him, God asked him to Offer his son without hesitation. He believes and trusts God, believing that God will work it all out in the end. And God did Faith, faith in God. I want to give us the little bit of time we have. I want to give us a few thoughts about Abraham's faith Abraham's faith in God. Number one, I notice in verse 19 of Genesis 18 here, I noticed he had a personal faith in his Lord, a personal faith. Notice the first part of verse number 19 God speaking here about Abraham, and God says this, for I know him. God and Abraham had a personal relationship one with another. Abraham's faith was not in some ritualistic religion. His faith was not some formal obligations to a God that's far away and he doesn't know. He just is out there. His faith was not a ritualistic religion. It wasn't some formal obligation. It wasn't some uh religious uh uh formulations he went through With no meaning, no relationship, no knowledge of God. No, no, no. Abraham's faith was a personal faith. He knew the Lord, and the Lord knew him. They interacted with one another. They communicated with one another. Like that old song says, He walks with me. And he talks with me and he tells me I am his own. That's the relationship that Abraham had with the creator of this universe. A personal relationship. Some time ago we were down in Washington, D. C. , and with ministry called Capital Connection, and we were able to go in and visit with some of our elected officials. And our representative in Washington for our region here, right after, shortly after he got elected, uh, very liberal man And we were able to go in there, and several of us, a couple other Maryland preachers, some of our church folk, were able to go in and sit down and uh talk with them We introduced ourselves. He was very gracious. He gave us 15, 20 minutes of his time. We had a presentation for him, a book that uh it was a Bible, uh the first Bible that um uh uh the United States Congress approved to be printed the Akins Bible. We presented that to him. We explained a little bit has the plan of salvation. We're able to go over the plan of salvation with him, one-on-one, sitting right there in his office. We talked, I shared my testimony, several others talked a little bit, and then uh as best we could under the circumstance, we tried to press a little bit for you know about him being willing to trust Christ and let us tell him. He made this statement. He said to me, My faith is very important to me. Now on the surface, that sounds nice. But I think what he was saying, he told us a little bit about it, and what he was saying, I'm not being judgmental, I'm just saying this was different than what Abraham had What he was saying was, I'm a church member and I have religious obligations I do, but that was as far as it goes, as far as any kind of relationship with God Now, I'm not condemning him. Please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. What I'm saying is this: Abraham had far more than that. He had a personal relationship and interaction with God. It's a personal faith. Um some many have religion But they do not have a personal relationship with the Lord. Sometimes people say to me, of course, I'm a preacher They'll say to me, Oh, you're a Reverend Leatherman, you're a very religious person. Now to be honest with you, I don't see myself as a religious person. I don't think I'm religious. But I do have this. I have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And you can be very, very religious and not know God from a doorknob. Right or wrong? You can go you can do all kinds of religious stuff and die and go to hell. Right or wrong? Religion never saved the soul, and religion never never gave somebody eternal life. You won't find eternal life and forgiveness of sins in religion. You find it in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And when we come as old rotten sinners, disobeyed God, said things we should not have said, thought things that are blasphemous to God, did things with our hands and went places with our feet that are absolute shape We come to this living Savior, Jesus Christ, and we cry out to Him in faith, Lord, save me, forgive me. I believe what you've done on that cross was for me. I'm trusting you as my personal Savior. The Bible says we're born again into the family of God. Now I have a relationship, a spiritual relationship with Jesus Christ. I've never seen Jesus with my eyeballs. I've never felt his hands or his body of my hands. I've never heard his audible voice. I don't know what his dialect may be, or if he high voice, low voice, I don't know what his voice would be. But I know this, God speaks to me through that old book. And I know there have been times when I've been in prayer to God, and it was like he was sitting right there with me, and we had sweet fellowship. Sweet communion. I'm telling you, my friends, that is not religion. That is a relationship with a living Savior. That's what Abraham has, and that's what you can have. You can know the creator of the universe in a personal way. Know him. I heard a preacher one time said something, he was with someone, there was a recording, and um The person says, God doesn't exist. Although Pete says, God doesn't exist. He goes, he says, don't tell me God doesn't exist. I know he does. I know him. That's like you tell me my wife doesn't exist. I know my wife exists. I know her. He says, I know God, and he is real, and he is alive. He is active. If we'll come to him in a personal faith, trusting him as our personal Savior, we'll know him too. You'll know him too. You'll know him too. Abraham had a personal faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. James chapter 2, verse 23 says that Abraham was a friend of God. I tell you, it's hard to be a friend to somebody you don't know nothing about them. Hard to be a friend to somebody you don't have any kind of relationship with. A couple of us men, several of us men went down the near Charleston to a men's rally yesterday, and I was able to see some old friends And I've known for years and we loved each other and appreciated each other, did things together years going by. And it's like it's like that all that time, some I didn't see in 20 years or more And it's like all that time uh didn't even exist. It's like we were together just last week. Hey brother! How's it going? Give each other a squeeze, shake hands, smile. Why? Because we have a relationship. We're friends. Abraham was friends with God. A friend of God. They knew each other. God knew Abraham, and Abraham knew God. It's one thing to know about God. It's another thing to have a personal relationship with God. Our God is a living God. Our God is a personal God. We trust Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. We have a personal relationship Salvation is a personal salvation. Christianity is a personal relationship. We want to emphasize that Say, well, uh, you're talking to me, oh, I gotta trust Christ, gotta get saved, gotta get born again, oh you told this, oh this. Uh we're not talking about just joining some club or being a member having We're talking about introducing you to the living Savior. And you knowing him and you experiencing him working your life, you experience him leading you and directing you, and you establish a friendship with this unseen Savior. That is as real as the person sitting next to you. Abraham had a personal faith. Number two, Abraham had a public faith Look at chapter 13 here in Genesis. Come back to chapter 13, if you would. And verse number 18. 1318. Now God has led Abraham out of Ur the Chaldees. Very pagan, very pagan society, wicked. God's called him. Abraham trusted the call of God. And he packed up and he left, not really knowing where he was going, just that God would lead him. And as he made his way to this promised land that God was leading Abraham to, we notice something. Look at verse 18. And Abraham removed his tent. He was at this point a nomad's light. How many people know what I mean by nomad? He's just traveling. He doesn't know settled down one place, just moving, living in tents. It says, and Abraham removed his tent and came and dwelt in the plain of Mamre. It's a place which is in Hebron. Now look at this. And built there an what? Altar unto the Lord. Now we don't have time, I wish we did. We'd let maybe someday I'll do a series. I'd really like to do that But if you study the movements of Abraham, you study the life of Abraham as he wandered, eventually gets to where God intends for him to be, you never find Abraham building a permanent building. He never built a house. Though he was extremely wealthy, he never built any palace. He had no barns. He had no permanent structures. He lived in a tent There is, let me take that back. There was one permanent structure he built everywhere he went. It was an altar. An altar to the living God. Where he worshiped God. Abraham's faith, though it was very, very personal There was nothing, it was very, very personal, but it was absolutely public. Nobody wondered who Abraham worshipped. Nobody wondered whether Abraham was a pagan from Ur the Chaldees, where he came out of, whether he was one of those pagans. Or if he was a worshiper of God. Everybody knew very, very clearly who Abraham's God was. It was Jehovah, the true and living God. There's nothing hidden about his faith. There was nothing disclosed about his faith. It was very open, very public, very visible. He was not ashamed of his God. He was not ashamed of the one that he trusted in and that he had committed his life to follow and let him lead all through his life. Everywhere Abraham went, there was an altar left. He said, Well, Abraham's been here. There's an altar to Jehovah. Oh, Abraham, good night. Abraham must have been there. There's an altar to Jehovah. Everywhere he went, he had a testimony that he worshiped God. He worshiped God. We have no record of any houses or barns built by him. That at least four different occasions, we have an account of him building four different altars as he made his way. Everywhere he went, he left behind an altar. Abraham was distinct in his faith. I'm telling you, in the year 2024 Our community, our society, our nation, our world needs some Christians who are distinct in our faith in God. I don't want anybody to ever wonder whether I'm a worshiper of Jesus Christ or not. I want it to be very, very clear. Jesus is my God and Savior. Want that clear? Not putting on a show, not trying to uh uh put on some hypocritical in uh facade. But a genuine faith in God that cannot be hid, that will not be hid. I am not impressed with a Christian who hides their faith in Christ. Or to be distinct. Or to be publicly. Read the book of Acts. Man, they went everywhere preaching Jesus Christ. Nobody wondered whether those New Testament believers were pagan worshipers of Diana or whether they worshiped the Lord Jesus Christ. Everybody knew exactly who they worshiped. That's true with Abraham, and it ought to be true with us. I don't want any, I don't want any of our church services to smack in any degree of the world I don't want folks to walk in here and say, wonder, are these people Christian or what are they? We ought to be distinct, amen or not? I got a letter card years ago. I mentioned this a numerous times. We were on the radio station for quite some time. We had our radio station, 88. 7 FM. You ought to check it out. And I got a Christmas card, came to the church for the church, and inside was a note thanking us for the radio station. They loved it, said we listened to it all the time. They had a little bit of money in there to help with the expenses And so they wrote this little card, thank you for 887. We listen to it all the time. It's in our car. We love it. We're so grateful. And then at the bottom, she put her name, and at the bottom she wrote this She said, the thing I appreciate about 88. 7 is it is distinctively Christian. I tell you what, I took that as a high compliment. We want to be Abraham was distinctive in his faith. Everybody knew who his God was. I don't want to be confused as some uh somebody that worships anything other than the Lord Jesus Christ. Abraham had a very public faith. He was unashamed of his faith. It's kind of like marriage. Would you agree with me? Marriage is a very personal thing. Right? It's between Kathy and I, our marriage, it's between Kathy and I. We have a personal relationship. That's an intimate personal relationship we've had now for 37 years. And it's very, very personal, marriages. Nobody denies that. But I want to suggest to you marriage is also very public. Would you how many would be disappointed with your pastor if he tried to hide the fact that he's married to Kathy Leatherman? That wouldn't be good. That's why we wear wedding bands Wedding band doesn't make you married. Not having one doesn't mean you're not married. Wear a wedding band all day long, not be married. But if you're married, you ought to wear a wedding band, my personal opinion. Why? Let people know. A married man. It's personal between the two of us, but it's also very public. Very public. Want everybody know this is my wife We have guest speaker here. Kathy's able to. She's up and about. One of the first things I do is here, I want you to meet my wife. I want you to meet my wife. Our relationship is personal, but it's public. You know what we ought to be? We ought to get somebody, uh somebody, we meet somebody, hey, let me introduce you to my savior. I have a personal relationship with him, but it's public. I want you to know him also. I want you to know he's my savior. Are you with me? Number one, it was personal faith. Number two, it was public faith. And number three, I'll end with this. It was principled faith. Come with me, if you would, back to the New Testament, the book of Romans. In Romans chapter 4, Paul, under the inspiration of God, writing to the believers in Rome, he makes a tremendous statement about Abraham. And one of the great passages honoring Abraham's faith. Romans chapter 4, and notice with me verse number 19. And Paul is illustrating that we're saved by faith. And he goes back to the Old Testament and he pulls out Abraham. And he makes some statements about Abraham, and I learned in this passage that Abraham's faith, though it was very personal, it was also public, but it was principled. I'll explain what I mean by that. Look at verse 19 Speaking of Abraham, it says, and believe and being not weak in faith, he, Abraham, considered not his own body, now dead, when he was about a hundred years old. Neither the deadness of Sarah's womb, God had promised Abraham, that they were going to have a son, that he and Sarah were going to have a son in their old age, hundred years old. Harry becoming a daddy at 100 years old, how about that? Changing diapers But it says he was not weak in his faith. Now look at verse 20. This is phenomenal. This stirs me up. He, Abraham, would you agree? That's a pretty incredible promise. Hundred years old, you're going to have a baby. Good. Greek. Come on, be real. Are you serious, God? Seriously? But look what the Bible says about Abraham. He staggered not at the what? Promise of God. But was strong in faith, giving glory to God. Look at this. Being fully persuaded, look at this, that what he had promised he was able to perform. Abraham's faith was a principled faith. His faith was in the Word of God. God said it, it seems impossible, it seems ridiculous, but if God said that and God promised that, I'm not going to stagger, I'm going to be strong in my faith, I'm going to believe it. Our faith is in the Word of God. You say, oh, for Pete's sake, you guys still believe that old book? Yes, we do. And we hold to it. And we believe that regardless of how ridiculous it might sound to the world, we believe God's word. We hold to it You say, Preacher, I got my reasoning, my rationale. I come to this conclusion. I look at the Bible. It doesn't match my reasoning, my rationale. You know what I do? I put aside my reasoning and rationale, and I take God at His Word. God is God, I'm not. God is all-knowing, I'm not. God is perfect in wisdom, I am not. So when God makes a promise and God makes a statement and God gives us information, we say, yes, Lord, we believe it. We hold to it. You say, preacher, that's blind faith. That is not blind faith. That's principled faith. It's in the Word of God. We have a basis for this. We don't just make stuff up and then put our faith in our imaginary stuff. We put our faith in the proven word of God. Abraham had principled faith. Principled faith. Not blind faith. He had a firm foundation, the Word of God. Not imaginary faith. He had a firm foundation for his faith, a biblical faith. Didn't lean on his own understanding, didn't lean on his own reasoning. He said, if God says at 100 years old that my wife and I are going to have a baby, then we're having a baby. Start the baby shower. Start buying diapers. Say, what are you doing, Abraham? You just bought you just ordered a new baby carriage off of Amazon. Yes, Aaron Arch! I'm gonna have a baby! How do you what in the world? God promised us it's gonna happen, you mark it down. Huh? God give us faith like that again, huh? We need a good dose of just old fashioned taking God at His Word in our churches again. Just doing what God says, claiming what God promised, heeding what God warns us of. God said it, that settles it. See, might as well believe it. Amen? Abraham. Thank God for Harry. What a testimony. It's not perfect. I'm sure he had his struggles like you and I do. I thank God for Abraham. One perfect. He had his struggles. But he learned something. He learned to trust God. Do what God says. God says, get up and go. He went up and went. God says, bring this and give that. He brought it and gave it. God says you're going to have a baby, you believe God didn't even stagger. He says, All right, that's the way it's going to be. I'm here to tell you, Jesus said, if you call on me, I'll save you. Mark it down. You call on him sincerely, he'll save you. Jesus said, go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, then we ought to go into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature God says, come out from among them, be ye separate. Don't be like the world. Don't be acting, talking, looking and uh behaving like the world. You be distinct. You be uh you be stopped All right, let's be distinct from the world. Say they'll laugh at us, they'll make fun of us. So be it. We're trusting God. Are you with me? Let's love one another, like God tells us. Let's forgive. Let's be patient and kind. Let's quit all our. Let's bring that. Why don't you take that old bitterness? That anger that's boiling in your heart, why don't you bring, put an old altar, confess that to God, let the blood of Jesus Christ cleanse you from all that. Get free from that. Amen or not? God promised. We confess our sins. He's faithful, just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You say, preacher, I've gotten away from God. Come on back home. By faith, you just come on back. God will take you, get you back on your feet, get you living for Him. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Help us. To learn from Abraham, to have faith in you, and just take you at your word. Heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some Christians here. You say, Preacher, I'm saved. But I just need to take my situation. I just need to take what's going on in my heart and soul. I just need to bring that to the Lord and let him fix that up and make it what it ought to be. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I know there's stuff there deep down in my heart and soul. I need God to help me get it back in line. God bless you, hands all around. Maybe there's some you're going through a real need, a real struggle, a real trial. You say, I just need to make a decision. I'm going to quit fretting. I'm going to quit reasoning and rationalizing, and I'm just going to trust God. Cast all my care on Him. Put it to Him. And let him, because he cares for me. Any like that, I need to take this burden, this difficulty, bring it to God. Maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, I got a friend that's unsaved. I never said a word to them about Christ. My faith has been pretty private. I want to share it. I want others to know. And I want to be a better witness to a friend, a loved one, a neighbor, a family member. You say, Preacher, help me To be more involved in introducing others to this one that I know and trust. Anything like that, preacher, I have someone. God bless you, hands all around. Now listen, raising our hand is a good thing If God dealt with our heart, we ought to bring that to the altar and just say, Lord, here it is. I'm bringing my burden. I'm putting your hands Lord, I'm bringing this stuff going on in my heart and soul. I'm just going to trust you. Let you fix this and get my head on straight. Whatever it is, you bring it to the Lord. Father, bless now as we go on with the invitation in Jesus' name.