And uh we're looking at the first command, verses um 2 through 8. Let me read that, and uh we've already uh covered a bunch of these verses. I want to try and finish this up tonight. Look at verse 2. For ye know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus. So he's already told him this, he's reviewing. For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye should abstain from fornication, and every one of you should know uh that every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. Not in the lusts of con Here we go. I gotta say this right, concupiscence, even as the Gentiles which know not God, that no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any manner. Because that the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we also have forewarned you and testified. And there he references the fact that he's already told him this. And he's he's restating it. Verse 7, for God hath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness. He therefore that despiseth Despiseth not man, but God, who hath also given unto us his Holy Spirit. These four commands, uh, this is the first one, and it's the command to purity. So let's pray, and uh I'll briefly review and then give Father, bless our study of your word. As pastor, Lord, I'm very grateful for folks that have come out tonight and uh could have easily had an excuse to stay home and So I pray you would honor uh the efforts made by your people. I pray you'd speak to our hearts. I'm not exactly sure uh uh why this particular message tonight with this particular message particular crowd, but uh help us to take it as from you and uh apply to our lives and maybe we can help others also. So uh bless this time we pray and In Jesus' name, amen. The four commands I see, I put it this way, verses three through eight, the command of purity, as I just said. Verses nine and ten, uh, brotherly love, the command for brotherly love. Verse 11, I see, I put it this way, a command to a quiet disposition. position. And then verse 12, command to integrity. Now the thing that interests me is this. Of these four commands, he spends the most time on the first one. The command of purity. You have verses 3 through 8 where he's dealing with that subject. He says, this is the will of God, even your sanctification you should abstain from fornication. Then he elaborates on that. for uh what is it five or six verses there. Now you'll remember we said twice now in messages, it's interesting, at least to me that he begins this subject with the idea of our sanctification. This is the will of God. He doesn't say this is God's will, you stay pure. He injects a thought in there about this matter of sanctification. That we are set apart to God. We are, now we're not proudful about this, as pride has nothing to do with this, but we are different than the world as God's people Right? You agree with that? We are set apart. We are sanctified. If nothing else, in God's eyes, he sees us different. Just like you see your child different than all the other kids God sees his people in a different light from the rest of the world. It doesn't mean he doesn't love the world, he does. And so he begins with that premise Before we talk about this matter of sexual purity, we need to establish the fact the basis of this is because I am one of God's people. I'm set apart to the Lord. And that to me gives tremendous significance to the purpose of me doing right in this area. It's not just, well, you know, it's good for you, you ought not to, it's not. There's a real foundation for purity here because we are the Lord. So we already expounded on that to a degree. So my first point in this message is, and we dealt with it last week, sensual purity. And uh that he talks about there the word abstain. I just went through and gave the meanings for these words. I felt that was probably the best way to deal with this. Let's let the Bible speak for itself. Now we come to the second thought, verse number seven. I put this, there's a sacred purpose. for our physical intimacy between a husband and wife. God has called her. Look at verse 7. For God hath not called us unto uncleanness. How many people agree with that? Yeah, God's not calling us to be immoral or impure. God calls us, when a person gets saved, God calls that person to live a life of moral purity. That's what God calls us to. That's what He's beckoning us to live a life of moral, spiritual purity. God calls us to live a life of cleanliness. I'm talking about spiritual, moral cleanliness. God calls us to a life of holiness, to a life of godliness. I believe in studying my Bible all these years and reading it through, I've come to the conclusion that the one characteristic that God wants us to think of when we think of Him is holiness Very first thing, when God wants us to think of him, he wants to think of holiness. Modern Christianity, the first thought of God is he's cool. You know, man, he's really hip. He's uh you know he's Jesus would be. I heard I saw a guy one time, there's a singer, I don't know anything about him, very little about him, his name's Carmen. I don't know if any of y'all He's a real cool guy. And uh anyway, he has a song about the Holy Spirit hip hop is the name of it. And that uh the Holy Spirit's dancing and rocking and rolling all of that. That's the modern version of God. The biblical version of God, when God wants us to view God, I think the first thought he wants to come to our mind is he is holy. He is separate completely from everything, all the rest of creation. He is perfect in holiness. In Isaiah chapter 6, when the angels, Isaiah, saw the Lord high and lifted up in the year that King Uzziah died. And the angels were about the throne, and they cried out, what? Holy, holy, holy. They didn't say compassionate, compassionate, compassionate. Is God compassionate Yes, but his chief characteristic is holiness. They didn't say omnipresent, omnipresent, omnipresent. Now God is omnipresent. But the chief characteristic is his holiness. So God is calling us to holiness. He wants his people to be like him. That's what being godly is. Godly And so he says, he has not called us unto uncleanness, but unholiness. Now this verse is in the context of sexuality. He's talking about fornication. He's talking about verse before. He's referencing adultery. He's talking about being pure in this area of intimacy. And again, he injects this idea of Holiness, sanctification. It's interesting. The word holiness in verse 7 comes from the exact same word as the word sanctification in verse 3. If you get your strongest concordance up, look them up. They both come from the exact same word. Two different English words, one same Greek word. And so he puts this in here. Our choir sings every now and then a song, and I don't know the words to it, but I like the title. I don't listen to the words when they sing. Um no, I don't re I just don't remember them. But uh it's called a higher call. Don't doesn't the choir sing that? A higher call That just that title is fantastic. That's what God is saying here. That he is calling us to a higher call. In this treatment of our bodies, and uh intimacy with others. God is calling us to a higher principle. He's calling us to higher values Um he wore his jummies, so he's all set for this. Now none of y'all start wearing your jummies. But uh in this in this matter of our sexuality, our intimacy, we we are to live by higher standards than the world lives by. How many people would say that's obvious? To you and I, that seems obvious. Hey, that's not obvious to a lot of people. God has called us to a higher standard than the world lives by in this matter of our sexuality, to higher values, higher principles The body, for a believer, the body is the temple of what? The Holy Spirit. In the Old Testament, the tabernacle, and then later the temple, would you agree with me? That was sacred ground. Right? In fact, only certain people were allowed on the temple property to begin with. And then to get into the holies and then the holy of holies, that was very, very sacred ground. That was holy. You treated it with the respect it was due. There was things you don't do, and there was things you absolutely do do. d uh the things you do. Um that didn't come out right. But uh uh so but our temple is our body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, right? And it ought to be treated with the respect due of its inhabitant. There's a lot of things you can do to the tabernacle You know, you the it was the way it was supposed to be. And so that's what he's saying here. He has called us unholiness, this sanctification. The unbeliever The body is not the temple of the Holy Spirit. The unbeliever, I'm speaking generally here, but the unbeliever views the body as simply something to be used However, their nature dictates. Right? However, the fallen nature dictates, the body is just something I'm using to accomplish what I want to do. Whereas for the believer, my body is not my own. It's the temple of the Holy Spirit. I've been bought with a price. And so therefore it is it is set apart. And so there's a sacred purpose to the body. Now let's look at verse 7. For God has not called us unto uncleanness. The word uncleanness there is an interesting word. I got looking it up, and uh it has the idea of lustfulness or impurity. It fits right in with the word fornication in verse number 3. So he's still on this subject. When he says God has not called us unto uncleanness, he's talking about this fornication type thinking, that category. Lustfulness, impurity. I thought this was interesting. Here's one of the words, strong components, gave for the definition of uncleanness, luxurious Luxury. I thought that's interesting. How does that fit into this? Is it wrong to live in luxury? Yeah, how would you agree with me? Solomon lived in luxury. Nothing wrong with that. God gave it to him. He asked God for wisdom. God said, I'm not you didn't ask for riches, I'm gonna give you wisdom, and I'm gonna give you riches. So the luxury in and of itself is not wrong. But I think the context here, I think it gives a little insight into what God's trying to tell us here. It's the along with luxury, would you agree, would go the idea of indulgence. Self-indulgence. Luxury is I can have the best of whatever is available. What I think he's saying here is God has not called us to indulgence in this matter of sexuality. You follow what I'm saying? There is to be restraint. There is to be perimeters. There's a sacred purpose Behind all of this. Then look at the word holiness. As I said, same word as verse number three. God's chief characteristic is holiness. So the physical relationship, the physical intimacy for a believer. Again, in the bounds of marriage, as we already established, is almost, if I understand the passages here and other verses, is almost a sacred thing. Is almost a holy thing in the eyes of God, something that is to be treated with respect, with dignity, with almost a sacredness about it. And but what is the how does the world treat it? It's just juggled through the gutter in the world. There's nothing sacred about it at all. There's nothing uh it's just the basis of whatever as far as the world's concerned, but God uh holds it in high respect Do you notice how often in the subject of fornication the word holiness, sanctified, honor comes up in dealing with this? This is a very, very sacred thing, I believe, as far as God is concerned. So we have a sacred purpose here. Last of all, I want us to notice a very solemn principle. Now, in the last part of verse 6, and then verse number 8, it says, Let no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter. We pointed out last week. I believe that's referencing adultery. Look at the last part of the verse. Because That the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we also have forewarned you and testified. Now the believers in Thessalonica were living were lived in a very perverse society. We think it's never been as bad as it is now in the history of the world. I tell you, some of those societies back then were pretty bad. Rome was pretty ungodly under Nero. Sodomy was rampant through the city. So they're in Thessalonica. They have a pagan religion. Part of their religion is perversity. And these people are getting saved out of it. When Paul first led him to the Lord, established the church, apparently he had taught on this and preached on this pretty much. He's writing back to them now again, and he's referencing what he had taught them again, and he's saying, listen, the Lord's the avenger of all such, all such what? Verse number three, fornicators. First part of verse six. Those that go beyond and defraud their brother in adultery. God avenges that. I put this statement down. Sinful activity carries serious consequences. We see that all through Scripture. Now, somebody says, oh, you know, I know someone, they did this, and there wasn't any bad consequences. My response to that is, not yet. God doesn't always, I heard a preacher say years ago, and I I don't remember what this was, but he made this statement, it stuck in my mind. God doesn't always pay his bills on Friday I don't know what he meant by that, but I think uh it's stuck in my mind, so I just said it. But um what he's saying is, you know, sometimes you plant corn one day, you don't get a corn stalk the next It's down the road aways. And so the word avenger here, the Lord is the avenger. This is the definition. One who exacts judgment on the guilty. An avenger is someone that exacts judgment. Now the Lord is the avenger. God does not take this sin lightly. God does not take this sin lightly. Keep your place here. I want to come back. I want to look at verse 8 in just a moment. But turn with me if you would to Hebrews, chapter number 13. There's two extremes you can go with this. One is prevalent today. Anything goes. The sexual revolution. Just if it feels good, do it. No boundaries, no perimeters, just have at it. That's the world today. Do you agree with me? Now the other extreme of that is circumstances at all ever is it right. I want to remind you, um, and we're adults here for the most part, but I want to remind you that uh the sexual intimacy, the intimacy between a husband and wife Was not a result of the fall. It was not the cause of the fall. God designed man this way before the fall. So that intimacy in and of itself is not sinful. Now, if we're not careful, we'll preach against fornication and whatnot so strongly We come across, we give the impression, sometimes young people, we give the impression we think it's wrong in all cases, all circumstances, ever And that's not scriptural either. Look at Hebrews chapter 13 and verse number 4. It says, marriage is what? Honorable and all. Alright, so marriage is a good thing. But he tacks something on here. Marriage is honorable and all, and the bed undefiled. I think we all know what he's talking what he's referencing when he says the bed is undefiled. That does not mean I was reading some commentaries on this. One fellow years ago suggested that um uh that we are to keep the bed undefiled. In other words, you're uh the the intimacy between husband and wife It's not to be there. By doing it, you're defiling. It's basically suggesting the exact opposite of what this verse says. This verse is saying that the Physical intimacy between husband and wife is not bad. It's not a defiled thing. It's good. It's holy. It's sacred. It's honorable. And to be very frank with you, the Bible says very little about the intimacy between a husband and wife as far as It says very little about it other than it's undefiled. You follow what I'm saying? And so, but then he goes on and says this. Marriage is honorable and all, the bed undefiled. But whoremongers and adulterers, what one word could you use, if you're going to lump those two statements together, what one word could you use to describe them Fornication, our verse in 1 Thessalonians. Fornication covers it all. Now look what it says. But whoremongers and adulterers, God will what? Judge, avenge, bring judgment upon. This seems like one sin, this matter of fornication in its various expressions, however it may be. express, uh seems to me it brings a special judgment of God upon it. There is a special uh Corinthians talks about he that sins uh in this area sins against his own flesh It seems like it brings a uh there's a particular judgment of this upon this sin. Come back to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. Verse 8, he therefore that despiseth, despiseth what? What would he be talking about here? Somebody help me out. What would the what would somebody be despising? Despising the restrictions that he's giving here. restriction-free environment as far as this subject is concerned. And he's saying, listen, there's restrictions here. Fornication is wrong. Abstain from that. You know, God's going to judge us And he says, listen, if you despise these restrictions, if you despise this idea of the intimacy within marriage exclusively You're not despising man. Look to verse 8. Therefore he that despiseth, despiseth not man. But who? It's God that has established these restrictions If you're going to kick at this, if you're going to fight against this, if you're going to reject this teaching he's given here, he says you're not rejecting man's teaching. This is God's instructions. This is God. So you're despising what I'm saying. You're not despising me. You're not despising man. You're despising God. The word despise means to disregard. Just put out of your mind. He says, you want to neglect, you want to ignore these severe warnings, as he says in verse 6, forewarned you. You want to disregard this instructionalness. Listen It's not man you're disregarding, it's God you have to deal with. Somebody said this, and you could add a list of these, but fornication, and you can fit in whatever specific category you want under that general category, fornication produces regret, remorse, self-condemnation. anger, hypocrisy, depression, and worst of all, it displeases a holy God. Now that is not a message you're going to hear a whole lot in the in our public schools in particular But it is a message that we need to all understand what God teaches on this subject. I think sometimes we as adults are scared to death to talk about it Because it's so rampant and uh it you're uncomfortable dealing with it. But nevertheless, the Bible talks a lot about this subject. It's dealt with from Genesis to Revelation And I think our young people need to be, not just our young people, all of us, need to be instructed on what the Bible says about this. I've told this story before, but it fits in here, I thought, as I was finishing this message up. Years when I traveled in neighborhood Bible time, one summer we went up to Boston And um we were going to be there for five weeks. We had five churches lined up, week after week doing a Bible time rally, my partner and I We showed up at the airport, a guy picked us up. He had a Mercedes Benz, a little sports coop, and a little back seat with small, I don't even know what kind it was. This was nineteen eighty six and so whatever they had back then it had pedals under where the g where we have guessing but uh anyway uh I'm sitting in the back and this thing's a five speed it was he had a car phone one of those big things, you know, he never heard of 'em back then. And uh but he had a car phone in this thing, picked us up at the airport, and uh drove us to the house we were gonna stay at, went by the church, unloaded the stuff, went by the house we were And we're leaving and as he's leaving he tosses me the keys and he says, There's your vehicle for the week. You guys use that to run back and forth to church if you need Yeah, that was. We're like, huh? And uh, you know, we looked at each other, and uh, you know, we got in that thing, and we were scared to death. We drove that thing was so valuable. And uh we were so careful, scared to death to get a scratch on it. We treated that thing with so much respect. Uh my partner, and of course I was always the good guy, the partners were the bad guys But my partner one time he says, Let's try a whole shot. Let's see what this thing will do, you know, pop the clutch. I said, Are you crazy? This thing we tear this thing up and um we traded it like kid gloves. That thing was very, very valuable That, I believe, is what the Lord is telling us that our sexuality is like. It is very precious. It is very sacred. These bodies are not our bodies, these are God's. He considers these bodies significant enough for the Holy Spirit to dwell within. Now think about that. This is a home that God the Holy Spirit chooses to dwell in. Now that means there's something significant about it, right? And it's be tr be treated that way. If we treated that car that was not ours yet was very valuable, obviously to the owner That carefully, how much should we treat our bodies and how we use them carefully? You follow what I'm saying? So he spends six, seven verses on this one subject as he goes through here, and uh, I think it's important for us to understand. understand it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, you've created us as you have, and Lord, you've given us instructions in your word in every area of life You've given us perimeters to operate within. You've given us liberties within those perimeters. And we rejoice in that. Understand this. Help us, Lord, I pray that you would help us in some way to be able to communicate this within Christianity and we'd see a renewed sacredness, a renewed holiness, a renewed respect. for our bodies and the sexuality you created us. Lord, I pray that you would help us keep ourselves pure, our minds, our eyes. Lord, our actions, our interactions with others to be sacred and honorable in all these things. Help us, I pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen.