Chapter number seven, Ecclesiastes Chapter Seven And I want to begin reading in verse 6. We'll read down through verse 10. We started this last week, this uh section, and uh we started the message. I'm going to try and pick up and give two more thoughts, add to what we said last week. Ecclesiastes chapter 8, beginning in verse number 6. The right chance to find it. Alright, let me begin reading in verse 6. Because to every purpose there is a time and judgment. Therefore, the misery of man is great upon him. For he knoweth not that which shall be, for who can tell him when it shall be? There is no man that hath power over the Spirit to retain the Spirit Neither hath he power in the day of death, and there is no discharge in that war, neither shall wickedness deliver those that are given up to it, or given to it. All this have I seen, and applied my heart unto every work that is done. Read the next three words with me, under the sun. There is a time wherein one man ruleth over another to his own hurt, and so I saw the wicked buried who had come and gone from the place of the holy, the wicked coming and going from the place of the holy. And they were forgotten in the city where they had so done. This also is vanity. Title of the Message, we started last week: Accepting the Inevitable. There are some things in life that are absolutely inevitable, we have no control over that. How many people agree with me what I said last week? The older that I get, the more I feel like the less control I have over things. Boy, when we're young we thought we had the tiger by the tail, didn't we? And brother, we knew exactly how things were and how they're going to play out and we knew it all And uh I often said when I came out of Bible college, uh I took my first position, I couldn't believe how dumb my first pastor was. You know? And then I was in the ministry a little while and I realized he wasn't the dummy. I just didn't have all the answers. I didn't know everything and it wasn't uh I didn't have control. And so We find out that things in life are inevitable and we don't have the control we thought we did. Let's pray and we'll give a few more thoughts here. Father, we pray now as we look into your word and we pick up here where we left off last week I ask, dear Lord, that you would enable us, and Lord, work in our hearts and minds and our thinking, our view of ourselves and the view of the world. I pray you would transform our minds, renew them. That we could see these inevitable issues in life that are unavoidable, that we would be able to see them from your perspective and be able to respond not in anger, frustration, discouragement, but respond in faith. And trust you and be a testimony of your goodness even when things don't go the way we plan. So I ask, Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray that you would uh take my body and speak through me And help us in this matter. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We pointed out last week, first of all, and I got this from verse six and seven, is uh the inevitability of disappointment And I got that from the word misery in verse number six. It says, Therefore the misery of man is great upon the earth. One of the definitions of the word misery is great disappointment. And disappointments are inevitable in life. Life consists of disappointments, both major and minor. We mentioned sometimes you plan you have a day off You got that day plan, and you wake up in the morning and lo and behold, it's pouring down rain all day. Has anybody ever experienced that within the last three days? And it's disappointments we can't control that. And so they're inevitable. uh job maybe didn't turn out, vacation didn't go the way we planned. Even a marriage maybe didn't turn out. I had uh touched on that, but there was a fellow when um This is a tragic story, but I tried to learn from it. A fellow is a friend of mine in Bible college in my early days there. We worked in the bus ministry. He's very faithful Sharp young man, uh good preacher. God called him to preach. He planned on serving the Lord pastoring in the ministry. He met a gal down there. Uh they got married. It was, I think, one year after their marriage, and the gal ran off with another guy. And here he was. Called the priest, one the pastor, and now out of no control of his own, he's in a situation of great disappointment So disappointments sometimes are very major. Sometimes they're devastating. But nevertheless, we can't always control these things. In a ministry, maybe. And so we have to be able to accept the inevitable disappointments in life. Things don't plan out. If you remember, we went to Job We said three ways to respond. Number one, be surrendered to God. Whatever God it happened, God allowed it. Might not be his will, but he allowed it. I can yield myself to the Lord. All right, Lord, I know you're not done. You can still use me. You can still do something in spite of this disappointment. Uh be steadfast if you remember. Don't quit. Just stay plugging at it. Go forward. Go forward. Go forward. And then uh separation. Don't let the negative voices, don't let the the world and all that get in my head and keep me from serving the Lord. I tell you, when it comes to disappointments, let me give you a great verse that was helpful. It's Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 I think people are familiar with Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, lean not into your own understanding, that's where the disappointments are. But in all thy ways acknowledge him, and he'll what Direct our past. Doesn't matter how great the disappointment may be, God is still able to bring some good at it. He can still direct me and lead me. And so the one inevitability of life is disappointment By the way, I just thought of this. Mark mentioned that song, my dad's favorite song. That is his favorite song. And I'll tell you, if he was here and we were singing it, he'd be over there sobbing. Every time he hears that song, he just sobs and he and he he wants that song at his funeral. And so that has nothing to do with the message, but I just thought of it while I was preaching. Number two. The inevitability of death. And we touched on that last week. Hebrews 9. 27 is the point under man wants to die. Sometimes folks complain about getting old. Anybody here ever hear someone complain about getting old? Oh, getting old, getting old. Uh, you know, anybody here ever complain about getting old? You ever anybody here ever hear yourself complain about getting old? Somebody said getting old ain't for sissy Boy, that's the truth. But you know there's only one other alternative. I'm all for getting old at this point. I'm all for it. There's only one other two. You say, don't you want to go to heaven? Hey, I am prepared to go to heaven, but I don't know if I'm ready just yet. I'd like to serve the Lord. I think God put that desire to live in us. God put that desire to serve him and be here and go on and put us in this. That's not bad. But however, regardless, that is one, that is one, there's no discharge from that war When that call comes, that point in time comes, uh there's nothing we can do. I like what Curtis Hudson, uh one of my favorite preachers, he he used to say that he hated flying. If he was any way he could avoid flying he'd drive um you know wherever it was. And somebody said to him, they said, Brother Hudson, when it's your time to go, it doesn't matter if you're in the air or on the ground, it doesn't matter. You're gonna go. He goes, I know, but what if it's the pilot's time to go? So it's inevitable and uh I I know I I I know sometimes maybe I come across harsher than I intend to sound or be. But I'm telling you, only a fool ignores the inevitable day of death. My wife had the opportunity a number of years ago to lead a lady, made a profession of faith with her on her hundredth birthday. And Kathy had asked her, she says, um somehow in the conversation, they talked a long time, and the lady called on the Lord. And um and uh Kathy said something to her that You know, did you hear this before? Did you ever think about this? Ever? Heaven and hell, where you spend eternity? Hundred years old, she says, I always, I never allowed myself to think about it. That's pushed to the side. And Kathy told me that I'll uh this was my response. That's close. And so inevitability of death. We can't stop it. We need to be prepared for that. Now let me give you the third one. That's what we looked at before. Let me give you the third one. The inevitability of displeasure Or I put it this way, or inevitability of distress. It's inevitable. We're going to be distressed. It's inevitable. Things are going to happen that are not pleasant. We have, I think we have, at least in our society, we're developing a type of thinking where there can be no displeasure in life. Everything has to be happy, good times, fun time, uh story time, glory time all the time. Right? We got to see it. If I'm not having fun right now And boy we're all distressed, we're all worried. Listen, displeasure, there's there's things in life that are not pleasurable It's inevitable. We're going to have to deal with stuff that is unpleasant. It is impossible, I put this down, it is impossible to live life under the sun. And not be hurt or not be offended. Look at verse 9. This is the passage I got it from. All this have I seen and applied my heart unto every work that is done under the sun. There is a time when wherein one man ruleth over another to his own hurt. As long as we're living under the sun, we're going to be hurt. People are going to say things that are going to hurt us. I watched a little video of a of a pastor was saying, and um Uh and uh he was saying how somebody had said something that hurt him so badly. And he was crying and all this and he just it was kind of weird And he just went on and on and on about how he couldn't handle this and how he couldn't deal with this. And this person had said something that hurt him and all that. And uh my re you know, uh my initial reaction was You know, suck it up buttercup. You know? How many people hear the term snowflakes? We talked about them last week, I think. But listen, it's inevitable that people are going to say and do things that hurt us. And if we're if and if we can't deal with that, if we can't accept that and just just go on. I like uh maybe some of the stuff I may have said mentioned last week, I kind of got ahead of myself a little last week. But Spurgeon made a great statement that had helped me over these years. I'd read in his biography. And he said, anybody in the ministry, now I think it applies across the board to anybody. He said, if you want to be in the ministry, you need to have a one blind eye, one deaf ear, and the height of a rhino of a rhinoceros. Now what do you mean by that? Here's what he's saying. He's saying don't react to every hurtful thing you see. Don't react to every hurtful thing you hear. Don't react to everything that's thrown at you. Just turn a blind eye, turn a deaf ear, just let it roll off the back. Don't let it get to you, and just go forward. And uh we keep we if we react to everything that comes along that is unpleasant or that hurts us or is offensive, if we react to everything, all we're going to be doing is reacting I was talking to somebody recently and they were saying how this person would do that and boy they got all upset and this person would do that and boy they got all upset and I said stop and think about this you're letting that person control you They know what your buttons are. Boy, all they have to do is do this one little thing or say this one little statement and boom you react. I said you're you're you're they're yanking ever hear this? They're yanking your chain Listen, if you've got a chain on you, that means you're captive to that one that's offending you. And offense is uh offense, displeasure, and hurt is inevitable. Now, I'm glad he says under the sun. As long as we're under the sun, uh we're gonna people are gonna say and do things that are gonna hurt us. But I'm glad there's coming a day when we'll be above the sun and none of that is gonna happen anymore And there'll be no more hurt, and there'll be no more displeasure, and there'll be no more pain like that. I like the little poem, one of my favorite poems in the world To dwell above with saints we love, all that will be glory. But to dwell below with the saints we know, well that's another story. Under the sun, we're going to paint. If you would, take your Bible, turn with me to Luke. Believe it or not, Jesus Christ addressed this very subject. Luke chapter 17 And verse number one, Jesus addressed this idea of people saying and doing things that offend us. People saying and doing things. Is it just me, or do we live in a society where everybody's offended by everything? It's like people wake up in the morning, all right, what can I be offended about today? Listen, that's not the way to live life. That's not how Christians deal with it. Luke chapter 17, look at verse number one Then said he unto the disciples, these are safe people, they're committed, they're following him, I think the Lord is preparing them for ministry. I tell you what, you get you start serving the Lord in one way or another and folks are going to start saying and doing things that are hurtful. I mean, just go on a men's retreat with your church folk sometime, and it is just But he says he's teaching his disciples how to deal with unpleasant things that are said and done. To deal with offenses is the term he used. Look what he says. He said unto his disciples, It is what? Isn't that what we're talking about? Inevitable issues of life. It is impossible, but that offenses will come. I'd like to write there, deal with it. Alright? They're gonna come. Uh under the sun, there are no safe spaces, there are no safe places where nobody can say or do anything that hurts us. Not in the sun. It's inevitable. They're going to come. It's impossible. But that offenses are coming. But look at the caution he gives. But woe unto him, what's that next word? Through whom they come. In that one statement, who is it that's in worse shape? The one that is being offended or the one that is offending? The one offending. Let me read verse 2 and I'll come back and try and put it in my words. It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck and cast into the sea than he should offend one of these little ones. Now this is what I believe the Lord is teaching us. Listen, it's impossible. As you go through life under the sun, as you go through life, people are going to say stuff that's going to hurt you. People are going to do things that offend you. It's impossible. That's going to happen. Don't worry about that. That should not be where your concern is that others do not say and do things that hurt me. That should not be where your concern is. Your concern should be what? That I'm not the one saying and doing things to hurt others. Woe unto him, unto him, unto them through whom offenses come. And he's got his disciples together, and he says in so many words, and I'm loosely paraphrasing it, I'm doing this in my version of it. He's saying, listen, fellas, I'm going to be gone in a little while. You guys are going to be out there. Power of God's going to be on you. You're going to be preaching a message that in many places is not popular. And people are going to say and do things that are incredibly offensive. They're going to accuse you of things that are not true. They're going to say things. Listen, don't you worry about that You just make sure you're not the one out there throwing those accusations, throwing those stones and causing that hurt, because that is where the judgment is going to be Make sense? Make sense? So he tells us to be very, very careful about that. Be very careful. It's inevitable, we can't help it. Rather than getting so concerned about not being offended, focus on not offending. The consequences, I like this statement, the consequences of offending another one are far greater than the distress of being offended And so that's where our focus ought to be. By the way, there's nowhere in the Bible where I am commanded, there's nowhere in the Bible where I am commanded to be treated kindly. Right? I can't find it. Where does the Bible say go out in the world and make sure you're treated kindly? Make sure you are treated, you're respected. Make sure you are treated graciously. No, never, nowhere am I commanded to be treated a certain way But over and over and over again, I am commanded to treat others. Turn with me to Ephesians chapter 4. Powerful verse. Ephesians chapter 4. And if this is not underscored in your Bible, if you if this isn't Somewhere you can reference on a regular basis. It ought to be. Ephesians chapter 4, go all the way. Well, let's start in verse 29. 32 is where I want to end up at Well let's start in twenty-nine. Get this whole statement that we're given here. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. But that which is what? Good. To the use of what? What's edifying mean? Building up, strengthening, encouraging. He says be very, very careful about that. That it may minister grace to the hearers. Our problem is we're all worried about being ministered to. We're all worried about being treated, we're all worried about being respected. By the way, let me throw this out. I've found that people will respect you a whole lot more if you are respectable. Right? I found that people I treat with respect tend to do the same back to me. And so uh he says uh Then verse 30, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger Why would somebody be bitter, wrathful, and angry? They're thinking to themselves, but what what takes place that causes somebody to be bitter and wrathful and angry? Pride But somebody doing stuff to me, right? It's offending me. They talked to me that way, they treated me that way, and they didn't do this for me, and they did that for me, and they said this and they didn't say that And I'm offended and I'm angry and I'm bitter and I'm just gonna blow my top. He says, Let all that be gone. Put away from you, and with be put away from you with all malice, put all that aside. Then look at verse 32. Man, this would solve so many of our problems. And be ye what? Kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another. And he doesn't stop there. But even as God for Christ's sake hath what? Forgiven you. And he's making the basis of my kindness, my tender-heartedness, and my forgiveness. The basis of all that is not on whether that person has earned it or not. Right? I'm not to be kind to someone because they deserve to be treated kindly I'm not to be forgive someone because they deserve to be forgiven or be tenderhearted to somebody because they're very kind. You know, if somebody's nice and They're sweet and they're kind. Oh yeah, I'll be tender-hearted. I'll be forgiven. But maybe they're not that way. But that's not the basis. The basis of me being kind to Brian or being tender-hearted to Brian or being forgiven to Brian is has nothing to do with Brian. It has everything to do with God, kindness, and graciousness and forgiveness to me. That's what that last phrase means, even as Christ has been gracious and kind to you. How many people hear God's been kind to you? How many people hear God's been kind to you when you were a little ugly? I found out that when I'm a mess, God still gives me air to breathe. He still gives me food to eat. And he says, that is the basis of our treatment of others. And so other people being offensive to us, other people distressing us, other people being unpleasant, it's inevitable under the sun that is going to happen And then Jesus tells us, listen, you've got to understand that, but you make sure you are not the one. That is causing that distress and that unpleasantness on others. Dr. Lee Robertson taught this. He drilled it in our heads, and it got drilled in my head. It's a simple little statement. Die to Self. This died of self. And so, um uh uh write this down if you're taking notes, write this down, Matthew 5 43 through 48. That's where he tells us. That's where Jesus in the Sermon on Mount, again, talking to disciples, he says, bless them that Curse you. Do good to them that despitefully use you. Pray for them that despitefully use you. He goes through this list, and people, he says, don't respond in kind. Respond the way Christians. Somebody's going to go to work tomorrow. Or you're going to go out in the road, you're going to go somewhere. I'm guaranteeing you somebody here That's here tonight, tomorrow, you're gonna go and somebody's gonna say and do something that is gonna get your goat. Right? It's like She's got twelve items in the ten item line. That stays me. You know what that is? And you say, ah, wait a minute, stop and think about what the Lord Jesus said. And what is that? That is an opportunity for me to act like a disciple. And a disciple blesses those that curse us, and the disciple is patient with those that have 12 items in the 10-item line. And so it's inevitable. It's inevitable. Let me give you the last one. We could talk about that. Let me give you the last inevitability. Come on back here to it, Ecclesiastes. And by the way, that is not the way of the world. It's not how the world operates. Am I right or wrong? World operates eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth, brother. Dog eat dog. You punch me, I'll punch you harder back. Right? But God says, no, no, no. You're going to get punched, but don't punch back. Uh-huh. Let me throw this out real quick. Let me back up to offending. Does that mean we never ever ever offend people? Listen, the gospel, the Bible says the gospel is an offense to the world. Sometimes we give the gospel out, we preach the word of God, and we're witnessing to people. I'm thinking of a fellow right now. He basically got saved. But when I first shared with him about being a sinner, he was very offended. At the suggestion that he would be a sinner and he got ticked. Listen, I can't stop that I have an obligation to God to give the gospel. Now, I ought to give the gospel in a non-offensive way. Right? If I say to him, Brian, you're sitting in a bad spot tonight. If I say to him If I say to him, you dirty, sorry, rotten sinner, you're going straight to hell. Now is that offensive? Yeah, that's that that's if he's offended by that, that's because I'm being an idiot But it ought to be compassion, speaking the love, speaking the truth with grace. Now say, listen, Brian, here's what the Bible says. We're all sinners. Deceitful. And if that offends them, then there's nothing I can do about it. Right? So I wanted to put that little little qualification in there. Let me give you the last one. The inevitability of dishonesty. Look at verse number 10. This one I had to look at a little bit. And so I saw the wicked buried. So here's a funeral for a wicked man. Saw the wicked berry, he's watching this, who had come and gone from the place of the what? Holy wait a minute. Here's a wicked guy that had been coming and going from the place of the holy, and he's being buried. This is what I got: the inevitability of dishonesty. What I'm thinking what I think he's describing here, what I understand he's describing here is a hypocrite. This guy had put on like he was one of the holy ones. Boy, he's showing up at church. He's uh going coming and going to the place of the holy. He's going to the temple. Boy, he had all this. But Solomon knew him and he said, that guy's a scoundrel That guy's putting on a show. He's a very wicked man. And the word wicked there is a strong term. And so uh this guy is dishonest. And the ironic thing was this wicked guy had this big great funeral, but then you notice he says, um And they were forgotten in the city where they had done so. This also is vanity. I think he's referencing the fact that there were some sincere godly people and they didn't get a big funeral And he's saying this whole thing is dishonest. And the thing is, under the sun, we're going to have dishonest people. It's inevitable. We're going to run into and we're going to have to deal with people who are dishonest. And if we can't handle that, we're going to have a rough time. We live in a world of liars. Amen or not. We are. How many times have I given the gospel trying to illustrate the fact that we're all sinners? And I say, how many people ever told a lie? Right? Everybody raised their hand, myself included. And maybe it's because it's such a part of our nature. Maybe it's because it's such a part of my nature, but I bristle at people lying to me Anybody else? Now I would like to, I view myself as a very honest man. God knows better than I do. But man, there's something about somebody lying to my face that just that just raises the hair on my arms But right or wrong. And Solomon is telling us that we're going to have to deal with hypocrites. Somebody, how many times have I heard this? I ain't going to church full of hypocrites. You know what my answer to that is? I can't fight you on that. To some extent we're all hypocrites It's a good place for him, exactly. It's the place to go. And I had one fellow in particular years ago who was saying, I ain't going to churches This guy did that and he was a hypocrite and he'd go to church, put on show, and then out there he's doing this and cussing, he's perverted, he's doing this, all that. Goes to church. He goes, I ain't going to that place I said, well, you know, I worked in a hospital for four years. I worked in the surgery department of the hospital for four years. You know what I found I I s I heard with my own ears, I saw a d a surgeon tell a guy uh he was meeting with him there and he says you better quit smoking or you're gonna lose your he lost one leg He says, you better quit smoking or you're going to lose that other leg. And I went back in the doctor's lounge. This was back before all the laws about smoking. And guess what that guy did as soon as he walked in the doctor's lounge Lit up a cigarette. I thought hypocrisy, hypocrisy, hypocrisy So I told this guy that story and I said, Well, if you're going to stick to your principles and not go to church because there's a hypocrite there, then you can't go to the doctor. You can't go to the hospital. And I've been up at Walmart. You know what? I'd venture to say there's hypocrites at Walmart. You better not go to Walmart. And it cheats. And if you stay at home I wouldn't say there's hypocrite at least one in your house. Right? And so dishonesty and hypocrisy is part of life. We cannot escape it. We cannot escape it. And we need to learn to deal with it. I wanted to give these verses and I won't. Let me just give you the reference. Proverbs 6, 16 and 19. Proverbs 12, verse 9, Proverbs 19, verse 5 and 9, Proverbs 21, verse 28. You know what that those verses tell us? They tell us that a false witness is but for a moment. A lying tongue is but for a moment. And if you and I are if you and I on our part are dishonest, that lie is only going to last for a little while. Because eventually, what? The truth comes out. Eventually the truth comes out. And God is saying, listen, you don't have to react to that. You don't have to blow your top. You know, sometimes you have to deal with dishonesty you do in business or in relationships or whatever, you've got to deal with that dishonesty, you do. But just remember that lie is not going to last. And if I'm talking to someone tonight that is living a lie, And you're lying to your spouse, to a child, to a parent I'm telling you, for thousands of years of experience, from the written inspired, inerrant Word of God, that lie, you will not get away with it. It will come out will come out. And so dishonesty is a part of life. So I thought, all right, how do we deal with this? And I thought about the biggest The greatest, and I use that term relatively, the greatest hypocrite that has ever lived. Anybody want to take a guess Who? Not Peter. Somebody even worse than that. Peter. Judas. How many people agree? I think the greatest hypocrite that has ever lived. He was a he was he was of the devil from the very beginning. And all that three and a half years of Jesus' ministry with the disciples under him, one of them being Judas, and he got all these other guys and And they were like you and I. They were knuckleheads and they they had their issues, but God worked with them and he ended up being something But the whole time Judas was coming and going from the place of the holy, the very presence of Christ, yet he was a wicked man. And my question I asked myself was this, how did Jesus treat him Nobody had a clue. In fact, the night that Judas came up to betray Jesus with a kiss of all things. What how d what did he call Judas? My friend. Friend? Friend When Jesus said, one of you guys is going to betray me, this to me is fascinating. Judas was a very, he was an expert at hypocrisy. He said, one of you guys is going to betray me. And every one of those disciples said, it's got to be Judas. No. Nobody thought it was Judas. Not one of them. In fact, they all thought it was what? They're self. Is it I? Is it I? Is it I? Is it I? And so what I tried to learn, Solomon tells us, listen, it's evitable. There's going to be dishonesty and hypocrisy in life. It's part of life. It's part of the ministry. It's part of working with people. It's living under the sun. And then Jesus showed us how to deal with that. I don't know how to apply that in every realm, but I know this. Jesus never compromised his integrity. He never compromised his honesty. And he dealt with this man very graciously, very patiently, and in the end. It was just for a moment. His dishonesty was just for a moment and it was all exposed. The world view. So there's some things in life we can't avoid This is my thought. I'll end with this. When we came here, I took a little motto for the church, and it has helped me so much. And it was this: looking unto Jesus. In this old world, distress and disappointment and hypocrisy and hurt, let's just look to Jesus Fell out in Colorado at Kroger's, I was a witness to him. Long hair, just typical uh Boulder Colorado, New Age hippie. I gave him a gospel tract, and he says, you know, Christians have done nothing but hurt me. And I said that that no doubt is true. And I said to him, I said, but I venture to say Jesus has never hurt you. Jesus has never hurt you. And so let's keep our eyes on Jesus. Let's not get all worked up, react, stay faithful. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to deal with the inevitabilities of life. Help us, Lord, to be disciples as you've instructed us. Give us wisdom in every situation Help us take advantage of the opportunities to show this old world what a disciple of Christ, how a disciple of Christ responds to many of these inevitabilities. And I pray we're all prepared for the inevitable day of death. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, I don't know how the Lord may have applied this to your life, but how many say, God's dealt with your heart? Spirit of God has dealt with my heart in this little study of this passage. Any like that? Tonight, preacher, God's Spirit has dealt with my heart. Let's bring that to the Lord. And as we go out in this new week, maybe an old-fashioned altar, and just say, Lord, use me this week to be a disciple. Help me to respond graciously, kindly, mature, spiritually to these inevitable issues. Father, bless our invitation now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. As we finish out the Lord's Day, we invite you to come over