Psalms chapter 19, if you would, Psalms 19. And um we're going to read together, Lord will, and we're going to read together verse number 14. We'll read that together in unison while you're finding your place. Um we live in an awfully dark world, don't we? I mean it tell I'm telling you, this this old generation is just uh getting so far from God. And um I was thinking this week, I was watching the news and different things. You know, we we have a generation now that doesn't know whether they're male or female. They don't know what bathrooms to use. How many people find that just bizarre? Anybody? I just I can't even fathom that, how people would think that way. And then the news this week, we were talking yesterday in our in-service. Now they're coming out with dresses for men. Has anybody seen that? And uh I mean they're pushing this hard and and um men uh uh in dress suits and um And then and and then I I saw in the news this week where we have young people who are eating laundry detergent. Has anybody noticed that? Now we laugh about that and we think that's silly, but I'm telling you, it is tragic. To me, that tells us that we live in a generation that is absolutely so spiritually blinded That they don't know better than to eat laundry detergents. Seriously? You don't know what bathroom to use. You don't know what gender you are. You don't know how to dress. And so, you know, I guess what I'm trying to say is this, we live in a world that desperately needs the Word of God. desperately needs the Word of God. And what we're doing here with our ministries and what Brother Ingram is doing down in Brazil and other missionaries around the world, I think is needed today as much as ever in the history of our world. And so I hope you pray for our missionaries. I hope you pray for our ministries, our church, I hope you support us and get behind, get involved, because I really believe, I believe with all my heart, we have the answer that this generation desperately needs. And that is the Lord Jesus Christ. Psalms 119 is a tremendous chapter of the Bible. And I want us together, read together, if you would, verse number 14. How many folks have this verse committed to memory? Anyone have this verse committed to memory? A number of folks around. This is a great verse. And uh if you are in the habit of marking your Bible, which I think is a good habit This could be a good verse to underscore, highlight in one way or another in your Bible. Let's read it together. Ready? Verse 14, all together. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. For lack of creativity, I simply entitled the message Acceptable Words. And this verse has been on my heart for two weeks. For whatever reason, I've been waking up in the morning with this on my heart. It's been my prayer. throughout the day for the last several weeks, that the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. So Trust me, I have the mind of Christ preaching from this, and I pray the Lord will use it. Let's pray together. Father, I thank you for good service this morning. Lord, the music's been a real blessing to me. It's been a joy to have the Ingrams with us, and uh just to have missionaries around is good for us. And so I pray we'd be a blessing to them. And now, Lord, with our Bibles open, we're going to give a few moments and consider what your word says here. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I present my body to you. I pray that the little bugs and different things and uh the weaknesses of our flesh that Lord that you would just work in spite of that and you would be strong. And I ask Lord that you would speak through me. to each of our our hearts and minds and our lives and change us, Lord, and help us to see clearly. God help us to think clearly, scripturally. And um I pray for this generation, I pray for this world we live in. God have mercy on us and send the light of the truth of your word that we can that folks can know who they are and what they are and where they fit in. Why you've created us. So maybe you could use a few thoughts this morning to help us. And I'm asking you, Lord, to fill me with your Holy Spirit God, any that are listening to the sound of my voice, under the sound of my voice, that do not know for sure that their sins are forgiven, they're on their way to heaven, I pray that today would be the day of salvation. Those of us that know you, help us to grow in our faith and be strong in our faith. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I've got cough drops in my mouth. I've got tissues here beside me. And so um I've got an arsenal up here. And so you pray for me. Now Psalms 119 is a great chapter. What do we know uh about the Psalms 119. Well there's a couple things we know nothing about. One thing about Psalm 119 that we know nothing about it is this. When was it penned? We know it was during the life of David. We'll see that here in a moment. But as far as what time of his life, we do not know. So we don't know the timing that this was recorded. We don't know the circumstances behind this psalm. Now sometimes the Bible will give us in the little heading there a chapter of the Psalms, it'll give us a little bit of the circumstances behind it. It'll say when David was fleeing Saul or whatever And that helps us get a little insight of what's being said and maybe why it's being given to us. And so we're not given any of that here on Psalm 19. So we don't know what period of time necessarily specifically it was given. We don't know what the circumstances are. But one thing we do know, a couple of things we do know about Psalm 119, it was penned by David. It tells us that there right in the beginning. He says, um uh he says um uh uh to the chief musician of Psalm of David Now we know that God is the author. We always emphasize this. God is the author of Scripture. Hey, the Bible is not man's words. It's not David's words, it's not Moses' words, it's not Paul's words, it's not Peter's words, it is God's words. And God moved upon men, some that I And moved upon them with the Holy Spirit, and they recorded down exactly what God would have recorded for us So we know that David is the penman. He's the man that God used to record this psalm. It is given to us, it was given to mankind to be sung. Notice he says there, to the chief musician. And so this was a poem probably initially recorded, but then set to music back in the day with the intention that it would be sung by God's people. So this is a tremendously majestic psalm. It's been referred to as I was doing some study on it. A lot of great scholars over the years have referred to Psalm 119 as a majestic psalm, maybe Psalm, one of the most majestic of all the psalms. And it is no doubt a tremendous psalm of praise. And um So it's penned by David. When was it penned in David's life? Again, we're not told. As we read this, and uh if we had time, uh we'd be good to read through the whole psalm, but as we read this, I can kind of see in my imagination, I can see a young David Shepherd boy, maybe twelve, thirteen, fourteen years old, fifteen, sixteen Uh I can see him up on the side of some wilderness mountain. He's got his flock of sheep he's caring for. We know he was a shepherd boy. And uh maybe late at night, uh he's there on the side of the hill and he's got his little blanket and pillow and he's sleeping. The sheep are all sound asleep, and maybe he wakes up And he looks up at the night sky and he and he gasps, and maybe he sees these galaxies and these stars, and and I can hear him say, the heavens declare the glory of God And so I wonder as a young boy, David looking up in the night sky in the middle of the night, wasn't just stirred by the Holy Spirit of God to see the handiwork of God in the night sky. How many folks are captivated by the night skies? And especially in the summertime it's clear. Anyone Anybody here ever been out, maybe in the Rocky Mountains, away from the cities, where there's no artificial light and you look and see that night sky. Anybody know what I'm talking about? What a majestic thing. And I am absolutely captivated by uh by the stars in the universe. and uh all that took place. So maybe David as a young shepherd boy with just his little knapsack and all that he carried with us uh with him out in the mountain, uh maybe at night the Holy Spirit of God moved upon him to record this. Um maybe it was um it was suggested that maybe while uh he was fleeing King Saul and uh he was fearful for his life and he's out again in the wilderness and Maybe he was looking to the Lord and he was reminded by the night sky and reminded by the Word of God how that God would take care of him and God would uh be his um uh his strength and his redeemer Maybe it was later on in his life after he was king for many years, maybe on top of his palace there in Jerusalem And maybe he would get up of the evening and he'd look and have the word of God there and some scroll with him in the stars above him And maybe that's what God moved on his heart to record Psalms 19. Whatever the case is, Psalms 119 is a absolutely majestic book of praise. Now, so now bear with me a little bit as I try and keep my voice here, but um God uh has given to us two books. God has given to us two great books. David was a master of both of those books. And Psalms 119 references both of those books. The first book is what I'm going to refer to as the book of creation. The book of creation. If you notice with me verse number one of Psalms 19, he says, the heavens declare the glory of God And the firmament showeth his handiwork. Now look at the words he uses. Notice the heavens declare. That is a communication type thing. That's a form of communication, declaring something. Verse 2, day unto day uttereth what? Speech. Again, communication. And night unto night showeth knowledge. There's information being given There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. In other words, this creation, this created world we live in. The message it's given, the language it is speaking to us, the information it is giving us is universal. No matter where you go in the world This book of creation can teach us, can give us information. Their lion is going out through all the earth And their words, to the end of the world. In them hath he sat a tabernacle for the Son, which is as as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race His going forth is from the end of heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it, and there is nothing hid from the uh from the heat thereof. And so in these first few verses, I think David is referencing this book of creation that God has written to us, that God has given to us, that communicates information to us about our creator. Creation is a revelation of God in many, many ways. Some refer to it as the witness of creation. I put that in the margin of my Bible beside verse number one. We have the witness of creation. So we open this book of creation and we look at the night sky or we get a we get a um A uh what's the little um my mind's a little slip um not a kaleidoscope. Tel not a telescope Microscope. And um thank you all, pray for me. Um and we get uh a microscope and we put the little slide under there and we look at that thing and we see this this microscopic world that God has created. And Charles Darwin was wrong when he assumed that the microscopic world is just simplistic and very not very complex and very simplistic. We are finding out now that even the simplest of life forms are incredibly complex And the language of the DNA and the complexity of the most simplest forms of life are beyond our imagination. We're still just beginning to grasp them. Hey, I want to tell you, true science is not an enemy of Christianity I've found that the more man discovers, the more man learns about this created the world, the harder it is to justify their evolutionary theories, and the more evident it becomes that there is some sort of intelligent designer behind everything that exists. Now we know who that intelligent designer is none other than God Almighty Himself. But what I'm trying to say is this when we look at the night sky or we look into the I want to say telescope microscope We see all around us information about the God that created us. Now what does the book of creation tell us? What information do we get from this book of creation? Well, number one, it tells me that there is a God There is a God. There is no way in the world that the this world we live in, with its beauty and its design, and its complexity and its purpose and its intricate uh patterns. There's no way in the world that just happens. There's no other aspect of life where any scientist or world would suggest that something of this design, that complexity, would just happen. I've said this often and to me it is so glaringly obvious. You have a scientist that is or a or um uh archaeologist is out in the in the west and he's digging through caves and they're going through the cave and they're looking for things and they find a little uh uh rectangle uh piece of pottery And maybe there's a little design on there, a little sun with the little rays going out. And they look at that and they say, ah Man has been here. An intelligent being has been here. They designed that little sun with the rays going out. There's no way in the world that pattern would just happen There's no way in the world a piece of of a pottery shard like that would just develop. This was obviously designed by an intelligent man. Some Indians or some ancient men have been here and they designed this. This could not have just happened. And they'll look on the wall and they'll see these carvings on the wall of buffalo and and bison and and uh these various animals and uh they say ah there's been somebody intelligence here. They have designed this on the wall that Could not have just happened. Those patterns and those pictures could not have just been there. And then stay looking over their soul shoulder is a little lizard up on a cliff. on a ledge, and that is 10 million times more complex. Ten million times more design goes into that one little lizard's eyeball Then all that's painted on that wall, and they say, oh, somebody had to make that, but that there just happened. That is nonsense. That is nonsense. And that is such an obvious lie that the only reason people would believe it is that they are blinded by the God of this world, the devil himself. And so my Bible tells them Psalms 19 suggests to us that this entire creation is a book of God, it is a revelation of God. It tells us that He is, that He exists. I've often said they said I I'm fascinated. I follow on my computer they have a little, I don't think it's too active right now, but they had for a long time a uh a little robot uh car uh uh uh radio controlled con car and they got it on Mars. That thing's driving all over Mars and they control it down in Nassau or somewhere, I don't know where at and they That little thing, that thing, up on Mars. How many people think that's incredible? And that thing's buzzing around there and taking pictures, and I get on my computer where the when it was, it would show me every day the pictures it took that day. And they got very boring. They're just rocks and sand and stuff. It's like, all right, cool. But every now and then that little thing would come up over a little ledge and go around, ooh, here's a rock And it's round. We think there might be life. How would they get a round rock there? That couldn't have just happened. Well then they figure out, well, no, it's not really his design. My question always has been, what if they come up over a little rise and they and they'll see some little pattern or some, oh maybe there is light. And what if they come up over a little rise and there's a 10-speed bicycle? What would be their immediate conclusion? There's some sort of life there. That bicycle kind of just happened. There's something, oh, there's life on Mars. They got bicycles. But then no but if they'd come around, what if they found a little fly? They'd say, oh, that just happened. Evolution How many people say that is obviously nonsense? Well, if they came up over a thing and they saw designed in the sand a peace sign, I thought somebody did that. There's been hippies here. Right But yet they walk out the door of their office, their little science lab, and they walk out, and there's a little tweety bird that is 10 million times more complex than a peace sign, and let's say, oh, that just happened over millions of years That is blindness. That is total blindness to obvious truth And so this book of creation tells us that God is, that God exists, there is a God. Listen, you can try and ignore him all you want, you can try and deny him all you want, you can try and just push him aside all you want. The fact of the matter is there is a God. And you and I will someday answer to him So this this book of creation tells me that God exists. Something else it tells me about God. It tells me that God is powerful. Whoever this is, now just bear with me a little bit here, but whoever this is that made this place, it didn't just happen. Somebody made this. Somebody very, very intelligent made this. And whoever this is is incredibly powerful that they could create something as powerful as the sun. What kind of being, what kind of power is behind a being that can make something like this universe? So creation, the book of creation tells us that God is. It tells us that God is powerful, this God that made this place, and it tells us that this God is very intelligent. Man, to be able to design the things, did you know just about every technology we have is patterned after something that has been created by God? Our airplanes, I was reading about so our Air Force, the planes are made are patterned after the flight of birds. And just about everything we have is patterned. Man didn't come up with it. We simply found out what God did and then we copied it in a lot of ways. And so this God is incredibly intelligent. He is comprehensibly powerful. He exists. But we look at this book of creation And we also come to this conclusion. We just look around at the created world. There's a God that made this, obviously. He's very powerful. He's very intelligent. But we also look around, we'd say, something's wrong. Something's wrong. Anyone know? Oh, I'm talking. We look at this world and say, something happened. I don't believe this is the way God intended it. Hey, when when when you got folks eating laundry detergents, something's wrong. Right? That bothered me when I read that. There's something seriously, seriously wrong with this creation. Now, we look at creation, we don't know exactly what it doesn't answer to us what is wrong. But you've got animals killing animals. You've got dishonesty. You've got murder. You've got rape. You've got thief stealing. And we look and say, this is not right. This could not have been the way this was designed. This world was not created and designed. To operate under violence and dishonesty. Something happened. Something happened. So God has given to us what I'm calling a book of creation It is a means of communicating to us a little bit about himself. Now that book of creation is very limited Doesn't tell us a whole lot about that God other than a few basic observations we made. So God has given to us another book. And that book is the Word of God. We refer to the book of creation as natural revelation. It's the created world, what we learn from God from the created world. But then God has given to us this other book, the Word of God, and we call that special revelation. And in the Bible, in God's Word, we find information that we do not get from creation. In other words, as I study the Bible, the special revelation of God, God's word to us is special revelation of Himself, I find out who this God is. I find out that the God that created this place, as I look in here, he's Jehovah. He's a very personal God. I find out that this God that created this world is all-knowing. He knows everything about me. He always was. He always will be. I find out that he's a spiritual being. And the book of special revelation, the word of God, tells me things about God. I do not find in creation. One, who is he? Do it tells me what he is like. Now I look at this world, this God is powerful, this God is very intelligent. But what does he think about me? Creation doesn't tell me that. Does this God love me? Does he hate me? Is he indifferent to me? Does he even know I exist? But I get the book of God, the Word of God, the special revelation, I find out this God, oh, he does know I exist. And I find out what he thinks about me And I find out that the God that created this universe spoke it into existence, this God loves me very much. I am his creation. I've been made in his image. And God loves me. This powerful, incredibly intelligent God actually cares very much about me. It tells me what he's like. I find out in the Word of God, the book of God, the Word of God, I find out that God is holy. That He is holy. That's a truth about God that much of Christianity is missing today The fact that God is absolutely holy. Modern Christianity presents the God presents a God that is cool A God that is worldly, a God that is hip, and he's in fashion with the world. That's not what my Bible says. My Bible says that God is blindingly holy, that He cannot look on sin He cannot tolerate dishonesty. He cannot tolerate unrighteousness. He is a holy, holy God So I find that this God loves me. This God is holy. I find out this book of Revelation, this Word of God, this special revelation, this book tells me what God expects from me. As a holy God, he expects holiness on the part of his creation. He expects, he is a sinless God. And he has created me and you and I in his image for his pleasure, and he expects from us sinlessness. A sinless God would expect sinlessness from his creation. And yet we fall short of that. And we find out that we failed to live up to the standard that God has given to us. And so the Bible tells us how that is resolved. And how that God loved us enough. He came and gave his son to die for our sins, buried, rose again. We see all this in the Word of God. And how that he made it possible for us as sinners to be restored to a holy God. How many people follow what I'm saying? How many people are glad God loves us? Amen. How many people would agree with me? It is so obvious that God exists, it seems ludicrous that anyone would deny it. Anybody here? So Psalm 19 is a fascinating chapter. It references the book of creation. The heavens declare, the glory of God, they communicate to us, they tell us about this God, but it's a limited And then verses, I didn't give the references, but verses seven through eleven, then he references the special revelation of God And tells us who God is and what he is like and what he thinks of us and what he expects from us. And then verses 12 through verses 12 through 14, you have David's response to this revelation of God. Notice in verse number 12, he says this. He says, who can understand His errors, uh, his own errors is what he's talking about. Cleanse thou me from secret faults. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me Then shall I be upright and I shall be innocent from the great transgression. I think it's interesting as David contemplates the revelation of God in creation. Then he references the revelation of God in the Word of God, special revelation. And then the first thing he's concerned about is salvation from his own sins. Lord, I want you to cleanse me from my sin. It's interesting. When David grasped who God is and what he's like, suddenly he became very, very concerned about his own sin. And I found, I found that when an individual has little or no concern about their own sinful condition, when they don't care about that, that doesn't bother them It's no concern whatsoever. That person has a very poor conception of who God is. And the clearer I see who God is, and the clearer I understand Who and what God is like and who he is, the clearer it becomes that I am a sinful being and that sin needs to be addressed. I thought about in Isaiah chapter 6, when Isaiah, in the year that King Uzziah died, Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up. And when he saw the holiness of God Isaiah's first response was, Woe is me, for I am a man of unclean lips. And the farther our country, listen, the farther our country gets from God. The less concerned we are about our sin. And the more saturated society becomes of just the most bizarre wickedness and the most perverse behavior. Because we have completely blinded ourselves to who God is and what he's like. And when David says, listen, I've seen the power of God in creation. I've read of the holiness of God in His Word, and my concern is, God cleanse me of my sin And I've found, as I said, that when David understood who and what God is, he took his sin very seriously. Listen The biggest problem facing you and I is mankind. It's not terrorism, is not global warming, is not uh um uh Viruses and colds. Greatest threat to mankind is sin. Is sin, our own sinful hearts. And we've got to get that taken care of. We've got to address that. And so David's concern was his salvation of sin. And then verse number 14, we get to our text, is his sanctification of life. He goes, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. When David understood who God is and what he's like, he took his spiritual condition very seriously. He took his spiritual condition very seriously. Notice he says, let the words of my mouth I put in the margin of my Bible, that's my conversation. And the meditations of my heart, that's my contemplations. Now what did David mean? He says I'm a created being. This God is powerful and holy. He's revealed himself to me, and I see that I'm a sinner as a Created by God. I'm a sinner. I want to be cleansed of my sin. I want my presumptuous sins kept back from me. I want to be clean and pure and Lord, I want them Words of my mouth and God, I want the meditations of my heart to be acceptable in your sight. Now what did he mean by that statement? Well, I think he meant literally. He wanted his words to be right. He wanted things how he talked to be pleasing to his God. By the way, we ought to be careful how we talk. How many folks are saved and you know it? Say amen. For saved, we ought to be very, very careful, the words we use. We ought to be very, very careful. Our words ought to be pure. They ought to be clean. They ought Be honest And so David was concerned, the words of my mouth be acceptable in your sight. How many people think that maybe conversations would be a little different if Jesus was standing right there than when he isn't. How many people know that? Uh I know I learned that early on as Pastor. It's kind of funny, you know, there'll be a group of people and they'll be talking away and I'll come walking up and somebody will say, oh here's Pastor. Deacons meetings happens all the time. But um But it's funny, I'll come up and I've mentioned the mentioned these before, but I'll not I'll go visit someone, I'll knock on the door and uh in the summertime particularly the windows are open and And and the conversations are going on. Sometimes you know you're standing on the porch, you can't help but hear what's going on. It's like, hmm, this is interesting. I'm getting illustrations for sermons here. And the answer doors, oh it's Pastor. Oh, praise the Lord, hallelujah, God's good And the conversation changes. Why? Because they, and it's not me, it's just the position, but why is it? Because they want their words to be acceptable to the pastor. Right? I don't want to say anything that shouldn't be said around the pastor. Well, I'm here to tell you, we're in the presence of somebody more important than the pastor all the time. That's God Almighty. And I think our conversations would be a little bit better, a little cleaner maybe, a little more scriptural if we kept in mind the fact that I am constantly in the presence of God. And David's concern was, and he when he thought about the majestic God that made us and his love for me and how sinful I am, he says, Lord, I want my words and my mouth to be acceptable in thy sight. And I think he meant literally his how he talked and the meditations of my heart. And I think he simply wanted to think pure thoughts. How many people here ever had to struggle with thoughts in your mind that you did not want there? Anybody here? Some of y'all are thinking very very good right now. I'm telling you, it's incredible. When I was a young Christian, I heard Curtis Hudson preaching years ago, and he says, sometimes you're sitting on the platform, big conference, and he said, out of nowhere, the most blasphemous thought will come into my mind. And out of nowhere, the most wicked thought will come. And he says, where in the world does that come from? And it comes from our own sinful hearts. And I thought, surely not. And then I got in the ministry in all these years and man, out of nowhere. How many people know what I'm talking about? Just out of nowhere. What in the world? And David says, I don't want to think that way. I want my thoughts to be pure. I want every thought through my mind that my God says, hey, that's acceptable The word acceptable means to bring pleasure, fulfillment, satisfaction. And David is saying, I want the words that come off of my lips. And the thoughts that course through my brain, I want my God and my creator to say, those are acceptable. Those are pleasing to me. Those are satisfying to me We're his creation. He's the one that gave us life. He is the one that determined our purpose. But I think when David used these two terms, I think he was more than just words and thoughts. I think he was saying, I want my whole being, I want everything about me, even the way I think, to please my God, to be acceptable to my God. The less we understand of God, the more we push him out of the picture, the more ignorant mankind is of God, the less concerned they are about how they think, the less concerned they are about what they say. And I'm telling you, we live in a world of absolute filthy language, right or wrong. My wife worked downtown. And um at for years down at community action, they had a little head start thing there and the little kids would go by. Head start, how old are head starts? What are they? I'm four or five years old, somewhere around there, and uh they're preschool. And so these little kids go by and Kathy would come home sometimes almost in tears. And so she said, you would not believe the words little three, four, and five-year-old kids are using. Stuff that even hardened drunken showers 50 years ago would be a shame to use in mixed company. Little two, three, four, five-year-old kids are just flowing off their mouths. You know what that tells me? We live in a world that knows little about the God that created us. We live in a world that has little comprehension. of the fact that we are created beings, possessed and owned by God, created for his purpose. And so David says, I want my words and I want my thoughts. To be accepted. Lord, I want my whole being. Everything about me. I want the Lord to be pleased. I think he was saying my perspective on life. I want it to be acceptable to God, the way I see life. I think he was saying, I want my priorities in life, my thinking, the priorities I have in life. I want them to be in line with my Creator The things I find pleasure in, things I meditate on, the thoughts I have, I want them to be pleasing to my God. I think when a person delights in sin and disregards God's will, they simply do not know and understand God. David said, I want every aspect of my being to be acceptable to my God, the one that created me, the one that gave me light, the one that I answer to, the one that loves me. I want my whole life to be acceptable to him. Now how do we do that? How do I get where my very thoughts, everything about me is acceptable to God? Well, number one, I think I need to have salvation. I need to have salvation. If a person never accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, they're never going to be acceptable to God because our sin has separated us from God. And when we accept Jesus Christ as our Savior, God does cleanse us from all sin. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. I have found that nothing changes the way a person thinks and talks like genuine biblical salvation. We used to sing a song with the bus kids years ago. Um how many like these little songs I've been singing lately? Two people. That's um It's kind of what I expected. We used to sing this little song, Oh, the things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. The things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. Things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. There's been a great change since I've been born again. Then it goes on, there's been a great, great change, change since I've been born. There's been a great great change. See How many people ever heard that song? How many people want to learn it? Then their second chorus would go like this. Oh, the things I used to say, I don't say them anymore. Things I used to say, I don't say them anymore. Things I used to say, I don't say them anymore. There's been a great change since I've been born again. And that little simple little ditty He's just saying the same thing over and over and over. But there's tremendous truth in that. When a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, it changes the way we think. It changes the way we talk. I got, say, May 7, 1979, 10:30 on a Monday night. The way I thought Monday afternoon and the way I thought Tuesday afternoon were dramatically different. My whole perspective on life and the world, the meditations on my heart were radically altered when Jesus Christ came in my heart and life and saved me that Monday night. The meditations of my heart were changed, changed. For I got saved, the thoughts of my heart were empty and dark and hopeless. I saw no hope in life. I saw no, there was total fear of dying and separation from God. There was total despair of the sin that was destroying my life. And the simple act of kneeling beside my bed by faith and calling on Jesus Christ and accepting as my Savior changed all of that. And suddenly I had hope. And suddenly there was joy and there was light in my heart and soul. And I was forgiven. And what changed everything? David said, I want the words of my mouth, the meditation of my heart, be acceptable. I tell you what will do that, get saved. And it'll change everything about your life. When I got saved that night, I was wanting God, I did not want to be the man I was becoming. I did not want to live the life the road. I did not want to go down the road I was going down. And I found no hope of changing that. I found no hope of changing it except through the Lord Jesus Christ. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. The old the things I used to say, I don't say them anymore The things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. And then back then we used to, as far as I'm married, the girls I used to date, I didn't date them anymore. That was Everything was changed. Everything was changed. How many people remember Joe Urban? Anybody here remember Joe Urban? Old Joe Urban sat right here, right? That seat right there. Old Joe was a Vietnam War vet. And uh I I don't know I was it Shirley Did Shirley I think Shirley was the one that got him coming to church. Is that right? He was in the nursing home. He had gotten agent orange and got messed up in Vietnam. Shirley got him to come out to a Dr. Don Williams chalk drawing meeting years ago. And I didn't know Joe from Ed or anyone else. And um he came in, old Joe Irving got saved Now, you never know it. I mean we didn't know anything about it. He just he was very, very quiet. Anybody remember? Long beard. He looked like those duck guys on TV. Nicest guy in the world, as quiet as could be, he'd sit here. But old Job got saved. And I'm telling you, there was massive transformation took place in the heart and life of that man that sat right there. I didn't fully comprehend it. I did know this, that after he'd started coming for a little bit and after he got saved, when we were singing, remember this, Cindy? He would have that hymn book. He sang out And he would just sing, had a terrible voice, but he sang to the glory of God. You know what happened? The words of his mouth, meditation is heart, became acceptable to God when God saved this soul. I did his funeral. He's buried up in lead mine I did his funeral, and so many family members came up and they said this, Pastor Leatherman, we don't understand it all, but whatever happened to Joe out at your church was the greatest thing that ever happened in his life. And here I come to find out, his life and his testimony, his family was radically changed. And they saw a massive change in his life that we never really saw here. We didn't know that much about him. What am I trying to say? I'm trying to say this. When we accept Jesus Christ as our Savior, he changes the way we think. He changes everything about us. I tell you, I have a hard time with folks who claim to be safe and they still think the way the world thinks. and they have the same values that the world has, and they have the same attitude towards the Bible that the unsaved people have. Can a person be saved in that way? Yes, it's possibly carnal, but I'm telling you, something is serious, seriously wrong with that. Because if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. The words of his mouth and the meditations of his heart are changed. by the presence of the Holy Spirit in the light, and by the power of God in transforming that person into a child of God. And so salvation will bring about this change. Supplications. A person gets saved, and then we begin to pray. I'm telling you, prayer is a powerful, powerful force. Brother Ingram taught on the armor of God this morning in Sunday school. A good lesson. One of the armors, one of the pieces of armors is prayer. And I'm telling you, prayer will change us. I've found that genuine earnest prayer many times changes the meditations of my heart more than it changes my circumstances. It'll change my perspective. Lord, you've got to take this away. Oh God, this is terrible. Lord, I need you to change my circumstance. A lot of times I found that God doesn't necessarily change my circumstance. Sometimes He changes my attitude about my circumstance. He changes my perspective. How many people have ever read in the Bible in Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, where Paul asks God to take away his thorn in the flesh? Anybody ever read that? Whatever it was, it was very, very painful. My son and I were talking about this this past week. What was that thorn in the flesh? The Bible doesn't tell us expressly, but I do believe it was a very physical and a very painful Whatever it was, it was very physical and it was very, very painful. And the Bible says that Paul asked the Lord three times, three periods of time, Lord, take this away, Lord, take this away, Lord, take this away. You know what God said every time? No. You need this. This is helpful for you. This will keep you humble. This will teach you to trust me. And so Paul says, I changed the meditations of my heart. Now, before he wanted it gone, before it was a messenger saying, he says, now, most gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmities. And God changed his whole perspective on it. God changed his whole perspective. So salvation will bring about a change, a massive change in our thoughts and our words. Prayer, supplication, will change that. Let me give you the last couple here real quick. Scriptures. Reading the Bible. It is impossible to live a life acceptable with God apart from the Word of God. I came across a little poem that Dr. Lee Robertson, my pastor for years ago, had quoted a number of times. He said this: These two hath God married, and no man shall part. Dust in the bot on the Bible and drought in the heart. And that is an absolutely true statement. If I neglect my Bible, my heart is going to dry up. My thinking is going to get messed up. The way I talk starts changing. I can almost, now I'm not a prophet, I'm not the son of a prophet, but I've been a pastor for a while, I've been in the ministry for a while, and sometimes I think I can tell when somebody stopped reading their Bible The way they start thinking, some of the stuff they start saying, man, red flags go up in my mind. I say, I'll bet you they're not feeding on the Word of God Because the word of God is powerful. And it will change the way I think. It will change the way I talk. And so, you say, Pastor, I want my thoughts, I want my words, I want every part of my being to be acceptable to the God that created me. All right, get saved. Make sure you're saved Number two, you pray and ask God to lead you and direct you and direct your thinking. And then spend time in scriptures. Read your Bible every single day. Discipline yourself to read the scriptures every single day I tell you, one of the encouraging things about making mistakes in the bulletin is it tells me people are reading the bulletin. And it's interesting. Nobody ever comes up and says, Pastor, look, all this here is right. There's nothing wrong there at all. It's all perfectly right. The only thing they do is come up and say, Oh, you made a mistake here, Pastor. But the fact that what I'm trying to say is this, it encourages my heart when people look there and say, oh, there was a wrong verse here in our scripture reading. That tells me what the reading the Bible. And that is so vitally important to live a life that's pleasing to God. So the scriptures, supplication, salvation, the last one is saints. Active involvement in a good, strong Bible preaching, soul-winning church is vital to living a life that is pleasing to God. I found that the first step away from God is neglect of the local church. And I believe with all my heart, I have learned more. of God and the Bible, and I have grown more spiritually through the ministries of a local church than any other ministry out there. Anything else out there. It is through the people of God and the teaching and the preaching, the word of God, as the church assembles together, that my faith has grown and I've been impacted by the Spirit of God. Daily Bible reading is important. Personal prayer is vitally important. Of course, knowing I'm saved is the beginning point. But the local church, being active and faithful, and the local church will help us in our thoughts and meditations. I was reading this week about Christian natives in the Amazon region of Peru, down in South America. Brother Ingram's here, they're Brazil. This was in Peru. They were known as the Bora people. And missionaries went into this back isolated villages of the Bora people and they were, their society was marked by violence and get this, cannibalism of all things. And missionaries were able to reach into them and win their trust, learn their language And we're able to share with them the gospel of Jesus Christ. And lo and behold, the Borah people turned to Christ in mass. And they were born again, they were saved. And the words of their mouth and the meditations of their heart were transformed And now they built places of worship and they sang praises to God and they worshiped the true and living God and they had the scriptures in their language. And they began reaching others in that region of the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And a number of years went by and the missionaries were getting older, and lo and behold, an atheist, and this is a true story, an atheistic archaeologist had made his way back in there. And he found this civilization, this isolated civilization of Bora people that had been reached with the message of Christ. And this atheist archaeologist was absolutely mortified that these missionaries had the gall To come into this society and alter their society and teach them of Christ and change the way they thought and the way they lived. And this archaeologist was just ranting and raving to the natives there how the missionaries had destroyed them and ruined them. And the story goes that the leaders of the village there, these Christian leaders, listened very quietly, very respectfully what he had to say. And when he was done his rant, they said to him, They said, sir, Had it not been for Jesus Christ and the missionaries that brought the message of Jesus Christ, you would be in the pot right now. And you would be on the menu for tonight's community supper. He didn't have much of an answer for that. Because why? Jesus Christ changes lives. Jesus Christ changes the way we think. Jesus Christ changes the way we live. And as I read the news, And I see what is happening to our generation. I see what is happening to our world. And I think how desperately this world needs to think differently. How desperately this world needs the Lord Jesus Christ. So you're here this morning. You know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? If not, you desperately need him. He'll change everything about you, give you purpose, he'll give you meaning, direction in life. If you are saved, you say, preacher, I just, what Christ has done for me, I really want my life. To please the Lord, how I'm living it, my lifestyle, the way I think and talk, everything about me. I want to please the Lord. Oh, I want to urge you to pray very earnestly every day. Spend time in prayer. Ask God to take you and mold you and make you what he wants you to be. Spend time in Scripture. Get around the people of God. Be faithful to church. And God will change us and God will make us into the people he wants us to be to be. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now. And Lord, I've tried to share my heart this morning. I pray that you would maybe take these thoughts and stir us, Lord, to desire to please you with our lives and that uh you as our God and we as the created beings would desire to live lives acceptable to you, that you would be pleased with us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I've trusted Christ. But you'd say, preacher, you know There's areas in my life I just need the Lord to help me. Like David prayed that in the words of my mouth, meditation of my heart be acceptable. In God's sight. And you say, preacher, that's areas of my life I really need the Lord to give me victory in. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, there are areas of my life that I know That the God that created me, I need to address, so that he'd be pleased. God bless you. Bunch of hands around. How about it? Any others See, I know I'm saved, but boy, I'm like David. I really want every part of my being to please the Lord. I believe that a lot of us feel that way. Maybe there's a specific area, the Spirit of God's touching one, maybe a prayer like Bible reading, whatever. You say, I I need the Lord to help me. Let me ask this. How many hearing you say, I know I'm saved, but I have somebody I'm burdened for? And I want them to come to know Christ. I can't stand the thought of them dying in their sin, being separated from God for all eternity. How many of you say, preacher, I know someone like that, and I'm very, very burdened for them. I'd like to see them saved this year. God bless you, hands all around. Now God can use us and he will if we'll just give ourselves to him, say, here my Lord, use me to be a witness, share the gospel with them, deliver a testimony. And God will help us. One last question. There are some here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved. I'd like to know for sure, beyond a doubt, that I'm going to heaven. I don't want to I don't want to die in my sins and go to hell. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. That God would save me, that I'd have that settled in my heart and mind. Any at all by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. And I need to know for sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised. You know our hearts. You know their desires. And I pray your Holy Spirit would stir us. and help us to take the steps and go forward and allow you to mold us and make us for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jenny's playing the invitation.