Chapter 8, if you would find your place there, Ecclesiastes, chapter 8. And uh we just praise the Lord for God's goodness. And I want to jump right into this as quick as we can. Ecclesiastes chapter 8. I'm going to begin reading in verse number 6. Last uh week we finished up the first five verses there, and we looked at wisdom and authority and uh how a wise man responds to authority. And I thought that was a pretty important truth given to us there. Now we're going to pick up a little bit different subject. And we're going to notice here accepting the inevitable. Learning to be able to accept the inevitable issues of life. And notice in verse number six, Solomon, under the inspiration of God, writes this. He says, Because to every purpose there is a time and judgment. Therefore, the misery of man is great upon him, for he knoweth not that which shall be. For who can tell him when it shall be? There is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit. Neither hath he power in the day of death. There's no discharge in that war. Neither shall wickedness deliver those that are given to it. All this I have seen and applied my heart unto every work that is done under the sun There is a time when one man ruleth over another to his own hurt. So I saw the wicked buried. And so I saw the wicked buried, who had come and gone from the place of the holy. And they were forgotten in the city where they had so done. This also is vanity, accepting the inevitable Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, grateful, Lord, for what took place. The music's been a special blessing today and this evening. Thank you for the testimonies, the good report down in our children's church and Sunday school. I pray now as we look in your word that you would challenge us. Lord, I pray you'd speak to us. Lord, you promise that faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. So I pray you'd strengthen our faith. Give us direction this week. Use us to be a witness this week. Fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. I yield my will All my heart, I ask the Lord you'd speak through me and teach us and help us. In Jesus' name, amen. Wonder how many of us older folks would uh would uh uh s would agree with this, but when I was younger, uh I thought I was in control. Anybody younger? I mean I had the world by the tail. And uh nobody else was driving that car. If we're in the car, I'm doing the driving. Alright? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Y'all look at me so pious. But I mean when we were younger we thought we had it, didn't we? Uh we were in control. We had the world by the tail. Uh I was going to be the be the decision maker. Uh when I was youth pastor, uh I showed up at the church there and brother I had all the answers and I knew how this thing was to run and all of that. And uh, you know, the older I'm getting, I'm finding out that I don't have as much control as I thought I did. And uh uh I actually have very little control over a lot of things the in life that uh we learn to live by faith and got to trust God. Can I get an amen there from our older folks? And it seems like the older to get, the more you realize, you know what, I don't have as handle on this as much as I thought I did My son, our oldest son, was for several years a managed a ranch down in Texas, a 40,000 acre ranch, a sublease off the uh King Ranch, and they would, I believe it was in the springtime If I remember correctly, they would do controlled burns. Anybody know w what we're talking about that? They'd have a huge tract where they were just going to burn off the undergrowth and burn off everything. It really wasn't a forest, it was just scrubs and stuff. and they'd burn that thing off and give the young plants opportunity to come up. And it was for the wildlife habitat and all of that. But inevitably, sometimes those burns would get out of control. And they'd have fire breaks and all of that, and they were had everything. They thought they had everything in control, but all it took was one little spark, jumped that fire break. Or that wind just twist a little bit and turned its direction, and brother, they got a wildfire on their hands. And uh not only is that uh not what they planned, it becomes very dangerous, becomes a very scary thing And as I was reading and studying this passage, I couldn't help but think of that, how sometimes uh life is like that. Brother, we think we got this fire under control. We've got this under control. And brother, all it takes is a little spark, a little change in the wind, and our whole plans go astray. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And by the way, dealing with sin that way. Think we got this sin under control, and I can handle this, and I can keep this, and I can keep it in my little box. Brother, God, all God has to do is send a little spark, that thing blows up, and you're in a mess. So, uh Solomon touches here, I think in this passage I read, he touches on a few areas of life that are inevitable. As hard as we try, we cannot stop them, we cannot change them. As hard as we uh as much as we plan and scheme and do everything we can There are some things in life that are inevitable. And I've got to be able to deal with it. I've got to be able to respond to it in a mature spiritual wise way or my life is going to be messed up. The first one I notice here in verse 6 and 7, I put it this way, I kind of summarize these two verses this way. The inevitability of disappointment. The inevitability of disappointment. How many people have ever been disappointed in their life? Anybody? If you didn't raise your hand, I'm disappointed right now. Look at verse 6. He says, Because to every purpose there's a time and judgment, therefore the ministry of the misery of man is great upon him. For he knoweth not that which shall be, for who can tell him when it shall be? Now it's a little wordy here a little bit, but that word misery there means displeasure, unhappiness, or disappointment And I believe what he's saying here is that, listen, you can make your plans and you can make your purposes, but we really don't know when tomorrow comes whether they're going to turn out or not And uh life consists of disappointments. It's part of life. Well, I planned it this way. Well, I thought it would be this way. Well, this is the way I planned it. Expected things to turn out and lo and behold, it didn't turn out that way at all. Anybody here ever go to a new restaurant and you heard all about it? Boy, this is going to be great, a new restaurant, this is going to be awesome. You walk in and it's terrible And you're disappointed. Now that's a meaningless disappointment, but there are disappointments in life that are that are very, very major and very, very significant. A wise man learns to accept the fact that there are disappointments in life. Did you ever hear this? The best-laid plans of mice and men often go awry. I would say a lot of times they always go awry. Things don't always work out the way we plan. Things don't always work out the way we envisioned it and the way we anticipated it. In a world of sin, disappointment is inevitable. I hate to say this, and I feel like I've been harping on this a little bit lately, but it's so prominent in our society today But we have a generation that is unable to deal with disappointment. We saw that in the last year and a half with our last election when there was a pretty significant segment of our society was disappointment pointed was disappointed on how the election turned out and brother they could not handle it And there's rioting in the streets and there's screaming and hollering and profanity, threats being made And all that was was a monstrous temper tantrum. I didn't get what I want, I'm disappointed, and I cannot deal with it. And so now we have universities with safe spots where they cannot be offended in any way. They got little coloring books to help them deal with their disappointments. I read one, believe it or not, I read one place the university had play-doh where they could go in and play with their play-doh. Next thing you're going to hear, they're going to be giving out binkies Now we laugh at that and it's silly and we're disgusted with it. But that is simply the inability to deal with inevitable disappointments in life. They're going to be there. And if we can't get to the point and say, hey, you know, this isn't really what I expected. This isn't the way I planned. This isn't what I would have wanted, but it happened. I can deal with it. I'm going to get up and go on and be somebody and make my life count for God. Or it can sit in the corner and suck my thumb and whine and get mad and yell and throw stuff. Right? And so Solomon is telling us here, in this world of sin, under the sun, we are going to have to deal with disappointments. As read in Job. Things didn't turn out for Job the way he expected, did they? I'm sure, I am confident, you read the first several passages of the first chapter of Job, you read the several First several verses. And I think Job anticipated his children growing up. He anticipated his children being somebody for God, living for the Lord. He invested time and effort and made sacrifices. He had now how he accumulated his wealth we're not told. I would imagine what the Bible says about Job, I would imagine he worked hard, he invested wisely, he was frugal and careful and he became an incredibly wealthy man. And I would expect that Job anticipated a nice end to his life and uh the kids growing up and growing And it didn't turn out that way. And because of a spiritual warfare going on that Job was, as far as we know, was unaware of. Disappointment hit them and hit them hard. If you would take your Bible, it's not that far away from our text. If you would turn over to Job chapter number 13. And he makes this statement and My father told me this years ago. He said for a big segment of his life, when I was very young, unknown to me, But this became my father's verse. And he held to this verse, and he said he saw this verse saw him through many dark days when disappointment was absolutely overwhelming. In his heart and life and mind. Job chapter 23, or I'm sorry, Job chapter 13. Did I say 23? Which what did I say? What am I talking about? I'm m Job chapter 13, thank you. I have a really good memory, it's just very short. And so I'm trying to deal with that. Job chapter 13, and I would like for us to look at verse 15. I have this underlined in my Bible. How many people agree with me? Job, no doubt, was disappointed. At this point in time, no doubt. His kids are gone, property gone, possessions gone. He handled it initially pretty well. His wife didn't so much. She struggled And he says, the Lord giveth, the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. So there's no doubt there's disappointment here. But look at verse 15. He says this. Though he slay me, Yet will I what? I'll trust him. I'll trust him. But I will maintain mine own ways before him He also shall be my salvation, for a hypocrite shall not come before me. Job no doubt experienced tremendous disappointment The plans and timing that his life was laid out before him did not work out, no doubt, the way he anticipated. And he says, yet even if he slays me, I will trust him. I might be talking to folks, and I'm sure I have over the years talked to folks whose job didn't turn out the way they anticipated Oh, I got this new job. How many times have I heard this? I got this new job. It's going to be awesome. It's going to be great. And you're into it two weeks and it's not anything like they anticipated. We have a young fellow that we've been talking to this past week out of the area here, and uh just a young man and he invested a significant amount of time and effort in finances into a little business and he was telling us this thing's going to be great, this is going to be awesome. It's really going to work out. Oh, it's going to be wonderful. We talked to him three months later and he says that whole thing was a bust Disappointment. Disappointment. A job might be a disappointment. Maybe you plan on going on a vacation. Oh, we're going to Disney World. It's going to be awesome. And you get down there and you stand in line for ninety-five hours to get on one ride. Disappointments of life Marriage. Hey, this wasn't this wasn't the way I anticipated it. This wasn't what I dreamed. This isn't what I expected. I thought things would be different. I thought it was honeymoon for 57 years. I got news for you. It's not honeymoon for 57 years. Spouse leaves. Husband's unfaithful. Wife is unfaithful. And you feel like you're losing control and everything you dreamed and everything you hoped for and everything you anticipated comes crashing down. Disappointment is overwhelming. Listen, disappointments in life are inevitable. Many, many areas that can come. Maybe in ministry. Maybe in ministry. Big plans. Oh, oh, I'm going to the ministry. Boy, it's going to be something. I got all these plans. I got all this vision. And by the way, vision is good. I want somebody coming to the ministry. We talked to the uh young evangelist here yesterday. And uh I want to see these guys have vision of what God can do. I want to have dreams and hopes and plans, but listen, they don't always play out the way we expected. I had years ago, the wife of a preacher said uh uh told my wife and told us, she says, Oh, my husband loves the ministry, he just can't stand people. And I I say this often, that really gets under my skin, to be honest with you, because the ministry is people. And if you don't love people, then you don't love the ministry. Don't fool yourself. And whenever you give yourself, whether it's teaching a Sunday school class or running a bus route or you're investing in a in some sort of ministry and you give yourself to it You might as well plan on it now. There's going to be disappointments come along with that. In fact, anytime you're dealing with people, there's going to be disappointments So ministry, oh I got these big plans. I got all this. I had I had preached, this was years ago, I had preached at a little conference up in Erie PA Uh this was probably ten years ago. He asked me to come up and they were having a little sword conference. He asked me to preach. And uh met a bunch of new preachers I didn't know up in the New York area and some were over from Ohio and A lot of guys I had never met, I didn't know them at all, and we became friends and uh one fellow kind of stayed in contact with me. About a half a year later, I was in the office, he called up one day, and he said, Pastor Leatherman, can I talk to you? I said, Sure And uh he says, I am quitting. I said, what do you mean? He goes, I'm working with these folks, I can't accomplish anything. And he made this statement. He said, it's been one disappointment after another. I'm quitting. And my advice to him was this: the biggest mistake you'll ever make is to quit. If you're quitting because of disappointments, then all you're ever going to do your whole life is quit. Because it's going to be there's constantly there. They are inevitable And you've got to be able to deal with them, and you've got to be able to overcome them, and you've got to be able to understand that even if the Lord slays you, if all your dreams are shattered, you still trust God and you maintain your course before Him. And you stay at it. Disappointments, disappointments. We must be able to accept inevitable disappointments in life. In fact, Job here, I think, he tells us how To deal with disappointments. I think he gives us three things here. Notice in verse number 15 of Job 13. He says, Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. I wrote in the margin of my Bible there, surrender. Surrender. A man's uh what's the what's the verse? A man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. And listen, what I need to do is make those plans and have that vision and pursue those dreams and pursue those goals and get after it. But when disappointment comes, understand God allowed this into my life. God, in his wisdom and his providence and his love for me, allowed me to experience this disappointment. And I'm going to submit to him, I'm going to worship him, and understand he has that authority to do that to me And I'm going to trust him through this, and I'm not going to let a disappointment that is inevitable derail my life and get me out of God's will and shatter my faith I'm going to press on. I'm going to press on. So Job tells us, number one, when disappointment comes, we need to surrender to the Lord. Number two, I notice here he instructs us to be steadfast. Look at the last part of verse 15. But I will maintain mine own ways before him. Let me come back to being in the ministry because that's what I relate to so well, but it would apply across the board in any number of situations. If I'm going to quit because of disappointment, like I said, my whole life is going to be consist of quitting. I'll never get anywhere. I don't know about you, but I appreciate Dr. Don Williams. He's been a good friend. And I'll tell you, to me anyway, he has been a testimony of steadfastness. For all these years, he's just stayed focused on what God had called him to do. He just stayed focused on the message God gave him to proclaim. And he stayed at it, and he stayed at it and he stayed at it I don't believe for one minute. In fact, I know it's not true, not for one minute, do I believe that he never had any disappointments in his ministry? I know he had. But he maintained his course. He remained steadfast. He didn't quit. Listen, oh, this marriage isn't what I thought it was. I'm out of here. I'm out of here. I quit. And you know why people jump from spouse to spouse to marriage to marriage to marriage to marriage to marriage? Because it isn't what they thought it was, it isn't what they planned on, so they bail out on that one, go to another one Now listen, I I'm not trying to open any wounds here or anything. I'm simply saying disappointments are inevitable. Are you with me? Are you a follow what he's saying? And so Solomon is telling us here the inevitability of disappointment. I put this verse down. Mark quoted it here just a minute ago. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart And what? Lean not into thine own understanding. I don't understand. This isn't what I planned. Don't lean on your own understanding. You trust the Lord. All I ways acknowledge him. And he'll what? Direct your past. Bill disappointment here? Listen, God, you allowed that. I acknowledge it, Lord. You allowed that. I'm going to trust you all my heart. I'm not going to lean on how I assess this situation I'm going to let you lead me and direct me. Number two, put this down. I'm not going to get through all this, but let me give you one more. Maybe we'll come back and look at this a little more in depth next week, next time. The inevitability of death. We have the inevitability of disappointments, verse 6 and 7. Look at the inevitability of death. Come back here to Ecclesiastes and notice what he says here in verse number 8. There is no man that hath power over the Spirit to retain the Spirit. What happens at death? The body, without the spirit, is what? Dead. Here's our problem. We think that we are the body We think that this physical body is me. The fact of the matter is, this physical body is not me. I indwell this physical body. I inhabit. I am a spiritual being. I am a soul. And this is a physical body. And so, because we get the idea that I am this body, and my spirit is something other than me I gotta retain this spirit. I've got to somehow keep this spirit in me so I don't die. And he's saying, listen, you can't do that. You've got that all messed up. Death is inevitable. At some time, because of sin entered the world, this body is going to wear out, it's going to die. It's going to be hit by a truck, a plane's going to land on it, something I don't know. I just thought of that. You never know. And we can't retain the spirit. We can't keep that from happening. Look what he says. He goes on, neither hath he power in the day of death. And he makes this interesting statement here. I thought this was a creative way of saying it. There is no discharge in that war. It's I I guess nowadays it's easier than it used to be, but you can sign up for the military and you can get out of it. You can't get out of debt. There's no discharge in that. You're facing it. I'm facing it. It is inevitable. Hebrews 9. 27 says, it is appointed unto man once to die. And after this, the judgment, that word appointed there, has this idea, reserved for a specific time and place. And God in his wisdom, and God in his sovereignty, and God in his providence has appointed, scheduled, a time and place where my time here is over. I can't change that. Now, we can uh there is, let me let me modify that a little bit. We can, James suggests to us it's possible for a person to live in sin and disobey God And make that life a little shorter. There is a sin unto death. I think it's possible to be to cut that appointment short with my sin. And sometimes God in His grace and mercy will extend it. Read Hezekiah God gave them 15 years. But there's a time and place scheduled for us, and we cannot change that. We cannot get out of that We cannot get out of it. There's no discharge in that war. Here's the s here's the tragedy, and I I say this often at funerals. Here's the tragedy. We buy insurance on our houses We buy insurance on our houses because we know they're going to burn down. Right or wrong? No. I buy insurance on my house not because I know it's going to burn down. I buy my in sh I buy insurance on my house in case It burns down. Hopefully it won't. I'm going to do everything I can to keep that from happening. But it's a possibility. Therefore, I want to make sure I'm covered just in case that takes place. Right? We buy insurance on our cars because we know we're going to get in a wreck. Now there's some people I know they're going to, it's inevitable, isn't it Well we don't buy them because we know we're going to get an erect. We buy them in case we get an erect so that we're covered. Now here's the crazy thing We know we're going to die. It's not in case. It's not maybe. Well, I'll get saved in case I die. No, no, no. We know that's a fact. It's inevitable. Now there's one exception there if the rapture takes place. Right? That's only going to be one generation in God's time. And so Solomon is telling us, listen, you can't get out of us. You can't retain your spirit. You can't get discharged from that war, from that event. It's inevitable. You better be prepared. How foolish it is. How foolish it is. To know it's going to happen. We're going to go out into an eternity. We're going to be in either heaven or hell for all eternity. And to do nothing about that, and to ignore that, and to neglect that Is insane. Right or wrong. It's insane. And so I'm going to end there If you're here by chance, you say, well, I'm a church member. I don't care if you're the Pope. Right? Especially if you're the Pope. Doesn't matter if you're a church member now. You might be a Sunday school teacher. You might even be a deacon. You might be a preacher. But if you don't have assurance, if you don't know for sure that your sins are given, you're prepared to go out into eternity and stand before a holy God, if you're not prepared for that, you die in your sins. What a tragedy that would be knowing that that day was coming, knowing it was, and do nothing to prepare for it. Uh Kimberly is a blessing to me. And she said 100% participation outreaching the laws. That stirred my heart. And you know, how realistic could that be? I think it's very possible That we could have 100% participation. But think with me for a moment. I want to bring it home to us. There are around us tens of thousands of people within a one-hour driving distance. that are going to die. Some of them this week. How many of them know Christ as Savior? How many of them ever had anybody come and sit down with them, maybe at a meal or knock on their door or whatever, invite them to a church and take a Bible and show them from the Bible how they can know for sure that their sins are forgiven, that they have a new life, eternal life, and a home in heaven. How many of them have ever had anybody come by? Now I'm I'm not I don't I can't answer for other churches. I'm we're responsible for ourselves. And what are we doing? What type of effort are we doing? I guarantee you, I know the folks here well enough, I know every one of us here well enough, I believe, that if we were next if we if I came out here, next door neighbor's house was on fire Every one of us would do everything we could to get them out of there. One way or another, we'd do something, right? I'm telling you, all around us are folks. They're on fire, so to speak. And it's inevitable they're not getting out of it. And it behooves us to be diligent and earnest. Fanatical about getting the gospel to unsaved folk. Amen? Some things are inevitable. We're going to be disappointed. We're going to face that. Better be sure we're saved. Better be living for the Lord, we please him when we stand before him as a Christian, and we ought to be doing all we can to try and reach others Evangelists came in and they said, oh, what a missions-minded church. I was glad to hear that. That encouraged me. They saw it. You know why that is? Because it's appointed unto man once to die. After this the judgment. That's our motive. That's our stirring. Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray you'd take these thoughts. Pray you'd stir us and challenge us and help us this coming week to live in faith and trust you. And Lord, whatever comes our way, whatever disappointments. Knock on our door and we face this coming week. Help us, Lord, just to trust you and understand you've allowed it, learn from it, adjust to it, have faith in you, and stay steadfast and go forward. And Lord, as we meet folks and as we consider our own spiritual condition, I pray you'd help us keep in mind this inevitability of going out into eternity. We're not wanting to morbid about it But we do want to take it very seriously. And so help us, Lord. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many will say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I am But there's some areas in my life, and I uh I'm not concerned about going to hell. Christ has saved me, but I am a little concerned about standing before the Lord as a Christian. There are some things there in my life that really need attention, need adjustments. How many people would say, preacher, pray with me? That's true. That's true. I understand that. Any like that, preacher, there are. And I don't want to be ashamed of his coming. I'd like to hear him say, well done. Well done. I wonder if there's some here say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. But my involvement in reaching others with the gospel is not what it ought to be. I need a little more urgency in my witness. A little more urgency in my soul winning, my reaching others for Christ. How many would join me and say, Preacher, that's a burden on my heart, that concern on my heart? God bless you, hands all around. One more. How about it? You know you're saved. You know for sure that God has forgiven your sins. You've been born again. You have new life. You have eternal life. I tell you, God, God wants you to know that. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. I don't want to play games with my eternal soul. I want to make sure things are settled. Any at all? Any at all? Now, Father, bless our invitation time now. As we finish out the Lord's day, help us, Lord. To be fully yielded to you and trusting you in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer is playing the invitation