From Hebrews chapter number twelve also. Hebrews chapter number twelve. I'll read from Hebrews first, and then we're going to end up in Ephesians here in a little bit. Of course our time is a little shortened and all our veterans and your families, we really hope you'll stay after. We have a great meal prep planned for you after over in the activity center, so please be sure and stay. And uh we want you to enjoy that. Uh let you know again how much we appreciate you. Hebrews chapter 12 Verse 1 and 2 says, Wherefore, seeing ye we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight. And the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. If you will, you keep your place there and just mark that. And Ephesians chapter 6, just a couple verses I want to reread what Pastor Matt read before. He says, verse 10, finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might. Then he goes on, he says this. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness of this world against spiritual wickedness in high places. And he goes on and repeats himself, take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may able that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day And having done all to stand. I want to speak this morning on Achilles' heel. Achilles' heel. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father in heaven. We're so grateful for the men and women, as we've said over and over and over in the last uh hour or so, for the men and women who have served our country and gave of themselves, some for a few years, some for uh almost a lifetime. We're grateful for all of them. And I pray now as we consider our role in the spiritual war we find ourselves in, soldiers of the cross. I pray that you would stir us, instruct us, and Lord, help us this morning. I yield my will and my mind to you. I pray you'd guide my thinking as I speak, guide my words, only what you once said, Lord. I present my body anew that your Holy Spirit can, I pray you would, fill me, and that you would speak your word through me, our hearts and minds. Help us to be receptive. I pray good decisions made. You'd help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. So anybody here familiar with this mythological character Achilles. Anybody familiar at all with him? Of course the Greeks had quite a complex uh belief system in these uh in these myths that they had Of course they weren't true. They weren't actual individuals. But they had all these different characters And Achilles, according to Greek mythology, was one of the greatest warriors of all their gods, of all their characters. Achilles was one of the greatest warriors He was a soldier soldier. He was told, we're told that they told it this way, that he was strong, he was handsome, he was intelligent, and he was brave. Now the story goes on. Of course, this is just myth. But the story goes on. It's a little complicated. I'll just. summarize it, but when he was a small child, his mother wanted him to be a great, great warrior, a great soldier. And so she took him and held him by his heel, and she dipped him in the river sticks. Now again, it's uh elaborate in stories they have. And in so doing, it it made Achilles a powerful, powerful soldier. Strengthened him, gave him courage. And she dipped them completely in, but she was holding them by his heel, and his heel did not get into the waters of the river Six. And bowed him out. He was a great warrior, won many battles according to their myth, brave, as I said, handsome, strong. But he had a heel that was vulnerable. The story goes that one battle, somebody shot an arrow And it caught him right the back of his heel, where his mother was holding him, the one place where he was vulnerable, the one place That they could take them down. Of course, we know today is the Achilles tendon. And when that arrow hit, according to legend and myth, it cut that Achilles tendon. And made him uh rendered him useless. Couldn't walk, couldn't fight. It took him down. Brought down By an arrow to the one place on his body that was vulnerable. Today we use that term, Achilles' heel, to represent areas that we are susceptible in. We use the term Achilles heel to refer to areas that we are vulnerable in. Sometimes a military will have on their on their army as they go into battle, they'll have certain areas that aren't as strong as others, certain areas where they're weak, and that would be their Achilles heel. Some people have areas in their life where they are susceptible in. It's the Achilles heel. Now, what I want to suggest to you this morning is this. All people have an Achilles heel. All of us have areas in our life. That we are vulnerable in. Areas in our life that would be considered a weakness in our life. All people have this. Some are more obvious than others Some of us are Achilles' heel is very obvious. That's his weakness. You can see it. Others, it's not as obvious as as uh as some of these. By the way, even Christians Having Achilles healed. I read from Hebrews chapter 12, and there we were instructed, and we'll look at it a little bit here in a bit. look at it a little more, but we are told there in Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 1 that we are to lay aside every weight. Now listen to this next phrase and the sin Touch on this a little more singular sin which doth so easily beset us I think what we're being told in Hebrews 12, verse 1, is that all of us have some sin that we're susceptible to. That besets us. You may be a longtime Christian. You may have been a Christian for many years, many decades. But I know this: you have an area of vulnerability. You may be a Sunday school teacher. We had a team of folks out in Milford, Ohio this week taking some training for our youth ministries, and over the years that has been tremendously helpful. You may be a seasoned Sunday school teacher, but I'm here to tell you you have an Achilles heel somewhere. There's some part of your life, some part of your personality, maybe, some part of your spiritual life that you're vulnerable in. A besetting sin. You may be a great bus worker. You may fill the bus up and work hard. You may be a deacon of a good Baptist church. You may be a choir member for a long time You may be a missionary on a foreign mission field. You may be the pastor of a good, strong church. But all of us have that Achilles heel. That one area where we're weak on. Some of the greatest men and women of God, all through Scripture, if we study their life carefully, we'll see they had areas of weaknesses. And you could study in depth this uh this would be a fascinating study, I think. But Abraham had an Achilles heel, the great man of faith, the father of the faithful, the father of Israel And an Achilles heel. If I study his life, I think his one besetting sin, his Achilles heel, was his matter of fear. You'll remember, God called him out of Ur the Chaldees, and he came to the promised land, the land that God had promised him, Canaan, and when he got there, there was a drought. And Abraham became afraid. How am I going to feed my family? How are we going to survive in this drought? And so he fled to Egypt, afraid. God called him there. God promised he'd take care of him, but he became afraid. He got down to Egypt. He had a beautiful wife, Sarah, and got down to Egypt and he became afraid That the Pharaoh and the leaders of Egypt would want his wife and kill him to take his wife. And so he lied about her and said she was his wife? Sister. She was his half-sister But I think Abraham had an area of vulnerability. Now, the amazing thing is he's known for his faith, his great faith in God. But yet he had that Achilles heel. I think about Moses. Great leader. In my estimation, Moses was the, humanly speaking, the greatest leader that ever walked the planet Earth, except of course for the Lord Jesus Christ. Powerful leader, used of God in tremendous ways. Abraham had an Achilles heel. He had anger. And over and over and over, we would find him get hit in that area, and he would explode. In fact, his anger cost him The entrance into the promised land is Achilles' heel. Fear, anger. We think of Samson. And then with Samson, I would include David and Solomon They had vulnerability. They had a besetting sin. They had an Achilles heel. And for those three men, it was women. Every single one of those men were taken down by women. Now, David, of course, great man of God, and he dealt with it scripturally, and that's a whole nother subject. But that was their vulnerability Samson loved women. Solomon loved many women. They brought them down. An area of vulnerability, an Achilles heel. For these great, great men, I think the great Apostle Paul had an Achilles heel. I think he had an area of vulnerability, an area A besetting sin that he he was susceptible to give into. 2 Corinthians chapter 12. Again, we don't have time to look at all of these. But Paul said that there was given to him a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, lest He should be exalted above measure. You know what I think Paul struggled with? Pride. Pride. And God sent that pain, that thorn in the flesh, to help him overcome that Achilles heel of pride. Anger, fear, lust of the flesh, pride. We could go through just about every great man Great woman in scripture, mentioned in scripture, and we would find every single one of them had an Achilles heel, had a besetting sin. I work with folks, of course, been in the ministry coming up 40 years now. This coming summer will be 40 years. I worked with a lot of people who were saved, no doubt in my mind, that they knew Christ as Savior, but they were defeated in their Christian walk and didn't have the joy of the Lord. They didn't have the presence and power of God upon their life as God intends for us to have. I found that those that are defeated, often there'll be await. Or there'll be that besetting sin that brings them down. Saved, folks that are saved, but they're defeated in their Christian life, or they're discouraged with their Christian service Oh, maybe they're not even involved in serving God in any way. Oh, they know the Lord. They've accepted Jesus Christ their personal Savior. They're born again. They have eternal life, secure in Christ. But they're doing little or nothing for God. And they get to the end of their life, I don't know how many funerals I've done or been by the bedside of someone about to go out in eternity, and they'd say something like this to me, Old Preacher I wish I'd have done more for Christ. I wished I'd have served him with my life. Thinking of a man, and I mention him off and on throughout the years, but we were in Indianapolis. very dignified older man. He was probably about my age at the time, what I am now, maybe a little older. One Sunday night, the preacher preached, I don't remember what he preached, I was on staff And this dear fellow, a very dignified, wealthy man, businessman, he knelt at the altar, and he was sobbing. I mean, sobbing at the altar. Out of character, I went over, I knelt beside him, I said, brother, can I pray with you? Is there something I can pray with you? And he said, I've wasted my life. He said, God called me to preach when I was a teenage boy, and I said, no. And I said, I went into business, I was very successful. So I have a beautiful home, drive a fancy car, big bank account. I failed. I failed. Discouraged in life discouraged in his Christian service because he never got involved, never served the Lord. Others maybe are trying to serve God and they don't see any of any effects and they had no power of God upon their lives I want to suggest to you that it may be because that Achilles heel, that one area that Satan was able to get to and bring them down, I think there are three biblical necessities that we need to understand. I'm going to give you three words. I'm going to encourage you to jot these down. I only have a few minutes, so I can't spend as much time on them as I would like. I'd like to spend about an hour on each of them, but I won't ed. And so um But if we want to have a victorious Christian life, if we want to be happy in the Lord, if we want to be confident in our faith, if we want to be effective in our service, I think we need to understand These three areas, particularly concerning this Achilles heel, these besetting sins, this areas that we all have of vulnerability. Number one, write this word down, be aware. Be aware. The book of Proverbs is one of my favorite books. I read a chapter every day. This morning I read Proverbs 10. I highly recommend that. And in the book of Proverbs, the word knowledge, which means to have information of, have the facts of, be aware. Of this information. That word knowledge is used over 42 times throughout the book of Proverbs. God's telling us that a wise man is aware of the facts, is aware, has some information, some knowledge, a wise man does. The word understanding is used well over 54 times throughout the book of Proverbs. The word understanding simply means to understand the significance Of those facts. I have this knowledge. I have all these facts. Did you ever know anybody that was had tremendous bank of useless knowledge? And all kinds of facts. But they didn't have much understanding. And 54 times, well over 54 times, Proverbs tells us that we should not just have knowledge of facts, of reality, of truth. But we need to understand the significance of it and how important it is and how to use that truth, that information, how to respond to it. Fourteen times at least, probably much more, the word simple is used, speaking of a simple man. A simple person. The word simple there, as used in that context, simply means this: foolish ignorance. Foolish ignorance. In other words, this person is living a foolish life. They say foolish stuff. They behave in a foolish way They make foolish decisions, not because they're rebellious against God, not because they have a hard heart, not because they have a stiff neck, but simply because they are ignorant of the realities of life. They do not understand what life is about. They are not aware of the wor of of uh what the situation is I believe it's doubtful that there's anything more important for you and I than to be aware of the spiritual realities around us. The world mocks the idea of spiritualities, the idea of God and the devil and heaven and hell, angels and devils. The world mocks that idea Hollywood and entertainment industry distorts what all these things are. If you notice, I'll be honest with you, I have little or no time for Hollywood. I have zero respect for that industry and that form of entertainment. I have zero respect. All that represents And I'm not encouraging to do this, but if you watch their stuff, I want you to urge you to pay attention to how they portray spiritual truths. And without exception, it's distorted. Without exception, it's perverted. Good is always portrayed as evil, and evil is always portrayed as good. Devils are heroes. The people of God are the enemies, almost without exception. And what I'm trying to say is this: we ought to be aware of the fact that there is a spiritual reality that you and I live in. That many people are ignorant of, the world mocks it, Hollywood ridicules it, the scientific world denies it. But nevertheless, it is as real as you and I sitting here. And I know I've touched on this a number of times in recent months, but I'm here to tell you What we see and what we hear and what we feel is there's a whole lot more to life than simply the material realities we see around us. There is a spiritual realm that is just as real as the physical realm. The world mocks that. And if you and I are going to be victorious in our Christian life, or you and I are going to be successful in life as God defines success. We need to be aware of the fact that we live in a spiritual realm. There are spiritual realities. To reject or neglect spiritual realities is foolish and dangerous. I'm speaking to believers now with this statement. We need to be aware, number one, of our warfare. We need to be aware of the warfare. Ephesians chapter 6. Verse eleven and thirteen. I read it a few moments ago. We're told that we are to uh put on uh the armor. We wrestle not against uh verse twelve there in Ephesians six, we wrestle not against flesh and blood. It's not a physical battle that you and I as Christians are engaged in, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. You hear a lot about the war going on in Gaza. And I pray for Israel. And I don't apologize one moment to say I'm praying Israel is victorious in that war. I'm praying God to protect His people. And we hear a lot about the war in Gaza. We hear a lot about Israel's enemies. And that is very real. That's going on as we speak. We hear about the war in Ukraine and about all that that involves and goes on. And that war, as we speak this morning, that war is very, very real. But you know what we don't hear about? You hear, we hear little or nothing about a spiritual warfare going on that is just as real as the war in Gaza and just as real as the war in Ukraine. It's a war between God and the devil. It's a war between heaven and hell. It's a war between the angels and the devils. And this whole world has influenced even the Church of Jesus Christ, even the people of God. has influenced us where that concept of a spiritual warfare going on around us is just pushed aside. We don't give it any thought. We don't pay any attention to it and we and we do so to our peril I don't want to get sensational and I don't want to try and be spectacular or anything, but there is no doubt in my mind that I'm talking to a heap of people this morning that the devils of hell are fighting for your soul. And the angels of God are fighting on your behalf. If I'm talking to somebody here this morning, you're unsaved. I'm telling you there is a battle for your soul, for you to end up in hell, just as real as the war going on in Ukraine, just as real as the bombs dropping in Gaza Just as real as any war that's ever been fought, there's a fight for your soul to keep you out of heaven and it get you to end up in hell. No doubt about it And we can ignore it and the world can mock it, and we can neglect that truth, we can be simple concerning that reality, but the fact remains it is just as real as anything you and I facing. And if we ignore that, if we deny that, if we're going to be simple about that, and we die in our sins, we'll find out awfully quick that that was a very, very real. Battle. Years ago the uh I think it was the Russians, the cosmonauts, they sent some men up into outer space, so just early years of s of exploration and leaving the planet, getting up in the orbits and all of that. One of those hardened atheists, Soviet atheists, looked out the window of their little, what was that ship called? Sputnik They looked out the window of that little thing and they said, well, we see stars and we see galaxies, but we don't see no God Somebody said, open that door, you'll see them awfully quick. Listen, you say, well I don't see none of that going on, just because you don't see it doesn't mean it's not real. It's a whole heap of stuff that's real that you and I don't see. And we must be aware of the fact that there is a spiritual warfare for the souls of men. for the souls of women, for the souls of these boys and girls all around the world. A warfare. Just as real as the battle in Gaza, just as real as the war in Ukraine To deny or ignore this war on the behalf on behalf of the unsaved means you're doomed. You're doomed. You don't face the reality of a heaven and hell. You don't face the reality that you have a soul That needs to be saved and forgiven of its sins through the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you don't face that reality, if you don't become aware of that, I'm telling you, you're doomed. You're doomed. I appreciate there's God's been moving lately in some homes and some hearts of of folks. I've been getting calls the last several months, people saying, preacher. Um uh had not recent uh just recently someone called and said, Preacher, I'm concerned about my salvation. About where I spend eternity, how to be forgiven of my sins. You know what that? They're becoming aware of some spiritual realities. I knock on doors every day. I was out yesterday knocking on doors, talk to folks, introduce them, invite them to church, and I always ask this, uh I always ask this, do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven. I get all kinds of answers, and usually it's I hope so, I think so. Sometimes folks will say, Oh, I don't even worry about that, I don't even think about that. I don't say that to them, but I I think this, how foolish How foolish. When people become aware of the fact that I have a soul, there is a God, and there is a devil, and there is a heaven, there is a hell. I'm going to spend eternities. When people become aware of that, I found then there's hope for their salvation So to ignore that or reject or ignore that for the unsaved means to be tuned. But to eject or ignore that for the believer means disaster. I think whenever you and I fail to realize the spiritual reality that we live in, we begin to get defeated. And we become vulnerable to Aries. So, number one, we need to be aware of our warfare. Number two, we need to be aware of our weakness This is what we're talking about here. I'm talking to believers now. Uh in Hebrews twelve one he says, Lay aside every weight Weight. Now, what is a weight? What does he mean by weight? A weight is something that's not necessarily sin in and of itself. It's not necessarily something that's wicked or forbidden of God. A weight is something that in and of itself is good. It's fine. There's nothing wrong with it. But I allow it to take over the areas that are most important. You follow what I'm saying? Um uh away it could be anything and uh for sake of time I'll just Give a list of things. It could be a hobby. Something wrong with having a hobby. I have some hobbies. But when that hobby becomes more important to me than my relationship with God as a Christian, then it becomes a weight. Follow what I'm saying? It could be a hobby. It could be a possession, a vehicle, or a property, or a building. And best all my time and all my attention and all my resources go into something that in and of itself, there's nothing wrong with it. It's not sinful in and of itself, but it replaces my walk with God. It overshadows My obedience to the Lord, it becomes a we've properties or possessions, hobbies. Could be a person. Thank God for relationships, the best friends that I have in the whole world. Our people in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, hands down. The dearest people, my family, my church are so dear to me. But anytime my wife replaces my God, then I ha it becomes await. If the church folk become more important to me Then my relationship with the church folk become more important to me than my relationship with the Lord. They become a weight. Do you follow what I'm saying? And he says, lay that aside. You need to be aware. Of our weaknesses. He says, lay aside those weights. Then he says this, and the sin which does so easily beset us, that's the Achilles heel. That one area, we need to be aware of this. That one area where you and I as Christians are vulnerable to the devil's attack. That one area where we're weak in. We need to be aware of that. I think now we ought to study the Bible, we ought to study the Lord, we ought to study all these spiritual truths. Absolutely. But I think we ought to study ourselves a little bit. I think we ought to stop and do some self-evaluation and find out where are my weaknesses, what is my besetting sin? What is my Achilles heel? I'd venture to say there's a heap of people right now, under the sound of my voice, and you're thinking of some area in your life, and you say that's my weakness. That's my vulnerability. That's my Achilles heel. We all have it. We all have it. And we ought to be aware of it. To be ignorant Of my besetting sin, to be ignorant of my Achilles heel is to set myself up for defeat. I need to be aware of that. I need to know my weaknesses. I need to know my Achilles heel. I need to know my besetting sin. In Proverbs chapter 23, verse 2. Again, we don't have time. But Solomon says makes this statement. He says, if you're eating a meal, I'm putting my own words here. He says, if you're eating a meal with a ruler, a leader, a king, or somebody like that. And he says, put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man given to appetite. In other words, what he's saying is if you know that your weakness is your appetite You need to be very, very careful to keep that under control. You need to be very, very careful. Don't let that appetite control you, particularly in the presence of a ruler. I think what he's saying there, one of the truths we take from that is we ought to know what our weaknesses are. If it's appetite, then we ought to do what we need to do to keep that under control. If it's dishonesty, if that's my besetting sin, I just find myself lying, I find myself being dishonest I need to be aware of that. That that is a weakness of mine. That is a flaw in my character. That is my Achilles' heel. And then I need to put a knife to that to make sure that that does not take me down. You follow with me? Everybody, I don't I don't know if you're following with me here or not. Uh dishonesty, maybe uh maybe stealing. I'm just picking out some general things And just for whatever uh moment, uh maybe a kleptomaniac, just for whatever reason I find I steal stuff and uh and um that's the thing with kleptomaniacs, they always take things literally. I don't tell them any jokes, they take things literally, but But the point is, and I joked there a little bit, and this isn't a joking matter really. Every one of us have an area where we're vulnerable in. And if you don't know what your besetting sin is, if you don't know what your Achilles heel is, you better figure it out quick, because I'm telling you, the devil knows it. The devil knows your weakness, the devil knows my weakness. And that's where he's going to attack us. And that gives me my second word. I'm going to have to quick uh hasten this up a little bit. That's be alert. Number one, be aware. Be aware, I'm in a spiritual warfare. There's a lot at stake. Heaven or hell, if I'm unsafe, as a believer, my testimony, my life, as it counts before the Lord, I need to be aware of that warfare. I need to be aware of what my weakness is, where my Achilles heel is. Number two. I need to be alert. Satan is very good at what he does. Ephesians 6, verse 11 references the wiles of the devil. And I want to reiterate here and now, the devil is just as real as any person you know. He is a literal, actual being. That goes to and fro on the face of the earth, seeking whom he may devour. And where he attacks is our Achilles' heel. Where he hits us is where we're weak. Satan is very good at what he does, and we need to be alert to his wiles, his tactics. 2 Corinthians 2. 11 says that Satan can get the advantage of us if we are ignorant of his devices. The word devices means tactics or schemes. His strategies. Somebody asked me one time years ago, and some just recently we were talking about this with somebody. They said, What is Satan's will for my life? What's Satan's will for my life? I don't think Satan has a will for your life other than not doing the will of God. Well Satan wants everybody to be a devil worshiper. Not necessarily. You might be the the mayor of a city, and yet be out of the will of God, and Satan gets the victory. And he's very w he's very good at what he does. And he's very deceitful and he's very tricky. And his strategies and his tactics are very deceptive. And we better be alert to the fact that Satan is out to take me down and take you down. A primary tactic of the devil, he has several, but primary tactic is to hit you and I in our weakness. To hit you and I in our vulnerabilities. To hit you and I in our Achilles heel. What is your besetting sin? Do you know what it is? Do you know what your Achilles heel is, your vulnerability, your weaknesses in your life? Do you know what it is? I guarantee you, the devil knows what it is. And that's where he's going to hit you. That's where he's going to hit you. Now, Jesus did not have an Achilles heel. Jesus did not have a besetting sin. But when Jesus was tempted of the devil, the devil betrayed his tactic in when he approached Jesus. Jesus had fasted for 40 days. I think we referenced this recently. He fasted for 40 days. When a person fasts 40 days, they're generally, at the end of those 40 days, they're generally what? Hungry. Jesus comes out of the wilderness fast 40 days. Satan approaches him. He uses his his tactic he's been using throughout history. And he tempted Jesus, not with gold, not with silver, not with possessions. He said, take these stones. You're God, you're the Son of God. Sabel knew that. Turn these stones, he didn't say into gold, he didn't say into chariots, he didn't say into fancy jewelry, He said, turn these stones into what? You know why he said that? Because he knew humanly Jesus was hungry. Satan knows where you're hungry. He knows where your besetting sin is. He knows what your Achilles heel is. You better figure it out if you don't have it. You better figure out what your weakness is. Where your vulnerability is, because I guarantee you, I double guarantee you the devil knows what it is. The devil knows what it is. Number one, be aware You have a weakness and we're in a spiritual warfare. Number two, be alert. Satan's tactic is to hit you and I where our weakness is. I know what mine is. I'm telling you, I know what it is We ought to know what it what it is. And then last of all, I am with this. We need to be armed. We need to be armed. Ephesians 6. 11. Put on the whole armor of God. Verse 13, he repeats it again: put on the whole armor of God. Every believer is engaged in this warfare. Say, Preacher, I'm just a saved housewife. I'm just a Uh I'm a senior, so I'm retired. I'm not involved in no warfare. I'm telling you, you are involved in this spiritual warfare, whether you like it or not, whether you know it or not The little children are in this warfare. Teenagers are in this warfare. Moms and dads, grandma and grandpa. Every believer is engaged in this warfare. Every believer is a soldier in the army of our God, whether we know it or like it or not. Preachers are involved in this. How many people know preachers are in a spiritual warfare? Let me testify firsthand. I found out awfully quick. When that title, Pastor, was put on my name, brother. The war really became evident, at least for me, my wife and I. Preachers are in this warfare, Sunday school teachers Hey, you're in a spiritual warfare. It's not just you up there and showing a little flannel graph of uh of the Good Samaritan and all that. I'm telling you, it's a battle for the souls of those students underneath you It's a battle for you having the power of God to influence people. It's very real. Very real. We need to be armed. Uh choir members, nursery workers, bus workers, moms, dads, teens, children. We need to be armed. We need to be armed. Again, I I I gotta quit I wish you'd take some time and study Ephesians chapter 6 as he goes down these different pieces of armor, the belt of truth. Hey, you wanna have victory in your Christian life? Tell the truth. Belt of truth. Have some integrity. This world, the devil's a liar, this world lies, the media lies, the business world lies, the religious world lies. God's people need to be honest, or we'll be taken out. Uh, the breastplate of righteousness, do right! All the time, do right. If the stars fall, do right. Shoes of the gospel Win souls. About Lake Independent Baptist Church, we've got to win souls. If we don't take the gospel, if we don't apply ourselves, give every effort we have to winning the loss to Christ here and around the world. If we don't do that, we are sitting ducks for the devil. You look at churches and denominations, when they quit reaching the loss, that's when they started going downhill. Wind souls. Shield of faith. Trust God. The helmet of salvation. Have assurance of your salvation. Don't tolerate doubts. And then the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Know what this book says, understand what it means, and then live what it instructs us to live. We're in a spiritual warfare. It's very real. It's very real. God's given us everything we need to overcome the world, the flesh, and the devil. It's up to us to trust Him, to arm ourselves. And get the victory. Father, I ask you to bless now as kind of rush through this, Lord, but I pray you'd use these thoughts. And I ask that you would help every teenager that's here in the auditorium, every mom and dad. All of us senior citizens, God help us to take this very, very seriously. Help us to be aware of what our weaknesses are in this war warfare. Help us to be alert to how Satan will try and take us out And Lord, help us to arm ourselves and walk with you and serve you in Jesus' name. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I know my Achilles heel? And I need to be sure and shore that thing up and not ignore it. Anybody like this here? I know what it is. I know what it is. If you don't know what it is, I urge you, get on your knees before God and say, God, show it to me. Help me see that. And then take the actions necessary to guard that, to shield that, put that armor on. I wonder if there's some that say, preacher, Uh uh some of these armor things, truth, righteousness, winning souls. I I see I'm deficient in some of those. I see there's some things there I need to put on. Any like that? Any like that? Honesty, integrity Doing right all around. God bless you. Let me ask this question now. There's someone here who said, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. You say, I don't want to go to hell. Believe me, you don't want to go to hell. I'm telling you, it is as real as the pew that you're sitting on, the platform I'm standing on. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I've got to get this settled. I've got to know that God has forgiven my sins. I have a home in heaven. I go to heaven, not to hell. Journey like that, preacher, pray for me God will help me settle that. Any bless you. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed.