First Corinthians uh I do know what time sermon. I think the testimonies themselves were somewhat of a sermon. I'm just gonna stay on this mic, Dan, tonight. First Corinthians chapter uh 16 is where we're turning. I really appreciate what the Lord has done even in the last few minutes here tonight. 1 Corinthians is where we're turning. Uh we've had a good day, Sunday school, morning service. I got a meal in. I try to do that several times a day, you know. And um got a little soul winning in. I enjoyed uh that Um had time with choir now this evening service. Looking forward to the sword conference. Appreciate that Evan would baptize day so many good things. I did take notes a little bit on the testimonies. We're going to get to 1 Corinthians. I'm not going to preach long. You know I'm not a long-winded preacher Uh 1 Corinthians chapter 16. Though I want to say this, I didn't come tonight to get out, I came to get in, okay? Amen. I did take a little notes along the way with the testimonies Um, I put it in my own words, but I did take note that a lot of you notice the preacher's energy. He does put his heart into things, does he not? And then um about how diligent he is. He does try to get all the details done. He's thorough in that, and I appreciate that. And then I made note about how many people mentioned his compassion When you had a surgery, he was there. And uh how um uh he did not have destructive criticism when uh one of your children did wrong or whatever, you know. And uh and then about preaching the truth. In love. The hard passages that some people do not want to hear, that he was not negligent in not preaching them, but that he did preach them, but he preached them in such a way that you knew he loved you. Hmm, I made note of that. I noticed how many young people gave a testimony. I think that's notable tonight. And uh how many men uh made testimony. I did uh Take notes of uh Miss Kathy's testimony. And I'm glad she does all the things she does around here too. She's a great blessing. And preacher, we all do love you. How could you help but love this man? If you love God, you'd have to love this pastor And uh I praise God for you, preacher. I do hope all of you will stop by and get some CDs, by the way, tonight. Um we've got a number of them back there. Bible Songs for Kids, volume four. Several of you have already gotten that And then there's only three of the MP3 players left. If you want to get one of those, it's preloaded with 100 CDs. 100 um not 100 CDs, 100 songs. Hundred of the scripture songs. Miss Becky is going to help me back there. Stop by, she'll get you set up. Let's get in the Bible. Amen. Time for the Bible. I think it's significant the passage that God brought us to tonight. Because it kind of lines up with what all we've been talking about. 1 Corinthians 16, verse 15. It says, I beseech you, brethren, ye know the house of Stephanus, that it is the first fruits of Achai, and that look at these words. They have addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints. They've addicted themselves. Some of you all made note in your testimony tonight about how addicted this man is to the ministry. That it's even hard for the man to take a vacation, that the one weakness he's got is he works too much. That's an amazing testimony of you, preacher. We ought to all be a little addicted to the ministry, should we not? I mean just addicted to the ministry. What do they say about those folks over there at Mountain Lake Baptist Church at drive-thru, they do give out tracts. They go out through the community. Even at the city council meetings and so forth, the preacher shows a little determination to get whatever he thinks is right. Amen to all those things. And these folks here in 1 Corinthians 16 verse 15, they were so faithful that the Bible records the words that they were like they were addicted to the ministry. Well, I like people like that. I mean, just addicted to the ministry. You know, folks like that that are addicted to the ministry, well, they are personally involved in the ministry. Amen. They're passionate about the ministry. And they have placed a priority in their life in doing God's work. I love these people. 1 Corinthians 16, 15. They, this house of Stephanus, they have addicted themselves to the ministry. First Corinthians 4 2. You fill in the blank when I pause. Moreover, it is required in the stewards that a man be found faithful. These folks are so faithful they're called addicted. Several things I want to point out in this little passage that I think will help us in the next few minutes. If you're taking notes, write this down. Faithful people, number one, they're leaders. These folks are so faithful, they're addicted, it said. Well, faithful people are what you call leaders. It's faithful people who become leaders. It says so in this even passage, verse 16. Everybody look at your Bible, 1 Corinthians 16, 16. That ye submit yourselves unto such. Submit unto these folks that are so addicted to the ministry. Submit unto them. Why? Because they're leaders Submit to these leaders. Now the Bible tells about a lot of faithful people that were leaders for the Lord. John the Baptist, would you say he was a faithful man? Amen. All the way unto death Stephen, that deacon of that church. Man, Stephen's out preaching the gospel, they brought him up on charges. They said, What are you talking about? What have you been doing? And he begins to preach the gospel to them. And they got so upset with him that day. What did they do? They stomped on him, gnashed on him with their teeth. But that faithful leader, Stephen Even as he died, he was praying for those that were his enemies. That's amazing. No natural man would do that. Only a man that's got the touch of God on him would do like that. This man you see, Stephen, was a faithful man. He was addicted to the ministry. Faithful people like that, they're leaders. John the Baptist was a leader. Stephen was a leader. Peter became a leader. I know Peter was kind of wishy-washy at one time. Peter would make promises. He couldn't keep. Peter suggested they go into a building program right on the Mount of Transfiguration. He said, Lord, it's good that we're here. We ought to build three tabernacles. One for you, one for most. I mean, Peter could get excited. You know what I'm saying? I like folks. Are y'all still awake out there? I like folks like Peter. But uh Peter messed up pretty bad. I messed up bad. He said, Lord, I'll never deny you, but you know, he went right out and broke his promise But then he let God line him out. And he realized in his life the grace of God. Read 1 Peter. It talks about the grace that God had had on him. And Peter became one of the most steadfast Christians there ever has been. He became a leader. He became addicted to the ministry. This man, Peter, they came to him and said, You better quit preaching the gospel. What does he say in Acts 5. 29? We ought to obey God rather than men Well, Peter wouldn't back down. Why? Because he's a leader. He's faithful. I love these kind of people. 1 Corinthians 16, verse 15. They have addicted themselves to the ministry. You ought to submit to those kind of people because they're leaders. There's something else I want you to notice. In verse 16, when I Pause, you fill in the word. Alright? Here's verse 16. That you submit yourselves unto such, and to everyone that helpeth with us, and Laboreth. Two big words here about faithful people. They're helpers and their laborers. I mean, they help. They work. You see, it's faithful people, addicted people are the ones that are willing to work. It's faithful people that get all the work done. See, faithful people are willing to do big things, but faithful people they're willing to do little things They're ready to just do anything that will help. I was in a church down there in Florida, and the preacher at that church had gotten him a big idea, church about, I don't know, I think it's thirteen years old now Uh churches had over a thousand people several different times. My last time being there on a Sunday, they they took up two hundred thousand dollars in the offering that day. They're doing some big things at that church. The preacher at that church He got thinking about it, and he realized there were 30,000 homes in his community, and he got a burden to get a leather Bible From his church into every home. And so he found him a Bible publisher that would sell him 30,000 copies of the Bible for only $5 each. I'm talking about nice Bibles. So he went back to his church. He said, hey, I think we ought to buy these things. I need $150,000 to buy these Bibles. After he bought the Bibles, because he got the church to do it. After they bought the Bibles, now what do they got to do? They got to give them out Door to door. Now one man going to 30,000 doors, one preacher doing that, that's a lot of work. Many hands make lurk m make a light work, the old adage says Who was it that helped him get those 30,000 Bibles out? Well, me and my team, four of us, were down there to help. But a lot of faithful folks in that church. There's one lady in particular. This one lady, she was in charge of keeping all the records Hey, I you know I'm not great at that kind of stuff. I'm not good at the filing system. You know what I'm great at? It's called the piling system. I can pile that stuff up, you know what I'm saying? But there's a lady in that church, a faithful lady addicted to the ministry, trying to help her preacher because see everybody ought to be a pastor, or everybody should be helping a pastor. And this lady said, I'll take care of all the paperwork What is she willing to do? She's willing to labor. She's willing to help. I'd get my clipboard and I'd get all my addresses and I'd get my little suitcase. full of Bibles and I'd go door to door. I'd come back and that that little lady said, hey, where's my clipboard? You know, this lady is serious, man. What she's doing. She's she's being faithful. I love it. Yes, it's faithful people who get all the work Done. Faithful people, number one, they're leaders. Faithful people, number two, they're willing to work. Number three, faithful people are appreciated. Look at verse 17. Now, when I pause this time, you fill in the word. Verse 17, everybody look at your Bible. Here it is, verse 17. When I pause, fill in the word, it says, I am Glad. Yeah, faithful people just make you glad. I mean faithful people just simply make you glad. You're just glad to be around them. It it's kind of like your boat at high tide. Your boat just floats a little higher when you're around them. You know what I'm saying? You're just glad because of faithful people. Why are you so glad about it? Because faithful people are so rare. There's not that many that are faithful. There's a lot of unfaithful. But there's not many that are faithful. And those who are faithful, they just simply make you glad. All right, let me ask a question here tonight. How many in this room has ever heard of the man named Walt Disney? Anyone ever heard that name? Oh, everybody in the room. Everybody in the room has heard of Walt Disney. Well, in 1952, this man Walt Disney, he had an idea of building this place out in California called Disneyland. I mean this place out there in California, Disneyland, he had this big dream. It was the original Disneyland, it was going to be huge, and uh he was trying to find somebody that could manage that enormous project. It was going to be in nineteen fifty-two a twenty-five million dollar project, which was enormous He borrowed the money, all that sort of thing. And he looked at his little staff that he had, and he was looking to see which one of them he would trust to be the project manager. He said, None of them will do. None of them are faithful enough None of them are up to the task. He started having staff meetings and said, hey, we've got to find somebody who can build Disneyland for us. Build it I mean he was just hooked on this thing, Disneyland All of his staff said, There's no way any of us can handle something like that. We're not up to it. They tried to discourage him from doing it. He said, We've got to do it. We've got to do it. We've got to do it. We've got to find someone. Finally, one of his staff said, You know, There's one man I know of that could probably do this thing that you won't He is the kind of faithful man with the kind of diligence and work ethic and and the ability that could probably do it. She said, I don't know if you could get him though. Walt says, Who is he? He said, remember when we were attacked at Pearl Harbor, and the whole world said, boy, the American Navy's out of business. He said there was one Admiral who said American Navy's not out of business either. His name was Admiral Joe Fowler. He turned the U. S. Navy back around and got us back in business. They said He said, Walt, if you could somehow get that guy, Joe Fowler, if you could get Admiral Joe Fowler to be your project manager, this thing might work. Well, Walt Disney went and found him. Begged him. Got him to come and be the project manager. And then the thing came out to be a success So Disney, I mean, he's still dreaming. So ten years later, he's got this idea of having this place over there in in Florida called Disney World. He's going to have something bigger now. Hundred million dollar project. And he gets Joe Fowler to run this thing. Well, years go by and the Disney Corporation, they're still dreaming of things, and they've got this thing called Epcot Center, one billion dollar project. But the leaders of that said, we cannot do this without 80-year-old Joe Fowler helping us. Boy, faithful people, they make a difference, do they not? It's faithful people, I'm telling you, they're the ones that get the work done, they're the ones that appreciate it. I'll tell you something else. Look at verse 17. Everybody look at your Bible. I'm glad of the coming of Stephonus and Fortunatus and Archaeus. For that which was lacking on your part, they have supplied. That which was lacking, they supplied. When it came up short, who was it that made up the shortage? Faithful people. It's faithful people that go the extra mile. It's faithful people when the mission's giving is down, it's faithful people who make it up. It's faithful people that when when somebody's being unfaithful to Sunday school as far as being the teacher, it's faithful people who find a way to serve a Sunday school teacher. It's faithful people who step in the gap when we're short on ushers, when we need more nursery workers. It's faithful people who step up to the plate. It's faithful people who always somehow make up that which is lacking. It's faithful people. Now, in the Bible, there is a lot of unfaithful people that slowed down the work of God. I mean, you think about Abraham. Man, he was a faithful man, but he had a little nephew named Lot And Lot was unfaithful. And it slowed down, Uncle Abraham. What about Moses? Was he faithful? Yes. Did he have a brother? Yes. What was his name? Aaron. Was Aaron faithful all the time? No And some things that Aaron did burdened Moses and made Moses' work harder. But Moses, being faithful, was able to make up the slat. You got a man named Joshua. Joshua to battle of Jericho, Jericho, long time ago. Joshua The Battle of Jericho and the walls came a tumbling down. Well you can talk about your men of Gideon, you can talk about your men of Saul. They ain't none like good old Joshua and the battle of Jericho. Oh Joshua hit the battle of I like that song, man. I like Joshua. Man, he was a faithful man. But there was a fellow named Aiken Unfaithful, what'd he do? He burdened Joshua. Made it harder for Joshua. But Joshua, somehow, with God's hand on him. Able to make up the slack. Samuel was faithful. Saul, first king of Israel, big man. First year wasn't too bad, but the next 39 years, Saul went straight downhill. And Saul was unfaithful. It burdened down the work, but praise God, there was Samuel, still faithful. You know, unfaithful parents Burden their children. I was out, our bus ministry. I love the bus ministry. Amen. Boy, we need faithful people in the bus ministry. I was out trying to help my church's bus ministry. There's a family that we got three little boys out of that out of that home. And these three boys quit coming to church. I went to try to help that bus captain get 'em back. I went over there to the home and I I said, uh your boys are not coming to church, I said to the mama. She said, Yeah, I don't know why they're not coming. You know, now I'm at 46 years old. Sometimes I just kind of shoot straight with people. I said, well, ma'am, I know why they're not coming She said, Oh, you know why they're not coming? I said, yeah. I said, I believe I know why they're not coming. She said, why they're not coming? I said, ma'am, because you're not coming. She said, Oh that. It's kind of funny, but it's sad, is it not? Every boy who's got a daddy ought to have a Christian daddy. And he ought to have a faithful daddy to God. A daddy who carries some tracks in his pockets, and a daddy who, when the offering plate comes by, he puts something in, and a daddy who gets on these altars. sometimes an invitation and a daddy who uh who goes out so winning a daddy who reads the Bible inside the home and uh and a daddy who prays And praises and sayings to God. Every daddy who's got a, I mean every boy who's got a daddy ought to have a daddy like that. Don't you agree? Yes, but unfaithful daddies and unfaithful mamas have burdened down children. What is it slows down a country? Unfaithful citizens. Listen, it's faithful people that make the difference. It's faithful people who take up the slack that others leave out. Well, a couple more things. Verse 18. Y'all help me on this next word. Alright, verse 18. For they have refreshed. Yeah, these faithful people, they just refresh you. They're just refreshing. You know, I I came here and and on the way here I called Brother Mark. He was working and I said, I want to talk to you about the choir a little bit, make sure we got the right music and all that kind of stuff It just does my heart good that we've got a man like Brother Mark leading our choir. He's a faithful man. I love faithfulness. When I got here I knew I'd see certain people in the choir because they're just faithful, you know And when I came here, listen, as an advantage, I start taking attendance, man, when I get here. I'm looking for people, and when you move seats, that gets me confused. But it does my heart good. It refreshes me when I just see folks showing up. And in their place and doing their jobs. Amen. It is refreshing to me. I know it's an encouragement to the preacher when you're just simply doing your part. It's refreshing. One last thing. It says in verse 18, For they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore, acknowledge ye them that are such. Acknowledge them. Acknowledge these faithful people. That's what happened some tonight when we acknowledged our preacher. We acknowledged him for his faithfulness. And you know, we ought to do those kind of things right now. We shouldn't wait. So, well, I'll do that someday. We better do it now. Acknowledge them right now. And um may I just say that You wives in the congregation, if you've got a faithful husband, oh, he's not perfect. Are there any perfect husbands? No. I mean even Miss Kathy kind of alluded to that about you, ma'am. I did make notes of that, you know Our preacher's not perfect. None of our husbands in our congregation are perfect. But I'll tell you this, ladies. If you've got a faithful husband, you ought to thank him. And sir, if you've got a faithful wife, you ought to commend her for her faithfulness. And if your kids have got faithful parents, you ought to thank them tonight. You ought to thank them this evening for being faithful. If you've got a faithful Sunday school teacher, have you ever gone to your Sunday school teacher and said, thank you? You've been teaching me the Word of God week after week. You pray for me, you help to me, and I just want to say thank you. And we can go right on down the list of people who help each other. You know, sometimes we take things for granted, don't we? And then when we lose them, we say, wow, I wish I'd have said thank you more often. You know, I think we ought to acknowledge these faithful people. There's a man, kids, there's a man at one time named Jimmy Duranty. Let me see in this congregation. How many of you people have ever heard of Jimmy Duranty? Raise your hand, real. High. All right. Now put your hands down. How many of this room have never heard of Jimmy Duranty? Yeah, all those from like uh twenty-five and down, more like fifteen and down Um but Brother Pat looked like he raised his hand and I think he's 25. Or I don't know. 35, that's what it is. Did you did you really raise your hand? You've never heard of Jimmy Duranty? Okay. I'm going to tell you about him a little bit then He was an entertainer. Right after World War II, he was extremely popular. He was hard to get, man. And um and so they were having this one benefit this one day at a veteran center. They were they were having a benefit and they were getting all these different entertainers to come and and uh and so the the recreational director and and uh uh had begged Jimmy Duranty to come and uh help with the show for these veterans. And Duranty said, I am too busy. I'm so popular, I hey, I got too many bookings, I can't come. Well the activity director begged and begged and begged finally Jimmy Durandy, he conceded, said, Look, I will come and I will put on thirty minutes of a show, and that's it. Thirty minutes and I've got to leave. Well, he came. He was extremely popular. He's well liked and so forth. He got out there on the stage and he started doing his little routines and so forth. And so, you know, twenty minutes went by, thirty minutes went by Forty minutes went by, fifty minutes went by, an hour's gone by, you're still out there on the stage, you're still going. Activity director on the science said, I thought the man said he could only stay 30 minutes, and he's been out there an hour He goes on, he comes off the stage, comes back, does encore, blah, blah, blah. And finally, after it's all said and done, the activity man said, Um, Mr. Durandy, I thought you couldn't stay but thirty minutes, you had to leave. He said, I needed to leave. He said, but I got out there and I saw all those faithful soldiers. Who had put their lives on the line to keep me free. He said, and my heart was touched. He said, but what really got me I was out there trying to entertain folks, and there's these two guys on the front row, and they were applauding for me. Director said, well, man, everybody's applauding for you. He said, no, no, no, not like these two guys. He said, no one out there applauded like them two faithful guys. So what's different about them? Said, well, one of them is missing his left arm and one's missing his right arm. They both gave an arm for freedom These faithful men. He said, but with the one good hand, the head there's clapping one hand each together. They're working together to clap for me. He said, how could I do less than my best for faithful guys like that? See, it's faithfulness that's admired by everyone. What do we need here tonight? A bunch of us is just sign on to just stay faithful. Amen. Would you stand with me, heads bowed, eyes closed? We've got a pianist in the room. Yes. Would you come and find great is thy faithfulness? Because I'll tell you who's faithful. It's God who's faithful. The Bible even records it exactly that way. God is faithful. He's our perfect model. Jesus Christ our perfect model. Just was faithful. What are we supposed to be? Faithful. You say, well, they might call me addicted to the ministry. What a compliment that would be. Now, if you're not saved, you haven't started being faithful. The first step of being faithful is getting saved. We're going to give what we call invitation, where we invite people to be saved. You can come forward and we'll get somebody to take a Bible to show you how to be saved. And then all Christians are supposed to be faithful. Let's renew our commitments to this matter of faithfulness. Lord, thank you for the unusual And simply outstanding service you've given us. Now, Lord, it's sort of like the verdict time. Time for us to do business with you. And pledge ourselves to faithfulness. It's faithfulness, Lord, that you said you a reward, to the point that One day you'll tell some people, well done, thou good and faithful. I pray from our church we'd have some. That we'd get to hear from you one day. Well done. So I pray that this invitation would be what you want it to be, and what it ought to be I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Heads are bowed, a little music's playing, and the friendly altars are open. Come on. All that want to come, come quickly. Do not delay. You need to come, you need to come right away. Come on. Yes Amen.