I want to continue in this line of faith. We said this morning, I don't know if anybody re uh one thing when you preach that message about the roller coaster, everybody remembers the roller coaster and the chicken exit But if anybody remembers that our verse was that uh without faith it's what? Impossible to please God. Well faith is the bedrock, and so I want to stay in that uh theme here as well tonight. And the importance of growing in our faith. The importance of growing in our faith. God wants us to go a little deeper. each year of our walk with him. He never intended us to be saved. It's okay to be a baby Christian. If you just got saved, it's okay to be a baby Christian. That's how we all start off. But God doesn't intend us to continue as a baby Christian. He wants us to grow so we can exercise and trust him more by faith to grow, to be able to have faith promise. to be able to be such a tree of supporting so many people all around the world. And that doesn't happen on accident. So it's okay to be a baby Christian as you and then you continue to grow, but it's never okay to be a Christian baby. And so we need to uh grow out of that. And that's what I want to talk a little bit about tonight. Let's look at one verse, though there are many that we're going to look at today. But let's look at um actually two verses. Let's look at uh 2 Peter chapter 1 verses eight and nine. Uh first Peter uh uh second Peter, sorry, chapter one, verses eight and nine. The scriptures tell us For if these things be in you and abound, they make you that you shall neither be barren. These are very descriptive words. We know what that word is. When we hear barren, we understand what it's saying there. Nor Unfruitful, and we are to be fruitful. We're not to be leafy, but we're to be fruitful. Unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. But he that lacketh these things is blind and cannot see afar off, and have forgotten that he was purged from his old sin. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for Jesus Christ. Thank you for salvation. Thank you once again that we can be changed and we can be saved. How exciting it was when we heard the gospel and and understood it and believed and depend on that. It was life changing. Thank you that everything you do is life changing. It changes us completely. It goes against the the the the culture goes against everything that this world stands for. Thank you for that. Thank you that we can be separated, that we can live a life of holiness. that we can please you and that we can make a difference. And when we get to heaven one day, what a glorious day that will be when we stand around that throne and we sing that new song. And every tongue and every kindred will will will bow the knee. Father, thank you for that glorious day. But until then, Lord, would you continue to encourage us? And Father, help us tonight not to be stirred, but to be changed. Help us not to be just stirred, but help us to live out the truth so that we can be strong, that we can be the type of a believer that others can look to and say I want that person's Savior. I want to mimic. I want to walk after that person's God. Thank you for the scriptures that do that. Thank you that it changes us. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. You'll notice in our text That in verse number eight, it brings up the first thing, these things. For if these things be in you. And then if you go, of course, into verse number nine, but he that lacketh these things. And then if you go to verse number 10, towards the very end of the verse, it says, For if you do these things things. And then if you go down to verse number 12, once again about the middle of the verse, it says, You always in uh put you always in remembrance of these things. And then it says in verse number fifteen, moreover I will endeavor that you would be able after my deceased to have these things. So the question begs, what are these things? Because These are the things that we have to have to be, listen to me now, don't miss this part of it, to be regularly victorious, surprised by defeat, instead of regularly defeated, surprised by victory God never intended as we were born again and saved and we have the Holy Spirit that we would be up and down. Now I'm not talking about going through trials. I'm talking about just where one day, man, God is everything, and then weeks go by where we're just we're we're just living our own life. God intended that each one of us would be on a constant uphill towards holiness through the Holy Spirit. So we can be regularly victorious and surprised by defeat instead of regularly defeated, surprised by victory. The key for a church to be a whole is to have victorious members. Remember I said earlier we don't fight to heaven, we fight from heaven. And so these things are going to be important. So what are these things? Do I go to Walmart and I buy a jar of these things? What is it that I need to have? And of course that's found In verse number five, the Bible says, and beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith. So uh uh um all growth is by faith, so we have to grow, and how we grow in our faith is not only experience But we need to add to our faith. Now the scriptures say giving all diligence. Now that word diligence means make haste. This is so important that you should drop everything you're doing, and this is the most important thing. So regardless of whatever else is on your calendar No, regardless of all the circumstances of your life, to be regularly victorious, surprised by defeat, instead of regularly defeated, surprised by victory, is that we're going to have to give all diligence. So pay attention. This is it. The simplicity of the gospel. is also the simplicity for those of us that are saved. We can be regularly victorious. So we need to make haste. And the Bible says we need to add And and to your faith. So you notice that there has to be a foundation. If you're here today and you don't know Jesus Christ, if you're here you can't add anything. Because all things must be added to faith. That is always our foundation, Jesus Christ, accepting him by faith. That is Christ is the foundation. So he wants us to add to our faith. And he gives a laundry list of things. I don't know about you. Have you ever been sent, if you're a guy in here, have you ever been sent to the store by your wife to buy items Have you ever come home a complete failure? I want to tell you something. It is the most nerve-wracking thing to bring home the right items. I don't know how I can go to the store and bring the wrong item home. I just don't get it. I'll go through there, I'll be almost just saying no no that's sugar-free. Uh that's uh whatever, that's natural, or this was grown in manure and I need it in this. And it's just mind-boggling uh uh of how to do that. She'll even take pictures of it and send it with me and I'll still come home with the wrong item. I don't get it. It's a setup for failure. And she says, Larry She calls me Larry, not Brother Coons. She says, Larry, I need you to go to the store. I know right away I'm in trouble. I just know I'm in trouble. Sometimes I can buy two or three of the items. Or when you go there, men, is this not true? It's not on the shelf I can't tell you how many times I look for that item and I cannot find it. I'll finally say to some lady, hey, do you know where it's right there. It's just really hard. So she gives me a list and she gives it to me in order, what's in each aisle. So when I go, it's real simple. This is not that kind of list. The list we're going to look at tonight in the Greek and the way it's structured is not for us to add one thing and then once we perfect it to move on to the next God expects us to have all these things working at one time in our life. So it's not a order of, hey, wow, I got this down. Now I can move on to the next thing. It's not like that. So keep that in mind as we take a look at how to be regularly victorious, surprised by defeat, because these are the things that are important. So it says add to your faith Virtue. And the word virtue is manliness or or or or moral courage, the ability to say no to sin. Listen, if we're going to get involved in faith promise, if we're going to grow as a church, if we're going to grow as an individual, if we're going to grow as a family, if our community is going to come to Christ, then we're going to have to say no to sin. The Bible says admiral Courage. How many of you know what gravity is? Can someone just give me a real quick down and dirty definition of gravity? Don't get too technical. Just use like really small one-syllable words. Yes? What's that? Outs cause if you go up you come down. Okay, that's very good. What goes up must come down, correct So if you say, I don't believe in gravity, and I take you up on the building here and I throw you off, about halfway down you're going to say, I believe. Ouch Right? Because there is gravity. There's no doubt about it. It is a law. It is a natural law. The law of gravity. Now, let me see here what teenagers like super smart Okay, or anybody. Listen, this is the question here would be, what what supersedes the law of gravity Besides, you know, law of gravity stands. So what what breaks the law of gravity or supersedes the law of gravity? There you go. Who said that? Did you say a airplane? That's right. Thrust is more powerful. So when you get in the airplane, guess what? The law of gravity is pulling you, you can feel it but you're able to supersede it. Now, if you're flying in that airplane and the fly it pilot decides to turn off the plane at thirty thousand feet, what happens? What law takes over? Gravity. If you're in a hot air balloon and you're in a hot air balloon and you're you're floating up in a hot air balloon and you're looking you say wow this is great And all of a sudden you know you're looking at your house and say, Oh man, that's where I live, look right there, right there. And you get so excited, you climb outside of the basket What law takes over? Gravity. You're going to be down in your yard in just a second. You are going to be there. This is what the Lord is saying here: is that you can Trust him by staying in the basket. In other words, the law of Christ is greater than the law of sin. Before you were saved You were lost in your trespasses and sin. There was no hope. Everything you did was sin. But when Christ moved in, he gave you new life. And through him you can say No to sin. He's the greater law. In him, I can say, God, please give me the grace, give me what I need to say no to that sin. I'm not saying sinless perfection. I'm saying that there is a provision and he's greater than our sin. And that's what the Bible is saying there. Listen, if we're going to grow And and we're going to be regularly victorious, surprised by defeat, then we're going to have to start saying no to sin because we can. Not by our own strength. We have no strength by him. So stay in the basket Because when you climb out of the basket, it's all flesh, and you can't win. You'll enter into the temptation. So trust Christ. And that's what he's saying here, Peter, who was always in trouble. Peter was always putting his foot in his mouth. Is that not true? The writer of this? He didn't only put his foot in his mouth. He put the whole shoe store in his mouth. Peter was always in trouble. But look at this, years later, he says, wait a minute, this is how you're victorious. It's in him. You don't have to sin. So add to your faith virtue and the virtue knowledge. Knowledge is the world of the Bible. If you're going to be regularly victorious and surprised by defeat, then you have to know what the scriptures say So you can't get any more favor with God. You have all the favor you can through salvation. You are perfect in his sight because of imputed righteousness But how usable are you? God wants to use you, and how do we how does he use us? We have to be in the Word of God. I hope you're in the Word of God. Because these are love letters to us. This is how we grow. This is how we know what God likes. I'm going to do that. I'm going to find out what he likes and I'm going to pursue that. I'm going to find out what he doesn't like and I'm going to stay away from that. How are we going to know that if we're not in the scriptures? So to be regularly Victorious and surprised by defeat, we're going to have to say no to sin, and we're going to have to learn about him. And that's a knowledge, temperance, self-control. Not everything's good. Even things that aren't sinful aren't always the wisest things for believers. And so we have to be able to have discernment. That's what the Bible says. We have to be able to prove What is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God? We need to look at it and say, wait a minute, boy, like for me, I love sports. Well, sports are not a sin. They're good. They're good for your body. Look at me, look at the shape I'm in And you can tell, you don't get this overnight. This is hours of sweat. And so you you have to you have to look that, but if if sports becomes your god, something's wrong, right? And so you have to discern not everything is good, not everything is for the believer. So we have to have temperance, self-control. God has to be first. We have to be saturated in our mind and our hearts, meditating on Scripture, memorizing Scripture, making it number one in everything we do. See, because why is that so important? Because the church has to be strong. That's where God works through. He works through the local church. You can't have the program you have if you're not growing. And God wants to even increase that. Can you imagine? I look at the numbers that Pastor said this morning. Those are staggering numbers. Do you realize how much money we're talking about that are going out of the doors of this church to missions? I mean, I know churches three times the size of this that aren't even near that amount. That's a lot of sacrificial giving. That's unbelievable. But can I tell you what? He wants more. Because he can. And when we grow in our faith and we're regularly victorious, we see the mission. We see what God's doing. So you have to add to your faith virtue. Stop sinning. And to your virtual knowledge and the knowledge, temperance, and the temperance, patience. I'll hurry up on this one. That is staying underneath the trial you're under. God takes us through trials not to punish us, but to remove blind spots and areas of our life that are dross. He puts us through those trials so that our faith can even be more genuine, and when our faith is more genuine, we can trust in him even more. When's the last time you took a spiritual step in your walk of faith. When is the last time that God has removed or shown you something in your life that needed to be removed? So this laundry list here Is virtue, knowledge, temperance, to temperance, patience, and to patience, godliness. And this word godliness here is this holy separation Just holy separation. It it it it is it is so consumed with a holy and righteous God that not because we're trying, but because we want to be so much like him and we are, that we just stay away from things that would tear us down or things that would ruin our testimony, but that we would just be godly. My I I I can say this one because my wife's not here because this is one of my sins. And that is just going to speed limit That's godliness. Talking to your neighbor, mowing your lawn. All these things are godliness which people see a discipline in your life, and because of that, they want to see your God. So add to your faith virtue and knowledge and knowledge temperance and temperance patience and patience godliness and godliness to brotherly kindness. Just love the brethren. How much does this side of the church know about that side of the church? And how much does that side of the church know about that side of the church? What are the greatest needs among the brothers and sisters in here? And it isn't so much just to know so we can say we know, but it's to pray for one another. There are probably some very emotional needs in this church. There are probably some wayward maybe siblings that people want to be prayed for that situation. It would be financial issues, whatever they are, we are to have such phileo Philadelphia Love, Brother the City of Brotherly Love. We are to love one another. We're to enter in. And that's how we are regularly victorious. And surprised by defeat instead of regularly defeated, surprised by victory. And the last one is charity. Now charity is a little different word. If I say to you I love you, you don't really know what I mean. Because love is so many different ways to mention it, but in the Greek language it's very clear. And when someone uses charity They're using the deepest type of knowing love that is possible. I would not say to anybody in here that I love them with a charity love. I love my wife that way, and I love the brothers and sisters in concept with that. But it it is that really knowing somebody. We talked a little bit about this uh this morning, but take your Bibles and turn to Romans, and this is the verse we looked at, but I want to look at it again, not everybody was there, and I think it really shows. This type of love. But there's something different interest that will define if you have this love or not Now I'm going to give you an example of it, but then I'm going to show you how you're going to be at the end to know if you have this kind of love for the lost people. in our world. The Bible says, I say the truth in Christ. We talked about this in Sunday school. I lie not, my conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost that have great heaviness. Have you ever had great heaviness? Raise your hand if you've ever had great heaviness I don't mean my wife have had great heaviness. We've had some difficult situations and a continual sorrow in my heart. You ever been there? Where it's just heavy. It's just it's a continual sorrow And Paul says, for um I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh. The Apostle Paul was so burdened for missions to give the gospel to Israel that he said he was willing to lose his own salvation. That doesn't come naturally. That's not a love that we naturally have for somebody else. But Paul had that. He said, I'll even give up my salvation if I could But of course I can't, because you can never lose your salvation. We we we are we are always in the presence of the Lord. We cannot lose our salvation. But the Apostle Paul had such a great heaviness and a broken heart That he would willing to be accursed for that. If we look at Stephen's life, Stephen says, as he's being stoned, instead of calling his attorney Instead of screaming for his rights, he says, forgive them. Do not lay this trespass at their feet. That's love. And that's the type of love that God wants us to have for missions. That's the type of love God wants us to have for one another, for our community. So when we're driving to work in Chicago, it's very busy, the guy driving isn't our adversary. You know, cutting each other off and you know shaking our fists at each other and all those kind of things. It it it's it's it's loving that person in the car because they might not know Christ. We had we had a Missionary in, his name was Phil Schuler. I don't know if you guys are aware of him or not. And uh and he was uh said he was driving home from our church one night and he cut somebody off on accident. And uh the guy pulled up next to me, wrote out his window, and he said to him, Go to, you know, you know the word, and he says, I can't. And the guy says, he says, I'm telling you right now, go to he says, I can't. I'm saved. He turned it into a witnessing opportunity. Instead of yelling and screaming back He saw somebody that needed Christ. And that's what Paul's saying here is that we need to have that type of charity because our sins have been forgiven. For the Bible promises that if these things be active in you and abounding Abounding for these things be in you and abound. How many of you ever gone out to check pool temperature before you jump in? Now when I was little, it didn't matter. I just jumped in. It could have been twenty degrees, I didn't care. My lips are blue, my mom saying your lips are blue, who cares? I'm gonna swim longer. But as I get older I notice I just stick my toe in. And if it's not about ninety degrees, I'm not going in. That's just, you know what? I'm past the twenty degrees. It's gotta be ninety like bath water. And so I stick my toe in and that's the way some of us Look at our spiritual life, we just stick our toe in it. And God can't use that. He says that you need to abound, you need to be saturated You need to be consumed by these things if you're going to be regularly victorious and surprised by defeat. That's why we're up and down, is because we we only look at these things when we're down instead of all the time And it says, that'll make you that you shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. What a promise What a promise that that will produce fruit in our life that these things are abounding. That means the money we give to missions, God will take that and use it in a way that we could have never spent it He'll make a dollar worth twenty dollars. He'll do whatever he needs to do to get the job done. He's just looking for us by faith to trust him But the scriptures go on here, and I find this a very interesting verse. But he that lacketh these things is blind and cannot see afar off, and had forgotten he was purged from his old sin The the word here he lacketh these things, so if these things are skinny in your life, they're not what they should be. The Bible says it's blind. Now that word blind there is not completely blind. It's not like I can't see at all and you have to be directed around. It means kind of like driving in the fog. You can see a little bit. It's like smoky or distorted. So these things are lacking in your life you you're distorted. You cannot see afar off. You can't see the mission anymore. You just can't see what the church's mission is. You can't You can't be involved. You can't be on fire for the Lord. Everything's a little smoky. You're not too sure what direction you should go. And in fact, it can get to the point that you've forgotten that you were purged from your old sins. Have you ever seen that maybe in someone's Bible before? They have the date they were saved, you know, 9, 12, you know, whatever date, and then that's crossed out and it says really saved. And it has a new date and then that's crossed out and then it's like really, really, really, really saved. And there's like a long list of dates in there. Well the reason that is is because When we get saved, God expects us to be fruitful. And that is the encouragement and and the assurance we have that we are born again, that God's changing us and growing us, and these things are present in our life. And when they're not We can forget that we are pursed from our old sins. So we need to deal with the sin. If you're up and down in your life You might need to be saved. Maybe you were never saved, but maybe it is that these things are just not active in your life, as the Bible says. And that's why we're regularly defeated and surprised by victory. The Bible goes on in verse ten. It says, Wherefore, the rather, brethren, give diligence, that's our word, make haste, do it right away, to make your calling and election sure, for if you do these things you shall never fall. What a promise What a promise it is that if we abide and these things are active in our lives, we will always be fruitful. We'll always be confident of the Lord working in us and through us because we will see his hand by faith. It goes on, it says in verse number twelve, it says, Wherefore I will be not negligent to to put you always in remembrance of these things. though you know them and be established in the present truth. So Peter says this. He says, Listen, I know you know this. I don't think you learned anything new tonight. That's been in the scriptures for a long time But but what the scriptures are saying is listen, we forget. We forget these things. We we we neglect them and what happens is we we we fall into in into a pattern then of failure and success and God says, I don't want that. If these things are kept in front of you, then you always remember them. Here's an example. How many of you had a mom? Good. Everybody in here. Okay. I don't know if your mom was like my mom. Now I didn't get saved until I was older, but I want to tell you something. When I went to someone's house, there was a laundry list of things to do when I was there. You know, say thank you for the food You know, uh make sure you're polite, make sure you pick up twice, make sure you're clean up. Sh I knew that. Because every time I left the door, she would tell me those five or six things. But she never failed to remind me of them. She wanted them on the very forefront of my mind, so when I went into that house I would not embarrass her You know, drop the food, say, Oh, I don't like that, or whatever like that. It's like when you're going to camp. Do you have this? Do you have this? Do you have this? Do you have this? Making sure they have all the items they need So it'd be like if Peter was alive and in this church, you would see Peter come and you'd run the other way, because he said, Peter's going to remind me. Every time he's going to come up to you, he's going to say, Hey, are you doing those things? You're gonna say, oh no. He's gonna say keep reminding you. Why? Because this is the key. The simplicity of it. These things you'll be regularly victorious. Surprised by defeat. Instead of regularly defeated, surprised by victory, you'll grow in your faith, and God will be able to use you even in a greater way and as a church as well. So Peter says, this is important. I'm going to keep reminding you. Because if not, you will be in trouble uh in your walk with him. But it goes on. And it says um It says in verse 13, Yea, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle, so he's talking about his body, as long as I'm alive. As long as I'm a human, as long as I'm breathing, even as our Lord Jesus Christ had shown me. So he learned this from the Lord. He he learned that He needed to have these things in his life. Moreover, I will endeavor that you may be able, after I decease, to have these things always in remembrance. Boy, look at the Lord, he put it here. Peter's been gone for how many years. But yet God is put in his word, so even today it's relevant to us in the life we live in now. And we're reminded once again tonight to keep these things in memory at all times. Even though Peter's gone. The scriptures here remind us that this is an important part of growing in faith and being able to use in a greater way. I know you desire that. I know you want your church and individuals to be used in a great way. I know you want to reach your community. But this is how we do it: by growing in faith, it strengthens us. Um so Peter said, even after I'm gone, I'm still going to remind you of these things. And these things are true. I don't know if any of you do this, but it just bugs me. I always said this when I was growing up. You know when I get older I'm never gonna say those things to my kids that my mom said to me. You know those little things that wash behind your ears, you know, and all that kind of stuff. Of course I wash behind my ears. You know, or you know, eat all this or something like that. And then I found myself saying those same things to my daughter as they were growing up. Those same exact things. And and why? Because they work. And that's what Peter's saying here. He says that no matter what generation, no matter how long the Lord tarries This is the simplicity of the gospel to the saints. They have these things in their life Now I didn't grow up as a born-again believer like I told you. I got saved when um I was in my twenties and when I was growing up, uh my parents every Sunday night watched the Ed Sullivan show. I don't know if you're familiar with that or not, but it was a And there was different actors and stuff in there. My family would gather and watch that together. And there was a guy that used to come on there and he used to bring these plates And he had like a really thin almost like a super jumble mumble pencil. And he would set those there and he would he would spin one plate really fast. Then he'd run over and put another plate up and he'd spin that really quick. Then he'd come back and spin this one, and then he'd spin that one, and then he'd spin another one, and then he'd come back and spin these All at one time, they're all spinning, everybody'd be applauding, he'd bow and they'd fall. That was what will happen to you if you try to do this in your own strength. It is only by the grace of God. If all these things are to be active at one time, you can't do it. It's impossible. But by the grace of God. So really what needs to take place is Lord I'm not keeping these things. When's the last time you've concentrated on these things? The Bible says make haste. It says that these things must be present in your life and abounding if you're going to be regularly victorious. They have to. So we need to put them somewhere where we'll see them all the time. For me, I put them on the refrigerator because I go to the refrigerator at least ten times a day, just to make sure nothing's changed in the status in there I just want to make sure I didn't miss something that I can just, you know, grab really quick. So if they're on the refrigerator, I'm going to see them. Maybe you drink coffee, have them on your coffee cup. Put them on a card, put them in your pocket, and and for the rest of your life have these things present and in front of you all the time. And God says, if you are, then you'll be regularly victorious and surprised by defeat. And God will be able to use you in an even uh in a greater way that He can use you just not in faith promise, but in your witness to your neighbors, in your witness at work In in in in your in your uh raising your kids, whatever that might be, you'll be so saturated and so focused on the Lord, it will change everybody that comes around you. So let me ask you a question. How's that going? Are you regularly victorious, surprised by defeat? Or are you regularly defeated, surprised by victory? And are you keeping these things and adding them to your life? So constantly, Lord, am I in your word? I'm not reading my word so I get more favor with you. I have all the favor I need with you. I'm reading it so you can even use me in a greater way because I'll know you better And Lord, am I under self-control? Or am I allowing something to take over my life? Am I godly? Am I showing brotherly kindness? Do I have charity? And the Bible promises, and we see this in the life of Peter. I mean Peter, none of us would want to hang out with Peter. But now we would. Why? Because these graces this growth is in his life. And Peter gets to the very end, and we'll turn there and end. If you take go with me to 2 Peter 3, 18, a very, very familiar verse. Probably most of you in here can probably quote it. Or as soon as I start reading, you're going to say, I knew it. And that is 2 Peter 3. 18, he says at the very end of his second epistles, he says, But grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and forever. That's the key. Here it is. If you were looking for the magic bullet, if you were looking for what is it that I can be regularly victorious, here it is. So you have a decision to make. Am I gonna follow this plan that God has kept in the scriptures for all these years? And if if if if the Lord tarries and We all go to heaven and w we die physically and we're waiting for the rapture. We're gone and and and the Lord uh tarries for a hundred years. He could come tomorrow, he could come tonight. We know that, but if he tarries a hundred years, this message will be relevant a hundred years from now. It'll be relevant a thousand years from now, because this is the answer. regularly victorious, surprised by defeat, is to have these things, what things? These six, seven, eight things in your life constantly So here's the challenge to each one of us here. If you're here today and you don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior, then you can't even add these things. You're outside of the family of God. You must be born above, from above. You must have a second birth. You must be born spiritually. You must realize that you're a sinner and that there's no hope And that you must trust him as your Lord and Savior. You must depend on him and him alone. But for the vast majority of us here, it's these things. And and and if you say, well, you know what, I haven't even thought on these things. I'm not even looking at these things. I'm not adding this to my life. Then tell the Lord that that's sin, that's wrong. First John 1 9, if we confess our sins, he's what? And just to what? Forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness, Calvary cleansing. Come into agreement with him that he's right, we're wrong, and ask him to give us the grace that's needed. And what will happen is your church will have better unity. The individuals will be all on fire for the Lord, and wouldn't that be amazing what God could do if all of us We're doing these things. We're doing these things. God accomplished in three years his will perfectly through the obedience of the Lord Jesus Christ. Nothing was missed. God in a year's time can fulfill his will for Oakland, Maryland, through this church if these things are prevalent. Would you stand with me? You don't have to close your eyes yet. You say, what does that have to do with faith promise? What it has to do with faith promise is that all of faith promise is rooted in faith. And if we're not going to grow in our strength, we will not have the faith to give of our time, talent, and treasure. We just won't. We have to grow in our faith. And you say, but I am doing that. Well maybe God is going to give you a little bit more victory in that area. Trust him in that area. You can close your eyes and maybe the piano plays. I don't know what your need is. I don't know what it is. Maybe these things are not regular in life. May maybe you're regularly defeated. It's it's hard to come forward when an invitation is given as regularly defeated or Something like that. But humble yourself and say, you know what? I need to make sure that all these things are abounding in my life. Maybe your need is salvation. Whatever it is, you respond as the Holy Spirit works in your heart. Pastor Lemon.