Oh, once everybody's there, we'll go to Galatians four verse one. Let's read. Now I say that the heir, as long as he is a child, deferreth nothing from a servant, though he be Lord of all, but is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the Father Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world. But when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under the law To redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father. Wherefore, thou art no more a servant, but a son, and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ How be it then, when ye knew not God, ye did service unto them which by nature are no gods But now, after that ye have known God, or rather are known of God, how turn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements? We're unto you, you desire again to be in bondage. Now, let's bow our heads and prayer. Dear Lord, thank you for this day, Lord. Thank you for the opportunity to be able to be at Mountain Lake Baptist Church, Lord. It truly is a privilege and something I do not take lightly, Lord. Um please use this message, Lord, work in people's hearts. Let me be a blessing unto this congregation, Lord God. And in your name, Lord. Amen. Now, as some of you probably know, I'm Mr. Ricky. I'm gonna go ahead and set these down right here just to make sure I don't mess them up or nothing. Um Mr. Ricky, I was um I'm going to start out with a little bit of my testimony. Um I was born in Denver, Colorado, um, Richard Troy Martinez. And um I was born into a family that wasn't exactly uh what you would call the perfect family. I had a mom and a dad. Um they were Catholic, um, but only in name. And so what that means is they ran drugs and they were one of the biggest drug running families in all of Denver in the Colorado area. Um and growing up with that I mean, I didn't know any difference. I was three or four. And um my younger brother was born when I was three. And we lived that way for another year. And then my dad passed away off of a drug overdose. And we were left with my mom, my grandparents, and my mom struggled. Um she was also into drugs and prostitution and she struggled greatly with taking care of me and my younger brother. Um we had a house, we lost the house and my mom went through boyfriend after boyfriend after boyfriend. And we moved into an apartment, another apartment, until the point where it got to where we were staying in a hotel and Things were getting really bad. We were being neglected and beyond belief. And my brother would end up running down the hallway in the hotel. My mom wouldn't have a clue where he was until someone down at the um registration desk called and asked what what was going on. And um things were wild and out of control. And then social services stepped in. I was almost five. I think I had about a month until my birthday I was almost five. And it was about midnight and they didn't have a place for us to stay, so we're just at the county service building and um They're trying to find someone, making phone calls, finally someone picks up and asks, hey, can we send these two boys to your house for the night? Just for the night we'll come up pick them up in the morning. And this family, they said yes, even though they already had three kids there. Um as a foster family you're not allowed to have more than four. Um and so by taking me and my younger brother brother in, they would have five. And so They were kind of iffy on it and then they said, Okay, we'll take 'em in for the night and we got there and it was about two in the morning and I hadn't slept a wink, I was super wide-eyed, bushy-tailed. And um they fed us, or they fed me rather, my brother was sleeping. I hadn't eaten in four days. Um I had cereal to till I was full and passed out watching veggie tails. Um and woke up the next morning Um met my new um brothers and sister uh for the night and they called social services the next day and said they want they were they were fine with just keeping us. And um we stayed in social services in that foster care, that very home. We stayed in that home for two years and then they adopted us when I was in first grade. And me marrying a brother we we grew up in that family. Um My name is Richard Troy Mor Richard Troy Friedley now. Um you couldn't tell I'm half Mexican at all if you were just to look at me. Um And so it's just amazing how God works. Um in my life. Like I know I would have never heard of God if things that had happened exactly the way he planned them to and I ended up with family that took care of us, took us to church. I was saved when I was eight years old in Sunday school. Teacher led me through the Steps of the gospel, showed me I'm a sinner, showed me I needed Christ in my life to save me from my sins and to redeem me from the penalty of hell and that I would go to heaven. And I accepted that and I've been living my life ever since. I'm involved Bible college right now. I can't tell you the name of my Bible college, but you can ask the pastor afterwards if you really, really want to know. But just living in Bible college, found out about MBT. I'll be a junior this next year. I found out about MBT last year. I did not travel last year. I really regret not traveling after traveling so far this year because it's such a great program. Um it's almost more for the evangelists than it is for the boosters. It's it completely changes you from top to the bottom. It's Just changes your walk with God, makes just draws you closer to God, gets things right in your life, gets rid of sin, and cleans you out and just sets you up in front of kids and teens and you're preaching the gospel on a weekly, daily basis, and it's just it's truly been such a blessing to me. um traveling neighborhood Bible time. But let's get into my message just a little bit about me. It's all glory to God. In Galatians 4, um I want to start off with Um verse 3. Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world. Now, the elements of the world is sin. Saying we're all born sinners. I mean, I know I was born a wicked evil sinner, even as a little baby, like back there. Like and we're just mankind since the very beginning of the fall. We're all born sinners. And this is just saying that we're in bondage to sin. That means we're stuck. We can't stop sinning. There's no freedom from it. And Romans 3. 23 says, all have sinned, but come short of the glory of God. Now in in Bible time we teach the boosters that sin is anything I think, anything I say, or anything I do, that breaks God's law and it separates me from God. There's something in between me and God and um we can't fill that void. I had a young booster come to me last week and he's like, I've been doing a lot of good this week. Um And he he wasn't saved. And he's like, I haven't doing a lot of good this week. I think we're going to heaven. And that's how sad it is that it's not the case, no matter what we can do. The Bible says our works are as filthy rags. Nobody wants a filthy rag. And it's sad that so many people think that that just by their good works they're gonna make it into heaven. Um but there is hope because Jesus came and Jesus died for my sins, for your sins, for the sins of the whole world. He lived a perfect and holy life, never to sin, not even once, and then they took him And they killed him on a cross to pay for our sins, to pay that debt that we owe to God. And um he died, and but three days later he rose again and now he's in heaven to prepare the place for each and one of us and that's the best news on earth. could not be um more excited about that. The fact that now that separation It doesn't have to be separation anymore. We can be close with God and have that personal walk with Him. And um in verse number And look, in verse number four, but when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. That's Jesus. to redeem them that were under the law. That's us, that we might receive the adoption of sons. Now When I was born, I was born to a family that obviously was not able to take care of me and we went into foster care. When I was adopted I was made their son. I was given all the rights, all the inheritance, everything. I was their son. It was like nothing had ever happened, like they'd been with me my whole entire life. And The funny thing is, you can't legally disown an adopted child. And that's how it is with God. When we're when we come into the family of God, when we accept Jesus Christ into our life, And believe him as our Savior, we can't lose that. There's nothing that can take that away from us. And we have an eternal destination in heaven. And um that is our inheritance. Let me look right here. That is our inheritance forever. Heaven. You all though spend eternity with Jesus Christ and God in heaven. That's just there's nothing more. that I'm looking forward to than that. Just being able to sit at God's feet and see God's face in heaven, that's truly gonna be amazing. Um In verse number six, now this is really cool. Um and because you are sons, God has sent forth the spirit of his son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father. Now Abba, Abba is a very intimate term, it's like daddy. Like you got your young child Christ daddy whatever or daddy. It's just that's how it is. It's so intimate. It's close, that close relationship. And God gives us that close relationship that we can have with Him. Anytime we want. It's not, oh, like the Catholics do it. You have to go to a priest to get to God. That's not how it is. Thank the Lord. Um We can go directly to God and talk with Him, have a relationship with Him. A relationship with a relationship with God is so Sweet and it's so important in our lives. That's the only way we can grow in our Christian walk, is having a personal relationship with God. And He wants that relationship with us. All we have to do. Talk with him. Read our Bible. That's his word for us is all right there. Written down for us. And his word is true. Like you were saying, the King James Bible. It's a true Bible and it's There's nothing like it. Um these new Bibles coming out aren't aren't anything good. They're a perversion of God's word. And the King James Bible holds true and it's held true for hundreds of years. And I do applaud this church's steadfastness in the King James Bible. There's not many churches that'll hold to it nowadays and it's been awesome. So he's crying, Abba, Father. In verse 7 it says, Wherefore thou art no more a servant, but a son, and of a son, than an heir of God through Christ. Now it's just explaining exactly what I just explained to you. We're going to heaven. We have an inheritance with Christ. Now we're made sons and daughters of God. Um In verse 8, now this is this was where it changes a little bit. How be it then? When ye knew not God, ye did service unto them, which by nature are no gods. That means in the past we served other things. We didn't serve God. We served money, we served cars. well things things that absolutely have no eternal value whatsoever. And I mean that's just that's human nature. And verse 9 it says, but now, after that ye have known God, or rather known are known of God, that means you have a relationship with God, being saved After that, you have known God, or rather are known of God, how turn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements? Whereunto you desire again to be in bondage? Now, the weak and beggarly elements of sin. Serv self, serving money, serving a job, serving Anything that gets in the way between you and your relationship with God. You and your relationship with God should be number one. If it's number one, everything else is going to fall into place. If your relationship with God is number one, You can live a perfectly happy life. Now, there are still things come up in your life, obviously, that we just have trials, hardships, and God goes us through those. But that should be our number one priority is a relationship with God. And it says here, how turn ye again to the weak and begging elements? Now, Paul is speaking to the church in Galatia about this sin and kind of reminding them of how When they were saved, they had this relationship with God and they had been turning away. Now, I know I've been backslidden in the past. I've slipped into sin. get completely away from God. And I'm not proud of it, but it happened. And that's what Paul is speaking of right here. And he's talking to the church in Galatia. And ask him why? Why would you do this? A relationship with God is so much better. It's absolutely night and day. And It's bondage. That sin is bondage. When Christ died for us, he broke that bondage. He broke our chains and he set us free. Free to no longer live in that sin. Now, what are we doing returning to that sin? It's just it's pointless. There's absolutely no point to it. Um And it it puts something between us and God. It that's sin. Sin is human nature, but if we allow that sin to permeate our lives, it just it sends us on a path of destruction. And even though we still have that inheritance with God, our relationship with God is compromised because of sin. And so we get that right. We get our sins right with God. We confess it and we forsake it. That means we turn from it and completely forget about it and do right. When we confess it, we forsake it. That's when we have our relationship with our relationship with God is right and good. And um I know that's been a struggle for me personally. is keeping my life right with God and doing neighborhood Bible time definitely did straighten me out in a lot of things and helped me realize How much I had been living for myself, living for the world, and just being bit pointed out to me, like the God's Word preaching. We have three weeks of hard, hard preaching that completely changes us, convicts us, makes us get right with our parents, our friends, our teachers, our mentors, everyone in our life. It just it breaks us down to the bare bones and it builds us back up. It's boot camp, really, for young men going into the ministry and um Just getting right with God. There's nothing like it. This summer m my relationship with God has been so sweet. We have to do this thing. It's called PDDDR. Um it's three D's. Make sure I got it right. It's our personal Oh man, I can't even remember the D's. Do you remember the D's? Daily Direct Devotional. R. I don't remember the R, but it stands for what we have to do is renewal. Thank you, sir. Renewal. We spend time with God each and every day, first thing in the morning. We spend at least an hour, if not more, with God. And that hour, um, we spend reading the Bible, praying, memorizing, and it It's been crazy to see just from that how much sweeter relationship with God is. It's just a beautiful thing. Like if you implement this into your life, you will notice a change. When you got saved, you noticed the change. If you didn't, you probably should check yourself. When you got saved, you changed. You began to notice things that were in your life that shouldn't be there, some sins. You had to get right. And when you're doing this, it just it changes you. It has to. That's the that's what it's meant for. It's meant to change you, bring you closer to God. And um I just wanted to share that with you. That's what God laid on my heart for um this evening. And I want to thank you all for allowing me to be here, allowing Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Caleb to be here doing neighborhood battle time for you guys. Um It's truly been a blessing just to this church. After being here for one week earlier and then coming back, it's just awesome and a blessing. So thank you very much. Pastor? Bow our heads and close our eyes. Um it's a good message.