First Thessalonians chapter one and uh we are glad you're out this evening We're studying a four uh studying this church in Thessalonica, some everything trying to learn everything I can about this church from the book of First Thessalonians. Paul's letter that he wrote to this group of believers in Thessalonica and he tells us a lot about the church. And my impression in reading and studying this uh in preparation for the series was the church at Thessalonica was as rapture a ready church as I could uh as you're gonna find anywhere, at least my perspective of it is in studying this. They were ready for the Lord to come back. Uh at any given time. Of course we understand the Bible teaches that The rapture of the church, now we're going to test your theological knowledge a little bit this evening. The rapture of the church is eminent. What do we mean by the word eminent? The rapture of the church is eminent. Means it's what? Alright, it could happen, but more than just the fact it could happen, it could happen at any moment, at any time. It's eminent. There's nothing that has to take place, no prophecy. that needs to be fulfilled. Everything is placed. All the Lord has to do is come back. It could be at any time. So with that in mind, if the rapture of the church, us being caught up out of here to meet the Lord in the air the unsaved and the world left behind to go in the tribulation period, if it could happen at any time, what does that mean for you and I as believers? Alright, that means we need to be ready. It means we need to be in tune with the Lord. We need to be saved. Is there a danger? I'm getting a little ahead of myself here. Look at this. But is there a danger of a Christian being left behind? No, absolutely not. Every Christian's going to be raptured out of here. We're going to face the Lord all Christians, all stripes, good Christians, bad Christians, big Christians, little Christians, Christians that have been saved a long time, Christians only have been saved a little time, t Paul Christian short Christians, skinny Christians Not skinny Christians. We're all going to be raptured out of here. So we need to be ready. And you study, as I said, study the book of 1 Thessalonians. These group of believers, I have no reason to think it was a huge church. May have been our size. We don't know. May have been bigger, maybe a little smaller. But uh whatever their size was We glean this from it. When the Lord came back, there was no changes, nothing at least major that they had to make. There was no, they were ready for the Lord to come back and prepare. And so, as pastor of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and let me put it this way: as a member Of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, I would like for I would like to have the assurance that our church is ready for the rapture. I would imagine the members of our church would want that to be. I know as an individual believer, I want to be living moment by moment in tune with the Lord, in obedience to the Lord so that when the rapture takes place I'll not be ashamed. And so that's the motive behind this. We've been looking down through, we're into chapter two. And I'm going to read verses 5 through 8. We actually got started last week on this little section, and I got stalled down in the first point of the first point. And I'm going to try and Get out of that mud hole and get moving on, you know, and I don't mean mud hole. Get out of that uh uh The um trying to get the engines started and running again. Okay. So look at verse number five. For neither at any time. Now this is Paul writing to the Thessalonicans, and he's describing his his approach to preaching the gospel to him. Neither at any time used we flattering words, as you know. Apparently, well Shut up and read, Leatherman. Um Nor a cloak of covenant, God is witness, for nor of men sought we glory, neither of you, nor yet of others, when we might have been burdensome As the apostles of Christ, but we were gentle among you. Even as a nurse cherisheth her children So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted unto you not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls. Because you were what Dear unto us. Now that phrase caught my attention in the beginning of verse 8, affectionately desirous. That describes, I believe, the Lord's heart condition, his attitude towards those believers in Thessalonica that he was affectionately desirous. So let's pray and uh try and get this thing running again. Father, bless now our study of this passage of Scripture I pray, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would take these truths here, some principles that I believe are here. Holy Spirit, apply them to our lives, that we could incorporate into our living, our ministries. These characteristics that were true of Paul that are stated here. Lord, we need your Holy Spirit to instill them in us. And so with that in mind, I yield myself to you. I present my body anew. Fill me, I pray, with your Holy Spirit. is my earnest prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. We pointed out last week that God used Paul in tremendous ways. In individual lives, in families, in communities. And if you'll remember, for those of you who are here, you'll remember, we said that though God may not use, and most likely realistically speaking, God uh may not use you and I to the same extent that he used the Apostle Paul. I doubt seriously 2,000 years from now folks will be talking about what Dennis Leatherman did or didn't do 2,000 years later, we're talking about what Paul did. So I doubt seriously that most of us, maybe not even any of us, will ever be used to the extent the Apostle Paul was. But nevertheless God does want to use us like he used Paul to influence other people's lives. There is an individual that is alive right now that is in your world of influence that God wants to use you to draw them to Christ. I am convinced of that. In fact, some of you right now are thinking of someone very specifically That God has laid on your heart, and that person, God is wanting to work through you and influence that. Just like he did Paul in a grander scale. Perhaps there is a family Just like the Philippian jailers family, that God wants to work through you, maybe it's through adverse circumstances come upon you, but God wants to work through you and influence that family for the Lord Jesus Christ. and draw them perhaps to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to suggest to you, and listen, I can't answer for other churches, so don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say here But I I believe there are communities within the realm of our church's influence that God wants to work through people in our church to reach that community. I tell you what's been on my heart the last several months. I don't know why, but uh McHenry area has just been burdened on my heart about reaching people that live there for Christ and with the gospel. Tara Alda is on our radar. Uh Kitts Miller. I was down there visiting Connie the other day and when I was down there, boy, my heart just got stirred. And I thought, we need to get down here and knock on these doors. I know Jerry and Connie have been witnessing But uh these communities that God wants to work through us to influence them with the gospel, just like he did Paul. So that's my frame of mind coming out of these passages that we just read here. Now I noticed, I mentioned this last week, I noticed there are two Um, what do I want? Two conditions, two two conditions that Paul put himself in so that God could use him. The first one, they're not expressed this way necessarily, although it's biblical phrases. The first one I notice in verse 5 and 6 He Paul died to self. He died to self. And I think we're I'm going to show you, and I we we got to the first one and got got bogged down and stalled out on that one. But um uh the first one dying to self. I see three aspects of Paul dying to self in verse five and six. Verse seven and eight Not only did he die to self, if I'm going to have an influence on people and I'm going to witness to people and I'm going to have an effect on them for eternity I've got to get self out of the way, but that's not enough. Something else has to be put in its place. What is that? Christ. I need to put off self, die to self, and put on Christ And have the mind of Christ, have the spirit of Christ. Colossians talks about, put off the old man, put on the new, put off self. Put on Christ. And I see that here. Not in those terms, but I see those characteristics. Now we pointed out last week that uh in verse number five, the first part, we noted that when we died a self One thing that's going to characterize us is honesty. Honesty. Three characteristics of a person who has died to self One, they're going to be honest. See what Paul said? Remember what we went over and over and over and over last week? For neither at any time use we flattering words. And uh did anybody memorize my definition of the word flattery? I'm not flattered I thought if somebody had memorized it, it would be very flattering. This was my defin my brilliant definition of the word flattery. And people at the time agreed with me, it was brilliant. Proclaiming exaggerated praises on another person for my own benefit I thought there'd be oohs and ahs and a repeat. But you're getting bogged down, Leatherman. So Paul says, listen, we didn't show up there And say all these nice platitudes and all these wonderful things about you that were true. We were just straight up with you. We were just honest with you And uh we noted last week the importance, if we're going to influence people, the importance of honesty. Not unkindness, not rude and crude, but just honest. Speaking the truth in Love. And but we gotta be straight up. We all agreed last week that we want our doctor to be honest with us. Right? I want the doctor be honest with me. I little procedure last week and doing some tests. And uh I get the results back When? Who knows around here when you're going to get it back? But uh if something comes back bad, I don't want the doctor say, oh yeah, everything's fine. Just pay your bill. Everything's fine I want them to tell me straight up, right? Right? How many folks, how many folks are out there? Raise your hand. Anybody? Life. Alright, so we said there needs to be honesty. Second of all, if a person is dies to self, all day, I didn't show up, get a big crowd, or do this, I was just straight up with you, I told you the truth about sin and disobedience and all of that. I was honest. Second thing, I see happiness. Say, where in the world do you get that? Look at verse 5. Neither at any time used we flattering words, as you know. And uh, by the way, that little phrase, as ye know, that caught my attention in reviewing this. What does that sound like to you? He's saying, hey, we were honest with you. We told you straight, as you know. You you follow what I'm saying? It's like uh, yeah boy, he l he he laid it on us, man. Uh you know, uh he man there was no jive with him. He sh he See how hip I am? He was just straight. And they knew that. So let's get on. We're getting bogged down there. Number two, happiness. Notice what he says. Nor a cloak of what? Covetousness. Come on now, talk to me. You guys are asleep. It's a cloak of what? There we go. Covetousness. What does it mean to be covetous Somebody talk to me. Okay, desiring something that is not mine. Alright? I would say that's a good partial definition. But I think you need to qualify it a little bit more. If I go to Walmart and there's a jug of milk there, it's not mine, but I want a jug of milk, would that be covetousness for me to desire that jug of milk No, not necessarily. So desiring something that's not mine wouldn't necessarily in and of itself be covetous. Okay. Desiring something that b that jug of milk belongs to someone else. So desiring something that belongs to someone else, uh James bought a new car. How many folks notice James's new car? How many folks are glad James got a new car? Ooh, ooh, me. He borrowed mine. So uh, but um Uh so uh he bought a car that was someone else's. He looked at it before, it was Art Butler's, and uh he desired it. Was he coveting that car? No, that's not a biblical definition. He desired it. Alright, let me ask you this. So we're going to think tank here. Is desire the same thing as coveting? Desiring something, is it equal to coveting? No. Coveting has positive or negative aspects. Negative. Whatever coveting is, it's bad. It's not good. We shouldn't do it. So desiring something and coveting something isn't necessarily the same, although covet includes a desire. Ah, okay. Now we're getting it around. Desiring something I should not desire. Desiring something to the extent that I'd be willing to do wrong to get it? Paul. Okay. The idea I think is like indulging self. Okay. Okay, which is not just desiring But acting on it. Okay. Lasciviousness is indulging my every desire. Just granting. Whatever I want, I get it Let me give you a let me give you the right definition, which is mine. Just happens to be mine. Here's the way I see it. And I think everybody was nipping around the bud. What I think covetousness is a is a desire that in and of itself is not wrong, but a desire for something that is not legitimately mine to have Alright. The Ten Commandments, thou shalt not covet. What's the first thing you shouldn't covet? What does it say? Thou shalt not covet thy Neighbor's wife. Is it wrong for a young man to desire a wife? No. In fact, this day and age I'm really glad when they do I want a young man to desire a wife. So there's nothing wrong for a young man to desire a wife. Covetousness comes in when he desires what? A woman that is not legitimately his to be his wife. It's another man's wife, you see? It's not legitimate. So I'm desiring something that I have no claim upon. I have no legitimate right to have. And so you can fill in the blank. In fact, the commandment, thou shalt not covet, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor thy neighbor's Things. Yeah, that's in the uh that's in the Chester version. Uh uh neighbor's whore oxen, neither his house, nor his things. Right? And so he says here, now he said all that to say this. Now look what he says. He says we didn't come in with a cloak of covetousness. I didn't come in there wanting something for myself that was not legitimate for me to have Now the word cloak in there, and Brian asked me about it last week, about the word cloak. I got studying that. That's an interesting word. The word that the word cloak here in Thessalonians chapter 5 is translated The word it's translated from is a preposition. It simply means something that is in its place. It's not describing a particular type of garment. Now, the English word cloak is a type of what would a cloak be? What do you think of when you think of the English definition of the word cloak? I had an overcoat type thing. I put a um a covering something that covers. But the idea of a cloak Is you're covering something in order to do what? To disguise or deceive something. Trojan's horse. You remember the Trojan horse? The horse was a cloak, was a cover-up for what? The guys inside it. And so Paul says, now get this, Paul says, we didn't show up. Preaching the gospel now. I didn't put on some air, this front, this facade, what was hiding covetousness in my heart. Let me put it this way. Paul was not using the ministry as a scheme for material gain. He didn't put this cloak on, oh yeah, I've got uh I was uh I hate to admit this, but I was watching uh some of the charismatics on TV the other day. It seems like every two months they have a they have a uh fundraiser, a um Sherathon type thing is the word I'm thinking of. It's like every two months they got and they raise money. Which is fine. I understand we have it on radio, you've got to raise money. There's nothing wrong with that. But here's what caught my attention. The one guy uh the one gal was saying She was saying, listen, you're giving your tithe to somebody. He says, you are giving your tithe to somebody. And I thought, well, that's probably a true statement. 10% of my income. It's going somewhere. And she says you ought to give it to God by sending it to this TV station. Anybody see a problem with that? That was exactly what Brian just said. I thought that is a cloak of covetousness. Question, does a ministry outside the local church have a legitimate claim on someone's tithe? No, absolutely not. The tithe is the Lord's. It's to be given, if we understand scripture right, it's to be given to the local church. Now, if you want to support, you know, FBN or what other over and above your tithe, that's fine. And so that to me that was a perfect example of a cloak. They wanted the tithe, which is not legitimately theirs, that goes to local church, but they put it on as we have a ministry. You're giving it to the Lord through us. You follow what I'm saying? Is this making any sense? And so, Paul, uh so my word is happy. He he first of all he was honest. He didn't use flattering words. Second of all, he was happy. He didn't want anything they had He wasn't in the ministry to benefit himself from it. Now, later on he talks about it. If they gave to him and they were generous to him, that was totally up to him. But that was not why he was in it He wasn't there to get stuff. Paul was happy with the provisions God gave him. Whether he was in a palace or in a prison. His concern was that he was doing the will of God and reaching others with the gospel. And he didn't show up in Thessalonica thinking Wow, this is a red hot town. I can uh I can leave here with my pockets full and a nice ch a nice uh chariot. That wasn't why I came. I came because I wanted to see soul saved. I came because I had an affectionate desire in my heart for your well-being. And that is what we have got to be as a minister, and it's a challenge to me as Pastor, and all of us as Christians, if we want to be a witness We must not look at people as to how we can benefit from people, but rather look at people as how can I help them. Not a cloak of covetousness. Preachers will joke around a little bit sometimes. They'll say, ah, we had a we got a lawyer here tonight. Ah, we had a lawyer show up at church. We need to get them in the membership. You know, why would they say that? Oh, there's lots of money there. And so we're going to win them to the Lord because we love them and don't want them to go to hell? Ah, because they got lots of money. There's a doctor. And a boy, a doctor came to. You know, I've been trying to win all my doctors to the Lord. Why? So because I don't want to go to hell. No. So we want them to come in and give their money to the church You follow what I'm saying? I told you a story about the church I was in one time. I was working in it, and uh a fella was a sodomite and got saved And everybody's excited. Praise the Lord for that, huh? I mean, he got saved. His life was transformed. It changed. He came and he wanted to get baptized. Found out that there was a possibility he might have had AIDS. You know what the pastor said? He said, you know what? There's a Baptist church not far from where you live. Why don't you go there and talk to them? That would be more convenient for you, be a whole lot closer, and um then you could get there and be a part of that church. I thought that rascal There was a bunch of businessmen that had gotten saved in our church since I was there, and there were some fairly wealthy people had joined the church, and not one of the one guy was driving probably forty-five minutes to church. He never told that guy that There's a closer church for him to attend. Huh? What's that sound like? Cloak of covetousness. Oh yeah, we care about them. If you're a sodomite, if you're a former sodomite and got saved or might have some sickness, well then you can go to another church. But you're a business man, you got some money. Drive it, brother, drive it Now I'm not saying follow what I'm saying. God uses people to meet the needs and provide for us But we've got to be in the ministry not for what people do for us, but you need to be in the ministry for how I can be a help to others. Affectionately desirous Notice the last part of verse 8. Because ye were what? Dear unto us, not because of what we could get out of you. And so he says we were honest, we were happy. I got a couple minutes. Turn with me if you would. Two passages scripture. Now keep your place here. I've got one last thing. But I want you to see these verses. Go to 2 Peter 2 with me real quick. 2 Peter chapter 2 and look with me at verse number 3. Second Peter chapter two and verse number three And he said, are you there? 2 Peter 2, 3. And through covetousness, there's that word, shall they with feigned words, what's that sound like? A cloak, huh? With phony words. We've got that cloak. So look at it again. Think in the context of our passage. And through covetousness shall they with fain words make what? Merchandise of you, whose judgment now of a long time lingereth not, and their damnation slumbereth not. So here they are making merchandise of the people of God. They only want what they can get out of the people, not what I can do for the people. Now come over to Acts chapter 21, real quick. Acts chapter 21 and verse number 13. Here you have the opposite. This is Paul's frame of mind. Acts 21, verse 13. Then Paul answered, What mean ye to weep and to break my heart? For I am ready not to be bound only, but also to what? Die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul was not in the ministry for what he can get out of it. He was in the ministry to give of himself and give of himself and give of himself. And give of himself even to the point of giving his own life. That is when we die to self and we put on Christ, there's a happiness. I'm living for God. I want to fulfill the purpose. I am happy. My happiness isn't dependent upon what I'm getting. My happiness is in giving. Giving of myself. And so, if we get that frame of mind, if we get where we are just straight up and honest with people, I mean kind and gracious, but we just tell it the truth. And we are simply content. We're not trying to get anybody anything out of these people. We're trying to get this, that, or the other. I think we'll have a powerful influence. We were down in Chattanooga and I was talking to your wife today, Brother Horton, about Chattanooga. And uh his was it your daughter went to school where I did And um for a little while. And anyway, we were down in Chanuga, we were in the projects. And uh inner city black projects, rough, yeah, I mean just we got all kinds of stories. One day this lady came out, a couple folks came out. They said, We know why you're down here in these projects working with us black black folk And uh we said, really, why's that? They said, because the federal government gives you money to come down here and visit us I said, really? They said, yeah, that's and they start yelling, that's why they're here. The federal m government gives them money to come down here and visit with and visit us and do this. I said, number one, I ain't never seen it. I wish they would But second of all, it says, even if they uh second of all, they don't, and that's not why we're here. We're here to We'll try and win you to the Lord. We're trying to help you find Christ, find peace and purpose and direction in your life. Get saved. Escape hell We just gave of ourselves from them. We wanted to see them come to Christ. There was no financial or material gain whatsoever. In fact, it cost us a lot of money. And so Paul said that was our motive. We were honest, we were happy, then one last final characteristic of dying to self. Notice verse 6 of 1 Thessalonians, nor of men sought we glory, neither of you, nor yet of others, when we might have been burdensome as the apostles of Christ. The third word I put down was humility. Honesty, happy, just content with what I have. I'm not in it to get stuff. And three, humility. When we guide a self, we seek success in the ministry only for God's glory. Now I wish I knew who quoted this. This is just coming off the top of my head. But somebody said one time, God can do great things through a person who doesn't care who gets the glory. And there's a lot of truth in that. If I can just live for God and serve God in such a way that He gets all the glory, then God can do some great things for us. You know why we were created? We were created for his glory. To glorify him, to exalt him, to bring pleasure to him. And when I get everything I'm doing for the Lord is not for me, I die to self, I humble myself, and God gets all the glory Then God can do something through us. But if we're always worried whether we're being recognized or not, if we're always worried whether somebody's going to thank me for this or not, And our influence is going to be very, very minimal. But when we do it for God's glory, then we have a great ministry. When we die to self, seek the success in ministry only for God's glory, then God can do great things through us when we seek only his glory. God will not share his glory with another. And so what's the key? Paul said, we showed up, I died the self. I just told you the truth. Listen, there is a hell. Y'all are sinners. You're worshiping a false God. Diana, she is not real. She doesn't exist. If you die with your faith in Diana, you're lost for all eternity. You need Christ. He's your only Savior. He's straight up, no flattery. He was uh he was uh happy. Listen, I'm not here for what you have. God will take care of me. God I found whatever state I am there with to be content. I'm happy if I'm driving a Uh what was that other car you had? A 1984 Chrysler town and country that stalls out on Route 68 halfway to Morgantown. James is completely happy driving that. Or if it's a night 2010 Chevy Cobalt LT L S, uh he's happy driving that. But whether he's driving a nice car or an old car, whether he's riding a donkey or walking on his feet, doesn't matter to me. I just want to be a blessing to you. I just want to help you. And then last of all, he's humble Wow, that Paul's really something. No, Paul ain't nothing. Christ is everything. That was his attitude. And we get in that position, man, we can maybe see God do some great things Well, let's see how many people I won to the Lord this year. Oh, look at all those names there. Listen, if you're trying to win the Lord just to get notches on your gun, you're going to be very ineffective. If you're trying to win people of the Lord because you want Jesus Christ to be glorified, souls to be saved, then God can do something. Does that make sense? Father in heaven, please help us and bless us. Lord, I pray you'd help me and all of us to just die to self and uh get ourselves out of the way and let you work through us. And that you get all the glory. Father, use our church. I pray, Lord, that when you come back, we'll be a church that's completely honest in the community. We have integrity. I pray we'd be a church that is just happy. Whether you bless us financially or whether you withhold your financial blessings, God, we just serve you and give of ourselves to you. And Lord, help us just to humble ourselves and not worry about what whether we get praise from any other evangelist or the swordlord or whatever. God, we just want you to be praised. We want you to be glorified. Use us, we pray. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would be