He had a ministry where he labored diligently. Look at verse 9 again with me. For ye remember, brethren, are labor and travail. For laboring night and day, because we would not be chargeable unto any of you, we preached unto you the gospel of God. He says here that he labored very diligently. His service for the Lord at Thessalonica consisted of two things. First of all, I'm using big $50 words here, but I put this down. An expenditure of effort. In other words, he put a lot of effort Into establishing this church here at Thessalonica. Look what he says there again. How uh we brethren are labor and travail. That word labor is an interesting word. It's more than just working. It has this idea, it has this idea of, and this is one of the definitions that I came across, to beat oneself down with work I mean, it is the idea of working so hard that when you're done, it's like somebody beat you up. Has anybody ever worked that point? You know what I'm talking about. I mean my wife does this every day at the office behind a computer answering the phones. But uh it's the idea where when you're done you are completely wore out, almost like somebody beat you up. Uh another um dictionary had this definition to work intensely to the point of weariness, absolutely wore out. Paul says, you guys know this. You remember when I was there with you, I worked so hard. I worked to the point where I was absolutely exhausted, I was beat down, I was weary. He wore himself out for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then he adds another word on there. He says, You remember, brethren, our labor and travail. Now, what do you think of when you hear that word travail? Aha, that's what I thought of. How many people thought of that? Giving birth. It is putting forth effort to the point of pain. Um, Paul said, now this is what he's saying. He's saying, you guys remember when I was there with you. I worked at preaching the gospel to the point where I was worn out, where it was literally painful for me. The effort I put in to getting the gospel to you. Now that's tremendous. I heard Dr. Smith say years ago, and I don't remember if it was here or where, but he's preaching. And he asked this question, just kind of as an aside, going through the message. It wasn't a major point, but boy, it caught my spiritual attention. He said, when's the last time you've been out of breath for the gospel? When's the last time you've been so diligent and taking the gospel to people that you were worn out? That you were tired Paul understood something. He understood that if we're going to make a significant difference in people's lives, it's going to require hard work. It's going to require effort. If we are going to have a strong, effective ministry for the gospel in Oakland and around the world, we're going to have to put some effort into it. We're going to have to work hard. Keep your place here. Turn with me. Not far away. Come over to 2 Corinthians. Now, as I study the New Testament, I find I don't think, I don't see that this was a unique for Paul simply at Thessalonica. This was characteristic of his ministry. And it kind of explains why he was somebody that was used of God to the extent that he was, because he was He was 100% into it in putting effort in. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 6. Come over there to chapter 6. And I'm going to read verse 4 and 5. I want you to notice this in your Bible. 2 Corinthians 6, verse 4 and 5. He says this, 2 Corinthians 6, verse 4. But in all things, approving ourselves as the ministers of God. Alright, he says, listen, this is proof that This is how you prove you're serving God. In much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses, in stripes. imprisonments, in tumults, what's that next phrase? In labor. Same word. Working to the point of utter exhaustion In watchings and fastings, then he goes down. But he's saying the church at uh at Corinth, Corinth, the church at Corinth, in 2 Corinthians here, he's saying, listen You want to serve God effectively, you want to have an influence in people, you want to be used of God in a significant way, it requires effort. It has to be hard work involved in it. There's no other way. Turn over to chapter 11, same book, 2 Corinthians, chapter 11, look with me at verse 23. Now here he's, Paul's, it's almost like he's embarrassed that he's doing this, but he's defending his apostleship to the church there. He'd come under attack. And he's defending himself. And in verse 23 of 2 Corinthians 11, look what he says. He says, Are they ministers of Christ? There were some other people who were criticizing them. And a hard time. He says, I speak as a fool. He's saying, I'm embarrassed to say this. But he says, 2 Corinthians 11, 23, are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool. I am more In labors, same word, more what? Abundant. He says, not only did I work for the gospel to the point of exhaustion, he says, I did it more than anyone else. Now he's not trying to exalt himself here. I think we understand the Spirit of Paul. He's simply trying to defend his position. But he says here it again. In labors more abundant and stripes above measure and prisons more frequent and deaths often, then he goes down and gives a list of things This was characteristic of Paul's ministry. It wasn't unique at the church at Thessalonica. He was all out, 100%, full effort, in getting the gospel to the unsaved. In preaching and teaching the Word of God. I believe one reason Paul was used of God so extensively in reaching others for Christ is because he simply worked so hard at it. It consumed them. So the first thing we notice here in uh in uh his these verses 9, 10, 11, and 12 of 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. is that there was he labored diligently and that meant uh an expenditure of effort tremendous amount of effort going into this but he points something else out here under his laboring diligently notice it says For laboring, uh for you remember, brethren, are you there? Second first Thessalonians chapter two, look at verse nine, for remember, brethren, our labor and travail, for laboring what Night and day. Not only was there an expenditure of effort, but there was an investment of time. It was night and day for him. Preaching the gospel for the Apostle Paul and getting this church established and seeing God develop it into a rapture-ready church was not a free-time activity. His involvement in getting the gospel and teaching and discipling and building and seeing God build this church through him was not just something he did in his free time. It was it required a lot of his time. It was not simply a convenience ministry And I tell you, and uh I'm um we're all guilty of this no doubt, but too often we relegate our ministry for the Lord. We relegate our witnessing time or whatever We simply put it off when I have time, when I've got all my other things done. Then if I have time, I'm going to try and be a witness, try and disciple some people, try and influence some folks for Christ. That is not the Bible pattern The Bible pattern is, man, this is an investment of my life in the lives and souls of other people And uh night and day, night and day, night and day, we preached the gospel. We preached unto you the gospel of God. If we are going to be the church God intends for us to be Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. If we're going to have the influence in the world that God intends for us to have, somebody is going to have to put a lot of hard work and long hours in preaching the gospel If we're going to be what God intends for us to be, we cannot be a rapture-ready church by only giving God our free time and uh and uh uh a half-hearted effort. It's not going to happen. We work and we've got to work hard. Preaching the gospel. And by the way, I notice in verse number nine that his uh investment of time and effort uh was very focused. Notice what he was working at. What's the last part of verse nine? I just read it What was he putting all this energy and effort and time into doing? Mowing the grass? Preaching the gospel It wasn't in vacuuming the floors, it wasn't in waxing the buses, it wasn't in building swing sets as necessary as those things are. But that was not the focus. We can have, listen, we can have everybody putting all their time and all their effort into giving us the nicest facilities in town, and we'll still not be a rapture-ready church. It has to be an investment in what The gospel. That's where the effort is in. That is where the time has to be invested in getting the gospel and teaching the Word of God and discipling the time uh the people of God in influencing our community. That's what's going to build a church, not these peripheral things that are as necessary and they're fine, they have their place But he points out here, he says, I put all this effort, I wore myself out. I did night and day doing one thing, getting the gospel to people, and uh teaching and preaching the Word of God. So What were the ingredients? He goes, you guys know what they were. You remember when I was with you, I labored diligently. Then verse 10, he says there was another aspect. Not only did he labor diligently, but his lifestyle was godly Look at verse number 10. Here he's repeating almost himself the first part of verse 9. Your witnesses, and God also, not telling anything you don't know. You saw it with your own eyes. God knows. What? How holy and justly and unblamably we behaved ourselves among you that believed It is evident here that it is not just what we do, but how we live that's important. You know, we can work and work and work and put all this time into it, but that time and effort has to be backed up by a godly life It has to be backed up by holy living. How many people here are familiar with the term? You've heard or you've been associated somehow or another. You're familiar with the term lifestyle evangelism. Anybody familiar with that? If you've been around independent Baptists much, you've heard the term lifestyle evangelism. Generally, you will hear from independent Baptists, you will hear preaching against lifestyle evangelism And I am against lifestyle evangelism if by that you mean simply living a good life, not smoking, not cussing, not not uh uh Don't smoke, you don't chew, and not dating girls that do. Alright. And that's it. All you do is live right and never share the gospel verbally with anybody in track form or or personally or open your Bible, you never share the gospel, all you do is live right. If that's what you mean by lifestyle evangelism, then I'm against it. Nobody gets saved simply by watching somebody do right. But I am equally against simply giving out the gospel and then not having a life that backs it up. That is just as detrimental. Now, does God can, let me ask this, does God ever save someone in spite of the person giving out the gospel? Yes. There are people who have been saved by people who maybe gave a track and their life is horrendous. But they gave a tract out, and God in his mercy saved that person. But he didn't save them because of the unclean vessel. He saved them in spite of the unclean vessel. And so there are exceptions, and you know, God will use various things sometimes. But the idea here is Paul said, listen, we didn't just show up and just preach the gospel to you. He says, hey, we we had a lifestyle behind it. We had a life that reinforced what we were saying. A message without a lifestyle is just as ineffective as a lifestyle without a message. A godly personal life represents indisputable evidence of the reality of the power of the gospel. If I open my Bible up, I'm out with somebody that knows me, maybe a co-worker, a family member, or somebody in the community that uh knows a little bit about me And I open my Bible up and I go through the gospel with them explaining that we're all sinners, that Christ died for our sins, that He He rose again, He comes in our life, He forgives and cleanses us from sin changes our life. We have a home in heaven. And I'm sharing that gospel with them. But my lifestyle is no different than theirs. It's eat up by sin. It's it's the same thing that the world is then I don't have much of a uh of uh uh of evidence to give them that what I'm preaching them is true. Right or wrong But I'll tell you what, if God has worked in my heart and He's changed me and He's made, you know, not perfect, but He's He's given me holy desires in my heart, and God's given me victory in my life And I open this Bible up and they see God working in my life. They see the changes that God is doing. They see the uniqueness of the Spirit of God in me, and I share this wisdom. Suddenly, there's much more power behind that. There's some evidence of what I'm suggesting. So Paul said I showed up, he said I worked hard. He said, man, that's been my ministry. All out, 100% effort. to the point of exhaustion. I gave day and night to this thing, but wait a minute, it didn't stop there. I had a lifestyle behind it. It was real in my life. In fact, he uses three words here in verse number 10 to describe his lifestyle. Look what he says. He says, You're witnesses, and God also, how holy That's a hard word to say, how holily. But the idea, it's the exact opposite. If someone is holy, that is the exact opposite of being worldly. Would you agree with me? If someone is worldly, they are what? They're unholy, yeah, that's true, but they are like the World. What is the chief characteristic that God wants to be known by in His Word? Isaiah chapter 6. Isaiah, I saw the Lord high and lifted up, and the angels uh with six wings and three they covered their eyes and Three, they covered their feet and uh wait a minute. Two, they covered her eyes, two, they covered her feet, two, they flew. And they cried out, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God. God's chief characteristic that he wants to be known by, the first thing he wants us to think of, when we think about God, he wants us to think of the fact that he is holy. And so, if I am holy, I have the characteristics of God. If I'm worldly, I have the characteristics of the world. Paul said, and I hope I'm not reading into this here too much, but he's almost like he's saying, you could see God in my life You can see characteristics of God in my life. We were holy. The word holy itself means to be separated unto God. And this is a little offshoe. You could spend a series of messages on this. But one of the things we miss out on, we so worry about separating ourselves from the world, and we should But we equally, we don't just separate ourselves from the world to be separated from the world, we separate ours from the world so that we can be separated unto what? God. That's the whole point. And so he says, my life was holy. Then he uses another word, and justly. The word justly there has the idea of being fair and honest. We're for real. We're just fair in our actions. Then he uses the word unblamably, holy, holy, justly, and unblamably. Nobody could accuse Paul of being a stumbling block to them. Nobody could say, you know, I tried being a good Christian, but you know, Paul, he just was a stumbling block to me. He got me doing this, and he didn't Paul says, no, there's nothing you can point at me and blame. There's no accusation you can throw that hooks on me. You cannot accuse me of being a stumbling block to anybody. My life was holy, it was just, and it was unblamably. He repeatedly, throughout the New Testament, Paul, under the inspiration of God, repeatedly emphasizes the importance of a godly lifestyle. In 1 Timothy 3, verses 1 through 13, and we won't take time to turn to these, but there he addresses pastors and deacons. And you know what he does? He gives the qualifications for pastors vegans. And if you want to boil it down, it's simply saying this, you've got to have a godly lifestyle. In 1 Timothy 4, verse 12, he addresses young people and older folks in that whole passage there And he said, you know what he says to the young people, the teenagers and young people and the seniors, citizens, adults? He says, you've got to have a godly lifestyle. God expects that from you In 1 Timothy 5, verses 2 through 16, he addresses widows and young women. You know what he says basically, if you want to boil it down? You need to have a godly lifestyle. And then in Titus chapter 2, verse 11 and 12, he addresses all Christians, and he says you ought to live a godly lifestyle. There ought to be something about God visible in your life and the way you live your life. There ought to be something pure and good and holy and just and and pure something about your life where people see it and say God is in that person's life And so Paul says we showed up at Thessalonica, and he's just just kind of being redundant here through chapter two. He keeps going over and over and over the stuff he did and how he behaved and what he did. And he says the first thing, we labored diligently. We worked I worked so hard to get the gospel to you, and that's been the pattern of his life, his whole ministry. Hard work, many hours Then he says we had a godly lifestyle. Our lifestyle was godly. Let me ask you a question. I asked myself the same question. Let me ask us this question. Can anyone accuse you and I of living a godly lifestyle? Could anyone accuse us of that? Somebody we work with, family members, somebody we live, say, yep, she lives a godly lifestyle. Could anybody if some if somebody would ask someone else who knows us and say, how would you describe the way that person lives their life? Would they use these words, oh yeah, they're godly, holy, just, unblameable? Is that how they would describe you and I? That's how Paul was described. And man, it made his ministry powerful. A church is churches were established all over. The Middle East there and strong churches like Thessalonica were the result of God working through Paul. He worked hard at it. He had a godly lifestyle. And God did tremendous things. Could I be accused of living a godly lifestyle? Let me ask myself this question. Does how I live my personal life? Reinforce or does it contradict the message of the gospel? Ask myself that. How I live my life, my personal life. Does it reinforce the message of this book or does it contradict it? Paul said, we worked diligently, we labored diligently, our lifestyle was godly. Then he gives a third thing on verse 11 and 12. Look at verse 11. He says As ye know, here he's reminding them again, as ye know, how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father doth his children, that you would walk worthy of God. who hath called you unto his kingdom and glory. The third thing I put down, first of all he had a ministry where he labored diligently. Second of all, he had a ministry where his lifestyle was godly. And thirdly I put this down, he had a ministry where his leadership was positive. I do not mean to suggest, when I say his leadership was positive, I don't mean to suggest that we should never deal with the negative aspects of life. We have to do that. God forbid, if ever from this pulpit, we stop preaching against sin. Amen? I expect the evangelists to come through. I tell them many times, this is the terms I use. I hope they know what I mean. I'll say to them like this: just let her rip. Let it rip. Don't pull any punches. You just preach it straight. You deal with sin. Let us have it. And uh I think the guys that come through here are pretty good at that. And uh we've got to deal. There are negative aspects of life that must be dealt with. But Paul provided, I see here in verse 11 and 12, he provided What appears to me to be positive leadership. And by that, again, I do not mean he didn't deal with the negative aspects of life, but his ultimate objective was to build people up in the Lord. Look at verse 12. Why am I exhorting and comforting and charging you as a father to the children? Why? So that you would walk worthy of God, who hath called you into his kingdom and his glory. He wanted them to be built up in the Lord. His goal in preaching the way he did and ministering and leading the way he did was so that they would be blessed of God. They could uh uh share in the glory of God And so it was a positive objective that he was after. Now, I want to use four words to describe the leadership. that he describes here for us. Four words to express the leadership described here. First of all, I put this word down, constructive Constructive. Look at verse 11. You know how we exhorted you? That was a word describing his leadership. It was constructive. The word exhorted always has the idea of building up. Always has the idea of lifting up, of encouraging someone in the Lord. It has the idea of helping someone make progress in their walk with God He said, I wanted my leadership. And he says, my leadership was that of exhorting. My leadership produced in you a closer walk with God. Your faith was stronger, your testimony was stronger, your confidence in the Word of God was stronger, your burden for others was stronger. It was built up. It was built up. Again That is not, we're not talking about Joel Osteen type preaching. Amen? We're not talking about that. You know, you go into the doctor, and he says you've got a cyst under your fifth rib. And uh we're gonna have to uh take that cyst out, but I tell you what I want you to do. There's just wonderful things gonna happen And uh we're not going to talk about that, sis. That's not my ministry as a doctor. Uh we're just going to look at how healthy your left arm is. And we're going to talk about how trimmed your toenails are. And we're not going to talk about that cyst under your nut fib. Is that going to help me get better? I'm not going to be a healthier person. No. He says, listen, there's something there that's wrong. It's got to come out. We've got to go in there with a hacksaw and drill and we've got to get that thing out. Why is he taking that cyst out so that I will be what? Built up physically. I'll be in better shape physically. And that's what Paul's saying here. He exhorted you. Yeah, that may involve preaching against this, that, and the other, and different things and working on that, but the end goal, the object is a positive thing where you're stronger in the Lord So there's constructive. His leadership was constructive. Second thing I notice here in verse 11, his leadership was comforting. Notice what he says. As you know how we exhorted and comforted. The word comfort means to bring peace and strength into a person's life. It's the idea behind it. In times of trial, in times of difficulty, in times of failure, as a leader, I've sought to bring strength and peace into your life at that time. to help you. Then he says, he says there has to be constructive. It's comforting. And then I put this word down, challenging. As you know how we exhorted and comforting, charged every one of you. That word charge means to provide, to provoke a person to a higher level of living. So we put this charge out there. We sought to motivate you to desire to live a better Christian life, to live a higher level of Christian life Now question, can I make someone else be a better Christian? No, I can't. I can't force any, I can't intimidate people. Uh I know some Baptist preachers, one comes to my mind right now that He's in another state, but uh it's like his whole ministry, and I've never had him here, but I know him, uh his whole ministry is trying to intimidate others into being better Christians And just by brute force and intimidation and make them better Christians. You know what? I found out that fails every time. That fails every time. Biblical leadership is being able to provoke others, to motivate others that they desire to live a better Christian life That something down inside their heart is stirred. They say, you know, I want to be a better Christian when I am. I want to live above this old sinful world. I want to be unique. I want to please God with my life. Not intimidated into it. But being challenged into it. And that's what Paul said. We challenged you. We charged you to motivate others to be more than what they currently are. And then I put a fourth word down, the last part of verse 11. Every one of you, as a father, doth his children. I put this word down. Compassionate. Compassionate. You read through the book of 1 Thessalonians, and one thing's going to stand out in your mind. Paul loved those people dearly. Paul had a tremendous compassion for those believers there in Thessalonica. He loved them like a father loves a son. He provided leadership. He challenged them. He comforted them. He was constructive in his thing. Just like a father does his son. I want the best for my son. I want God's blessing on my, and that's the way Paul was. And when we get that way with our Sunday school class, With the ministry God has given us, with the people we've rubbed shoulders with here in our church, when we get to the point and say, you know, I want my life to challenge others. I want my life to help other people be a better Christian Because I care about them. I love them. It's a family issue. And Paul was used of God tremendously. to establish this church here in Thessalonica and make it a model church. And he goes through here and he gives us some of these characteristics. labor diligently. It's not just going to happen. If we're going to be what God wants us to be, we've got to work hard at it. It's going to take time. He labored diligently. His lifestyle was godly. Listen, there is no way in the world we're going to influence this world by being like the world. We've got to be like Christ. We've got to provide a better alternative. If you'd go into the doctor and uh he's gonna help you get well and he has lesions all over his face, And his hair is all greasy and slimy, and he's got uh ticks hanging on his ear and his neck. And uh what else is gross, Cabby? He's got all these he has mange, you know. Uh and you go in, he says, Oh yeah, I can I can help you be better. His teeth are all out. Uh how many folks think, oh yeah, that guy's gonna help me? Great. I say, no thanks. No thanks. You're worse shaped than I am. And that's the way we present to the world the same thing they have? Come on, Christ offers something better than the world. Do you agree with me? Christ offers a life, a peace, a confidence that's better than what this world has. So we've got to live a godly lifestyle, then we've got to have leadership. And by the way, all of us are leaders in some area And we've got to have these leadership characteristics, constructive, comforting, challenging, compassionate. I read an article, everybody recognized the name Dwight Eisenhower, right? I read an article, a snip of a book apparently that Dwight Eisenhower wrote, and he was talking about leadership, and it caught my attention And I'll just read what he wrote. In order to be a leader, a man must have followers. And to have followers, a man must have their confidence. Hence, the supreme quality of a leader is unquestionably integrity. Without it, no real success is possible. No matter whether it is on a section gang or a football field or in an army or in an office. If a man's associates find him guilty of phoniness, if they find that he lacks forthright integrity, he will fail. His teachings and his actions must square with each other. Therefore, the first great need is integrity. Integrity. You know what this world needs? The lives of Christians? Integrity. Just being real. Believing that what we say is true, and then working diligently at it. Being Christ-like in our personal lives, in godly, and letting them see that it's not just a show we're putting on after, but it's what we are. And then providing leadership and helping others, investing in their lives to strengthen them and help them in their faith and walk with God. Every one of us have that responsibility I think we have a good church. I thank God for our church. But listen, would any of us be willing to say, oh yeah, we're rapture ready? When Amos be willing to say, all right, yeah, if the Lord came back right now, oh yeah, we're everything we should be. I don't think we're there. I think we got work to do And so let's ask God to help us. Let's learn from Paul's experience. And God convicted me through preparing this message. Areas that I need to improve. And so let's ask God to help us, whatever it may be for you, this uh working, laboring hard, or um the uh um uh uh the leadership aspect or what was the second one? Um Um I'm preaching it a lifestyle, the godly lifestyle. Let's ask God to help us. And then, Father, please bless our invitation, I pray. And uh I pray as pastor that you would help me right from the get-go to incorporate these characteristics that Paul displayed in my life and that it would be for real and then uh down throughout the church help us to be what we are Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, in some of these aspects, the Spirit of God has spoken to my heart and challenged me. Some of these three areas. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me incorporate that in my life. Is there any like that at all? Steven, the Spirit of God has used some of these to touch my heart. God bless you, hands all around. Let's come to this old altar Let's ask God to help us. Say, Lord, this is the air. I need you to help me. Show me what changes to make. Show me how to incorporate this. And yield yourself to Him. Let the Spirit of God do it. Father, bless our invitation, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, or eyes are bowed.