Pastor. Did you get an afternoon rest? Any of you get any sleep? Are you awake now? I sure hope so. You know, I I'm as I travel I get in such variety of things and uh a good number of years ago this was, but music, song services are always interesting to me and I've been in number of churches where I wish they would let me preach and go home and then sing after I left. And uh that's not the case here. But I was I was preaching a meeting in a little city in Ohio Not too far from where I live, as a matter of fact, it's a little city known as Eaton, Ohio, the First Baptist Church. Those days it was pastored by Doctor Fred Hill. And um I was preaching and had a great meeting, just a great church meeting, a lot of movement and crowds and all that Two little elderly ladies played the instruments. One played the order, one played the piano. A younger fellow was leading the music. And in that church another thing that I remind myself of is there was a guy that played the marimba. And so that was kinda different. I never had that. And um but the piano, the organ, a marimba. And so the song leader gets up and says, and I don't know this page is right, but say, for instance, let's turn to page five hundred and twenty one in our Hindu. And let's sing with a great heart and lift our voices to the glory of God. And you could tell when the music started something wasn't right. Just it just wasn't right. And because it wasn't right, the song leader couldn't get started right. So he stopped at Oh, wait a minute He turned to the lady on the pion, he said, Sister, says what number you on? She said, I'm on page five twenty one. He said, Well that's right. And he turned to the little lady on the organ and he said, Sister, what page are you on? She said, I'm on three hundred and thirteen. He said, we're on 521. She said, I don't like that song. She wasn't gonna play it, regardless. She was gonna play what she wanted Oh things things you encounter sometimes. I want you to take your Bible with me tonight and turn to the Gospel of John chapter twenty-one. The Gospel of John chapter twenty-one. I've asked God to allow me to make our time together very personal. I want it to be so that in your mind you could see just you and I sitting at a table and talking. Not not in an audience, not in a congregation, not in a crowd setting, but one-on-one Perhaps it would be something like an inquiry where you would say, uh Dr. Green, would you come to my home and I just I want you to help me? And I would come to your home and it'd just be the two of us. We'd sit and I'd open the Bible and I would talk to you. The reason I want it to be that way is oftentimes we lose ourselves in a crowd and we say, that's not to me. He's talking about someone else. But you can't deny a conversation when it's just you and one other person. You can't deny that. You know that's personal. That's to you. And until we allow the message of the Lord God to be personal to us, there's a good chance it'll never affect us. See, preaching is for change. Your pastor doesn't study just to get up here to fill a space of time, so you can say, I filled my commitment, he did too. He studies, he gets alone with God, he talks to the Lord, he reads and he studies and compiles. We were talking about that coming from the airport last night. And our study habits were very similar, strangely enough. So I want you to listen very carefully to what I'm saying. And I want to start it this way. Throughout my years, pastoring for 44 years, I've had people many and oftentimes, and even out in evangelism, I've had people come to me and ask me one question. And it's not necessarily young Christians. Sometimes it's older people, been saved for many years. But here's the question. Preacher, can you help me know how to study my Bible? And it's somewhat of a difficult thing for me to do because I have so many different methods that I use. So I don't get stell in any one of them. But I'm going to tell you how I study one way, because it's relevant to what I want to give you tonight. I don't do this every month or anything of that nature, but every once in a while through the year I determine that I'm going to choose a book of the Bible And I'm going to find a place where I'm not accessible to anyone but the Holy Spirit. I'm not convenient to a phone. My cell phone, I leave it someplace else. I don't tell where people I'm going. I really hide from people that I may be exposed to God. And I take that book and I read it in one setting without interruption. Whatever book it is, I start with chapter one, and I do not stop until I conclude the last chapter of that book. The only book I've not done that to is the book of Psalms, and that's understandable. Several years ago, I, and I've done this number of times with this book. But several years ago I just had a want, a tendency, and the desire to read the Gospel of John again because the Gospel of John tells me who Jesus is. He's God. He's not just the Son of God, he's he's God. He's deity. And so I began to read and and your pastor can attest to what I'm getting ready to say and the the young man that's on his staff can probably attest to what I'm getting ready to say. And that is this, that reading the Bible is dangerous for a preacher. So that doesn't sound right. Well let me explain it to you It's very difficult for me to read a chapter without interruption because I find something in my reading that I want to develop A message, a thought, a line, a truth falls out, and I don't get the chapter read because now I'm developing a sermon, a lesson. And I get off on some kind of a trail. Your preacher knows what I'm talking about. So to read a a book of the Bible without interruption or stopping is a challenge So what I do is I I take a notepad with an ink pen, and if something pops out I just quickly give that reference down on a piece of paper and I continue to read. And then later I'll I'll come back and try to develop that thought. Several years ago I was doing this with the Gospel of John, and let me tell you, the Gospel of John is loaded. One of the more disciplined books to read. But I was managing. I was reading chapter one, two, seven, ten, fourteen. And I managed to get to this chapter. And I got stuck. I got stuck at verse 1. I want you to read this with me. Would you please? Let's stand for the reading of the Word of God and then we will have our prayer and Then I'll, by God's help, the Holy Spirit's help, I'll develop my thoughts. And I'll give you the title for my message in just a moment. Let's begin reading verse 1, and I'll read until I believe the Holy Spirit would have me stop. Alright. After these things, Jesus showed himself again to the disciples. At the Sea of Tiberius, and on this wise showed he himself. There were together Simon Peter and Thomas Cordydimus and Nathanael of Canaan and Galilee. And the sons of Zebedee and two other of his disciples. Simon, Peter saith unto them, I go fishing. They say unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth and entered into a ship immediately, and that night they caught nothing. But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. Then Jesus said to them, Children, have you any meat? They answered him, No. And it said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find the cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes. Therefore, that disciple whom Jesus loves saith unto Peter, It is the Lord. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he gird his fisher's coat unto him, for He was naked and did cast himself into the sea. And the other disciples came in a little ship, for they weren't far from land, but as it were two hundred cubits, dragging the net with fishes. As soon then, as they were come to land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon, and bread. Jesus said to them, Bring the fish which ye have now caught. Cyber Peter went up and drew the net, the land full of great fish, there's 153, and for all that were so many, yet was not the net broken. Jesus said to them, Come and dine. Now before I make my prayer, it's good to know that Jesus was a cook. You ever think about that? I'm I'm different, I guess, just certain things logically. I'd like to eat in that meal, wouldn't you? Prepared by the Creator of that which he was eating. I want to preach tonight on the very first phrase of verse 1. After these things. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we come to you thankful for A good day for your blessings. Thankful that your word never returns void. But dear God, may we lay down what we received this morning, not to forget it, but that we may have our cup full again freshly tonight. Thanks for everyone that's here. Good crowd of people. Good return. Dear God, I pray that everyone would allow me to speak to them. Allow it to be as though it's our conversation. As though Lord we're not in a crowd. There's no one else around. It's just you and the preacher and the person. Enable me, help me, I give myself, asking Lord that you would clean my thought, cleanse my thoughts, and fill me with your sweet spirit, and may I be used well by you. For the benefit of the hearing of this people, help me to collect my thoughts. Dear God, draw it to a conclusion that Would bring decision. Well, thank you for it in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you, and you may be seated. You probably will hear this statement at the close of this service. That all of us have that phrase in our life after these things. We have our story. We have our story. I have mine, you have yours. They're not the same. They may be similarities, but We do have a life that follows us. Some good, some bad, some happy, some sad. After these things. When I was reading the Gospel of John, and I left chapter 20 and stepped right into chapter 21, that phrase the Holy Spirit used to arrest me. He stopped me. I could not make myself conclude that chapter or the book at that time. I was stuck on after these things. Why is that statement there? What does it mean? If you stop and consider after these things, you have the book of John. Because it begins after the fact that Christ is proven in this book to be God Himself, wrapped in human form and flesh. That before the world was, he was, and by him all things were made that is made. That the word became flesh and dwelt amongst us. That he came among men. He is introduced by the writer, not as a babe in a cradle in a manger somewhere, but As the living God, the Savior of the world, the adult that walks among men, the one that performed miracles that could never be made apart from the fact God did it. Chapter 3 makes the proclamation that even as Moses lifts up the servant in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. signifying and giving us a prophetical view that Christ Jesus came to die on a cross ultimately that's his end and that is his goal and he succeeded. His life was not taken, it was given. After we accept chapter 3, we find the open ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ develop in wonderful form from the beginning where He went with his earthly mother, Mary, and they attended a wedding, and they ran out of wine, and Jesus Said, take that water pot and fill it full of water. Take that water pot, fill it full of water. He commanded to do it. They obeyed. He said, Now give to the master of the house. It was just a pot, put water in it, but he said, give it to the master of the house. And when he tasted it, he said, that's strange. That's my paraphrase But he says that's strange because generally the best wine is given first and the worst wine given at last, because by the time you get there you don't care. But you have given us the best wine last. And from there unfolds the great view of God in human form, where he stopped the funeral bear one day and heard the wailing and the weeping of saddened hearts at the death of a loved one and he just simply said, Arise and Life was put back into that which was dead. See, Jesus can do that. He's God How his life developed, and he chose twelve men, and one of them was not made by mistake, but by the promise and the prophetical view of God that he would be betrayed. The man's name was Judas. You trade him for just a few pieces of silver. Led men, and at the garden gate, Judas kissed the very gate of heaven. Only to go to hell. How close. Father, he was given a mockery of a trial. Led off, and there he laid his life on a cruel cross, and he hung there at the mockery of mankind. I often wonder, I don't know, I often wonder, it's just kind of how my mind thinks, I guess. I've read the account of the crucifixion of the Lord and the crowd up there and One of the great statements of the Bible is, behold, they looked upon him. They sat and looked on him. And I wondered at that. I wondered who in that crowd may have been that man or that woman that in the space of three, three and a half years that his life had touched. I wonder if the parents of the little girl that he gave life back to could have been in that crowd. Could the little girl have been there? How about the little boy that A mother saw wisdom to give a sack lunch and he went out just to see Jesus. They got hungry and Jesus took the little boy's lunch, blessed it, and fed the crowd of 5,000. And to question the faith of the twelve disciples, there was twelve bags left over for them to be able to prove he did it. I wonder if that little boy was there. I don't know. I don't know who always was in that crowd, but it's hard to believe that someone of the fame and the power and the authority of the Christ Was not witnessed by those that loved him the most. I believe that they were. I know his mother was there. I know others there. His brother was there. They witnessed that. Peter had denied him. Said he didn't know him. Now he's he's dead. He's buried. But three days later, all hell couldn't hold it back. Up from the grave here rose. The mighty triumph over his foes. My Lord, my God, my Savior, alive. That brings us running to the phrase after these things. I want you to look at verse 1. Look at this, if you would please. After these things, Jesus showed himself again to the disciples. This wasn't private. When Jesus rose from the dead, Peter knew he was alive. The disciples knew he was alive. He was witnessed to be alive. They knew he was. Why on the morning of the resurrection, those loved ones came with the determination that they were going to anoint and prepare his body for burial. But when they got there, the stone was rolled away. And true to form, as Peter jumped into the tomb, an angel said, Why do you seek the living among the dead? Behold he's not here. He is risen. What a Lord. What a Savior. Now the story develops. He showed himself. He showed himself. You know, these people believe that if they were out of his sight, they were out of his knowledge. What do we do behind the barn? What do we do in secret? Let me tell you a little story. I'm the youngest of eight children. We lived on a farm in Southwestern Ohio. I have five sisters that are older than me, two brothers that are older than me, two of my sisters, an older brother who graduated to go home to be with the Lord. I still have them, they're just not here One of our things, my brother next to me is always getting in me in trouble. He's two and a half years my senior and he was always getting me in trouble. I was really a good little boy and I would never think about doing anything wrong, but my brother just really led me in the way of error so many times. If you believe that, I want to talk to you about swamp land I have. But One of the things my brother and I used to do is some of you can relate to this, we about in October, last September, the corn was curing and drying and getting ready for the picking. We would go down there and find the dry corn silk. With a brown paper bag. Some of you know where this store is going. We would fix us something that would rip the skin out of your throat barely could talk and we would say, man, that's good. I remember one night we were behind the barn enjoying one of those things. Suppertime and we heard someone from our family stand on the back stoop of that old farmhouse and holler supper's on. So we threw it in the mud, the manure, whatever, ran to the house. Mom would make us wash our hands and sat down and supper. My dad always sat to the left of my dad, or my brother sat always to the left of my dad. My dad sat at the head of the table, I sat in the corner to my father's right, and my mother sat to my right. And all the rest of the children of my grandfather sat around the table. Big old country table And I remember my father always got the first of everything. And my father looked at my brother and he looked at me and he said, What have you boys been doing? Oh. Nothing. And I can still see my father as as fresh if it was this afternoon. He looked at us. He said It doesn't smell like nothing. Sin stinks. Sin reveals itself somehow in our life. God knows. You may have a secret, but it's not from Him. He knows. He knows your life. He knows the secret recesses of your soul. That's the reason David could say, search me, O God, search me. No See my heart, know my thoughts. See if there be any wicked way in me, because there's some things that may be in my life that I don't see as wrong, but they're wrong to God. Search me. You have to be vulnerable. You have to be a yielding person to allow God to do that. Let me tell you this little story. I have all kinds of. My father was one of the strongest men I've ever known in my life. Now he wasn't a big man. My father's about 5'10. 175, 178 pounds, but it was solid. I'll tell you how how strong of a man my daddy was. My dad pulled his own upper teeth himself. I can't imagine. Should I tell the story? Might as well. You have to now. Is there a dentist here tonight? The preacher broke one of my teeth You he'll t he can tell you the story. But anyway, my father pulled his own upper teeth. It's amazing. All he had was nine teeth left in the bottom, and that's the way I always knew him until I was a About twenty years of age, night no, I was nineteen years of age just shortly before I got married. I come home from work. And um My father, the bathroom in that old farmhouse was off to one side of the kitchen. You went in the back door and there you're in the kitchen. There's kind of like a entryway and then there's a kitchen and the bathroom is off to the left. When I walked in there, my father was sitting sideways on the commode. And he had a pair of pliers in his hand and a bottle of rubbing alcohol. He said, Roger, is that you? I said, yes it is, Dad. He said, come here. That's all right. He said, I've got a dentist appointment. Now you're going to enjoy this. He said, I have a dentist appointment. And he's gonna pull my teeth. I'm getting new teeth. By the way, he took his own impression of his upper teeth and ordered his false teeth through a old magazine known as the Farm Journal. And they sent him his teeth. Paid $17 for them, I still remember And uh I said, uh what you need, he said, this tooth right here. So it's really loose, and I'm not paying the doctor to pull that tooth. Seven dollars and fifty cents to extract a tooth. He said, I'm not paying the doctor to pull that tooth. You're gonna pull that tooth. I said, Dad, I don't think so. He held the pliers up to me, and only God knows where those pliers have been, what they've done Hug those old pliers up to me, he said, pliers in one hand, rubbing alcohol in the other, he said, I'm not asking you. I'm telling you. So I took the flyers as the obedient son, and I took the rubbing alcohol and held it over the sink, poured that rubbing alcohol on that Pair of pliers and my father grabbed a hold of the side of the commode. I just made sure I got a hold of the right tooth. And I I pulled that tooth. And my father kind of went, oh, like there wasn't a whole lot to it. Didn't really bleed. It was almost out of his head. And I asked him, I said, Dad, you pulled all of your upper teeth. And you couldn't pull one of your lower teeth? He said, that was when I was younger and didn't know any better. I said, well why couldn't you pull that one tooth? He said, because when I'd put pressure on it, it hurt. The reason you could do it you could not feel it. The point I'm making is this. We try to get things out of our life that only God can extract. Because when we try to pull them out, they are so attached, it hurts. And so we back away, we stop. And it continues to be in our life. Even though we may not be active, it is there, it is growing, it's still part of our character, and at the wrong moment, at the weakest time, Satan is going to represent it to us. again. Now, I want us to look at something based on the fact that I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. You do know that, do you not? I mean, wherever you've been, whatever you've done, whatever you subjected yourself, the Lord was there. He was there. I want to give you three propositions. Out of our text. It's really out of this chapter. First of all, I want us to work off the premise of how we live. When we're not in his presence. See, I lived one way when mom and dad was with me. But I'd live another way when mom and dad won with me. They weren't in my presence. To me in their presence, or to them with me in their presence, I was their good little boy. But if they'd gone to some of the neighbors, they had another story. Because I lived differently outside their presence than I did with their presence. But where can you go that God isn't? See, the psalmist said, I can make my bed in hell, and behold, thou art there. I can ascend into the heavens, and behold, thou art there. You can run, but you cannot hide. That's a fact God is forever with us. We subject him to all kinds of things. And you might say to yourself, well, no, not me. We're going to look at that. But I want us to look, if you would, please, at verse 2, and I'm going to give you three things that I want you to consider. First of all, look what it says in verse 2. There were together Simon Peter, Thomas Caudidimus, and Nathaniel, Cain and Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples. Now that in itself is just declaring who was with Peter. But it's important that you know that here in just a moment. I want you to look at verse 3. Simon Peter saith unto them, I go fishing. Here's my first point. What happens when we live as though we're outside the presence of God? And we do do that. We get busy about our daily life and we begin to make decisions, do things. We'll propose certain things that we know is not right, but Daddy's not here, mama's not here, preacher doesn't see me, church won't know about it. Look up. Look in. What happens? Three things. Three things are going to happen when you live with that decision, determination. Number one We will have the propensity to return to our former life. Whatever you were before you got saved, if you determine you're going to start living not as strict Not as subjected, not as disciplined as you have been as a dedicated Christian, you're going to start making decisions say, you know, I I I'm I'm not going to live like that anymore. I'm I'm going to start making different decisions. And you know, after all, does it really matter But you say, oh no, not me. What was Peter when the Lord found him? Can anyone tell me? He was a fisherman. Now he is aware that Christ has died. He's aware that he was buried. He's the one that ran into the open too. It was Peter. Peter knew Christ had risen from the dead, and yet it was Peter that said, I go a fishing. With all the knowledge that he had, he made a wrong decision. Now Peter's not alone. How much knowledge do you have? Now you may not have the knowledge of the pastor, but if you've been saved for any distant time, been under his ministry or the ministry of someone else that's taught you and led you into biblical truth, I'll guarantee you you know more tonight than you did when you first got saved. And you know truth, you know truth, you know the Bible, you know right, you know wrong. You know choices that you need to make. You know things that you need to stay away from. You know those things. You know them. And yet you echo Peter and say, I'm going to go back fishing. Now pause a minute. You say, well, what's wrong with fishing? In this case, fishing itself, there's nothing wrong with it. I love the fish. Never get to, but I love fish. But what was wrong with it has got to be paraphrased or prefaced by this. Was it where God wanted Peter to be? The decisions that you're making in life as a Christian, are they the decisions that God wants you to make? Are they decisions that always bring someone to see Christ in your life? Is it exposing who Jesus is See, do you realize that the Christian is the only thing that expresses and exposes the reality of God and Christ the Savior? There's no other way for man to know. You can say, well, about the creation. Oh, I know that argument, but I know that argument from being saved. From an unsaved individual looking into the eye of faith. I don't see that. You don't see that. We've got to determine the life that we live, is it that which God wants me to do? Now, if you can say tonight I'm living exactly where God wants me to live. I'm living the way God wants me to live. My life is in impeccable before God, it's honoring Christ, and if men were to follow me around on a daily basis, they would see Jesus in me of my living. Can you say that? I can't answer it. Only you can answer that. I can't answer that. But Peter said, I go fishing. I wonder why Peter said that. I can't answer all of it, but I know this. Let us not be weary in well-doing. For in due season we shall reap if we faint not. Sometimes we just get flat tired. Sometimes we just get weary. Sometimes we get tired of having to deal with the same thing over and over and over and over again, knowing it's not going to be any different. I'm just gonna throw in the head and do my own thing and I enjoyed fishing. I think I'm gonna go back there. Thankful go back there. But follow this. When I decide I'm going to live as though I'm outside the presence of God and He doesn't see, He doesn't know, not only do I have the propensity to go back where I came from, number two. I will influence someone else to follow me. Look at verse 3. What does it say? After Peter says, and I go fishing. The next phrase says, and we go with thee. Your life is touching someone else. Your life is. My oldest son is now 45, 46 years of age. Older than I want to admit. When he was a little boy, all of my children, as they were born, they were blondies. They were just bleach blonde, platinum blonde little boys. His hair was almost white, bright blue eyes, skinny little kid. You never know looking at him now because he outgrew that But when he was about four years of age, maybe five, but I think more like four years of age. At that time I was pastoring a mission on Michigan, only had two sons. It came the time of the year for me to plant my garden, and so I came home one evening and I told my wife, I said, sweetheart, I'm going to go out and plant some seeds. And my my children have always tagged long. They just hang on me and when they were little and Tony came to me, all of our boys' names start with T's. That was a curse. I and I did it. Tony Todd, Travis, Titus, and Tate. And you know, I have I have bawled the wrong kid out many a time and they you say, Dad, but I'm not him, I'm not him, and then they finally just said there's no use. Just Let him go ahead and pass it whoever if it even isn't even me. But Tony came to me and he said, Daddy said, Can I go to the garden with you? I said, yes. I said, hey, I'd be glad. You can come with your daddy. I said, but now you've got to understand something. You can't come into the garden. You can only stand on the side of the garden, you can watch me plant seed. You understand that, yes? So he followed me out to the garden. I don't know what I was planting, beans or corn, whatever it was. And I'm out in the middle of this garden. Do you ever have you ever had the sense I'm not alone Well that sense struck me and I turned and I looked and Tony wasn't on the edge of the garden. He was right behind me And I looked down into those blue eyes and blonde hair, and I said, Tony, you are in trouble. Very innocently, kindly, gently, he just looked back up at his father and he said, No, I'm not in trouble. Well, that troubled me. I said, and what makes you think you're not in trouble? I told you to stay on the side of the garden, and here you are. You're following me. You're in the garden. And I told you not. You disobey me, and you're telling me you're not in trouble. trouble you're in trouble he looked back at me just as sweet as could be and he said I can't be in trouble That really troubled me. I said, would you please explain to me here I have this little four or five-year-old boy explain to me. I said, would you please explain to me Why you can't be in trouble? Listen to what he said He said, Daddy, I can't be in trouble because I just stepped in your footprints. He had me. If someone is following your life, they're finding your footprints in the sands of time for you taking them. Peter's decision not only influenced him and affected him, but affected those closest to him. I worked in a funeral home for several years. And one night I got a call that I was to pick up a body. I went to the morgue and it was probably 2 o'clock in the morning. I introduced myself where it was from. I came to pick up such and such body. They took me back into the morgue and they pulled this shelf out and there lay the body of a gentleman about 60 years of age. He'd taken his own life. I put him on the gurney, covered him, put him in our car, and I took him back to the funeral home and took him in the prep room and started the process. The funeral home director came in and he began to work and Oh you know why I asked this? I said. I wonder where he's at. He said he's laying right there. I said, No, you know what I mean. I said, how can a person do that? And the man answered, he said, not the man on the dead man. General home director said That's his choice and his business. Is it now? Why don't you ask his wife? Why don't you ask his children? Why don't you ask his grandchildren no longer can climb up on the grandfather's lap? Why don't you ask him? Your life is not an island. It touches someone else Peter touched someone else. Peter made the decision. I'm living. I know the truth. I know Jesus lives. I know he is risen from the dead. I witnessed it. I saw him. He proclaimed himself to me. I know that. But I'm going to live as though He's not. You say, how can he do that? Because you can do that. You are doing that. Some of you sitting here tonight are making decisions independent of the truth of a resurrected God and an eternal truth called the Word of God. You live independent of that. And that explains why some of your lives are in the condition they're in. We go with thee. And you say something like this I would never do that. I would never do that. Well, let me give you two biblical examples. Peter didn't think he would do anything like that either, because remember, he told Jesus, Jesus told him that he's going to go away and that he's going to crucify. And Peter says, I'll die with thee. Remember? He said, I'll die with thee, I'll go to the cross with thee. Jesus in his fore in his sovereign knowledge said this, but Peter, Satan hath desired to sip thee, and I prayed for thee that thou would be repented. See, there is a repentance. When it's in repentance, there's repentance under salvation, there's repentance in life. Satan had desired a sifty. See, the greatest story of the devil is this To cause you to live independent of biblical authority. To cause you to live independent of the one that owns you. And Christ purchased us, did he not? You're not an exception. You're part of the rule. Peter failed. But worse than that, now watch. I want you to look at something. Who is in the boat with Peter? Look with me at verse 7. Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved said unto Peter, They're in the boat. He made the decision to go with Peter. Can someone tell me who that is in verse 7? John the Beloved. John the Beloved. And you think you are better than Satan is like a hound on your scent. He's doing what he can, and he will get you When you live independent of biblical authority, what was Christ's defense in the wilderness? Satan said, took him in the pinnacle, said, you fall down and worship me, and I'll give you all these nations. Turn that rock into bread. And how did Jesus respond? It is written. The Scripture, the Son of the Living God, use the written word of God. for a defense of himself. And when you and I live independent of biblical authority and we go back to where we were to do the things we used to do and be, we are influencing someone else We are not the exception, we are the rule. And we'll be right in the boat. And if we make the decision, you look around, you'll have a lost husband in the boat. A lost wife in the boat. You have a son, a daughter, a grandchild in the boat. Why? I can't be wrong. I just stepped in your footprints, Dad. Someone is following you. Third thing is going to happen when you live independent of His presence. Not only you have a propensity to return, not only will you influence others, but you'll be Fruitless. Children, have you any meat? Have you any meat? What could they say? Could they say yes? Let's go on the avenue of saying, oh yes, had a great night, Lord. All right. Give me something to eat. Wouldn't expect them that. No, they had to be honest. See, when you and I are confronted by God, we had no other alternative but to be truthful. No Lord. Look at it. It's in the scripture. No Lord. We fished all night and caught nothing. Caught nothing Can I say something kindly and ask you a question? How am I batting? Throwing pretty good strikes? You know why? I've been there. I've made the decision. I've gotten in the boat. I've returned. And I found family and friends just simply. Stepping in my footprints. My life has been empty And empty. Okay, let's bring it to the second thing. If I if I live if I live as though I'm independent and absent from his presence, then What's going to happen if I come to the decision it isn't worth it? And so I'm going to get back into his presence. I'm going to start living back in the presence. I'm going to start living according to biblical principles. I'm going to allow the Bible to be the authority in my life. What's going to happen in my life? Some things are going to take place. And I want to look at it, and there's four of them. Four things are going to happen. Number one, it's going to bring me back to the position of confession. I'm going to be honest with myself and I'm going to be honest with God. How many of you have found 1 John 1 9 precious to you? I have it rather worn in my Bible. So should you. See, that verse is to the Christian, it's not to the unsaved man. I'm not saved by confessing my sins. I'm saved by confessing I'm a sinner. But after I'm saved, then I need to be confessing my sins. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. When I get back in his presence, his holiness causes me to be honest with myself and with him See, the propensity of most people is this. When we find ourselves in a bad position, we want to blame it on someone else. This wouldn't happen. We have the and this is really going to date me, and if you have hair similar to mine, you understand what I'm talking about, not one of these kids is going to know who it is. But we have a Flip Wilson mentality The devil made me do it. Remember it? He's dead now. But Flip Wilson used to say the devil made me do it. You know, we blame the devil for a lot of things that he didn't do He didn't make me make the wrong decision. That was my choice. He didn't make me influence other people for a wrong thing. That was my doing based upon the decision I made. Now he cheers it. He's the cheerleader in the corner saying, Go, man, go. But when I get back, this word convicts, have you found that? Yes. Brings me to the place where it exposes me to me. And I don't like what I see sometimes, so I have to be honest with God and say, Lord, I I don't have anything to give you. I've made wrong decisions. I'm in the wrong place. Why did he not catch fish because he did not belong there? He was a disciple of Christ. The second thing is not going to bring me to decision, but It's going to bring me back to obedience. All right, children, since you have nothing to give me. You had no fish. Here's what I want you to do. I want you to take your nets and cast them to the right side. I found this out there. I had a little boat in the lake area and put my boys in that thing and we'd fish and catch all kinds of stuff There's not a lot of distance and difference between this side of the boat and that side of the boat. See, it's not a matter of distance, it's a matter of obedience. Why were they fruitful and they count 153 fish? Because they obeyed the Lord. How simple our lives would be if we just simply said yes, Lord. Yes, Lord. I hear you, Lord. I know you Lord. And we would understand the principle, the guidance of the Holy Spirit in life, and we'd say, you know, that's the best. That's the best. See, I found early in my life, even though I was a contankers little kid, I found out that it was important for me to obey my father. Because the consequence of this beast wasn't worth it. See, my father had a kind of a he had a different philosophy. He believed by straightening out he had to bend you over. And he didn't count. He didn't say, if you do that one more time, I'm gonna count. I'm gonna count. My daddy didn't know math He just he just acted. He would tell you and that was done. It was done. And my father knew how to get your attention quickly. And memorably, it put earmarks, not to say anything about the bruises, but it was not worth disobeying. It's not worth disobeying God. See, you and I, as children of God, have a spirit that lives within us. And it's not necessary that we know everything about God because the Holy Spirit is the one that brings conviction to us, even as small children in the faith. We know what's right. You say, but I question things. Question on the side of blessing, not on the side of error. If you're not sure, don't do it. You've heard that. So when I get back in his presence, the first thing is going to make me be honest, it's going to make me be obedient. And then the third thing, it's going to allow me to become fruitful again. Now, don't misunderstand me. I don't think this fruitfulness that I'm talking about is winning people to Christ. See, I don't think that Acts or John 15, when it talks about abiding And being fruitful and things that I don't think that's soul winning. Now a lot of people, a lot of preachers use it as that, but I don't think I don't think it is. I think it's coming to having fellowship with Christ, abiding in Christ, that makes me fruitful in the knowledge of the Lord. I know who he is. See, I only know him through this. I only know him through that. Can I be really personal with you? And she's not here and I miss her. is my sweetheart. She's wonderful. I wish you knew her. Wow, she's a she's a she just great. Just great. We were talking the other day that we've now reached age having some situations in our health. If we carry, the Lord tears, and we live long enough, one of us is going to say goodbye to the other. We know that. We don't look forward to that. I can't imagine my life without her. Can't imagine it And uh we were together and we were just talking about what it would be like. But here's something my wife does. I love it. I travel out of the country country two or three times a year, and I'm gone two to three weeks each time I'm out of the country. God's kind of given me an international ministry. It's a teaching ministry. And I now go into what used to be communist block nations and I teach pastors to pastor. And you know what I look at is this. I can't wait to get where I'm going to open my suitcase. Now I I I packed all my own luggage. I let my wife do it once. I had to buy a lot of stuff. I pack my own suitcase and people even ask me this when I go out like this without my wife, they'll say, Does does your wife put together what you should wear each night? No, I dress me. I dress myself. But somewhere among my clothing, I'm gonna find a little love letter. Just from her. I can't wait to read it. And I wouldn't read it to you. Because it's really personal. From her heart to me. I don't read it once. I read it. I read I want to know everything. I don't want to miss anything. Because it's from the one that loves me. The one that for almost 49 years has yielded herself to me. The one that five times stepped into the mouth of death and gave me five sons. That one. I want to know her. I want to be fruitful in the knowledge of who she is. Shouldn't we know him? Should we not be fruitful in him? How knowledgeable are you of him? How often do you read his love letter? How many times have you read it o'er and o'er and found another nugget? I never saw that before. That's new, that's fresh. That's a new meal. That's meat. Well, God, thank you for letting me know you, wanting me to know you. I become fruitful. Then I get excited. That makes me then become bearing of fruit. That's when I look at this person and say, let me tell you about the greatest man that's ever lived, that loves you more than anyone has ever loved you. That was willing and he did die because he loved you. Let me tell you about Jesus. Oh, I know and tell me the story over and over again. Then the fourth thing, it not only allows me to become fruitful But it gives us a desire to be in his fellowship. You can find all this in there. Fruitful is we find that he says Come and dine, come and dine, come and dine That I may know him, the fellowship. If we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we will have fellowship one with another. You find that in 1 John 1 7. It's conditional, did you know that? See, he never walks that it's not light because he is light. When he shows up, he dispels darkness. That's the reason that you can go into a death room and find happiness. Because it gives that person grace of passage. They're not in the darkness you think they are. They're in the light of the lovely one, the Rosa Sharon, the bright and the morning star, the one that so loved that he gave. They see what you and I have to die to see. His grace is sufficient. Now let me Give you another little story. This is gonna make some of you sick. Alright. Here it is. I love I love. I don't like. I don't just enjoy. I love chicken liver. Chicken liver, pentole beans, mashed potatoes and gravy, and homemade buttermilk biscuits You're eating. I love it. I always have as a little kid. One day, my father, when I was a little boy, disciplined me. And I got angry at him. I didn't like him. I thought evil, terrible things about my father that embarrassed me as this man you see when I think of how bitter hatred in a young heart towards my dad. My daddy knew it. I avoided him all day. And I wasn't looking forward to supper because I had to sit next to him. I remember when supper time came, the ritual, go wash hands, sit down. And my father would lead in prayer. My father, as I said earlier, always got the first of everything. The first of everything. My mother had chicken and not just a chicken, in order to feed that tribe of people, she killed chickens. Wasn't anything for her to have three or four fried chickens for our meal, along with all the trimmings and stuff. I remember my mother had killed three chickens, fixing them for supper. We all gathered around the table, all eight children. Mom, Dad. Dad prays, and after he prays, he stands up. The big platter of chicken is right in front of him. I was expecting him to get a big old juicy piece of white meat, put it on his plate, and then pass it. He didn't do that. He got a fork and he began to dig through the parts of chicken and he found a liver. See, I wasn't the only one of those eight children that loved liver. But my daddy dug and he found a liver. Put it on that fork and he reached it over and he put it on my plate. He didn't stop there. He kept digging. He found another liver Put it on my plate. He found a third liver. Put it on my plate. He never said one word to me. All he did was he looked at me and he went. He winked. I can't tell you how much I love my daddy that night. Sometimes God has to discipline us. Sometimes God has to take us and correct us But when it's supper time. Not gonna say anything, he's just going to dig. He'll give us the favorite thing of our life. He's a wonderful daddy. Let's close with the third and final thought. When I get back in fellowship, what is my living going to be in this present? My lifestyle is going to change. Everything about me is going to change because I'm in his presence now. Two things. Two things. It's going to change my fellowship. Look at verse 12. And Jesus said to him, Come and die. It's going to affect my fellowship with Christ, my love life with the Lord. But he does a strange thing. He says, Peter, he singles Peter out and preacher, he says, Peter, do you love me? He's going to examine our love life to him. Do you love me, Peter? Yea, Lord, I love thee. Then, hey, Peter, feed my lambs. Hey, by the way, Peter, do you love me? Yea, Lord, I love thee. He said, then feed my sheep. Hey, Peter, let me ask you one more time, do you really love me? Yea, Lord, I have said, I have told thee, I love thee. Then Peter, feed my sheep. Now the point being this. You cannot be self-contained and immersed in your own person when you're taking care of someone else's needs. Christ had to get Peter away from himself. And when I'm wrapped up in myself, I'm going to do things that are just, excuse the expression, but stupid. There's many of us tonight that need to turn our attention away from me and find a lamb. Find a sheep. Concentrate on their needs and our ability to meet it and feed somebody. It changes my fellowship. Oh, to have fellowship with the Lord is amazing. And then it's going to change my fellowship. Not only my fellowship, my fellowship. Because Jesus in this discourse, not only did he say, come and dine, feed my sheep, but he said, follow Me. See, had Peter done that in verse one with the knowledge of knowing that Christ had risen from the dead? Can you imagine the change of the story when you looked at the life of others? People, we're touching somebody. Good or bad. Now, you can close your Bible. I want to tell a story. And we'll go home. About twelve years ago, I almost left the ministry. Almost quit. I had been going through two years of misery. I wasn't involved in sin. My wife still loved me. I loved her. My boys were adoringly and giving me wonderful families. God allowed me to pastor one of the choice churches literally in America. They loved me. Proved it over and over again, but I was empty. I could not fill myself up When I was a little boy, there used to be an old song, My Bucket's Got a Hole in It. Well, my soul had a hole in it, and I could not fill it up. I was empty. I was lonely Have you ever been lonely in a crowd? I don't know if any of you can relate to that or not, but believe you me, you can get lonely in a crowd. And I was just the empty preacher. I I really contemplated Tendering my resignation and doing something else. Not ministry related. I was getting out. I didn't talk to anybody, I hadn't discussed it with anybody. I was just I was just done. I come back from a trip, and my secretary always went through my mail, which I gave her permission to do. She separated it and she always put it in like two or three different piles of categories And then she would place that in my chair, not on my desk, in my chair. So when I'd come in, after I'd come back from those trips, all the mail that accumulated for me was in my chair So I took it out of the chair, set it on the desk, and I'm going through my personal mail and sorting that out and getting things ready to dictate letters and whatever. Most of my mail, as most preachers knows, goes into the dumpster. I'm going through all of this mail that most of it's trash, if not all of it, and I'm just sitting there, and here's what I'm doing, stack, stack of. I'm just kind of looking at throwing it in the trash can Just like that. I threw an article, this periodical, into the trash and in bold print A statement captures me. I stop, I pick it up, and I read it immediately. I'm crushed. I'm crushed. It was a line that was spoken by a man by the name of Dietrich Bonhoeffer. Let me tell you just a little bit about Dietrich Bonhoeffer. Dietrich Bonhoeffer was a German Lutheran pastor, World War II. He was an enemy of the Third Reich, and he spoke strongly against Hitler and his regime. He was a married man, had family, pastored. Of course, word went out to Hitler about him. Hitler had him arrested, put in prison. The guards respected him, loved him. He witnessed to them, preached to the prison. Hitler found out about it, put him in solitaire, allowed them to have no communication with him except to give him What little bit they fed in. I don't know how long is it in solid a long, long time. And the guards loved him, they respected him, and they thought sure the they they were aware the war was winding down. German was Germany was losing and They just felt for certain that word was going to come anytime to release Dietrich Bonhoeffer. That's not what happened. Word came down from the third right, killing, executed. hurt the guards. They finally they went to him out of obedience to a command. They brought him out and they took him to the gallows. They stood him on the gallows and they did a most unusual thing. They said, Reverend Bonhoeffer, do you have any last words? And they allowed him to preach one more message. And here's the here's the line. Just one line on this periodical. Dietrich Bonhoeffer made this statement in his last sermon, just before they tripped the door and hung him. When God calls a man to serve him, he calls that man to die. I was broken. And here came the Holy Spirit into my study, my office there at Grace Badness. And whispered into my soul this, Roger Green, that's your problem. You're trying to live when God has called you to die. I'm not trying to be theatrical. But as in my study alone, I got on my knees at my desk and asked God to forgive me. It's biblical. I'm to die daily. So are you. And if I do not give myself to death. Life will take over. And I will find myself making this proclamation. I go fishing. And if I'm not careful, I'll hear a noise behind me It'll be you. It'll be a son, daughter-in-law, grandchild, a friend, another preacher. Revival, can you tell me You're after these things? We all have it. I can tell you my story. You can tell me your story. We can talk about yesterday. But allow me to ask you this. You do know he lives, do you not? You do know that he resurrected, do you not? Do you know that he has screamed through the pages of Scripture, I'm alive. I'm alive. You've heard it. But even with that knowledge, have you found yourself living as though you're not in his presence and he doesn't know? Then my friend, you are a candidate for revival. Children, have you any meat? No Lord. Isn't this soul like the Lord? Then I want you to come and dine. I have what you've been looking for. Come and get it. It's here. It's here. And I'm convinced, my dear people, that God God wants to do something here. Not just for the night. But when you see him, you'll see the weakness of yourself. But you'll get your mind off of you and you'll find a little lamb out there Little sheep out there. But you gotta start with this. I'm gonna eat with him. And then I'm gonna feed somebody else. And then I'm gonna follow him. Father. Do you have our heart? Do you have our mind? And do we have your want? Thank you so much for the sweetness and the kindness and the gentleness and the patience of these people to sit and listen to me in this length of time. But God, it's about revival. It's not trying to see how much we can cram in 30 minutes. We want you to meet with us that we allow you to do your work in our heart. So Father, may people tonight be honest with themselves to see where they are at, even though they are knowledgeable that you're alive. God would we come seek your face, seek your will Get back into your presence. We ask it in Christ's name. Pastor