There you go. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor. Well, you know, I'm excited because we all get to be here on the time when he is celebrating his twenty-fifth anniversary here And um those of you that were here yesterday know that we I mean we had a party yesterday. And I do mean the right kind of a party. Uh from the time Sunday school started, uh Brother Don Williams, Evangelist Don Williams, uh uh came and gave some of the background and the history and filled us all in a little bit And then I had a couple of shots uh at uh the morning service and the evening service and we we just had a big time and uh and they sent an all-time attendance record yesterday Three hundred and ten folks on the property. And uh some folks saved and other good things happened. Young man surrendered a preach last night. And uh so, you know, uh I like being around when things are going like they oughta go. And if they're not going like they oughta go, then I'm ready to go. Somewhere else. But uh you know uh coming here to uh Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church uh has uh been a joy to me. I mean I I never come up here without wanting to stay. I mean I just I I called Betty a while ago and I told her, I said, girl, you've got to be backslidden for not coming with me Now I was teasing her because she hasn't been feeling well and uh I mean uh she would she would And she's going to when she can, but I was teasing her. I said, You've got to be spaxling, not coming with me. I mean, I just I love coming up here and I think I've told you that about eight hundred times, but I but I meant it every time And it's my delight to salute and give honor where honor is due to our mutual friend of the Leatherman. He's been the man the Lord has used here. He's not only a tremendous preacher, but he's a pastor. And he does both very, very well. And uh so we're delighted to be a part of that, and I'm glad I get to drop in once in a while. And uh I'm delighted to have my friend Dr. Allison with us tonight Uh his first time here and I'm gonna do what I'm gonna do here in a few minutes and uh he's gonna get up here and you're gonna you're gonna love Brother Allison. He's he's a genuine article. And a tremendous preacher, has a wonderful church down there in North Alabama, and uh has been there a long time and we're delighted that he's here for these days. And all you pastors that are here, thank you. God bless you for coming. Delighted that you're here as well. Why don't you turn your Bible tonight to Acts chapter 20? Acts chapter 20. I've uh Been uh trying to decide all day where to land with uh with all of the all of the chapters in the Bible. You know, every one of them looks good to me And uh and sometimes it's a little hard to figure out, all right, you got you got the microphone for thirty minutes, what are you gonna do with it? And so tonight I've settled in Acts chapter twenty. You'll forgive me for barking at you. Get rid of the allergy here a little bit. Beginning to read with verse 17. And from Miletus, he, that is Paul, sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church. And when they were come to him, he said unto them, You know from the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons, serving the Lord with all humility of mind. and with many tears and temptations, which befell me by the lying in weight of the Jews, and how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have showed you and have taught you publicly, and from house to house. Testifying both to the Jews and also to the Greeks, repentance toward God, and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I will show you something in this in just a minute that has spoken to me, and I trust it will to you. Um I've uh I've noticed in being in various parts of the country that Discouragement gets a lodging very easily. In fact, discouragement sometimes gets a lodging and it doesn't even uh it doesn't even pay the room fare. It just comes and parks and we don't push it away, so it just it it camps out and stays for a while. And sometimes, if you give discouragement a place to lodge, it'll invite some of its relatives. Despondency. Doubt, defeat, and even the death of things, sometimes simply because um a little something like discouragement comes along and gets in the mix. I think everywhere that I've been through the years pastor the churches where I serve, uh the there's always been a few apostles of discouragement. Always been a few folks who were I mean they they just weren't quite on board, or maybe not on the board at all, or maybe they just felt like that it was their responsibility to throw cold water on everything. You know, they provide wet blankets for everything. Try to smother every fire that gets started. Every dream. Pastor mentioned a minute ago about somebody asking him earlier. I mean, you got a game plan, right? Well, you know, every preacher, whether he has much of a game plan or not, he'll he'll act like he's got a game plan And I remember some of my game plans uh, well, long, long years ago, while I was still a uh student uh at the university where I went, I uh I I was pastor of a small church. I didn't know I was supposed to go to school, then pastor the church. I just wanted to preach. I was excited. I felt like I couldn't wait And some little group of folks they call me as pastor and put my name out front on a removable sign and and uh Well, it was interesting. That little church, they'd had five pastors in less than five years. And all five of them had not left voluntarily. But they called me as pastor, and I meant I was excited And uh everything I heard was, you can't do that. We tried that here. It doesn't work. It can't be done. But uh we found ways to do things, and I kept lining up help. And it wasn't long until we'd pretty well packed our little auditorium. It wasn't big, but we're filling it up. And uh several years later, in another location, I found out there were some people running buses I knew nothing, absolute nothing, about running buses. I just heard somebody was doing it. I said, man, that sounded like a great idea to me. In fact, we had an old bus. In fact, it was an old bus. It ran down the road kind of sideways like that. They had a the church had a guy hired to drive the bus. And I said to him one day, I said, What do you do on Saturdays? He said, The least amount I can do. I said, Why don't you come and go with me? Let's knock on some doors and see if we can fill the bus up. He was only bringing in six or eight people Well, I didn't know anything about it, and he didn't know anything about it, so we pooled our ignorance. And uh we went out trying to get folks to ride the bus routes the first three Saturdays. We went back around on Sunday to the places where we had knocked on doors. We did not pick up one single person. Not even one. Discouragement came knocking on my door. And I refuse to answer the door. I just said, no, no, no, we're not going to that bell's ringing, but we're not going to answer that door And uh I called a guy in Atlanta that I knew who was supposed to have been some kind of an expert, and I said to him, I said, Would you would you come up here and help me with this? So he came up and spent a weekend with me and got us rolling Of course it wasn't long some of the folks were saying, You're gonna go bankrupt the church. Well, what I discovered was the more you go after people, the more God blesses. God will help you pay the bills if you'll do what he says. Man. And so we didn't we didn't go bankrupt at all. We bought other buses and they were to buy the gas and pay the insurance and all that. And even though some folks laughed at us I mean I went by now I had a church with, you know, running three or four hundred and uh everybody expected me to kind of be the the uh you know to be the showcase when it came to the pastor. But I I was coming to church on Sunday morning wearing a wearing a pair of uh pullover coveralls because uh I was I was the bus director with my two buses Some of the folks standing out front laughed at me. Well, look at our pastor. I said, yeah, look at him. He's having a big time. Now, you know, and uh And then then uh well it's been a while now, but uh you know we we moved we moved to the mid Atlantic Uh you can tell by listening to me, I didn't I didn't grow up here, I grew up in the South. And uh when the church in Westminster called and we came up and they they voted on us and we we moved here And one of the first things that I heard, I'm talking about from some of the guys over in Central Maryland. They were saying, now look, you've been down in the South, and you know you can't do up here what you did down. I'm but I'm telling you, I was eager to find out if the gospel worked up here in this part of the world. At that point, I mean I'm saying to myself, I'm a missionary up here to Baltimore and DC. And uh we moved in on a on a Tuesday in late December. And that night it started snowing, sleeting, sneiging, sneeting, I mean all kinds of frozen stuff falling out of the sky. We had to we had to put put a tarp over the back of the truck and I say unloading our furniture Just to get it in the house without it being iced up. I've never been fond of that. But Thursday I went knocking on doors. And Friday, I found one person that bowed their head and trusted Christ and came with me to church on Sunday. And I said, you know, I believe the gospel is going to work up here. At least it did once. Well, I couldn't wait the next week. I went out and knocked again, and I found one more than I got to church with me. The next week there were three. And there were more the next week and more the next. And uh, you know, I came to believe that some of the things that I'd been told You can't do that up in this part of the world. I came to find out that's not true at all. Oh, but Maryland's a very liberal state. Do you realize what an emptiness liberalism creates And then they said to me, Oh, but it's a very Catholic state. And I said, So, you know, those folks need what we're selling. And uh so uh uh again, you know, you got all these folks sometimes they they they're pushing against you. Now You say, well, how do you keep from letting discouragement in the door? You keep reading the Bible, you keep praying, you keep talking to God, you build that wall of prayer the guy was singing about a little bit ago. And you keep asking God to help you. You say, I'm not nine feet tall, nobody in the room is. But God's bigger than all of us, stacked one on top of the other. And God, who is God, enables us and helps us if we'll do the kinds of things that I read about here in the passage a minute ago. When it said, after what manner, I have been with you at all seasons. A little phrase, after what manner, kind of got my attention. It suggests, for one thing, an activity. After what manner? That means we're doing something. After what manner? That means there's a design to it. We've got a plan. You know, some people have good manners, others have bad manners. This is after what manner? So it's an activity, it's something that's designed. And he said from the very first day, he didn't wait for five years to get started He said from the very first day. Now to me that that intimates consistency and constancy. That means, uh, well, hey, we didn't have a record breaking day last Sunday. Oh, it was holiday weekend, or a half of our folks were going to see grandma Well, all at once that discouragement comes knocking again, but we're reminded if we stay in the Bible, we're reminded no matter what the crowd is, no matter what the day turns out. No matter whether things are going well or not, you and I are to be consistent and stay at it. And uh, you know, sunshine or rain, whatever the case, uh morning, noon, and night, at all seasons, this verse says. That means summer, winter, fall, and spring. It also means when the opposition brings heat and puts pressure on, and it will. Uh at all seasons. Everything's going great. Keep at it. Things are not going good. Keep at it. Oh, some of the folks who Said they got saved. They got baptized. They joined the church and they stayed for two or three months. And now they're gone. They turned cold and they went away. The Bible says in all seasons, of all seasons Not just for the fellow who just graduated from Bible college, but for some of us who have uh less hair than we used to have. For some of us who have uh been up and down the trail of time or two, I mean, whatever the stage of life that we're in, whether young or old or in between, at all seasons, this verse says. Good times and bad times, what are we to be doing? Well, it says we're to be serving the Lord at each and every season. How do we go about that? Well, it says with all humility of mind. I heard it said here yesterday any number of times. God's been so good to us. I heard it said repeatedly here yesterday. God has been in this from the get-go. It's God's doing. And if you and I just remember, I mean we're we're we're merely instruments in the great physician's hands. When he when he needs to do surgery on the human soul, uh surely he needs an instrument and we have been elected for that. We have been uh dispensed, I mean we have been assigned to that, we've become ambassadors for that But he's the great physician. We're but the instrument. And whenever we remember who we are and who he is, then we're on great ground. We can't do everything, but with him we can do all that he's asked us to. And so it says, serving humbly with all humility of mind. You know, they're they're really no they're really no big shots in our churches. You get to be a deacon, you're not a big shot. You get to be on staff, you get to be the pastor, you're not a big shot. You know, you get to be an usher or be a trustee or you know you run 150 on your bus route or whatever, you're not a big shot. Well, we're not. You say, well, my church, man, my church really goes. You're not a big shot. No, no. You and I are servants of the Most High God. And just what a what a delight it is to just get to be in on what God wants us to do. Now, he says, serving humbly with all humility of mind, and serving compassionately with many tears. When you serve the Lord, you're going to be working with people. And you'll have many times when the tears will come. Sometimes there'll be tears of sadness. Precious people that you love will pass off the scene. Some of them tragically, some suddenly. There'll be those times of hurt and heartbreak when the tears will come. I've had any number of times, not just with my family members, but with some of my church family. Or in the way I describe it, I put my pastor hat on so that I could minister to our people. But after that was done, I found a time when I got alone and cried my eyes out. Because my heart hurts so deeply. And the Lord says that we're to serve him humbly, but we're to serve him with many tears. There are times when people will break your heart. They're still living, but they'll do the kind of things that bring hurt to themselves and to their family and to the church family and to you. And sometimes we put our arms back around them and we love them and we and we stand with them even though they have done something totally, totally. Out of the will of God, out of the focus of what they ought to be doing, and with many, many tears we'll we'll stay in the saddle uh will say why why why is it that in uh that in my church I have I have uh folks who who commit these awful sins and they get themselves in trouble and you and I We do not let discouragement knock when that happens. I mean if it knocks, we don't answer the door. We don't say, I'll just turn in my tools and I'll I'll quit and I'll go another place. No If there's any number of men sitting here in this room tonight, you've been where you are, pastoring your church for decades. Several of you that I know have been there a long time. Well, it's not that everything's gone well every day in your life. I know that. You've had the times when problems occurred that broke your heart. But you looked at passages like this one, and you said, Here are the days, these are the days when the tears come, but I'll serve the Lord and I'll be remembering that I'm to do it after this manner at all seasons. Even though the tears have come. So he says, we're to serve humbly, we're to serve compassionately, we're to serve under pressure. Many temptations. And temptations, many tears and temptations, he says. The pressures come. Temptations sometimes to do wrong. Sometimes uh pressures to uh give up, sometimes pressures to cave in In fact, as I look about the landscape across America, I mean uh there there are men that I have had great friendships with and men that I that I've loved dearly. That right now their ministries are headed down a trail to nowhere. Drifting, drifting, drifting, drifting off the trail. Uh paying attention to uh you know Rick Warren and Heibels and all of that contemporary emerging church crowd and buying into it and packaging packaging themselves to go with that crowd. Now all of that, I mean the pressures come And sometimes some of the folks in the church came to that. And they say, man, if we'd do like that crowd does, I mean, we'd have folks like us more than they like us. You know, our biggest sign was to be sure God likes us. And if God likes us, then uh we'll let everything else fall in place where it does. Say, well, you know, we just got to be careful to not be do you do you realize that when the sun shines brightly, the same sun rays that melt butter hardens clay. Same same same sunshine. And and and you you sow the gospel seed, there'll be some folks who like it, there'll be others who'll spit on you. Some folks will be happy about it, others will be hostile. And uh you say, well, what did I do wrong? You didn't do anything wrong. That is, unless you did something wrong. But you and I serve under pressure. We are living in a hostile world. We're living in a world where the devil is walking about seeking whom he may devour. The devil is like a roaring ravenous lion. He really isn't a lion. He's just a pretender. The Bible says, as a roaring lion, he just thinks he's something. He ain't much. Really a whip dog. And he knows it. He knows he can't sing I'm on the winning side. Amen. So we serve, yes, with temptation, but full speed ahead. The Apostle Paul said, I kept nothing back. Nothing back. My phone rings every once in a while, some dear fellow servant of God under great duress. Some problem in his church. He'll say, What should I do? What should I do? And I often say, be sure when you go in on Sunday. Oh, get yourself filled up with God's good things and go in there and preach on Sunday. Don't go in there and try to straighten everybody out. Just get in there and preach the word of God. Just give it good. You know, holding nothing back. Don't hold it back. Just give it out, give it straight, tell the truth, lay it bare, serving full seam ahead, keeping nothing back. And then verse 21 says I've taught you publicly and from house to house. That means our business is public and private. Acts 5. 42 says, in the temple and in every house, there it is again, public and private. And you and I just need to be diligently at it all of the time. I don't I don't I don't win to Christ everybody that I talk to, but I talk to enough people I do get to lead some people to Christ. Sometimes people look at you and turn, and it's like you can see the disdain in their eyes. Once again, if you're not careful, discouragement will knock. Don't answer the door. And uh we just keep at it publicly and from house to house. You say, Well, what is it we tell them? Well, he says you testify to the Jews and to the Greeks. You know, the Jews were a pretty religious lot. The rest of that crowd, well, not much you can say for them. A lot of them were pretty heathenistic. Well, what do you what do you tell? I mean, do you do you do you uh massage your message? Uh for the city crowd, do you do you you do you uh uh uh uh reinvent your message for the folks out in the in the rural areas No, the message, the message, I mean, for everybody in the inner city or the country place, the message is repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. We we we we we have no license to reinvent the message and cultureze it to fit the current trends and feds. Not on your life. Said, but all that millennial crowd. You know what that millennial crowd needs? My my mother's been dead a little over two years now. She was right at her 90th birthday when she died. Just a year or so before she died, I went up to western Kentucky for overnight to pay a visit and was there and she was having some dementia and stuff at that point And uh but she she said to me, she said, now this is Saturday, right? And I said, yes. She said, are you going somewhere to preach tomorrow? And I said, yes, Mom, I am. She said, where are you going? I said, I'm going to Texas. She said, You're going to Texas? She said, Well what are you gonna tell 'em tomorrow? I said, Mom, I'm gonna go down there and yes, preach the devil out of 'em. And she said, You think they're gonna like that? I said, they'll get used to it. She laughed. Now, uh, you know, uh this millennial crowd You know, uh we we we're looking to find ourselves, you know, as a there's a there's a church in our city, they've been running a commercial for ages. They have a little college-age girl standing in the balcony of the church looking right in the camera and she says, you know at such and such a Baptist church, she said, I found myself They're looking to find themselves. Now, you know, let me tell you what they need to find. They they need to find out that they are stinking rotten sinners. That's what they need to find out. They they they're not near they're they're not near as much hot wheels as they think they are. You know? And then they need to find out that then unless they get a savior, they're going to split hell wide open. That's what they need. You see that millennial crowd thinks they're so intellectual they think they're so you know so sophisticated and all that. Yeah. You know, folks come in from various walks of life. We just need to tell them repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. We need to get our mind reset on God and then put our faith, our trust in the crucified and risen Christ. And when we do that, you know what he does? He forgives all of our rottenness. He just wipes our awful obnoxious record. I mean he wipes it clean. And admits us to his family and reserves a place for us in heaven when we die. I'm telling you, you can't get a deal like that at Walmart Or any other flesh in town. No, nobody's gonna put up with us But God, by His mercy and His grace, has loved us, even though we are unworthy of it all. Made arrangements to save us. So that we wouldn't have to die and go to hell. So he said we're to serve publicly and privately, and then You read on down through the chapter and he talks about going to Jerusalem and beyond and uh not sharing to declare the whole gospel of God, all the things. I mean, we're serving evangelistically, we're serving with a soul-winning heart, serving to go out and win people and bring people to the Savior. There were people here yesterday that I had the privilege to lead to Christ while I was here in Maryland. And I find them scattered all over the country now. They've moved and taken new jobs elsewhere and things. And I'm telling you, there's nothing quite so wonderful as knowing that you help somebody Get out of the devil's camp and get in on the Lord's side. Nothing so sweet. And so what he says here, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons. After what manner? Well, what was his manner? Well, he was serving humbly, serving compassionately, serving under pressure Just refusing to give in, refusing to cave in, refusing to stop, and going day after day after day, just saying, here's the deal, guys, here's the deal. You need to repent toward God and put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. After what manner I have been with you at all seasons. Brother Leatherman, you've been here 25 years, and I think the people who know you would testify to the fact. That you've just been at it all these years. Brother Allison, Brother Hummel, Brother Williams, some of the others of you men, Brother Cumberland, others of you that I know. I know what you've done. You've just stayed at it. Stayed at it. Stayed at it. Or is this encouragement ever knocking on your door? Yeah, probably this week already. It's only Monday. But when it comes knocking, just remember it doesn't deserve an entrance. It doesn't deserve a lodging at your place. And you can just you can just stick your head open the crack and say, uh you you have to go and you're not you're got not getting in here. We're not taking you in. We're going to stay at it, stay at it, stay at it. At all seasons, we're just going to be serving the Lord. Our Father, thank you for the privilege that we have day by day to know that we are your children, to know that we're saved, to know that we're on the winning side. And at the same time, dear Lord, to know that we have the privilege to serve you and take the message to others, to stand in the gap in places where you've planted us. And dear Lord, I do pray for the pastors here, for the men of God who uh some in Pennsylvania, some in Maryland, some in uh West Virginia, and uh and others maybe who are here Dear Lord, thank you for every single one who have taken up the cross to follow you. I pray your blessing will be upon them in the days ahead. In Jesus' precious name. Amen.