I just want to share a few things with you real quick. It's been a good service tonight. Enjoyed the testimonies, the fellowship, and great music. And we're looking at, we're back with Noah and the great flood And we're building up to the point where God starts giving instructions on the ark, but we're not quite there yet. Look in Genesis chapter 6, first book of the Bible, of course. And I'm going to begin reading in verse 11. Yes, verse 11. The Bible says, the earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth, and behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me. For the earth is filled with violence through them, and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. I've entitled a message. I just took the phrase here in the passage for the title. The earth was corrupt. All the earth was corrupt corrupt. Let's pray. Father, please bless now. As we look into your word, I ask Lord you'd help me to get to the point of this passage and the truth here I yield myself to you, my will to yours. God, I uh present my body anew. Ask you to fill me with your spirit. And this will be a time of spiritual growth. God, speak to our hearts. Help us, Lord. to examine ourselves and judge ourselves as we come to the Lord's table. And we come worthily and then go out into the workaday week, Lord, and be a testimony and have your blessings on us. Again, speak through me your word to our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen. Seems the Bible here in this portion of Scripture we've been looking at, actually back in verse 5, down through what I read tonight, seems to almost in my mind be going overboard in emphasizing two issues. At least this is the way I see it First thing I see that is just repeated here is the is what appears to be God's regret in creating mankind. Now again, that goes against the grain of everything I understand about God. But if you remember, we pointed out in verse 5 and 6 and 7, the Lord is saying Basically, he's saying, I wish I'd have never created man. And uh I repent he says, I repent that I made man. It grieves my heart that I even created man in the first place. Now, it's like he goes overboard in emphasizing his his his w his his attitude really Then you get down a little bit further, and it seems like God goes overboard again in emphasizing the corruption of man. Look with me at verse 5. God saw the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was on evil continually. Come down to verse 11, what we just read. The earth was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. God looked upon the earth and and uh behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted his way before the Lord. He says this over and over and over. Three times he uses the word corrupt there in two verses. Now God doesn't just repeat things just to fill space God is emphasizing something here. God is, like I said, almost going overboard in trying to convey to us The wickedness and the depravity that mankind had gotten itself into I looked up that word corrupt. I did a little study on that. And I found that it's used in various forms 151 times just in the Old Testament. If you read the Bible and pay attention, you don't get a very flattering picture of mankind, do you? When you read the Bible. I mean right fr out right out of the gates, Cain's killing Abel. Uh this thing deteriorates Very, very quickly. And through the whole Bible, you find man corrupt, man sinful, man's wickedness. So the words used 151 times in various ways, just in the Old Testament It's translated a number of times to destroy. And the idea here, when God says three times that man was, the earth was corrupt before God, I've come to this Definition of what he means, this idea. What he's saying here is man had become, man had morally destroyed himself, his morals He was another one of the definitions is moral ruin. Any idea of a correct concept of right and wrong was completely ruined. To be morally decayed. Sam, when we were out in down in Texas with Sam, they of course it's a hunting ranch and They have a place where they take all the carcasses and all that from the animals they harvest and and it's kind of out behind this old oil well and they just dump it there. And so Of course, me being the great white hunter, we had all kinds of carcasses to get rid of uh from my thing. And so we went out there one day and we dumped it. And so here you have From last November, you have all these carcasses of deers and pigs and animals and stuff there, and uh, you know, it's like eighty-seven degrees out And the decay and the stench with goes with that. And you know, as I was studying this, I thought of that little dump. And the decay and the stench coming. And that is what this word here has the idea, the word picture of a moral decay, just rotting. Morally. I thought this was interesting. One of the aspects of the definition of the word corrupt here was to be morally perverse. Now the word pervert means to take something and twist it. Take, that's what the word literally means, to twist. And it's the idea of taking something that is good, something that is pure, and just twisting it into something that is ugly and hideous. to pervert something. And God is saying that all of the earth had corrupted themselves, had gotten to the point where they were so morally decayed, so morally perverse that God himself could not stand it anymore. All the earth was corrupt. Now that's what's leading up to God instructing Noah to build the Ark. Now let me give you a few thoughts very, very quickly on this idea of man's corruption First thing I notice here is the magnitude of man's corruption. Look with me at verse 11, and we're going to dissect these verses here. It says, the earth Also was corrupt. How many folks are familiar with the record of Sodom and Gomorrah? Remember Sodom and Gomorrah? We're all familiar with that story in the Bible, that event that took place. The Bible says, here it doesn't say that a specific city was corrupt. You get later on in Genesis, he talks about the corruption of Sodom and Gomorrah But here he doesn't mention, he doesn't say the corruption of a specific city. He doesn't say that a certain province was corrupt. He doesn't say that this nation here was corrupt. He says all the earth Was corrupt. The magnitude of this. Come down again at verse number 12. He says, and the earth also, uh, verse 12, and God looked upon the earth, and behold, it was corrupt for all flesh had corrupted uh his way upon the earth. All flesh, all of mankind. Verse 13, well the last part of um Verse number eleven, the earth was filled with violence. Verse 13, the end of all flesh is coming and the earth is filled with violence What he's saying here is the entire earth had fallen into total and complete moral corruption. It was universal. Every area of society in the world had totally decayed as far as being right and wrong The homes were corrupt. There was corruption, moral corruption in the home, dishonesty, perversion, blasphemy Thievery in the home. The schools were corrupt The businesses were corrupt. The entertainment industry of that day, whatever it consisted of, was corrupt. The government was corrupt. Religion was corrupt. He says all flesh. There was no part of the world. There was no little pocket of godliness here. There was no little city of righteousness here. The whole world was corrupt. Every town you went to, every neighborhood you went into was perverse. We traveled, as I mentioned this morning, 4,000 miles in two weeks. And uh I tell you, we got a heart. We got we were sympathetic for missionaries on deputation. And um, but uh we went through Arkansas and never been in Arkansas. By the way, I saw Bill Clinton's birthplace La di da. Anyway, um so anyway, uh we went through Arkansas. There was churches on every hand, wasn't there? And uh everywhere you went, boy, there was and signs up, uh get right with God Turner Burn, uh Jesus is the only way. And we went through there and it's like, wow, this is like the Christian capital of the world. And uh there was a lady there, and uh I I guess I was at the motel and uh I was doing something and arguing with her about something. Anyway, not really. But um I said, uh I said, here, I said, has anyone ever given you a gospel tract? She goes, oh yeah. And so we went on. Then on the way back we stopped by New Orleans. There weren't any signs, Turner Burn. There wasn't any sign said Jesus is the only way to be saved. There wasn't any sign, we saw one sign in, I think it was Arkansas, real big, said, Christians go to church. So well that's kind of blunt. That's true. We went down the French border for a little bit. There wasn't anybody, uh there weren't any little storefront churches there. That place is wicked. They had good coffee, but it was wicked. But what he's saying here is The whole world was that way. You couldn't go to some region and find godliness and and holiness and righteousness and kindness and charity. There wasn't anything. The whole world was corrupt. The magnitude of this. And he emphasizes this over and over and over. The rich were corrupt. The poor were corrupt. The middle class were corrupt Godly people got fewer and fewer and fewer as time progressed leading up to the time of the flood, until the The days preceding the flood, it's down to Noah, his three boys, and their his wife, three boys, and their wives. The magnitude of this As I said, the rich were corrupt, the poor were corrupt, the middle class were corrupt, red and yellow, black and white, all men were corrupt in God's sight. It's corrupt. Matthew chapter 24, verse 37, and Luke chapter 17, verse 26 makes this statement, as it was in the days of Noah. So shall it be at the coming of the Son of Man. Now, I can't honestly say I believe we're at the point where it was in Noah's day. But I think you agree with me. We see that coming. Tell me entertainment isn't corrupt. You try and tell me one movie star that loves God and lives by principles of Scripture and loves Christians and wants to help people be pure and holy and godly and right. They don't exist If they do, you never hear of them. Some rock and roll star that wants people to be pure and godly and holy. It's corrupt. Is it just mere, am I just learning more, or does it seem like our government's getting more and more corrupt all the time? I mean just full-scale, full-blown, open, unashamedly corruption. Um, hey, I see corruption in the churches. The things that are being allowed in our churches. 25, 30 years ago would have been, people would have fallen over. Um I like occasionally I'll watch preachers on TV and I don't recommend it. I just like to see what they're up to And I tell you, occasionally I'll be watching some guy and think, boy, that's a pretty good message. And then he'll use some language that is absolutely unbelievable from a preacher in a church. Thousands of people out there. As it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be in the days of the coming of our Lord. We see it coming upon us. Government, schools, businesses, entertainment, churches, corrupt. Now here's something that I think we miss. As the world decays, do you agree with me? The morals of this world are decaying. Why is it, and I thank God for Christian school teachers, amen? Thank God for it. I think if we had more of them, we might not be in the situation we're in. So don't misunderstand. By the way, I wish we had more people in government positions, more Christian people in government positions I believe revival begins at the church house, but it wouldn't hurt to have a little salt down at the state house We could do a lot more here if we had Christians on. Some of y'all ought to run for city councilmen and all that stuff. I really believe that. And if I wasn't pastoring, I would do it But I'm away from my notes now. I'm trying to remember what I was talking about. Um as the world decays Here's the danger we're falling in. We are what we would call a separated church. And by that we mean we ought to be separate from the world. The Bible says, love not the world, neither things that are in the world. The Bible says, don't be conformed to this world. The Bible says the world hated Christ, it'll hate you. So we're to be distinct and separated from the world. Not hateful, not aloof, but just distance ourselves from the values and principles and sins of the world. Now here's the danger, and I've pointed this out over years. As the world gets worse and worse and worse, we have a danger as a church and as individuals to think as long as I'm not as bad as the world. Then I'm okay. Now, with that in mind, if we are keeping an arm's distance from the values and and uh entertainments and uh the pleasures of the world. If we keep an arm's distance away and the world is continually getting worse, Suppose this is the holiness of God, and I've done this before. This is the holiness of God. This is the standards of godliness and purity in the Word of God. And of course the world is decaying and drifting farther and farther, becoming more like it was in Noah's day. Now we're not there yet, but we're going that direction. And if we as individual Christians, and as we as a as a church, all we're worried about is not being as bad as the world, and the world's constantly getting farther and farther away from godliness, what's happening to us as a church? We're getting farther and farther away. We're just not here. I'll tell you what, I'm not trying to be sensational or anything, but I'm telling you, your average church is today where the world was 30 years ago. We're just keeping an arm's distance. And it's getting worse and worse and worse. Our issue ought not to be whether we're different than the world. Our issue ought to be, are we like Christ? Regardless of what the world does, we're not just to keep an arm's distance from the world, we're to be as close to Christ as we possibly can. And as I get closer to Christ and I grow in my commitment to Him and I grow in my conformity to the principles of Scripture, and more areas of my life are yielded to the Lordship of Christ You know what I find myself? I find myself farther and farther and farther from the world. You know what I find myself? I just don't fit in. With the world anymore. Just don't fit in. I'm just not comfortable. And so, uh, as it was, God is emphasizing here, it is so corrupt, it is so every aspect. And I tell you, we're there. And we could all stand up and give examples. Kathy works downtown. The little head start kids go back and forth in front of her office there. She says you would fall over if you heard the language of those little four and five-year-old kids using words that even before I was saved, I'd be embarrassed to say publicly And the little kids just spewing them out. Spewing them out. What is our world coming to? You go to the store and you see grandma. Grandmas are getting more and more my age, I notice. And grandma's there and got tattoos all over and and spiked up and pierced. I thought, what in the world? All ages. All classes of society, all segments. I tell you, as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be in the days of the coming of the Lord. Now, where are we at as individuals? Where do you fit in? Are you becoming more like Christ? Let me ask you a question. Do you think Noah stood out in his day? Like a sore thumb. Says Noah found grace. Corruption, corruption, corruption, wickedness, violence. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Let me say a word to our young people. It's not easy to stand for Christ at any age. It's no easier for me as a pastor to get around compromising other pastors and try and take a stand than it is for a young person in high school. It's not easy. Nobody wants to be different. But I'm telling you, if we're going to be for real, and I'm speaking to all of us, not just the young people, if we're going to be for real, if we're going to have a genuine commitment and a love for the Lord Jesus Christ We've got to quit worrying about what the world thinks of us and start worrying about whether I'm what God intends for me to be. That's not easy. It wasn't easy for Noah. It took great faith. It took great commitment. Now I'm not going to get to the rest of the message, but let me leave it there. As we go to the Lord's Supper Let's ask the Lord to search our hearts. What is my relationship with the world? We're not to isolate ourselves. We're not to be holier than now. We're to be friendly. We're to try and win them to Christ. We talked about that this morning. But we are not to adopt their values. We are not to worry about whether we fit in with them or they like us or not. And I tell you, the devil's pretty good at coming up with some tasty treats But every one of them are poisoned. Every one of them are poisoned. We've got to stay away. Father, please bless. Help us, Lord. to humble ourselves before you and seek you with all our hearts. Help us, Lord, as you said in cr uh Chronicles there, that uh we would humble ourselves and pray and seek your face and turn Turn from our wicked ways. And God, we could see your blessings on us and you heal our souls and heal our families. God, we could have that peace that comes with a heart yielded to you. Please help us, Lord. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say tonight, preacher, I want to be more like Christ? I need to get, I need God to wean this concern for the world out of my heart and have a real love for Christ. And you say, preacher, pray with me. That's my desire. And going into this coming weeks and coming months, I pray the Lord will draw me closer and closer to Christ. And he'll increase, and I'll decrease. How many of you feel that way? That's the way I feel. God bless you. God answers prayer. We can ask him. Lord help me. God help me to see clearly. Help me to be, have the faith of Noah, to stand for Christ in a corrupt world. God bless our invitation, I pray. In Jesus' name.