In the mirror and we see our own lives and God our uh we uh uh find reason uh to uh be discouraged. But nevertheless, you are still God and so Tonight, show us from your word and speak our hearts. Help us to be a pure and godly people in a corrupt world. Help us to be clear testimony in a world that's so confused and so blessed and and open our hearts and minds now I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. God's making a point here and we've belabored it a good bit, the fact that He's frustrated with man. He's at the point where he is um he regrets the fact that he even created man and and I say over and over and over, you know, that just is astounding to me. A God that would love us enough to crucify his son so that we could be saved is brought to the point where he regrets making creating mankind. So he's going to destroy the earth And he's pointing out here, and he's overstating it, it seems, in my mind, to some degree, but of course, God, of course, has a reason. But he He he's emphasizing the fact that God is not just being impulsive here. He's not overreacting to Now, if you remember, we pointed out first of all, the first point in this message a couple weeks ago, several weeks ago, was the magnitude of man's corruption. And it is hard to it is hard for any person, me in particular, to express and to ex emphasize in our minds how bad conditions were morally. The word corrupt is um if you'll remember means to be totally ruined to be um uh to be uh uh uh perverse the word is part as part of the definition. And so man was totally corrupted, the magnitude. We looked at that. Then last uh was it last Wednesday night, we just real quickly looked at the second thought was the magistrate of God's corruption. Now I really don't like that word, but I wanted to try and keep the alliteration going. And what I meant by that was that God was the one making the judgment that man was corrupt. Look at verse 11 with me He says the earth also was corrupt. He doesn't stop there. He adds two more words. Before God. And God is saying, listen, this was my assessment of man's condition You know, we tend to, we, we, uh, uh, man is pretty good at sugarcoating uh his condition. I got thinking about this, I think it was yesterday afternoon, after we got back, I was doing some run around It might have been this afternoon. It might have been a month ago. I don't know. But um I got thinking about this. You know, we when uh how many folks here have ever done something wrong Man, look at this rough crowd. Um but uh you know when we're uh and and uh this isn't something we'd like to admit, but when uh you know we're in the process Of doing something we know is not right, or in the process of not doing something that is right, we should be doing we're not doing it. The whole time, now see if you agree with my assessment of this, the whole time we know that it's not really right But we really play it down and think, well it's not that bad. Well it's gonna be okay, you know it'll it's all right. It's not gonna be Does anybody know what I'm talking about about. We tend to fail to realize the seriousness, or we tend to blind ourselves or ignore the seriousness of what we're doing. And we in our minds we kind of belittle the significance of it, oh it's not that big a deal as that. When in reality, by God's judgment, it is very, very serious. And the consequences are devastating. Since we're being so open and honest tonight here in confessional time, uh, I mean you all said you did something wrong, so I've got something on all of you. But um since we're doing all that, uh how many here, how many folks would say, you know, preacher, I can look back in my past And I got involved or got away from Lord or whatever. I did some things. At the time it didn't seem that bad, but boy, afterward, I paid a heavy price. And be leading up to it and all that, it didn't look that bad. Didn't look like it was going to be that the consequences would be that serious. But afterward, or the con i I paid a heavy price. Anybody I I'm I'm raising my hand. Um that's kind of the situation here. God's saying the earth was corrupt. I mean it was wrong, it was it was Morally perverse. But that wasn't man's assessment of it. I can see man down there saying, well, it's not that bad. I mean, maybe we're not perfect, but come on. And God says, no, no, no, no, that's not my assessment at all. God's judgment on something is true and correct And uh it was such a severe s situation, it was such a severe condition they were in that God said the only cure is complete annihilation. but out. It can't go on this way. Now when God says something can't go on anymore, it's pretty serious. So we have the magistrate of man's corruption. In other words, God is the one making this decision. God is the judge here making this call. Now, here's what I want to get to, and I got two more thoughts in this message. I'm going to quickly get them out to you and uh bring wrap this thing up. But in verse number 13 I noticed something else and I worded it this way, trying to keep the alliteration. I put no I wrote down notice the mayhem The mayhem or mayhem of man's corruption. Look at verse 13 with me. And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me. For the earth is filled with what? Violence. The earth was filled with violence That word violence there has the idea of uncontrolled cruelty. Man had gotten so mean, so hateful That he was absolute the cruelty was just out of control. And it and you And you kind of get the idea as you study this and how this word is used and everything, do a word study on it, you kind of get the idea that this place is just mayhem Now what do you what do you picture in your mind when you say mayhem? What how do you envision that type of setting setting Anybody know? You know you know what comes to my mind was um is when uh remember how many people remember recognize the name Rodney King Remember Ronnie King out in LA and the police beating or whatever it was? And the results of that? Remember the rioting? If you saw any of the reports on TV, where remember when they pulled that guy, that truck driver out of the car and were hitting him with cement blocks? I mean the place was mayhem The cruelty had gotten, the violence had gotten so out of hand, and folks were trashing their own friends' stores That is the idea behind this word here. The earth is filled with violence. I mean everywhere you went. Every city you went to, every neighborhood of the city, every village, every medium-sized town The countryside, it was all uncontrolled cruelty. Um now this isn't Uh the word violence is used in various ways. You have the violence of a natural disaster. Did you see the pictures of that storm that went through North Carolina? Was it yesterday, last night? Uh trapped or trailers turned upside down, houses completely level. That's that that's not the type of violence of something uh that was uh just a natural disaster what we would call it's not the violent uh warfare even. Um there's a fellow on the radio, he's he likes to say that uh the purpose of the army is to destroy things and kill people, which is true. I mean, that's we want to defend ourselves and would destroy stuff and kill the people to keep ourselves safe. safe. But it's not the violence that would be in a just war. Sometimes violence is just Come on now. Sometimes it's called for. If people want to harm our land or destroy our people, then we there's a point where it comes where you use violence is a defense. Police, uh I'm glad that our police carry guns. Aren't you I think we should be able to carry guns too. Somebody put it this way. The law enforcement will be there in minutes when seconds count. So I'm off on a rabbit trail here, but um violence, not the violence of a just war or a or of a national tragedy, but violence that is the result of extreme selfishness Violence that results in a society made up of individuals who are so self-centered. That they demand what they want regardless of how it affects another. If you have something I want, I will take it from you by violence and force. That's what the world had come to. And isn't that what sin is in embryo, in a sense? Selfishness? Wanting my way, wanting it to be what I want, when I want, the way I want it. Now you say, Brother Leatherman, you know, I I'm not perfect, I'm a sinner, but uh, you know, I'm not that selfish. Listen Every time we sin, we're putting self on the throne, taking Christ down. And what you're finding here in Genesis chapter 6 is the end result of a society where sin goes unchecked. I'm suggesting to you, based on this passage and others through scripture and through experience, that sin will always lead to violence. You cannot have peace where sin reigns unchecked. It will always lead to violence. There is no peace with the wicked. The Bible says, there's no rest for the wicked. If I'm living for me And Robin's living for Robin, and Jerry's living for Jerry, and George is living for George, and Andy's living for Andy, and we all get together in a society or an environment. Are we going to get along? No, because you have all these all these kingdoms that are at conflict. And so it's going to produce violence. And that's the way it was here The root of sin is self, and self unchecked will lead to violence. So look what he says. He said, God said unto Noah, the end of all flesh has come before me The earth is filled with violence through them. And so uncontrolled cruelty. You could give so many illustrations. of this. For instance, you have a uh, let's put it in the marriage setting. You have a husband and wife. They're both living for themselves. They become very selfish. They want their way rather than following the biblical example where the husband to love the wife like Christ loved the church. The wife loves her husband, submit, the husband protect and provide for the wife. And uh the focus is off of self, then you have peace, you have a happy marriage and all that. But when we start getting focused on ourselves, what happens? Uh verbal violence. Right? We say things to hurt the other person And if that is left unchecked, if you're not careful sometimes, boy, a little pushing and shoving. Frying pan. And uh it gets out of hand, then you have abuse. So, sin is unchecked, it leads to violence. And the last thing I noticed from these verses here, we had the magnitude of the corruption. It was just eat up, it was everywhere. The magistrate, it was God making the decision saying, this is it, this can't go on. The mayhem, all it just produced violence, and then last of all, the examination of man's corruption. And I like this. Look at verse 12. This is interesting. This is something I like to point out. And God looked upon the earth. And behold, it was corrupt. That phrase caught my attention. God looked upon the earth. That's interesting. Did he not know? what was going on. Well of course God knew what was going on. The word look there, uh if you if you look it up, um Has a lot of uh uh a very uh extensive definition to it. Uh it has the idea of inspecting closely It's kinda like a detective at a crime scene investigation. Don't touch anything, don't and then they go through and they look at the little fibers and boy they've got sprays and special lights and No dust this and do all that. Man, they're it they're looking. And that's the idea here with God. He's checking things out. Um it has the idea to, as I said, to examine very carefully. To find out the reality or the condition of a situation. So God looked He says there, verse 12, God looked upon the earth. Man, he did an investigation. Now here's my question: What doesn't God know? What doesn't God know? God doesn't know nothing. Right? That's actually correct English. Our English teachers. God doesn't know nothing. That means he does know everything. What does God ever learn? God never learns anything. If you already know everything, you don't learn it. Right? God can't learn anything He has all knowledge. What does God ever find out? God never finds out anything because he already knew it. Um uh God never does this. Oh Right? God never does this. Huh. Well I'll well I'll be Right? Anybody y'all ever do that? Well pff how about that? God never does that. And so when it comes down and God did an investigation, why would he do that? He already he knew all that stuff. He's not coming out saying, good night, this is worse than I thought. He he knew all that. I'm suggesting you when the Bible says God looked upon the earth, that took place, and I don't know Show exactly how it all took place, but it took place and is recorded not for God to gain information and find out what's really going on here. But God was uh doing that for man's sake. He was doing that for us. And I suggest to you, here's the idea behind it. God wants us to know that He was acting justly. He wasn't just working on hearsay. He wasn't just looking, well, things appear to be this way. Therefore, I'm going to react. You know when we get ourselves in a lot of trouble? is when we respond to things because of the way they appear rather than the way they really are. Huh? Ha I don't answer this, but I wonder how many of us have ever gotten a fuss with someone and afterward realized we didn't really Know the whole truth. And it wasn't really what we thought. I wonder how many of us have said and done things that have hurt people, then later on we realize, man, you know what? I was wrong. I didn't have all the facts. I'm here to tell you that never happens with God. He never makes wrong judgment. If God says something is so you know, we act this way. Tell me if I'm right or wrong. We act this way. We act as if God doesn't have all the facts Huh? Oh we've got I've got this figured out. And the God's word says we should do this or we shouldn't do that or we need to be careful about this or we need to make sure this is in place And we look at it and you know, you know, my situation. Now we don't say this, but this is the way we act. Well, he d you know, God's not, you know, he don't see it from my situation. He just don't understand. Yeah, he does. That's why he said, don't do that. Yeah, but God, if you knew what I knew about it, God's, hey I know what you know about it and more. And so God looked down here and He's going to judge the earth. He's going to exterminate mankind. I mean, that's what he's doing. And before he does, he says, I want mankind to know that I have the facts of the case. I've done the investigation. I know everything there is about this, and this cannot go on. This has to stop. This has to be ended. It's interesting. You're familiar with the story Sodom and Gomorrah, right? Question: Sodom and Gomorrah, good cities or bad cities? Y'all are sinking into the same days that we had in Sunday school this morning. My wife would say, preacher, that's a good indication it's time to quit. Sodom and Gomorrah, you're familiar with that, right? I could do like Lee Bowman did and walk on pews and holler in the screen. Sodom and Gomorrah. What did what question? What did God do to Sodom and Gomorrah? How did he destroy it? Fire and brimstone. Shh. But before he did that, what did he do? He got lot out of that, but he did something before that. He told Abraham, I'm gonna go do something first. First. Anybody remember? He said, I want to go and see. He went down there. And y uh what what? Didn't he know? No, he's not the one to gain information information for himself. He's going down there so that he he can justly judge them Because he had all the facts on hand. You follow what I'm saying? And that's what's taking place here. God's saying this has to stop. This has to end. No more. The world has gotten so bad. I I wished I wouldn't even made mankind, I'm going to destroy all of life off the earth. And before he does that, he goes down and looks and does an examination. Great white throne judgment of Christ. Who is judged at the great white throne judgment? The unsaved, lost, are judged. Now it's interesting If you read Revelation chapter 20, we're not going to go there because folks are falling into dazes. But if we would go to Revelation chapter 20, this is not how it happens. Jesus on the great white throne judgment. Next steps up Joe Oswag uh Joe Eddie Ecclesteen You're lost into the lake of fire with them. Doesn't go that way. God does something before he pronounces sentence on them. What does he do? He opens the books. And actually, he does what book does he open? Book of Life. See if the names are there. But that's not the only one. If you pay attention, the Bible says he opens the books. Plural. Works. And why would he do that? Because God is just And it's not just an arbitrary judgment, all right, your lost No, no, no. He puts all the evidence out. I don't think God's opening the books to find out whether that guy's name is in there or not Not. God's not opening the book. Jesus isn't opening the books to find out, all right, what's the rap on this guy? Jesus knows what the rap is. He's opening the books for whose sake? Person being judged. And you know, I study my Bible and I don't find one person that raises objection. Now one person says, Lord, wait a minute, this isn't Fair. You know why? Because when when a person stands before Jesus Christ and God presents the evidence, the only thing he can do, the only response is to submit to his judgment. There's no argument. There's no defense. We're guilty. It's interesting. Remember the rich man died, and in hell he lifted up his eyes? And he carries on a conversation of sorts with Abraham. If you study that carefully, not one time does he deny his guilt. Not one time does he say, I don't deserve to be here. This isn't right. This isn't fair. One statement you'll never hear in hell, this is not fair. You'll never hear that in hell. Because the judgment is so overwhelmingly true, there's no argument against it. Now he does ask for mercy, but isn't a plea for mercy an admission of guilt So God looks and God says, here's the evidence. Guilty, guilty, guilty. The earth has the mankind no longer has a right to exist. He has abused my goodness and my love and my blessings on him to such an extent I'm going to exist. Exterminate them all. Now that's the condition the world's in. God was an eyewitness to man's guilt, and it was undeniable. We can hide our sin from man, we can deny it, we can somehow justify our sin from mankind, but we can never do that before God. We can never do that. Now having said all that, if if we ended there, that would be a bummer, huh? Man, what a horrible ending. But the fact is, Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. And we're sinners. We're guilty. We have no argument. Don't try and argue with God. We're guilty. But God provided a way. That we could escape the judgment of our sin. You know what that way was? An old bloody cross, a broken body that suffered his judgment for us in our place. And we stand here today, those of us that know Christ, we stand here today forgiven. Forgiven. Guilty, yes. God has the records. We can't deny our guilt. But we cast our hope and trust, faith in Christ. And he never fails, and he's forgiven us and saved us. So let's come clean with God. Let's love him and live for him. That was horrific. But when that door closed on the ark, and by the way, Noah didn't close it. He just stood there, shh, and that rain is pouring down. What were the emotions going through Noah's mind? And I'm going to talk about this later. What were the emotions? Was Noah a sinner? Sure. Did he deserve to be in that ark? No, he should have been out there where the others were. He was a sinner, saved by grace. So there's an element, I think, of where he rejoices in the fact that he's escaping this horrific judgment. But on the other hand, there has to be an aching of his heart. You can't tell me he doesn't hear the cries. of people out there. You can't tell me there wasn't people beating on the side of that ark. You can't tell me that So we need to thank God for what He's done for us, the price he's paid, and the forgiveness we have. Father in heaven, bless now as we come to the Lord's Supper. Lord, I ask you to search our hearts that we would come humbly, clean, honest, and coming clean with you, dear Lord, about where we're at and what we are. Lord, where our weaknesses are, what our failures are, and just cast ourselves on you. And Lord, we're grateful for your mercy. Lord, if there's some area of our life that's not in line with your will for us after all you've done for us, help us, God, to see that. Help us to love you enough that we'll obey you and trust you and live for you. you. Father, bless our invitation I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads abound, eyes are closed. I don't know how you want to make use of the altar before we go to Lord