Romans eight twenty eight. We love this verse, don't we? We use this verse, we've memorized this verse. It says, and we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Now, it's important to understand some things about this to ensure you don't get misled by people that believe it says something it does not say. These verses. In this portion of Scripture, God is not speaking uh about people being saved. He is speaking about saved people growing in the Lord. Safe people enjoying what He has provided for us. And it's certainly misunderstood and misused Often because of what verses 29 and 30 say. But I want you to look at what it says here in verse 28. It says, and we know that all things work together to good, for good To them. To them. Now who's he talking about? He's talking about to them that love God. A lost person does not love God. You and I only love God because God indwells us. Because he's there. By nature, you and I do not love God. We love God because we know he first loved us. And that's what caused him to do what he did for us. That understanding comes after we receive Christ as Savior, because God gives us that understanding. And we're able to understand spiritual things because of God's presence in our lives. Changed nature. Aren't you glad you're changed? Glad you do you do not have that old nature ruling your life. You have the new nature that gives you the victory over it. So he's speaking to people that love him, saved people. And then he goes on to explain What he means by this and how God sees it. Now that's what we see in verses 29 to 30. How God sees a saved person. Not how he sees a lost person that he wants to save, but how he sees a saved person He's not saying that he has determined some to go to hell and some to go to heaven. That's contrary to all scripture, right? It is his desire that every person is saved. And then once the person gets saved, then this is what takes place in our lives as a Christian. This is how God sees uh sees you and me as a saved individual. Now notice what it says. Verse 29. For whom he did for know. Listen, there's no problem understanding that God knows everything. Huh? He is an all-knowing God. He he knows everything that has happened that's going to happen. So uh it'd be great if if you come to a place that you don't wrestle so much with what you don't understand. But enjoy and apply what you do understand. I've run into people that are so consumed about something they don't understand that they miss what God really wants to open up to them And what He has given them to understand. Hey, when God is ready for you and for me to understand something, He'll give it to us. He'll open our understanding But uh he says, for whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate. Now the words used there, it's used in verse 30 again. But the thought that of uh that predestination, that's something to be determined from the start, what uh outcome should be And so he's uh he's talking about something he has predestined. And he says, for what he did for know he also de did predestinate to be conformed to To the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate. Now, the word predestinate there just simply gives the thought of Once you're saved, then God begins to work. He has a plan for us once we're saved. And that plan goes into motion. God knows what he wants you and me to be. He already sees that. He already sees what he wants to make us. So he's already predetermined In your life and mine, once we receive Christ as Savior, He's already predetermined His plan for our lives. That's an amazing thing to grasp. God, an Almighty God, could be involved in every person's life. As they receive Christ as Savior, and he has a plan for every person's life who has received Christ as Savior. And he already sees that. That's simply what he's saying there. And he says, so moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called. What are you called? He gives us a new name. We're a Christian. We're Son of God. We're a part of God's family. We're believers. He also called, and whom he called, them he also justified. The instant you got saved, he made you innocent. Of all sin. Everything forgiven. Past, present, future. He justified you in his eyes. God did that. That's what God sees Now you and I, we don't see ourselves the way God sees us sometimes, but in God's eyes, that's what he sees. He sees you as justified, just innocent. And whom he did, whom he justified, them he also glorified. That's that's uh that's being just like Christ. Think about God's telling us what how He sees us. This is His picture, His mind picture of us. When you received Christ as Savior, all sins forgiven, name written down in heaven, new name given. You become innocent in God's eyes, and as he looks at us, we're already like Christ. Because one day we will be. And he he sees us already there. But back in verse twenty eight He's saying, now, this is what I see you that you are, because you're saved. This is what I've made you, this is what I've done in your life, but you've got to live in the nasty now and now. And verse twenty-eight is to help us to understand how to live now. We can't see ourselves as God sees us. We can't see ourselves in a way that all that God's done in our lives. But if we're willing to See his word applied to our lives, then he will help us to understand how this all takes place. How we deal with it. So what I want to do is take a look at with you tonight at verse 28. So let's pray as we begin. Father We need you tonight to just open up these thoughts to us. We rejoice in the fact that We have your presence in our lives. You have done a work in our lives. You are doing a work in our lives. And we rejoice in the fact that you help us to see what we need to see in order to be what you desire us to be. Help us to get a glimpse of that tonight. Help us just to grasp the everyday uh activity and how you want us to see it as you give it to us in these this portion of scripture I pray that you would help us tonight to be very aware of your presence as you decide to speak to us. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Verse 28 again. And we know that all things work together for good. That's what I want to deal with tonight. And we know that all things work together for good. We love to quote it. We love to use it when we can pull it out and use it to maybe help somebody. But I want us to grasp it in a way tonight that tomorrow we can apply it. Next week we can apply it to our day by day activity. So let's break it down. All things, all things It means exactly what it's saying. It means everything. Everything And that's the thing you and I have to grasp. As God works in our lives, He's involved in everything. He's never absent no matter what's taking place in your life or mine. He never loses control. It's never out of his presence, his working, everything that you and I face as a believer, God's involved in God has a purpose. God's doing something. Now, why is that so important? Because often you and I lose sight. Of God and everything. We we become consumed with our Uncomfortable situation. We become consumed when it robs us of our Self pleasure, our self-desires. And you and I Could enjoy more victory over everyday life if we came to the realization that everything is of God in my life. Everything. Now I know you and I take control sometimes. You and I do some dumb things. You and I make mistakes. But in that God is there. And God is going to work in that situation. He works in everything. All things. All things. Now think about it. We have some good examples throughout the scriptures and and uh we like to use the examples, but but uh let's personalize them a little bit. You think of uh you think of Joseph. Uh and the things that he went through. You know, uh uh God gives him a dream And uh he's going to use them. God tells him how he's going to use him. And how the his own brothers and his whole family are going to Bow to him like the sheaves and making obeisance to him and the sun, moon, and the stars, and the family making obeisance to him. God showed him that And when he got a hold of that, it made a difference in his life. Just like salvation should make a difference in your life and mine. When God says, I've saved you, now I've called you, now I've justified you, now I have in my Plan my eyes. I have even glorified you. That should make a difference in your life and mine. So when Joseph begins to go through situations, he never lost sight of God in him. Hear his brothers want to kill him, turn against him, place him in a pit, sell him to the Midianites, send him off into Egypt, and And uh here he's at Potiphar's house and all that happens in Potiphar's house, and then uh accused falsely and placed in prison and Chief Baker and the Chief Butler turned uh tell him lies and don't represent him well and and just all he went through. Every situation. Think about now. Everything Joseph went through was an all-thing in his life. It was an all thing. You think of Daniel. Daniel is taken out of his country. Babylonian captivity, and then they want to change him. You see, that's what happens to you and to me. There are those that want to change us And uh they they wanted to change the way he ate. They wanted to change the way he worshipped. They wanted just they wanted to totally change him. And the things that Daniel went through, they were these all things because God was in that God was active in his life. Just because he was taken into captivity, just because he was taken away from his people, just because they wanted to change him, did not mean that God had lost control. Everything Daniel went through was an all thing. And uh uh you think about uh you think you think about other people, uh you think about Job. And how all that Job went through. God didn't lose control. God was not blind to what was going on in Job's life. And here comes his wife and says, you ought to just curse God and die. But Job stayed faithful to God for the most part. And all that went on in Job's life, with his kids, with his family, with his with his uh material possessions, all that went on in his life. They were just one of those all things. Step by step, it was an all thing. You and I have things constantly going on in our lives that interfere with our satisfaction. Do you ever go to a doctor's visit? And the doctor tells you something you don't want to hear? I uh after I uh had uh my second heart attack I went to the doctor after it was cleared up and they'd put stent in and and everything was uh set pretty well. I went to him on a visit just checked up and And uh I asked him, I said, now what can I do to stop this cholesterol from clogging up my arteries? And he said, nothing That's not what I wanted to hear. I wanted to tell him, oh, I've got this pill. I've got this little thing that you can take, and we'll just eliminate that problem in your life. He said nothing. He said it's in your genes and there's nothing you can do about it. He said, now we can slow it down. We can control it some, but we're not going to eliminate it And so that has been an ongoing thing in my life. You know what it is? It's an all thing. Didn't mean that God had made a mistake in my life. Didn't mean that that God had lost control. It was just an old thing. And if I was going to Not let that rule my life and consume me, I had to come to a place that I realized this is just an all thing with God. It's just something that God has permitted in my life because He's doing something He wants to do. It's an all thing. Financial setbacks. You ever have a financial setback? Boy, I'll tell you, uh I've had some doozy times, but uh We have to come to a place when we get into financial situation that's in it's an all thing. Now it's easy to say, well, I got in that mess because of my dumbness Well, sometimes God lets us get away with our dumbness. He just lets us go ahead and do what we want to do, and then he can teach us a lesson with it. Hey, there's been a lot of times that you and I could have done some dumb things that God protected us and didn't let us do them Sometimes he just lets us go. Why? It's an all thing. It works the way God wants it to work. He wants to teach us a lesson. I can remember I was thinking about your building over here today and seeing the foundation there and and where you are with it and and uh I can remember when we uh uh built some buildings and And we we did sort of the same thing you did. We reached a certain amount and then we started the building and raised to rest while we were building it And man, I'd be tell you it got tight sometimes and and sometimes we just wondered how in the world are we gonna finish this. But I can remember a time we were in the middle of that building project and And uh things were sort of tight. And this guy walked in my office one day and he gave me the keys to a Mercedes. And he said, sell this and put it on the building. I can remember another time when a fellow walked in my office and handed me the deed to a property with a house on it and said, sell this and put it on the building. That's what God likes to do. Huh? He likes to put us in one of those all-thing situations. And then show us that he is right in the middle of it. That he lets it happen for a reason. And uh we get in those financial situations. I I can remember one time years ago, and I may have even shared this with you, I've shared about everything that's gone on in my life with you over the years But June and I, when we moved to Clinton, they called us the pastor there at Independent Baptist Church. I uh uh we we knew that our kids needed to be in the Christian school and we planned to do that, but uh we didn't have any money. I mean we didn't we didn't even have furniture to to really furnish the house that uh we had there, the parsonage. And uh and so uh It was in May, and so I had all summer. So I went over to the Christian school across town and I got with the pastor over there and I said, now, uh, we've just come in town, told him who it was and what we were doing. I said, now, we uh We want our kids to the Christian school. We have four children and and we got their grades and I had him put their names in and reserve the places. I said now I don't have the money to register them but Uh I'll get it over the summer and we'll uh we'll get it taken care of. And it cost me $135 to register. I could not get the money together. I mean all summer I tried and uh I couldn't get the money. And finally it's end of August, school's ready to start, so I went over there And I went in his office, I said, listen, we still want our kids in school. I said, but uh I don't have the I I I I want you to wait right now. I didn't tell him I didn't have any money. I just I just told him keep the places open for us. We're going to put them in school. And so uh he said, uh if it's financial, let us help you. I said, no, no, I don't want that. I said, I just wanted to make sure you did not give up their spots. I walked out of his office, out of his church, and I have uh to this day I don't know why, but a man from our church was pulling up in his pickup truck in that parking lot at that church And so I walked out and uh uh he said, hey pastor, said what are you doing? Got the kids in school? And I said, no, no, I was just in seeing Brother Macon. He said, hey, by the way, he said, my wife and I have been planning to give this to you. I've been carrying this check around for a number of weeks. He said, we want to give you this, and handed me a check for $200. I just turned around, went back in, said Breadsturm. Hey, that's just one of those old things. God just gets us in those situations so he can work it out And uh he wants to do those things in our lives. And so you and I, here's why I want to mention this. That's why I'm trying to pound it You and I need to more in our life not be all Out of shape because of what's happening, but we need to think of that. This is just an all thing. God is in it. It's just an all thing. It's just an all thing. All things, then what does he say? Work together All things work together. Now here's why you and I have the problem we have with the all things. It's hard for us to see how they work together. Do you think, Joseph When he was going through all of that, do you think he looked at it and said, Well, this is just working working together so he can fulfill the dream he gave me? Oh, I th I don't think I think he lost sight of that I don't think he could piece it together. Because, see, that's God's work. God pieces it together. And here's the problem you and I have. You and I only see the one thing that's going on. We're consumed by that. We're overtaken by that. That one thing that's taking place right now gets our attention. And we only think of that one thing. God reveals to us this portion of Scripture. He sees the whole picture. That one thing does not rule what God does. He's involved in the whole picture. He knows everything that's going to happen. He knows everything that's going on. He's just doing the one thing in our life at this moment because he's got some other things. That he's going to work and it's going to work together with this thing. And he's going to have something else, and it's going to work together for this thing. For what purpose? So we can. Move in the whole picture. So we can be involved in what God totally wants to do But you and I get in trouble because we get disturbed about the one thing. We want to question why the one thing. When all the time God is saying, Give me time. Give me time. You keep your mind on me, you keep your heart on me, you you remember the all things. Because I'm going to work this together. I'm going to piece this together with a lot of other things. I used to work on the assembly line, I know some fellows did. But I uh when June and I were first married I worked on assembly line for Chrysler Corporation in Newark, Delaware. And that was a lesson that I learned early in life. And the lesson was, I do not want to spend my life on this assembly line. My dad was a supervisor and uh in uh the plant there and he uh He said every young person between their junior and senior year of high school ought to have to work a summer on the assembly line. If they did that, they would make up their minds to use their lives for another purpose. But I worked on that assembly line. I had a couple of different jobs on that line. One was I uh uh worked right where they dropped the body of that car onto the frame of the car. attached it. And right there, my job was to to attach the tailpipe to the manifold. And I had to I had to take that mana uh that uh tailpipe, get it on that manifold, hold it, squeeze it and drop sh uh uh screws in each side of that uh uh tailpipe and then I would have to put nuts on them and tighten them with a a gun And I had to do that in 60 seconds. There's a man right over here ready to do his job, and I better be finished. in 60 seconds or he won't be able to do his job. Another job I had was I had to put uh panels on the back on the doors on one side of the car Now there was no electric windows and all that stuff back then. Everything was cranking, so I had to get the panel out of the car put it up on the the door, and I had to hold it with my knee and get the clamps in all around the panel. Then I had a door handle that I put on, put a screw in, put a cap on. Then I had the door opener, same thing. And then I had to go to the back door get the panel out, put it on, hold it with my knee, get the clamps in, put the doors on, and I had the gun that I carried, put the sc uh nuts on, and I had to do that in sixty seconds. Now, here's why I tell you this. I was consumed by that one thing. Just getting that job done. I mean it was the same thing for eight hours. And I had to run to get it done in 60 seconds. But there were engineers that had designed that car. They didn't Care about that one job. They saw the whole picture. I mean they saw it from just a piece of metal to coming off of that assembly line. A beautiful car ready to sell somebody. God has designed the whole picture. You and I go through one thing at a time, but he has the whole picture. And he's just trying to get us to the place that we will listen to him and let him control those one things, those single things So he can bring them together and help us to enjoy Him and mature in our Christian life. All things work together for what? For good. We're good. You say, hey, buddy, sometimes it doesn't work together for good to me. Hey, it's already good. Because God sees the whole picture. You're already in good hands. You already have a good life. You already are headed for heaven. You already have God's protection. You already have God's provision. You already have God in your life every day. Hey, it's all good. It's all good. What he wants us to do is just come to a place that we see how we can enjoy it more as we go through this day by daylight. The word good there has the thought of benefits. Benefits We like benefits, don't we? Huh? You like those Social Security benefits? You like that Medicare benefits? There are people that take jobs for less salary because the benefits are great. Benefits are good. And that's what God's saying here. These all things that I'm working together It's to your benefit. It's so you can enjoy your life. If God left us alone to do it the way we want, we'd make a mess of it. Huh? But he indwells us, and he works in our life step by step, day by day. I would like to encourage you tonight, why don't you and I just make up our mind? I'm not going to let things that I go through every day rule me. I'm going to rule them. I'm going to let this thought penetrate my mind, consume my heart. I'm going to keep my mind on God. And what I have in him, I'm not going to let these piddly little things that have nothing to do with my life Control me. All things work together for good to those that love God. Are you saved? He's talking to you. Amen. Let's pray. Father, help us to grasp and apply this to our everyday walk with you. Help us not to be able to walk out of here and just let something rob us of these thoughts. But help us to Grasp them, apply them, make them a part of our lives.