Turn our Bibles, please, to the book of Ephesians, the book of Ephesians. We're going to be in the second chapter of the book of Ephesians here in just a moment. When you pick up your Bible, you realize that there are three words. There are three words so significant in the Word of God that if you remove any one of these three words from the tapestry of Scripture The whole plan of salvation literally falls apart. It ceases to exist. It vanishes before our very eyes, if it were not for these three words. Without these three words There is no salvation. There is no death on the cross. There is no sacrifice. There is no eternal life. There are no heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ Jesus. There is no home in heaven. There is no eternal life if you take any one of these three words out of the Word of God. The first word is this word here, love. But God commendeth his love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Romans chapter 5 in verse 8, or John 3 and verse 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Without the love of God there is no crucifixion There is no Christ on the cross. There is no eternal life. There is no salvation. There is no home in heaven. It all completely falls apart if you take love out of the entire equation. It just ceases to exist. Now, there's a thing. We can't understand the love of God, and we'll talk more about that here in just a few moments. But we can, in fact, as we sit here in this auditorium We can't understand the concept of love, can we not? You came in this morning, you're sitting with your husband or with you your wife, and you would say that you love your spouse, you love your children, you love your grandchildren, and if you have them, you love your great grandchildren. I tell people all the time, I love my wife, I love my daughter, I love my two brothers, I love my sister, I love my mom, I love my dad, and I kind of like my father-in-law sometimes But the truth of it is we understand love. We grasp the concept of love. Once again, we can't understand the love of God, but we do understand the concept of love. But there's this second word. If you take the word love, there is no home in heaven, there is no eternal life. But there's this second word that if you remove it, there is no salvation, there is no eternal life. And it is this word here: Faith But without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him, Hebrews 11 in verse 6 Without faith, we cannot possibly trust Christ as our personal Savior. There is no home in heaven. There is no eternal life. Everything is gone without faith. Now, it is impossible for us to understand all that faith does. Luke chapter seventeen in verse six. Be if faith is the grain of a mustard seed, ye shall say to this sycamore tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, be thou planted in the midst of the sea, and it should obey you Or Matthew chapter seventeen and verse twenty, for I say to you, because of your unbelief, for if ye have faith as a grain of a mustard seed, ye shall say to this mountain, remove hence to yonder place And it should obey you, and nothing shall be impossible unto you. The truth of the matter is we don't understand how a mustard seed, a microcosm of faith, can move mountains and pluck up sycamore trees But we can't understand the concept of faith, can't we? You walked in this morning. I was watching as people came in. Not one person got down on the floor And looked underneath the pew to make sure that pew was still structurally intact. Strong enough to hold up your weight and the weight of everybody else in your row. You just had faith. You just sat down trusting that that pew would hold you up. You got in your car this morning. Even if you stopped and had a word of prayer and you said, Lord, keep us safe on the road. Bless the service as we go Nobody in this auditorium said, Lord, please let this hunk of junk start one more time. We always always have faith that our vehicles are going to start. You can have a car or a truck with 900,000 miles on it, and you put the key in the ignition and turn it, it doesn't start, you're surprised You just have faith that the car is going to start every time you put the key in the ignition. And if you drive a Ford, you've got more faith than anybody else. Do you ever notice how all of the Hot Wheel cards that you played with when you were a kid and all the match foot cards, do you ever notice they were all GM products? That way you get used to that way you get used to pushing them before you grow up. All the new GM products made in Canada are sold with heat all the new trucks are sold with heated tailgates, so when you push them in the cold weather they won't freeze your hands. But we we'll just stop there. That's enough I've already offended one brother. We talked about that last time I was here, didn't we? But the truth is we just had faith that that car was gonna start. We just had faith That this few was going to hold us up. We just have faith. We understand the concept of faith. Not understanding mustard seed faith, but understanding the concept of faith. We understand the concept of love. We can't understand the love of God We understand the concept of faith. We can't understand mountain-moving faith. But there's a third word that if you take it out, it all falls apart. And it's this word here, grace. It's impossible to understand grace. You look up in Webster's dictionary, it says it means the unmerited love or unmerited favor of God, but we don't understand it. We read it 167 times in the New Testament, but we don't understand it. We hear stories about it. We love to sing about it It's probably one of our favorite topics to sing about in a New Testament church service. It is said that the Baptist National Anthem is Amazing Grace, how sweet the sound That saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now I'm found, was blind, but now I see through many dangers, twells, and snares, I have already come. 'Tis grace that brought us safe thus far, and grace will lead me home, but we don't understand it We sing grace, grace, God's grace, grace that will pardon and cleanse within. Grace, grace, God's grace, grace that is greater than all my sin, but we don't understand it. We stand and sing to the top of our lungs: wonderful grace of Jesus. But we don't understand it. It's impossible for a human sin sick person like me and you, a person that is a wretched and lost individual, it is impossible for us to understand how a perfect And holy and spotless God can look down from heaven with such love and such grace and see wretched sin sickness people like me and you and send his son to die for us promise us salvation give us the opportunity to be the sons of God Make us heirs of God, promise to come back and get us someday to live in a mansion in a glorious city called heaven, all through the vehicle of His amazing grace. We o often misquote grace a little bit, don't we? We often talk about grace and we say it uh some say some things about it the wrong way. I've had the privilege over the years of preaching several pastors' fellowships and things like that It was really funny, Pastor, when I first started in evangelism, I would preach at a pastor's fellowship, I would be the first preacher. And then some old guy, I'm talking 90, 100, 140 years old, would get up and preach the second message. The last three pastors fellowships I've preached in, I've been the second preacher. I don't think I like that at all But you'll hear some of those older preachers, they'll stand up and they'll say, Ah, I'm so thankful that the Lord saved an old country preacher like me. I'm not being critical. Please understand. I know what they're saying when they say that. You hear it in testimony time, someone will pop up and say, I'm glad the Lord saved a Sunday school teacher like me, or I'm glad the Lord saved the deacon like me, or an usher like me, or an evangelist like me, or a pastor like me, or a song leader like me, or uh just a soul winner like me. Listen, God doesn't save old country preachers. God doesn't save evangelists. He doesn't save pastors. He doesn't save missionaries. He doesn't save deacons. He doesn't save ushers, and he doesn' A safe Sunday school teacher Understand this. God only saves one classification of people and one classification of people only. God only saves dirty, wretched, hell-deser-deserving sinners. That's all God saves. We've got it all wrong. If most of us were to sing Amazing Grace the way we actually live it, it's we say it's our Baptist theme song. It's not our Baptist lifestyle Most of us would stand there on Sunday morning, we'd put on our suit and our ties, we'd grab our sermon notes, or we'd grab our choir music, or we'd grab our Sunday school lesson, and we would look at ourselves in the mirror and say, God sure did get lucky when he saved me. If most of us wrote the song based upon our lifestyle, we would read, we would sing Understandable Grace, how sweet the sound. It saved a good Christian like me Comprehendable grace, how sweet the sound that saved a Sunday school teacher like me. Understandable grace, how sweet the sound that saved a preacher like me. God only saves wretches. Please understand this. It would not take one more ounce of the manifold grace of Almighty God. to save the wretched sinsick soul of the worst blaspheming atheist on the planet than it took to save me and you. There are two problems with grace. This wonderful thing. There are two problems with it. One is the lost person's position outside of the grace of God. The Bible is going to be clear about that when we read it here in just a moment. But secondly, there's the Christian's position about grace. It's become comfortable. It's become unamazing. I tell people all the time there are two songs that if you can get over them, you need to hit an altar as soon as you possibly can. One Is that great, greatest personal truth ever penned by a human being in that little children's song that we let the boys and girls sing and never sing in a church service? Jesus loves. Me. What a personal truth that is. You get over that, you need to hit an altar somewhere. And if you can get over amazing grace, when it stops to be amazing. Need to hit an altar as soon as you can. We need to have a good old-fashioned revival of Christians just being amazed at grace again. Look at Ephesians chapter 2. We're going to begin reading in verse 1, and we'll read down through verse 10. The Bible says, and you Hattie quicken. Please understand Paul is writing this to save people. He's writing to the church at Ephesus. And so as Paul is talking about past tense, he's talking about before they were saved. And you hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in times past ye walked according to the courts of this world, according to the prince of the power of the world, of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. Among whom also we all had our conversation in times past, in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. But God. Don't you love how it all changes? But God, who is rich in mercy. For his great love, wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you are saved, and hath raised us up together, made us sit together in heavenly places. in Christ Jesus and in the ages to come. He might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are you saved through faith. Then not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them I want to preach your message this morning just on the amazing grace of God. We're going to see what it's like for a lost person outside of grace. And what it should be like for a Christian inside of grace. Let's have a word of prayer before we begin. The Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning. Lord, we thank you for our time in your house today. Father, we pray that you'll bless the morning service this morning. Father, we thank you for what you did in Hearts and Sunday School. But Lord, we ask for more today. Lord, we ask that you meet with us, that you Bless the message. May the Word of God find fertile soil in the hearts of Christians, and may lost people see their need of a Savior. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen. The first thing about grace, and there are lots of things about grace in the Word of God, lots of things that grace does in the Word of God. But perhaps the greatest of all the things that grace does is what we call the redemption of grace. Being purchased back from a slave market, the market of sin. never to be sold again, buying us with the grace of God. Look at the redemption of grace in the first five verses of this passage of Scripture. It begins by talking about the life of the sinner. And if you're here without Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, if you're watching online, this is talking about you. He's talking in past tense to the church at Ephesus because that's what they were before they got saved. But if you haven't trusted Christ, it's what you are right now. Notice what it says about you, and you might not like it when we talk about the life of the sinner. It says first that you're dead in your trespasses and sins in verse 1 As you sit here this morning without Christ as your Savior, understand this simple statement. I don't mean to offend anybody, but it's just Bible truth. You're a corpse in the eyes of God No Brother Harbor, I'm not a corpse. I can see, I can hear, I can taste, I can feel, I can do all of those things. I'm a living, breathing human being. I've got air in my lungs and my heart is beating right now Medical science says I am a living human being. Yes, medical science does say that. That's what I would say as I look at you. But God says this, therefore, as by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, so that death passed upon all men. For that all have sin. Romans chapter five and verse twelve. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Romans chapter six and verse twelve. 23. You might look like you're alive, but in the eyes of God, and by the way, when it comes to eternity, these are the only eyes that matter. The eyes of God, you're a corpse. Eyes of God, you're dead in your trespasses and sins. I don't know what you're thinking. You're sitting there thinking if I didn't log on to listen to this or come to this church service today, so I could be insulted. You're telling me I'm a a corpse right here. I don't know that I like that, Brother Harper. Well, you're really not going to like what I'm going to say next. Verse two tells us that you walk according to this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. Not only you're dead in your trespasses and sins, but you're a child of disobedience. That means you walked where Satan tells you to walk. You do what Satan tells you to do. You're a puppet. He's the puppeteer I was preaching in Ohio and uh there I saw in the morning uh that the morning as the service began, a truck pulled up in front of the church and dropped off a woman and two children, and then the dad drove off. The husband and the dad drove off I thought maybe he had to work or something like that and was diligent making sure his wife and kids could come to church. We had Sunday school, the morning service, I'd finished preaching, I'd gone to the back and was standing there, and sitting out in front of the church was that truck. I just wanted to be friendly, so I walked out and said hi to him. Come to find out. He just doesn't go to church at all. He doesn't mind dropping his family off, but he doesn't attend. So as I stood there, I thought, well, I'll just talk to him for a few minutes. Nobody else was around. It's just me and him. So I began to give him the plan of salvation. And when I told him about all that sin and come short of the glory of God, he's nodding his head. He knows the verse I went through verse after verse after verse. I I asked him, Do you know for sure if you die today you go to heaven? And he said, No, I don't. And as we continue to talk, I'm sitting there thinking, my heart's beating faster in my chest You know how it gets when you're witnessing to someone, I'm thinking, in just a minute, this guy's going to trust Christ as his Savior. His wife's going to come out of the church service and have a saved husband I looked at him and said, Well, would you like to trust Christ as your Savior right now? And he did this. He said, Oh, oh no. Just like that. Never have understood why anyone would reject a free gift that costs nothing. And I said, Why? He said, Oh, I know if I get saved, I gotta start doing what the Bible says and what this church says. He said, I work very hard six days a week. The only day I have off is Sunday, and I know if I get saved. I'm going to have to start coming to church on Sunday, just like the Bible says. And no man is telling me how to live my life. I'm my own man. No, you're not your own man. You walk according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air. Say, but I don't like that. Well you're really not going to like this. Jesus said in John 8. 44, ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. No that you're dead in your trespasses and sins. You're a child of disobedience. But before you get really mad at me, let me give you the third one. The Bible also says in verse 3 that you're the children of wrath No, we as human beings, if someone is angry with us, we kind of want to fix that thing, don't we? We kind of want to talk to them and see if we can't work something out, explain something. It always makes sense if we make peace with those that have something against us, doesn't it? I worked for a fellow uh uh years and years and years ago at a place called Keller Tile in Chattanooga, Tennessee. My boss's name was Ray Parrish Now Ray Parrish was selling tile to people and I knew something that these ladies who were coming in with their wallpaper samples and their paint chips and asking him to help them pick out a floor, I knew something that those ladies didn't know Ray Parrish was red, green, and blue, yellow, colorblind. He would put three different tiles on the floor to match up to their stuff and Then he would call me over and I would walk over and I'm like, oh wow, that's never going to go together in a million years, unless he got lucky and picked one out. I would say, Well, all three of those look pretty good, Ray, but this one might look better. And I would give him one. Ray Parrish, I don't know whether you could stall black and white or the colors were jumbled, I don't know how that actually works, but he was both types of color blindness. Now I know every night his wife Lil would lay out his clothes for him so that the next morning when he got up to come to work He could just get dressed and not have to worry about it. It was always easy to see when Ray and Lil had had a fight the night before She just wouldn't lay his clothes out. She didn't do anything mean. She just wouldn't lay them out. He would get up and go to his closet and pick out things and walk in wearing stripes and plaids and checks that would never go together in a million years. And when he would walk in, we would say, Hey Ray, are you and Lil fighting? He would say, How do you guys always know when we're fighting? It made sense for Ray to make peace with his wife before he had to get dressed the next day. It makes sense for you, if you had an argument with your wife on the way to church, it makes really good sense for you to make peace with her before she cooks your Sunday afternoon meal But if you're a lost person he sitting here today, somebody is angry at you. Oh, Brother Harper, it must be you. Your face turns red. No, it's not me. And it's certainly not your pastor, it's nobody in this church, it's certainly not someone who invited you to church or has witnessed to you over the years. No, no, nobody in this room is mad at you But in John chapter 3 it says this He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. But he that believeth not in the Son shall not see life. Listen to this. But the wrath of God abideth on him. Everywhere you go, every mile you drive, every meal you eat, every place you visit, the wrath of God goes with you Jesus put it this way in Matthew chapter 10 and verse 28, but fear not them which after they've killed the body have no more that they can do, but rather fear him who is able to destroy both body and soul in hell As you sit here this morning, the wrath of God goes with you every place you go. And when you stop and think about that for just a minute, that's a scary concept, isn't it? The life of the sinner is deadness, trespasses, and sin. A child of wrath, a child of disobedience. But then you get to that fourth verse. But God. The life of the sinner meets the love of the Savior. Good God, who is rich in mercy, watch how he puts this for his great love. Worth he loved us. Scarcely for a righteous man would one die, yet peradventure for a good man, some would even dare to die. God loves you anyway. Brother Harper, that's not possible. How does his love abide on me and his love is there too? His wrath abide on me and his love is there too. Because he's God. You want to see a picture of his love and his wrath at the exact same time? As Jesus hung on that cross, showing the whole world the love of God, the wrath of Almighty God rested on top of him. You can trade in his wrath for his love right now. I told you we under we can't understand the love of God. We can understand love. Never forget my dad had four heart attacks. He was a very stubborn individual. When he had his first heart attack, if you're familiar with Charleston, West Virginia, it was in South Charleston. As you're at South Charleston, you're at a light there and Just up the road is the uh the state trooper place where you get your driver's license and there's a Bob Evans that sits on one side and there's a Wendy's that sits on the other. My dad had a fender bender when the two cars collided he felt his left arm's uh pain in his left arm in his chest seized and he was pretty sure that he was having a heart attack He didn't tell anybody. They filled out all the accident reports and everything. And then he'd already determined he was going to go ahead and go to the hospital and get himself checked out But as he's sitting there in the car ready to drive off, he also realizes when he goes to the hospital they're not going to let him eat anything, and so he runs through the Wendy's drive-thru I am not kidding at all. Ordered a single cheese with everything. He liked it with everything. I don't understand why you put lettuce and tomato On a hamburger, why eat something as unhealthy as a single and then try to put salad on top of it? Doesn't make sense. But Dad and I disagreed about that He walked into the emergency room eating a hamburger and told them that he thinks he just had a heart attack. They didn't take him seriously until they ran the EKG. Then they took him seriously I would go in to visit him. He would always go to Thomas Memorial Hospital. When you walked into Thomas Memorial Hospital, you walked through a little vestibule. They've changed it now, it's in a different place, but for years it was this way. And as you walked in, there was a portrait Marine uniform, and at the bottom it says Sergeant Herbert Herbert Thomas. I always saw the picture. The picture caught your eye every time you walked in and walked out. One day, however, I walked out and just accidentally, seriously, accidentally glanced on the opposite wall. There are three frames on the opposite wall. I immediately stopped when I saw the center frame. On the center frame, on the far left hand side, there hangs Sergeant Thomas's Purple Heart. On the far right hand side of that same frame, there hangs Sergeant Thomas's Congressional Medal of Honor. Growing up in a military home, I'd seen those multiple times. But between his bronze star and between his purple heart, there hung Sergeant Thomas's Congressional Medal of Honor. I immediately began to read the two frames, two other frames. One was a letter from Harry S. Truman telling the family that their son had died. The other was the congressional record when he'd been uh awarded uh posthumously the CMH He was leading a a uh platoon of marines on an island in the South Pacific during World War II. They'd been ordered to take a hill. The Japanese had three machine gun turrets on top of the hill. They were very fortified They'd overcome two of those machine gun positions, but the third one on top of the hill they were having trouble with. They decided to climb down in foxholes and weaken the enemy's position by lobbying hand grenades at the enemies First hand grenade Sergeant Thomas he pulled the pin, he loft lofted it in the air, got caught in the branches of a palm tree, and fell down live into the foxhole with him and the rest of the Marines He didn't calculate the cost. He didn't hesitate for a moment. Just threw his body on the hand grenade. When it exploded, the rest of the Marines having been spared by their sergeant, they decided that nothing was important anymore. Didn't matter how fortified the Japanese position was. When they saw this act of selflessness, they climbed out of their foxhole. And those devil dogs, they climbed straight up that hill into blazing machine gun fire, and they took that position, and the United States Marine Corps never surrendered that position the rest of World War II For scarcely for a righteous man would one die. Greater love hath no man than this, than a man lay down his life for his friend. Scarcely for a righteous man would one die yet peradventure. For a good man some would even dare to die, and then that phrase again, but God was rich in mercy. But God commandeth his love toward us and that while we were yet sinners. Realize he died on the cross for the atheist that shakes his fist toward the heavens and doubts his existence. Jesus, one preacher put it this way, Jesus is the only person in history to die for his enemies so he could make his enemies his family. There's never been love like that before. I used to think that the most beautiful words about the love of God were those found on a on a wall, in a jail cell, a prison. In Jerusalem hundreds and t even I think a thousand years ago now. That third verse of the song that we all know that goes like this Could we with ink the ocean fill? And were the sky a parchment made, where every stalk on earth a quill, and every man, a scribe by trade, to write the love of God above, would drain the ocean dry. But could the scroll contain the whole, though stretched from sky to sky? Oh, those are beautiful words, but they pale compared to this, for I am persuaded. That neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor powers nor things present nor things to come nor height nor depth Nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Listen to me. This morning, right now, this morning, here in just a moment, we have an invitation. You can trade God's wrath for God's grace. You can trade God's wrath for his mercy and for his love. You can leave his wrath behind never to pick it up again. The Christian is saved from the wrath of come to come will never experience his wrath And you don't have to either. The life of the sinner meets the love of the Savior. It results in living salvation. Notice what it says, please. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love with you, loved us, even when we were dead in sins, has quickened us Together with Christ, by grace you're saved. He made us alive. He gave us living salvation. You know at the moment you get saved, everything changes? But Brother Harper, I still have an old nature. I still feel I understand that. Do you realize your past, your present, your future changes the moment you get saved? Your past was once riddled with sin. Now your past can be summed up this way. Come now Let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as they be as white as snow, though they bear like crimson, they shall be as wool. Fact is, everything changes. Your past was once riddled with sin. Now your past can be summed up this way. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus who walk not after the flesh but after the Spirit Your present changed. Right this very second, right now, you have your father the devil, unless your father you will do. John one verses eleven and twelve. But as many as received him, to them gave you power to become The sons of God, even that believe in on his name. First John chapter 3 and verse 2, beloved, now are we the sons of God And your future changed. Your future was once destined for a place not prepared for you. By the way, hell wasn't even prepared for the Adolf Hitlers and the Jeffrey Dahmer's of the world. Hell was prepared for the devil and his angels, and that was it. If you go there, you'll be an eternal trespasser. The fact is, that's what your future was when you walked in the door. You trade wrath for grace this morning. Your future is summed up by these words of our Savior That where I am, there ye may be also. Everything changes. Number one, there's the redemption of his grace. Wouldn't you like to have his grace instead of his wrath this morning. Number two, we see the repositioning of grace. What happens after we get saved? Notice what it says, Christian. Watch it carefully with me Even when we're dead in sins, hath putten us together with Christ. By grace you are saved, and hath raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. You'll notice that that is past tense Paul is not saying someday he's going to raise us up together if we hold on to the end. No, no. He has raised us up together. He's writing a living man, writing to living people And they've already been seated together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. See, that's one of our problems as a Christian. We've got too much here. We've got everything here, don't we? We're not supposed to have our treasure here. Lay not for up for yourselves treasures in heaven where moth on earth where moth and rest doth corrupt and thieves do break through and steal, but rather lay up for yourself treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rest norrupt nor thieves do break through and steal. Our conversation is supposed to be in heaven and lifestyle, our conversation is in heaven, from which also we look for the coming, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, who shall change our vile body, might be fashioned like into his glorious body. Philippians 3:20 and 21. The disciples came back. They were so excited. They were casting out demons. And what did Jesus say? Marvel not the devils are subject to you, but that your names are written in heaven. Our citizenship is in heaven. Our inheritance is in heaven. Our treasure should be in heaven. Our conversation should be in heaven. Our names should be in heaven We shouldn't have much here. This world is not my home Just passing through. Years ago there was a man that had lost, there was a preacher, let's start with him, named Iris Stamphill. Iris Stamphill was a preacher and fancied himself to be a poet He took a man out visiting with him one day. The man had had some terrible uh terrible misfortune in his businesses and lost a lot of money and he was down in the dumps and everything like that. So they went out and they went to make the first visit and Stamp Brother Stamphill got out and went up to the house and started to visit. As the businessman is sitting there, he looks across the street and he sees an old, dilapidated house This thing looks like it should about to fall apart. He can see through holes in the walls and see the buckets in the living room to catch the water that came in from the holes in the roof. Several of the window panes were gone. The porch looked like it could collapse at any moment and should be condemned. But then as he kept looking, he saw a little girl in the back and she was bouncing a ball up against the wall and catching it and just smiling and singing and having a wonderful time. He became upset with her, believe it or not Came out fat that she could be so happy when everything was falling apart when he's sitting there feeling sorry for himself. Finally got out of the car, walked up to the little girl. She just kept bouncing the ball until she saw him, then she stopped and she said, Can I help you, Mister? He said, Yeah, I don't understand how you can be so happy. Your house is falling apart. Your porch should be condemned. There's holes in the walls and holes in the window and missing panes of glass. How can you smile? while you're playing. She looked at him and smiled and said, Well, mister, you don't understand. She reached out and grabbed the man by the hand and led him to the back of the house. There in the backyard, she pointed off in the distance and she said, Mister You see that hilltop over yonder? And he said, yes. She said, not too long ago my daddy left, me and my mama. Went on the other side of that hilltop where he's building us a brand new house. He said in any day now, he's gonna come back and take my mama and me out of this old house and move us to the brand new house he's been building for us just yonder on the other side of that hilltop Businessman went back to the car weeping about what the Lord's done for him. He told Ira Stampill the story and he wrote these words, I'm satisfied with just the cottage below. A little silver and a little gold, but in that city where the ransom will shine, I want a gold one that's silver in line. Don't think me poor Deserted or lonely. I'm not discouraged, I'm heaven-bound. I'm just a pilgrim in search of a city. I have a mansion, a home, and a crown. I've got a mansion just over that hill We've been repositioned. This world isn't home anymore, Christian. We've already been seated. You know what that means? That means it's already a certainty. You've already been seated together. You already have a name card at the Marriage Supper of the Lamb right now. That means if you've trusted Christ, you're going. Notice, number one. There's the redemption of grace. Number two, the repositioning of grace. Number three. Before I get to number three, let me ask you a question. Isn't grace amazing? You know everything you have, you have by the grace of God You have a home, you have it by the grace of God. If you have a car, you have it by the grace of God. Family, you have it by the grace of God. If you have sickness, you have the grace of God The help you throw it If you have nothing, you have the grace of God to comfort you. Isn't grace amazing? Let me just say this, and I I hesitate often to use uh West Virginia or North Carolina vernacular. But let me use pure West Virginia vernacular. When it comes to grace, you ain't seen nothing yet. Tim Brother Harper, what do you mean? Notice the next verse. That in the ages to come, he might show us the exceeding riches of his grace. You know what that means? Right now you just get the table scraps. And the table scraps are amazing. Brother Harper, how come he won't give us the riches of his grace? Let me explain it this way There are three types. When you're preaching, there are three types of people sitting in the congregation. Now we can divide them up in all kinds of groups and everything like that. But there are three. types of listeners in a church service. The first type of listener I want to mention is the shouter. That's the person when something blesses your heart, you say amen. You might actually actually every now and then slip up and say, Praise the Lord. And if the mood hits you just right, you might say hallelujah. My father-in-law always says, saying amen to the preachers, like saying sick em to a bulldog. Preachers always know where the ameners are. We always know that. There's the shouter. There's another group. Group number two is the nodters. Now that's divided into two groups. I'm not talking about this kind of nodder when you're preaching. I'm not talking about that notter. I'm talking about those of you in this auditorium You don't say amen or anything like that, but when the preacher hits something that you really like, your head starts moving like it's on a swivel. It's like You start nodding, don't you? By the way, let me just give you a little secret. This will help you. If you're a nodder, you're really a shouter, and you just haven't tried it yet. There's a third group, and unfortunately you probably already know this, this is the group that I have been chose I I've been uh put in in my uh early on in my life and I still have it. It's the crier Now there are some in this auditorium. There was a lady last week that sat right over here. I could never look at her because she cried every time I preached. When you start getting blessed, your eyes start watering, your nose starts running, you start getting a lump in your throat I would love to be a shouter. I can't, because when I shout, I sound like this. Amen. Like that. I don't want to do that. I'm not going to do it There's the crier. In our old home church, we had a man in our church named George Kirk, and preacher, when other when you would be visiting other places and you mentioned that uh we were members of Marinatha down in Sistanville, West Virginia Preachers would say, does George Kirk still go there? Every preacher remembered him. They might not remember my father-in-law who was the pastor. They might not remember his name. They remember George Kirk, because George Kirk was a shouter. If they gave an Olympic gold medal for shouting, George Kirk could have won that thing. That's how good he was at it. They were sitting there one time. I was there uh I was just in town and they had an evangelist preaching and I'm sitting there and George is sitting on the other side of the auditorium. This preacher gets up and starts preaching on the millennial reign of Christ. And to use a North Carolina term that you may use here, it got good. As he was preaching, George Kirk started shouting. He preached a little bit more and I started crying. He preached some more and George shouted some more. He preached some more and I cried some more. It got to the point that George was shouting because I was crying, I was crying because George was shouting. After the service, George, who's with the Lord now but was in his mid-sixties at the time, he came running up to me and he said, Brother Richard, he said, if this doesn't prove we're going to get a new body when we get to heaven, I don't know what does I said, what do you mean by that, Brother George? He said, if it got any better than this, I couldn't take it. For if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved We have a building of God, and house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with the houses from above. You know why you don't have the riches of his grace? Because you couldn't handle it right now. But one day when we have our glorified body, he's going to show us the exceeding riches of his grace. Notice number one, there's the redemption of grace, number two, there's the repositioning of grace, number three, there's the riches of his grace. Number four, here's the key question. The requirements of his grace. Surely something this amazing must cost a fortune. Surely only the most wealthy could buy it, only the greatest captains of industry could get it, only the most powerful politicians could appropriate it. That's just not what it says though, is it? Where to tell you, if you worked 24 hours a day, seven days a week, three hundred and sixty-five days a year for forty-five years and never spent any money and put every dime you had into a savings account, at the end of that time you wouldn't be able to afford one drop of God's grace. It can't be bought, it can't be earned. Notice what it says, for by grace. Are you saved through faith? Not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. Isn't it amazing how in every other area of our life, literally, every other area of our life, we know what to do with a gift. In a few weeks, we're going to have Mother's Day. Mothers, you're going to be laying there in the bed on that Sunday morning. The door is going to open up to your room, and in is going to walk your children with those runny eggs, with that burnt toast, and that macaroni necklace that they made for you And every mother is going to say, these are the best eggs I've ever had, and this toast is delicious. I want your recipe, as they put on the macaroni necklace. As I'm traveling and preaching, pastors will walk up to me and they'll hand me an envelope. They'll say they'll hand me something like this and I'll say, Oh, you didn't have to do that Isn't that what we do? Someone gives you a card, you go, oh, you didn't have to get me a card. You don't give it back. You say, you didn't have to give me a card. We know what to do with the gift, don't we? When a gift is held out, you just take it. That's what you do. Salvation is a gift. And God holds it out and says, Here, it's free. You can have it. And we say, Well, I better get to work. I better figure out how to earn that. I better clean up my life. I better straighten some things out. Get that away from me. Ask you a question. If you were God, how many chances would you give you to reject the free gift? Almighty God holds it out and you say, No, thank you. It's the gift of God. How do you get it? You take it. Joel chapter 2 and verse 32. Acts chapter 2 and verse 21. Romans chapter 10 and verse 13. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, shall be saved. Wait a minute, Brother Harper. Are you saying I don't have to earn it? I don't have to work I'm saying you can't earn it, and you can't work for it. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us by the washing and regeneration and renewing the Holy Ghost. Titus chapter 3 and verse 5 I'm saying you can't be good enough to get it. Not by works. You can't keep enough law to get it. For by the grace of the law of the faith of the law shall no flesh be justified. Romans chapter 3 and verse 10 Galatians chapter two and verse twenty one I do not frustrate the grace of God, for if righteousness come by the law, then Christ is then in vain. You ever notice how every religion on the face of the earth that believes you can work your way to heaven, that not one of them tells you how many works it will take to Not one. There's never a specific number. No, the only people that have a specific number, Bible-believing Christians, because here's the number. Zero. To assume that you can do good works and get to heaven is to assume that you have good works anyway. Everything that you do is tainted by sin and all of our righteousnesses Our filthy rags, Isaiah 64 and verse 6. So Almighty God says, you can't earn it You can't work for it. You can't keep enough commandments. You can't give enough money. You can't come to enough church services to earn it on your own. So here I'm giving it to you. Brother Harper, wait a minute. You're telling me all I have to do is accept it? That sounds way too easy. I say this all the time. Thank you. That means I explained it right. It's just that simple. To go from wrath to grace, from dead to alive, from having no future, to be seated together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. All Just by accepting a gift that you didn't have to pay for. Lastly, and we're done. Not just the redemption of grace, the riches of his grace, the reposition of his grace, the requirements of his grace, but lastly there's the results of his grace. Verse ten, for we are his workmanship. Here it is I knew this was coming. You start talking about how salvation is free, then turn around and start talking about works. Listen, the works have nothing to do with salvation. But after you've gotten saved. After that, we're gonna we're ordained to walk in works. Now we can talk about good works all night long, all day long. You know, for hours just go through some of the things the Bible says are good works, but for the sake of time, let's just boil it down to perhaps the one that is the nearest and the dearest on the heart of our Savior, for the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost. Luke nineteen and verse ten. Talk about telling others. For his workmanship created in Christ Jesus, the two good works which God hath foreordained that we should walk in them. We're supposed to tell others Now there's some reasons why people don't tell others, aren't there? Some it's just disobedience. We understand that. And if that's why you don't tell others, then you need to get right with God. I can't say it any plainer than that. But there are some that really would like to do it, but you're afraid. You're nervous. You're afraid that if you talk to a lost person, you might get those verses out of order and mess the whole thing up First, let me point out, the lost person is not going to know that you've got them out of order. Secondly, how can giving any verse to a lost person mess something up? It doesn't work that way But they're afraid that that's going to happen. I'm afraid I get all nervous with that, the whole Romans Road thing, it bothers me. I'm scared I'm going to say it wrong. Let me tell you something. You know when the Apostle Paul witnessed one-on-one to people Nobody never, ever used one time the Roman's road. He hadn't written it yet, if you're wondering about that. But anyway, uh he didn't use the Roman's road. You know what Paul did when he witnesses someone one on one? He said, I was on the Damascus Road. There was a bright light And I said, What that will thou have me to do, Lord? In Acts chapter twenty-two he even starts earlier than that and starts with Stephen. He said, When the brother uh the blood of thy martyr Stephen was shed. I also stood by and was consenting unto his death. Paul used his personal testimony to tell others how to be saved. Let me tell you something. Every Christian in this room can do that Here's a couple of truths about it. Number one, if you tell someone your own personal testimony, truth number one, there are people all around you that need to hear it. There are people that look at you and say, oh, he's a Sunday school teacher, he's a good Christian. They don't know that you used to be a drunk. They need to hear your testimony. Secondly, you can't mess it up. You can't mess up your own personal testimony, can you? Thirdly, if you did mess it up, you'd be the only person that knew You know why we don't tell our personal testimony? Because grace isn't amazing anymore. When you first got saved, you told everybody about it. Now that you've been saved for 40 years, it's just not that amazing anymore. Because God saved a good Christian like you As we sit here this morning, I want you to understand something. Our goal is to tell others about our Savior. Our goal is to tell others and share the gospel and share our testimony. Truth is, the Apostle Paul told us about that in Acts chapter 20 and verse 24. We asked Paul this morning, we said, All right, Paul, why did you do what you do? Did you do it to plant churches? Nope. Did you do it to turn the world upside down? Nope. Did you do it to write epistles? Nope. Why did you do all that you do? What would you sum up your ministry as? They don't have to guess what Paul would say because he said it. Acts chapter 20 and verse 24, he said this. But none of these things move me. Neither count I my life dear unto myself that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry, listen to this, which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to testify the gospel. Of the grace of God. You know why Paul turned the world upside down? Because he never got over amazing grace. Don't you find it interesting that the one that said his whole ministry was to testify the gospel of the grace of God is also the one that refers to himself as a wretched man? Amazing grace. Saved a wretch like me. Listen, Christian, a church that is filled with people that are still amazed at grace will be a church that is always filled with people. It's time to stop being used to grace. Listen, I'm not saying there's a single Christian in this room that would say, Oh, I don't like grace anymore. What I'm saying is, we're not as amazed as we used to be It might be our theme song. It's not our lifestyle. This morning, Christian, why don't you get that taken care of? Lost person this morning? Here's the choice. I can't make it clearer. Wrath. Grace, judgment, love, death, life I can't make the choice for you. I can't make you walk an aisle, but I'll tell you the other side of that. No one can stop you either. Why not trust him this morning? Have our heads bound, our eyes closed, no one looking around. Every head bowed, every eye closed, no one looking around. We're just