I know how often pastors will or preachers will get up and And then talk about struggling with a message. I normally don't. I'm pretty settled, you say, on what I believe the Lord had me preach. And uh but this kind of changed you know, the flesh wants to uh Hm, let's be honest. The flesh wants to impress. That's the desire of the flesh. Especially with your people, you're starting revival. And uh I had a visual that I really wanted to use today, so I had a message that was an evangelistic message. It's the kind of message you want to preach on a Sunday morning. morning and uh the Holy Spirit wrestled with me all that yesterday afternoon while Jason was finishing up the classes and then last night and I told my wife when we got to the house, I said I just can't preach it that tomorrow tomorrow the Lord just won't let me do it. And so uh he laid something else on my heart and I think it goes along after I prayed about it and thought about it and God gave me peace about what you're doing with your track life Um I'm I'm strong on tracks. Uh when we went to Calvary Baptist Church we had a little AB Dick Tabletop preacher and uh we didn't have any tracks. We couldn't afford to get tracks. So uh I had a man in our church that actually I in fact we have a gentleman here knew Carl Geisler. Did you know Brother Geisler? And uh brother Geisler had a little uh printing set up in his basement, printed gospel tracts, and so I got a couple of his tracks started printing there at the church. We moved his uh setup basically into our church, bought a couple three sixty AB dicks and had a couple maltolifts. And we printed out about a million, million and a half tracks a year. And so I'm still strong emphasis on tracts and handing out tracts and getting the gospel out. Uh I'm a I guess the best way to put it, I was raised in the age of Shakers and Bakers. Shakers. Shakers and bakers. I mean I've come from the Cleveland Baptist Church, and we like this church. I like your preacher because your preacher always knows what's going on here No matter where I'm in the country, when I get home, I've always got something from Mountain Lake. Uh I've always I've always been informed, be on Facebook or on the internet. I always know how many people are being saved here, I know what's happening I like a church that's busy. I was raised in a church that's busy. I like being busy. But that's not proof of spirituality. And uh I want to be very transparent with you today. In fact, if you get to know Jason and I, what you see is what you get. You may not like it, that's tough. I'm not here to make buddies, okay? I'm here I'm here to please the Lord. And uh I had to kind of get over that business. Uh the Lord put me in Baltimore for twenty-seven years. I've served every capacity in the church Except for foreign missionary and nursery worker. I'm willing to do the foreign missions work, okay Not sure about nursery work. Uh love them babies. Soon as they can go to the bathroom on their own. I love them a lot more And so uh that's kind of the far I put the brakes with the Lord on that, okay? But I've done everything there is a church. I'm like most guys. I went to Bible college and got involved with junior teens and senior teenagers and And then uh preacher moves you up and you work with the senior saints and then finally you teach a pastor's class and and uh I've been the soul winning director and the bus minister and I'm principal the Christian school school for one long horrible year. And uh I was taught in the Christian school and and uh then I became the assistant pastor and then a co-pastor, then I pastored and And uh just about anything that you can do in a local church, I've done it one time or the other. So you can't fake me out. Truth of it is, I have caught and found myself many times in four years of full times at work. Faking spirituality. Manipulating and maneuvering myself to where when I came into church I had my Christian face on. My exaltation and my praise and worship for God, many times in my Christian walk, has not been spontaneous. You see where I'm going with that? In other words, don't you believe that when we go to handout tracks, and I don't mean that it's always this way, I know my wife doesn't always want to be around me. You know, but but most of the time when we go out and serve the Lord, we're gonna head out tracks, we're gonna come clean the church, we're gonna come and get revival service every service, we're gonna do those things. We do it because we love Him. And our exaltation is spontaneous. I love the house of God. It shows I'm in church about 250 days out of the year. I mean church a lot. I love God's people. I get a unique opportunity. A lot of preachers, evangelists don't get it. I spend a lot of time with lost people. I'm in a lot of venues for the crowd that I'm speaking to, from the Smithsonian Institute, right down to local colleges and and uh places like that where we may take the birds as I'm I'm dealing with a a congregation or a group of people, they're not saved. And they're not of like mind and and they're not w they're not really wanting to hear what I have to say when it comes to God and they tend to look down and look away, they're argumentative. I like 'em when I come to the house of God because I'm dealing with people that believe what I believe. Think like I think. They'd like to be here. Or they pretend like they'd like to be here. And the truth of the matter is, we shouldn't have to be preachers shouldn't have to get up here and start talking to this group of people And so, you know, evaluate whether or not you're gonna be here. Uh, you know, decide you're gonna be here. That ought don't you think that ought to be spontaneous? Well there's two or three of you are going to be here this week. Don't you think that ought to be spontaneous? Now I think it ought to be spontaneous. The church doors are open, I ought to be here. Why? Because I have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. That does that not apply? A personal relationship with Jesus Christ I'm going to be honest with you and transparent. Many times throughout my 40 years of service, I've been in a position, I've been in a state of mind where I came out of duty. Nothing wrong with duty, but you can't survive on duty. It's not going to take you all away. Not only have I been in the ministry 40 years, I've been married to the same woman for 40 years. And I'll tell you something. It's sure a lot better liking her and like being with her than not liking her. And serving her out of duty and riding with her out of duty. You see where I'm coming from. I'm trying to lay some groundwork. September 10th, 2012, Chris Stevens got up. And had no idea what stood before him. He had concerns, but no idea. See, he thought that he represented the greatest power in the world. He thought that he had all of the authority of that nation. That's what he believed. He believed that when people walked Into the compound at Benghazi that they were on American soil, preacher. That's what he thought. So he thought that the guards out there and everybody around him understood that you must With a representative of the United States of America, there's consequences. He was under that impression. We let him down, didn't we? That's right. Absolutely. Absolutely. We really well probably will never know till happen what all took place in Chris Stevens' life. Some say that he died in the fire, some say smoke inhalation, some say that he was dragged through the street. Brutalized in many ways. And finally killed. But his body shouldn't have been limp over the shoulders of those hundred and twenty-five to one hundred and fifty men who had absolutely no respect for the greatest power in the world. So where are you going with this preacher? Here in Gl uh Book of Ephesians, chapter six, I want you to go down to verse nineteen Verse 19, the Bible says, and for me, that utterance might be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly. We won't take the time to do a study on the word boldly there, but the truth of it is, should we not be bold because we do represent the greatest power in the universes? To make known the mystery of the gospel, is that not why he saved me? Am I not here today? Why did he not just take me onto heaven that I might have a relationship with him in a glorified body? No, he left me here that I might present the gospel to the world. That I might show the mystery of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ For which I am an ambassador in bonds. I absolutely love that. That's our title today: Ambassador in Bonds. That therein I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. But that ye also may know my affairs. And how I do. Let's give the Lord in a word of prayer. Father, let's uh let's take the time together And allow me, Father, to be transparent through your Spirit today. Using personal illustration, Father made these that are saved and born again. be honest with themselves about themselves. Lord may the illustrations given today example The truth of what we should be and ought to be and can be. And the responsibility that we have to you and what's important to you because it's not about us, it's about you. And Lord, if there be some soul here today that's not saved, Father, may they be convicted to be born again because Christians are willing to repent and be honest of their condition. That your spirit might move up and down these pews. We've prayed. We've pleaded. We've supplicated. Father, we've asked you for revival. But Father, revival comes because people in their hearts are willing to confess that they need you. And Lord, may they be willing to do so today. For the lost and saved alike. And we'll give you the praise and honor for it in Jesus' name. Amen. When the above Apostle Paul has spoken of here of being an ambassador in bonds, that means he's a representative of heaven He's a representative of the divine power of God. Every person that's born again, every person that's saved is an ambassador of Jesus Christ. The word ambassador has only been used two times in the New Testament. It's found here and it's found over in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. We'll go there in just a moment. But I wanted to start here because I love the book of Ephesians, and I've actually been through the book several times And I the word ambassador and bonds jumped out because we know the Apostle Paul spent much time in prison. Many of the epistles that we have he w he wrote from the prison cell, but I don't believe that's what it's talking about. I believe it was a compulsion When I'm bound by something, that means I can't help myself but do that thing. Please stay with me because I believe that the Apostle Paul Was a resent representative of the Lord Jesus Christ to present the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ, with all boldness. Because he was bound by it. Because he understood the responsibility of it. He understood that he was representing the Son of God because of his relationship with God. And at the same time, and I don't know if this excites you, but this excites me, at the same time, while I'm representing Jesus Christ on this earth and I'm Doing the job as a representative of Jesus Christ with all the authority and all the power of heaven behind me, the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, is representing me in heaven. Now if he's doing his job, I ought to be doing my job. And I was reading the list and I came into church yesterday, and the first thing I did, I picked up the personal checklist in preparation for revival. And I went through this list. And the truth of it is that most everything on this list, almost every photo, a couple of them are primary, but a couple of these things, I mean most of these things are byproducts of what I'm going to talk about this morning. And I'm going to be totally transparent with you because there have been many times, as Jason's in Sunday school this morning, that I had to put on the face to be in the house of God. I was backslidden. I was not in a personal relationship. I was busy. In fact, the truth of it is preachers sometimes can get so busy in the doing of the ministry that they kind of get out there and do it on their own. It's easy to do. I mean, I know how to get up and preach. I know how to organize and plan things. I know how to have things. And it's not that I don't want to see people born again. I just come sometimes I just get out there and do it without him. You can do that too. You know we can do good things without doing the best things. It's very easy to do. So I want to kind of walk through three things that are very simple. And the things that you know, we're not going to give you anything new this week. We may approach it a different way, but we're not going to give you anything new. These are all things that we ought to be applying to our lives. I want you to go out of here today. With a life change. That's what we talked about yesterday. I want you to be willing to allow God to talk to you as individuals today. I'm going to be transparent with you. I'm going to tell you about myself I've already been honest with you. There's lots of times I didn't like go to church. There's been times I've been backslidden. There's been times that there's been sin in my life while I was in the ministry because I'm just a man. There's been times there's been people people in the church, I'll be honest with you, instead of counseling, I'd like to walk up and punch the old boy right in the nose I'm I I I'm just like you. I mean I have road rage too. I just call it Pew Rage. You know, because I expected more. And the very reason for it was because I was in a carnal state of mind. I was not being what God wanted me to be. Let's go back over to our 2 Corinthians chapter 5, and I want to look at a few things with you. Listen, we love you. And we want to be helped to you. But you've got to be honest with yourself. That's what you're here for. And we cannot have a revival unless you're personally honest with yourself. I have to ask myself the question: is my exaltation, is my worship for God, is my desire for fellowship and relationship with God, is it spontaneous? And I want you to ask yourself that question throughout this message. Is it spontaneous? You say some of you are looking at me kind of strange. Truth of the matter is what I'm telling you is when I walk by my wife. I can't help preacher but walk by my wife and not reach out and touch her. You know why? I love her. It's spontaneous. Uh this last week I I was surprised by my oldest daughter who showed up from Wyoming. I had my middle daughter comes every year at spring break. We were traveling back from Nashville last week. We were preaching. We had to travel all day and my daughter says I'm gonna come anyway today. She came on Saturday. And so when she pulled up, we got in at six o'clock in the evening. We'd left at four o'clock in the morning And had driven 14 hours and got back and I just pulled in, here comes Rachel, and I was so tickled to see her and my two grandchildren. And I knew they were going to be there. And the truck pulls in behind and there's my oldest daughter. And I only get to see her once a year And there's her and her husband show up. And and they had driven all the way from Wyoming. I preached my mother-in-law's funeral uh three weeks ago. And they drove all the way to Wisconsin. I got to see her and they didn't tell me they were going to come And she showed up and when she showed up I'm standing there and as preacher tell you you can hear kind of in my voice I've got a respiratory infection and I was sick as a dog. We'd driven 14 hours. I'd been behind the wheel all day. I was coughing my head up and here's my daughter and I just start bawling. I mean because she's this little tiny thing and I picked her up and I carried her all the way over back to her truck. I was so excited about seeing her both of the grandkids hanging on me. You know what? That was spontaneous I just couldn't help myself because I love him. Are you with me now? You see where I'm at? Okay, the fee uh 2 Corinthians chapter 5 it says, Therefore if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Don't you think we should be different if we're saved? All things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. And all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ and has given to us the ministry of reconciliation To wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now Then we are ambassadors for Christ. And so God did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ's dead be ye reconciled to God. I was reading this after after following up in Ephesians chapter six, and I said this is How have all the power of God given to me when I got saved? How have all the authority of God backing me How that I ought to be offensive in my testimony for Jesus Christ. How that I ought to be doing what I ought to be doing. I ought to be out handing out practice. I'd ought to be witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. And I ought to preach the word with fervency because I love him And that's what it's talking about here, because I've been reconciled by God. And we need to get a hold of that. Don't you remember what the terror of the Lord is? The terror of the Lord is when a man, listen, is lost in his sins and he's not been reconciled to God. And all the authority and all the power of God rest upon him in wrath. He's destined for hell because his sins have not been forgiven. Because he's not put his trust in the Lord Jesus Christ Aren't you thankful today that all that we know about God is through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ? And Jesus was willing to be obedient unto the Father and come and die for us. And suffer death for us and then have the authority and power to raise from the dead through the power of Jesus Christ and the Spirit of God and God the Father. And now he's on the right hand of God the Father, listen, interceding for me as my advocate. And he represents me in all things. I don't know about you, that's pretty exciting. I mean we ought to get excited about the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ. We're getting ready to celebrate Resurrection Sunday. And that's my favorite time of the year. That's my favorite holiday, preacher. I got saved January 16, 1967. And let me tell you something. That was the first time in church for me to be in a church was on an Easter holiday. And we had a sunrise service. I was just, I'm telling you, I was an excited 14-year-old kid. I love Resurrection Sunday. So where are you going, preacher? Well, I'm telling you that God's reconciled you. How many know the name Elizabeth Barrett Browning? You know that name? Poet. She'd written uh had five books published by the time she was twelve years old. She was uh Daddy Made Invalid Daddy wanted to keep all of his kids home. He loved his kids in a very perverted way. He was very rich and he didn't want his children to marry. He wanted them to raise up, and if they did marry, he wanted them to stay at their house, his house. And and she got injured at a young age and so daddy just kind of made her an invalid, kept her in bed. But she grew up writing poetry But she met Robert Browning through correspondence, both of them being poets. And they fell in love. And they got married. And for hell's sake, he took her overseas. He got her overseas. She got well. Got up and started walking, and they had a tremendous life together, but she missed her mom and dad. She loved her dad. She knew her dad loved her, but in a very perverted way. And so she began to correspond with her dad, write him letters. Ten years. She wrote letters to her daddy. One day she gets a box in the mail. She sees it from their address at home. She's so excited she waits for Robert to get home and she opens the box up and there's every letter she'd ever written to her dad. Unopened. You say, well man, that's appalling. I can't imagine looking at one of my kids. I've got four daughters, by the way. I grew up with just one brother And my daughter my I've got a sister, but she's fi fourteen years younger than me, so it's kind of me and my brother growing up and and so when God gave me four girls, wow I lived in a parsley with one bathroom. Imagine four teenage girls and my wife. What an education Now you know why Jason's way is. Jason was the oldest. I I made him a bedroom in the laundry room. Just so he had a little privacy. Uh I didn't know where I was going with that, but I just kind of I saw them images going into the bathroom. We're trying to get in the bathroom. That's why I get up at four in the morning. That's the only time I ever had privacy in the bathroom with four daughters Where are you standing, preacher? Here's where I'm going with this. God reconciled himself to us. That's exciting, isn't it? That's exciting, isn't it? God reconciled himself to us. That means God made everything alright. Through the blood of Jesus Christ, everything alright. Jesus died for me over here, and listen, because the blood was spread, the Father now can come and love me. Grant, would you help me out? Uh we besides seeing church ministries, we like to use visuals. This is my visual today. Wow, what a visual. Don't you understand that over here I had the stink of the world on me? Don't you understand that over here I was lost and undone? I had no uh no divine purpose Over here I lived for myself and I was miserable. And if I died in this condition, I was going to go to hell. But then I saw that Jesus loved me. And the blood of Jesus Christ was was applied to me over right here. And when the blood of Jesus Christ was applied to me, then as God the Father I could I could go to him and this is going to be me. I could as God the Father I could go over here and I could God could love me. He's kind of uncomfortable, isn't he? I can understand why when I heard the Well is either highway or hedges? Uh hedges. You're the hedges, uh it's no. Isn't that what God wants to do? Doesn't He want to recognise Solomon Himself to us? Hey, listen, isn't that why he created me Didn't he create me to be able to commune with him and fellowship with him and have a relationship with him? Isn't that what he did? Isn't that what he did, folks? Okay, isn't that why we're here? Okay, let's stop playing church then. If that's what God did, shouldn't we be reconciled to God? Well, isn't that what it says? Look down there verse 20 again. It says, Now then, we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ's says. What does it say right there? It says, Be ye reconciled to God. Well, wait, wait, wait a minute now. You mean that God came over here and reconciled himself to me, but he tells me to reconcile myself to him? And you know one day I I was reading that and I thought to myself, after looking at the ambassador ship, and I'm thinking about all my duties as a Christian, what I'm supposed to do, and how miserable I am doing them sometimes, I thought to myself, you know, you've got a problem, Howard Because you got saved and God reconciled himself to you and God loves on you, but you don't love on him back. Does that make sense? Of course it does. Why don't we? I started lifting out things. First of all is guilt guilt of our sin. See, we've got to believe God completely, preacher. Because when he forgave me, he forgave me for sin yesterday, today, and tomorrow. But you know we have a tendency to let our sin get us down. Hey, listen, he he knows I'm not going to be perfect. That's why David said that I'm but dirt Hey, listen, Job put his hand over his mouth. You know why? I'm just a man. He's God. He's everything. Am I right? Okay, why are we letting the sin a guilt of our sin? Another one's our pride. You know, we we'll take him for salvation, but we don't want to take him for anything else. We're not willing to reconcile ourselves to God. Hey, listen, does it not take two to have a relationship? It takes both people to do it. God's reconciled himself to you. God saved you. God's taken you from hell. He's given you divine purpose. Hey, listen, he's wanting to give you all power. He's wanting you to be able to accomplish all things for him. He's wanting you to represent him as an ambassador of Jesus Christ. Why in the world then are we not loving back on Jesus? Why have we not reconcile ourselves back to him? Isn't this not what God wants? God's not interested in how many tracks you hand out. You do understand that, don't you? He's interested in you loving him back. And you love him back by handing out the tracks. You do get that. I hate to make the bed. I make the bed because I love my wife. I hate making the bed. Why do I do that? Because I love her. Everything about the Christian walk is unfamiliar to this flesh. We don't like it. The only way you get through doing it and do it spontaneously is because you love on God. What God wants. Okay. Come on now. And see, isn't that better? You're getting more comfortable, aren't you? Thank you, Dad. That's what he's after. Amen. Hey, listen, he's forgiven your sin. But he will not put up with your rebellion and your disobedience. He's not going to listen, he's not going to put up with your pride. He wants you to love on him. Hey, let me tell you something. You get over here in the light of Christ and start serving God because you love him, God will begin to do something in your life. Hey, listen, when I when I got, isn't it a shame we only get one shot at life? You know, preacher, it's taken me 40 years to get a hold of some of these very basic and simple concepts before I applied them to my life. I mean you can hear it preached all you want to. You guys heard all the terms. Reconciliation? Well that's God. Listen, that's God being able to love on me. He couldn't before because he's a holy God. But now God through Jesus Christ has made me holy. As he is holy, so God can love on me. Man that ought to charge us up. Man that ought to excite us. That God's able to do that for us. Don't you understand I'm as good as in heaven? Don't you understand that I am white as snow? Don't you know that God is taking care of everything through Jesus Christ? He's given me divine purpose and the power to do it. I can be an ambassador for Jesus Christ with all boldness. But I still had a problem. And I'll be honest with you about it. Go over to the book of Ephesians again, Ever to chapter 2. I want you to look at something. Ephesians chapter two. The book of Ephesians is a real simple book. That last chapter deals with standing. I've got I don't know how many messages out of Ephesians chapter 6 dealing with standing How that we're to stand, we're to plant our feet, we're to be a good ambassador of the Lord Jesus Christ, we're to have the whole armor of God on. But you've got to back up. Because the first three and a half, almost four chapters, they don't deal with standing. In fact, the last part of chapter four and chapter five deal with walking. Now that's kind of out of our mind because we think when we we set, then we stand, then we walk, but it doesn't work that way. In Christianity, you s you set, then you walk. That's your testimony. How you walk through life. And that gives me the ability then because I see the fruit of my faith to be able to stand. See where I'm coming from? See, that's the way it's supposed to be. I sit, I walk, then I stand. The last chapter deals with standing As preachers, we're always talking about you need to stand, but the truth of this, we need to back up to the first four chapters in chapter two Verse 6, the Bible says, and hath raised us up together, and made us what? Set together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. Now I want you to look at Galatians chapter 1. It's real simple. Won't take me about a minute. Galatians chapter 1. Look at verse 15. But when it pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb and called me by his grace, what's it say there in verse 16? To reveal his son in me that I might preach him among the heathen, immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood. Neither went I up to Jerusalem to them which were apostles before me, but I went into Arabia and returned again unto Damascus. Then, after three years I went to Jerusalem to see Peter and abode with him fifteen days Everybody talks about, boy, what a Christian the Apostle Paul was. I mean, boy, to get saved the way he got saved and have the testimony of salvation. But let me tell you something. His salvation experience, though it was dramatic. This right here, right here, is why we see the Apostle Paul the way he was. Let me give you the secret. I'm going to give you the secret right now to being a successful Christian and being able to listen being able to see all those things that you've been able to sit down and fill out this checklist and be able to see this complete in your life. I'm going to give you the secret to it right here The first one is reconciliation. Reconciling yourself back to God. Here's your second one. This is a hard one, guys. Well that's the answer, Shaker and Baker. I was trained by independent pastors that my, listen, my success as a Christian was determined by my productivity. That what I produced, how many people I led to the Lord, how many tracts I handed out, how many people responded to my preaching. Those are the things, how my church grew. Those are the things that determined how much God loved me. That's a lie. That's a lie. I got all the love that I was to get. The day he save me. There's no greater expression of love than Him give Himself for me. Amen. I don't do what I do to prove or to get God's love. I do what I do because he already loves me. You can get a hold of that. If you can learn to do this, always this first. You can call it devotions. You can call it Bible reading. You can call it anything you want to do But you'll never have faith until you do this. Because this means I'm putting my weight on him. That's what this means. That's what this is talking about to learn to sit in the Lord. Let me give you an illustration. I got saved in January of 1967. My dad got saved three weeks before me. My mother got saved the same night my dad got saved. I got saved in a revival service and an old a short real short evangelist. He wasn't he wasn't five foot tall. But we had a real boisterous bird voice and he got up and preached on hell three nights in a row. That'll do it. We don't do that much anymore. Preached on hell three nights in a row, the third night was all I could take. I was sitting in the pew begging God to save me. I mean begging God to save me, and it was a ball-headed three hundred and fifty-pound deacon sitting right across from me, and he looked over and saw the conviction on me, and he walked over and put his hand on my shoulders said, son, would you like to get saved? And I said, yes, sir. I'm telling you, I got saved when I got out of the pew, preacher. I was already saved. I've been pleading with God to save me right there. I went down to the altar, got down on my knees, and a by fellow by the name of Bob Clutch was a mechanic. I can remember the grease under his nails. Took the word of God and opened it up. I can't remember a verse he showed me, but I got saved that night. Amen. I went home that night and I can remember taking my suit coat. I didn't wear a suit, that's the first time I'd ever had a suit. We were just good heathens. My dad was a coal marker. We're just tough people and that's what I came from and we got saved. We were going to church and I went out and I took my suit coat off, walked into my closet, hung my coat up, and I can remember I tell it because this is exactly what I thought as a as a a thirteen year old boy, you're gonna turn fourteen. It's like when back when I went to school where they used to take an eraser and clean the board off. It was all white, and then they would always have some kid at the end of the day take a sponge and clean the board. You people can remember that? I know your kids with computers understand but that's what they used to do. And that's the way I felt inside, preacher. I felt clean. I did feel it. And it changed my life. Within three months I'd led seven of my friends to the Lord. My the devil offered my dad a job. My dad was a plant manager for the Midland Ross Corporation, the frame division of General Manager. Motors. And they offered him a job as a 34-year-old man. They said, Jack, we want you to go to Clear, Ohio, and build a new factory, hire 3,500 men and get that factory up and running. running. My dad loved work. And so my dad just jumped on that job. Didn't pray about it and he went home to my said, Mary Ruth, we're we're moving factory's moving me up to to to Lita and we're I'm gonna build a factory for And so we moved to Perrysburg, Ohio, right outside of Toledo. And I absolutely loved my new school. But we lived 40 minutes from the church. My dad started working 80 hours a week, and I never saw my dad for the next two and a half years But my mom. My mom my mom got in her old King James Version Bible, sat down every day, and listened to Lester Roloff and all of the B Green. And my mom began to grow in the Lord. Now I got backslidden because we weren't getting to go to church like we're supposed to, because Dad was never home. Finally my mom said, We're going to start going to church whether your daddy goes or not. And my mom started making me go, but I got involved in football and I grew a foot in eight eight less than eight months. So I went from being this little short pudgy kid to this big tall fat guy. No, I just I just grew overnight, so all of a sudden instead of being just a back tackle I was a linebacker and I was loving football and I was in a small And everybody came to watch the games and then I started playing basketball and I loved baseball already. And I was in a school that had nine different art classes and I loved to draw. It just had everything that I wanted I had friends in the school. I'd come from a school a few people folks remember back in the late sixties that they just started integration and I came from a school that was 80%, almost 90% black, and it was it was fighting all the time. I was in this school, and it was a great school, third-grade school, public school in the state of Ohio. And I just liked everything about it. And here's my mom in there on her knees, spending three years on the backside of the desert, getting to know God. And one day I'm out shooting basketball, didn't even know it was Wednesday. Coming from school, my mom looks at me and she says, go get ready for church. We're going to church. I said, Is it Wednesday? I knew it was Wednesday. Yeah, we're going to church. Well, dad's in a home. Whether he comes or not, we're going to church. Get your brother ready, we're going to church. So I went in and started getting ready, and I was grumbling. around. Dad pulls in the driveway right when we're getting ready to leave. He looked in and says, Jack, are we going to church tonight? He goes, remember, I've got to go right back to the factory. I thought you'd have something for me to eat a bike and go, I got to go right back She says, when this gonna quit. She says, this isn't right. He sat down on the couch to meet his food I'll never forget it. That was the turning point that day. She walks out, says, Get in the car. I get in the car. She's gonna let me drive to the church. I didn't I had my license by now. And she looks over at me and she says, I'm praying us out of here She said, I'm praying this away from this place. She loved her home. I looked at her and said, I don't want to leave. I like my school. She said, Well you might as well pack because we're leaving Two weeks. My dad walks in and says, They're having trouble with the main factory back in Cleveland. They want me back down there. We're gonna have to move back down. We went back down. Now listen to this. We went back down I got back into Cleveland Baptist Church, went on a missions trip that fall, God called me to preach I surrender to preach. Three months later, I'm in church. I look and here's my dad come down now. My dad surrenders to preach. My dad and I go to Bible college together You know why that happened? My dad was backslidden. I was backslidden, but my mom went and spent three and three years on the backside of the desert. She got to know God. She prayed us out of that place. I wouldn't be in the ministry today if it wasn't for my mother. My dad wouldn't have been in the ministry if it hadn't been for my mother. Let me tell you the secret to loving God is resting in Him. You can serve all you want to, but if you're not serving from here, it's a waste of time. You do it because you love him and listen, you reconcile yourself to him and learn to rest in him. Let me tell you something. Your service will be a joy to you and you'll reap. You know I had a lady in my church that was a secretary for my Christian School that walked up to me and she says, You know, I've never had an opportunity to lead somebody to the Lord, and she wanted soul winning every week. And she was a miserable person. She just hadn't learned to rest. Do you know I had to fire her to get her right? I fired her. And she came back and humbled herself and said it was my pride. I just didn't like things the way the way things were being run. I said, well I don't like the way things are run too either, and I'm the one run things. Well I I didn't disagree with you on that. There's lots of things that need to be changed. She ended up the secretary after I left. But she's right now. Is she where I'm coming from this? I got one more. I'm done. First, you've got to reconcile yourself to God. Secondly, you've got to learn to rest in God. Now take your Bible and go over there to the book of Genesis, chapter 5. Genesis chapter five Genesis chapter 5 and verse 22 the Bible says and Enoch walked with God after he began Methuselah. 300 years. And beget sons and daughters, and all the days of Enoch were 360 and five years. And Enoch walked with God, and it was not for God took him. If we don't reconcile ourselves to God, He loves us, but we don't love back on Him. And then we don't learn to have that personal time with Him, to rest in Him. Resting in Him means to trust Him. I'll be honest with you. I'm transparent. I'm trying to be that way with you today. Truthfully, I had a job, a good job at the church. I was pastor of a church and I had a salary. I'd been there 27 years. The church had grown. Hey, listen, God had worked in our church. We had multiple ministries at a good Christian school. I thought I'd be there until I died. When I went into evangelism, I started all over at 50. And I had to learn what faith was because I hadn't been practicing faith. I had a salary, just like a lot of you folks have. And God began to re-change me. Hey, let me say something to you. Show me retirement in the Bible. And and and and this this this old cliche, you can't teach a dog old dog new tricks. Stop using that As long as I'm in this body, I can learn. I can change. I can serve. I can pray. I can witness. You folks that are retired, get up off the pew and start doing something for God. Now when I was a young man, I couldn't say that to you. But hey listen, I've done 18,000 miles since January first. That's uh truckers there's some truckers that don't do that. Every quarter I have to have that old truck out there service because truth of the matter is we're just doing a lot. I'll be in three churches by next Sunday. Hey listen, it's time way he's getting ready to come back. That's right. Reconcile yourself to God. Start loving on God. Spend some time with him. Learn to rest in him and trust him for things. Begin to listen, stop depending on all the things that you have around you and stop the start depending on him. Ask God to save your loved ones. He'll do it. Ask him to save your man. Ask him to give you a burden for them. You start spending time with him, he'll give you a burden. I'm telling you now. You can't love around on God and the light of God not show on you. All of a sudden all the things you were tolerating you won't put up with anymore. Learn to rest in him. Then we get down to this one. Most of us, when we get saved, we're just an acquaintance with Jesus Christ. He knows all about us, but we didn't know anything about him. And there's a lot of people sitting in these pews that's nothing but an acquaintance with Jesus Christ He's just an acquaintance to you. That's what I am to you. I'm an acquaintance. Some of you guys I've seen twice at a sportsman's bank, and I've seen you today. Hey, the truth of the matter is I'm not going to spend a lot of time with your pastor. I mean, I love him in the Lord, and we're like-minded, and we're single-focused in what we want of God, but hey, listen, I don't know a ton about him. He doesn't know a ton about me I want to be his friend, okay? But that takes time. See, a friend is somebody that knows all your faults and still puts up with you. See, you learn all the all their faults and you still like being with them, right? That's right. And that's what we're supposed to become in church. We we're we put up with everybody. Because you learn my faults, I learn your faults, and we love each other anyway. So you go from acquaintance, and somewhere along the lines you get a friend. You know what that's like I mean I when I met my wife, I thought, listen, I would I work midnights, I would get off at two o'clock in the morning, my first class in Bible college was at 7. 30 And I didn't show up there to be in English at 730. I showed up to see Debbie come across the campus. That's why I w I got out there ten minutes before class because I knew she was in the same class and she had to come all the way across campus and I got to watch her come across. And I just was nuts about her. And I thought, I thought I loved her with my whole heart. I didn't even know her. You into something that you're telling you like everything about him and you got married and you immediately start trying to change him Or she starts trying to change you. Or you start trying to change each other. And they start doing those things that aggravate you. Don't look at me that way. You know when I'm telling you the truth. You pious bunch. It aggravates you, doesn't it? I mean I know that I'm dated by it, but the old toothpaste, you know, we got the upside down jobs now, but the old she would squeeze it right in the middle. She's one of thirteen kids, and so she was just happy to get toothpaste. And so She would squeeze it right in the middle and that drove me nuts. I come from a home that was very orderly. My dad was military and my mom I don't even get into bomb again. Okay. And so she would squeeze it right in the middle and I would bring it up and it just absolutely Aggravated me. You know those things that just aggravate you. I mean the first meal she fixed me, don't tell her I said this. I I've said the toothpaste thing before, she made corn pong. You know what corn pong is? She's from Wisconsin But she she made six cans of cream corn with crackers on it. Because that's the way they cooked in their family, you know, they got thirteen kids and three relatives there and six dogs and four cats and and all the relatives. I never went in the house, it was like going to church every time you went to her house. And and and she sets this on the table and I'm thinking, hm, that's dinner. Six to twelve cans of cream corn. I mean there's a little thing a and and this one's this is Wisconsin. They she and she cuts butter, she cuts it off the top. Must be thinking this thing I ever thought of. I said, honey, you're scooting it all the way across the table trying to get that hard butter. You're trying to get a little butter. You can cut down. Go right to the table, man. It comes right off Forty years she still does this. I I've concluded they do it because they want to. Now, somewhere along the line from agitation, somewhere along the line, in that first seven years, I got to know her. And we became friends. We weren't just lovers, we were friends. I mean somewhere along the line there. But you know what? It was a lot of give and take. Can I say something to you? If you'll reconcile yourself to Jesus Christ the Lord to rest in him, somewhere along the line in this next six months, twelve months, you and Jesus will become friends. Isn't that neat? Wouldn't you like to be the friend of God? I mean, listen, once you see him in all his power I tell you, boldness will come. Okay, but that's not good enough. See, that's what this is all about. See, Enoch walked with God. Preacher, he walked with God 300 years Can you imagine? I can't imagine Ben with my wife 300 years. I'm serious. He walked with God for 300 years Can you imagine what kind of relationship he had with God? See, somewhere along the line, Debbie stopped being my friend. What do you mean? She stopped being my friend. Somewhere along the line, one day, I'm standing in a church, someone asked me a question, and I answered like my wife. Scared me to death. Because my wife has never completed a sentence in her life. She expects you to read her mind on the second half of the sentence And I've actually learned how to do it. I know where she's going. She's one of thirteen, so you always only got part of your sentence in. So she did they just dropped the second half of her sentence. When she speaks to ladies, I said, now remember, honey, complete sentences, complete sentences. That's just her. Somewhere along the line, I started thinking like her. And believe it or not, she can get with her family and she goes, That bunch is crazy. You know what? She's got to think where she thinks like me And then somewhere along the line, one day, I walked in, got the butter out of the refrigerator, saw that big gap in the middle, like she'd been shaving it, and I thought, oh, isn't that huge? That means she's here. See where I'm coming from? All of a sudden walking in and seeing the two faces endearing. Oh no, she's looking at me through the back door. You see where I'm coming from? She went from my acquaintance. I found out he loved me when he saved me. But then I became his friend Well, let me tell you where I want to be with him. I want to be his companion. See, a companion's more than a friend. See, a friend, I'll take the good and the bad of this man, because he's my friend. But a companion, he becomes like him. I spent so much time with him, I think like him. I walk like him. I talk like him Hey, listen, when it says that in English was not, and I know he was translated, and I've heard some preachers really expound on it. It's a really neat story. But the truth of it is, him and God are walking along God decides to take him on up, but the truth of the matter is, somewhere along the line in 300 years, Enid just got absorbed into Jesus. Yeah. Man, that's what I want. I want to get lost in the Son of God. I want the same passion that I have with my wife and my children. I want that kind of passion with Jesus. You get that, and that wall will fill up. You get that more happiness. This is where people come to I'm getting saved. You get that listen this light, this list, it'll just be a checkoff. Because divorces won't be a problem. Praying won't be a problem. Witnessing won't be a problem. You know why? Even that guy that you can't stand on the other side of the pew, he won't even be a problem. Everything will be right. Because you've reconciled yourself to him. You've learned to rest in him. Hey, listen, you've developed a relationship with him that goes beyond acquaintance, beyond friendship. It's become companionship. Let's bow our heads together. Heads bowed and eyes closed. Don't think about your purse, don't think about dinner. Where are you at with your relationship with Jesus? First of all, let me ask you the question: is he your lover? Are you saved? Has there been a time and place you've been washed in the blood of Jesus? Do you understand that without Jesus, all the wrath of God rests upon you? For he loves his son, and he hates sin. And you will send yourself to devil's hell if you don't accept him as Savior. You do understand that. We have church, listen, we have Christian, we have church members that are not Christians. We have church members that are deceived. We have people sitting in our pews that are not saved and born again, and they've they've dealt with that fear and anxiety so many times when the preacher's preaching the invitation is given that they've squashed the conviction of the Spirit of God so many times times you do understand God's not a light switch. You can't just turn him on and off. There's people in here that's deceived and it's not saved. I don't care what your age is. I had a 67-year-old woman saved two weeks ago. She listen, she'd been in the church twelve years. She came in on a profession of faith. She wasn't born again. She wasn't saved. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many say, Preacher? Before God, I'm not sure if I died today I'd go to heaven, but I am con I am sincerely concerned about my soul. I would like to have the assurance in my heart that I'm on my way to heaven. I'd like to have that kind of relationship with God. I'd like to have divine purpose in my life. I'd like to know that I'm on my way to heaven. I'd like to have victory in my life. I'd like to have some peace in my heart. I want that more than anything else. Preacher, please pray for me Is there someone like that this morning? Just raise your hand up and bite down. Raise your hand up and say, Preacher, if I died today, I'm not sure I'd go to heaven, but I'm concerned about my soul. Think about it. Anyone at all. You're saved. You're born again. You may serve in some aspect of this church. But with all honesty, you'll look at your own heart and you'll say, I've not reconciled myself to God. I've not spent three years on the backside of the desert and I don't have a love for the Word of God that I ought to have I don't have the conversations with God that I ought to have. I'm not close to God. I'm not even sure I'm God's friend. I know he loves me, but I've not got to know him. I'm sure not his companion. I've not got that kind of relationship, but I want it with all my heart. That's my desire. And there's just some things in my life, maybe, that needs to be straightened out to get that thing right to where I can get over there and snuggle up close to him. Preacher, pray for me First things in my life. I'd like to have God as my friend. I'd like to be the companion of God, but I need to I need to stop I need to be what God wants me to be. Would you just raise your hand up and back down that I can pray with you? God bless all of this auditorium. We have people raising their hand. Men and women, young ladies, teenage boys. God bless you, ma'am. Someone else. Probably fifteen, sixteen hands when I'm ready. I like it when people just raise it up. That's the way it ought to be. Let's do this. Let's go ahead and stand our feet quietly and before I I pray. With our heads bowed and our eyes closed. If God is convicting your heart today, God spoke to your heart. You raised your hand, or maybe you didn't raise your hand, but you're saved, you're born again, you know that. But you're not right and you know it. Or you're not able to enjoy some of the things I've talked about. Listen, folks, this is forty years a minister. I've been saved since sixty-seven It's a shame it's taken me a lifetime to get what's really important. It's not the doing. It's who I'm with. That produces the doing. Are you willing to commit yourself to that kind of relationship with Jesus Christ? That's what it comes down to. I'm going to have a word of prayer. If you're not saved, we invite you to come. I'm right here, preachers right here. We'd be glad to take the word of God and show you how you can know you can have eternal life. If you are saved, I don't want you to invite you to come down and get down on your knees. If you want somebody to pray with you, we'll pray with you. But you be honest with God. I love the altar. Also, altar is a place of humility. An altar is a place you come and repent. It's a place of decision. It's a place of commitment. It's not a place of new years resolution. It's where I surrender to his will. And I lay my pride down and I give it up. Father, bless this invitational time. We love you today. Lord, we so want to see you work in the hearts of people, and we know you are But will they respond, Father? That's the question. Will they surrender their pride or their guilt? Will they be willing to reconcile themselves to you, Father? Or are they willing? Lord, to bow themselves to you and say, God, I need a relationship with you. I need to learn to rest in you. I need to learn to trust you for every need of my life. And in the doing so that I might create a relationship that develops past acquaintance. Oh God, may that be the heart's desire of every saved person here today. Bless now this invitational time. We'll give you the praise and honor for it in Jesus' name. With heads bowed, eyes closed, it begins begins to play. We invite you to step out and come even now. God spoke into your heart. Bless your hearts.