He's not through with our country yet. Amen. And I'll although we house some trouble, and yes, there's problems going on in America This is still the greatest nation in modern history. Amen? And I'm glad to be an American. And I'm glad that this is a country that still, because of Christians, is a nation that still knows who God is. Amen? And may I say tonight we can do some unique things here through and by God's Word, but we need to once again go into His book and understand from whence we came. And so saying that, if you would please take your Bibles and go with me to Isaiah chapter 1. Isaiah chapter one, we need to start speaking up for ourselves. Amen. For too long we've allowed other people to speak for us. And we've been painted into a corner. God's people need to get prayed up and then speak up. Amen? And we need to have the right position with the right disposition, graciously but truthfully, the truth in love, so to speak. I remember a story of a of a man and And he was a farmer. And you know what a farmer is? He's a man outstanding in his field. Amen. And uh this farmer, you can look at that one or two ways. This farmer went to uh uh court because uh he had suffered from uh a traffic accident and and suffered some loss of uh a pet and uh uh one of his farm animals and so uh the tractor uh company, tractor trailer company, uh that ran into them hired a hotshot lawyer and they were cross-examining this modest uh uh simple farmer on the stand and And so the the lawyer said, Now you told the officer on the scene of the accident that you were just fine, and now you claim you had a broken leg. Did you tell the officer on the scene of the accident that you were just fine? And so the farmer said, Well I was loading my favorite count bestie onto my trailer. He said, sorry, I didn't ask you that question. I asked you if you told the officer on the scene of the accident that you were just fine. And now you claim you had a broken leg. What did you tell the officer on the scene of the accident? He said, well, I was loading my favorite Cal Bessie onto my trailer. Finally, the lawyer got exasperated and he said to the judge, Your Honor, would you please direct the witness to answer my question He didn't take into consideration that the judge was a farmer also. And he had got interested in that favorite Cal Bessie He said, let the guy answer for himself. So the lawyer said, all right, sir, go ahead. So the farmer said, well, I was loading my favorite cow bestie onto my trailer there. I got her secured and I got to the cab of my truck and my dog he jumped in uh to the cab with me and we started going down the road and I was proceeding through a green light and this tractor trailer truck came through a red light and smashed into the side of me And uh I I saw my favorite Cow Bessie, she was being thrown in one direction, and and my my my dog he was being thrown in another and I was being thrown in the third and and I landed and I I badly uh broke my leg and and I couldn't get up to my animals and I could tell my cow Bessie she was in some major duress I could hear her and I could hear my dog yelping and the officer on the scene the action. He came on and I couldn't see what was happening, but he walked up to my cow and realizing she wasn't going to make it, he took his gun out and shot her between the eyes and put her out of his out of her misery. Then he went over to my dog and my dog had three broken legs and so he knew my dog wasn't gonna m make it, so he took his gun out, shot my dog, put him out of his misery. Then he walked over and said, How are you doing? And I said, I'm doing just fine. And so what I'm saying is we need to start speaking up For ourselves. Amen. And we need to know, we need to be knowledgeable. We need to understand as Christians, as Americans, the awesome responsibility that we've been handed And that is to protect something very precious, bloodbought, as we said this morning, liberty. And not just liberty. But as it says in James chapter 1 and verse 25, liberty in law, a perfect liberty in law. See, our founding fathers looked into this perfect law of liberty, right here, the Bible And they were not forgetful hearers, but they were doers of the work. And these men were blessed in their deed. You say, we're talking about the perfect law of liberty. You see, most of the nations in world history have been great nations of law. But law without liberty, that's tyranny. And there have been times in history where people have overthrown those governments and they've had great liberty. But liberty without law, that's anarchy. But here in America, we have a perfect law of liberty, that means we have a balance between the two, because our founding fathers searched the scriptures and they gave us a unique government that we call the Republic of the United States of America. It is not a democracy, it's republic. But I want to show you something because as we think about America tonight, I believe we need to think about the only other nation in the history of mankind that started from the premise of the truth of the Bible, and that is the nation of Israel. So Isaiah chapter one and verse one and it says this and look at it with me tonight. It says the vision of Isaiah, the son of Amos, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah. Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord hath spoken. I have nourished and brought up children, and they've rebelled against me. The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib, but Israel doth not know. My people doth not consider. A sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corruptors. They have forsaken the Lord. They have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger. They are gone away backward. Why should you be stricken any more? Ye will revolt more and more. Now I want you to mark these two next phrases. The whole head is sick and the whole heart faint. As we go on, it says, From the sole of the foot even unto the head, there is no soundness in it, but wounds and bruises and putrefying sores. They have not been closed, neither bound up, neither mullified with ointment. Your country is desolate. Your cities are burned with fire Your land, strangers devour it in your presence, and is desolate as overthrown by strangers. And the daughter of Zion is left as a cottage in a vineyard, as a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city, and that's a very vulnerable state, and that's where America is tonight. Let's pray. Heavenly Father We thank you now for loving us. We thank you for your watch care over us. We thank you for your word, the holy scriptures. Dear God, bless the reading of your word tonight. And oh God, right now we ask that you would create and maintain a hedge protection around this assembly. With that hedge, Lord, bind off the wicked and the evil one. Within that hedge, dear God, give us that liberty of your blessed Holy Spirit, that holy unction from on high, that he might lead and guide us into all truth. Oh God, tonight, once again, I step back and I ask you, Lord, to control this Stammering tongue, this fallen mind, and dear God, that you would illuminate, that you would enlarge our understanding tonight. Dear God, that truly your Holy Spirit might be here. That your presence might be felt and sensed That your power might be evident, and that your provision would be here, dear God, and we will be very careful as your children to give you all the glory. And Father, we ask this now in the precious name of your Son and our Savior, and by the power and the merit that is in the name of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. And so looking here at the nation of Israel, a very unique group of people, the only other nation in the history of mankind that you might say also had the motto in God We Trust. A nation that went up against time and time again, insurmountable foes, and as long as they were right with God, they beat back every foe. You know why? Because God fought for them And do you understand there's no reason why we won the war for independence aside from God? You know that we were outmanned, we were outgunned, we didn't even have a navy, and we were going up against the greatest navy On the face of the earth at that time. A nation that was known for their military expertise. A nation that was known by the strategies of the generals And yet this ragtag group of men called the Continental Army was willing to go up against them and why? How? Because as I said this morning, our founding fathers told each other we mutually pledged to each other our lives and our fortunes and our sacred honor. But not before they said with firm reliance Upon the protection protection of divine providence, we do this. What they were saying was, we believe that God is gonna fight for us. We believe that He will go out before us, and He did time and time again. I could stand here all night long and tell you miracle after miracle of what God did when he rolled in a fog just at the right time. So Washington could get his troops off of one area of New York across the water expanse to the Manhattan Island so they could live and fight again. That was at the beginning of the war And had the British continued to pursue them in that particular battle, one of the largest battles of the war for independence, the war would have been over right then, and all of our founding fathers would have been hung by the British noose. But a fog rolled in. At a perfect time. In the evening, we saw a storm subside at eleven o'clock, and the water that had been turbulent up to that time became smooth as glass, and they started to literally take boats and tie rags around the wheels of the cannons and push them on the boats. The men were holding on to their sabers and their muskets so they wouldn't rattle because the British were just there You see what had happened instead of going forward and capturing Washington and the bulk of our continental army, the British I love the British spirit, don't you? Because it was getting a little dark, and one British officer said to another, I think I'd like some tea. So let's go ahead and bidwack, we'll take care of those Petsky colonists tomorrow. I love it. And sure enough, under the cloak of darkness George Washington moved his troops until there was not many but enough left on that side. George Washington was going to be the last man off. The sun began to rise and they thought for sure it's over. Our commander will be traptured. He'll be hung. But that's when the fog rolled in. And it was such a dense fog you couldn't see your hand a few feet in front of your face. And it wasn't just a visible fog, it was an audible fog. And so the men continued to furiously get their Men and equipment on those boats until the last boat was pulled across into safety and pulled up onto the shore and the fog lifted. I'm sure there were some explicatives on both sides I'm sure on the British side and the American side, I'm sure some of our men said something like, wow. Maybe some of them said it backwards, wow Maybe some of them said upside down, Mom. But they knew it was God. God had showed up. And you see, we would never have won the war. How do you win a war where you lose more battles than you win? I'll tell you how. God And don't you get discouraged, because the same God that helped us then will help us today. If we just learn some things and we can pray in fervency and pray with intelligence and understand that God's divine Intervention can be once again procured if we pray in an intercessory way for our country. Israel was a blessed nation. But they began to forget God. Those two phrases that I told you to remember there in Isaiah chapter 1 and verse 5, it says, the whole head is sick and the whole heart faint. See, that's how it begins. Individually, collectively, nationally, we start forgetting who God is with our mind. Then we forsake God with our hearts. Then we start following false gods with our lives. It happens that way in every instance where a Christian, they don't fall off the cliff overnight. They stop going to church. They stop reading their Bible. They actually stop contemplating who God is. Then it moves to their heart and then it moves to their life. Nationally, our national consciousness has forgotten God. Our national heart now has forsaken God, and nationally now we are following false gods. Oh my, may I say this? We're not worshiping Baal, but we are worshiping professional sports where more people stay at home on Sunday and watch the football than they do come and listen to the preacher preach. Amen. Or promiscuity And there are people that worship promiscuity and professionalism and the power, you see, of the Almighty Dollar. What we as God's people must do is once again be the conscience of our nation We must be people that remember. History, see, is his story. That's where we get our phrase history from. It's his story. It's God's Interaction with man and man's reaction back to God, you see. History is very, very interesting. Some people say, well, Brother Hart, I don't like history Well, if you don't like history, you had a boring history teacher. If you had meeker history and I taught history for a while, you wouldn't have been bored. I had my classroom all the way at the end of the hallway. You know why? Because I was going to make history live. In fact, when it got to the point where George uh excuse me, where Abraham Lincoln was going to be assassinated I had a replica of the gun that John Wilkes Booth used. And unbeknownst to my class, it was loaded with a pretty good charge of black powder. Now I didn't have a projectile in it. I didn't want to be that realistic, Amen, but I went through the whole scenario of how when John Wilkes Booth started to encroach upon that particular area of the theater, he being an actor knew the play Our American Cousin that was being performed. He knew exactly when the punchlines were. And he waited for the laughter, and he opened the door so they couldn't hear him. And there, of course, was Abraham Lincoln and Mrs. Lincoln and some others with them He waited for the next punchline and he would take the next step so that his foot creaking on the hardwood floor wouldn't be heard waited stealthily there till the next uproarious laughter and would take the next step. And slowly but surely he crept up the BAM! Just like that. And uh thank you very much, ma'am, because that's what happened. Uh for those of you that did jump, uh I boy, she must have come off that far off the pew, amen. Uh but uh That's what my students did, amen. And what I'm saying is, I wanted history to live. If you put God in history, you know, it's his story And you see the cause and effect of what God has done for us, what He's doing for us, you see, the fact is everything that's going on in the present has been determined by the past. And we cannot proceed into the future unless we know from whence we came. Ecclesiastes is very clear about this. It says in Ecclesiastes 1 and verse 9, the thing that hath been is that which shall be. And that which is done is that which shall be done. There is no new thing under the sun. It says in Ecclesiastes 3 verse 15, that which hath been is now And that which is to be hath already been, and God requireth that which is past. That means he wants us to be stewards. Of history. The young people, some young people say, well, you don't understand, Brother Harding. See, man, I'm living in the present. And I say, really, you're not living in the present. They said, well why not? I said, well I'll demonstrate it this way. Everything that we've said, everything that we've seen, everything that we've thought today is history. And what I say right there is history. And when I say right there, it's history. And right there. And right there. And there. Because as soon as I say it, as soon as you think it, as soon as you hear it, it slips past within a nanosecond of time. And now you're thinking about what just has happened. You see. So most of us are living in the history. We all of us are the sum total of our personal history So what happens with Alzheimer's? It's a very cruel disease because you start losing your weight and then you start losing your personal history and then you start to lose your life. My mother-in-law, my wife's mother, has two sisters. They went and visited and tended to their mother, my wife's grandmother. And they treated her with tender, loving care. And at the end of the day, my mother-in-law told me, very sweet lady, making points right now. No, she is a sweet lady. She said, you know, my our mother looked at us and she said, Well, you're nice ladies. Do you work here? And my mother-in-law said, it shocked me. It hurt me. I didn't know what to think. My own mother no longer recognized who I was. You see what God's saying in that first chapter of the book of Isaiah? He said, even an ox knoweth his owner. And they asked his master's crib, but Israel, you don't know who I am? Do you don't recognize me? See, because the whole head was sick, they forgot God with their national consciousness, the whole heart faint, they started to forsake God with their heart, and now they were after false gods. Now what happened when they started to stray from the land of the believing to the land of the unbelieving? God did something. He tried to bring them back again. Look with me, and hold your hand there in chapter 1 and look with me over to Isaiah chapter 46 and verse 10. Are you with me tonight? Say amen. And in chapter 46 of the book of Isaiah, and there's a lot of different places we can go, but this will suffice for our needs tonight. God says in Isaiah chapter 46 and verse 9 And I'll start reading, catch up, if you would, please, for sake of time. God says, remember the former things of old, for I am God, and there's none else. I am God, there's none like me, so he's telling them, Hey, you need to remember who I am. I am the one that delivered you from bondage. I'm the one that fought for you in the promised land. I'm the one that's blessed your crops. I'm the one that's given you hope for tomorrow. I'm the one that's going to provide the Messiah for you. I'm the one that is your God History is very important. It's cyclic. It goes round and around again and again and again. We have forgotten ourselves so much. Of what God's done for us. You see, there's three branches of government. The three branches of government actually come from Isaiah chapter 33 and verse 22. Go over there and let me show you something here Because what we need to do as Americans is take a lesson from the nation of Israel, because if we don't, I'll guarantee you we're going to wind up the same way Israel wound up. And if God will do it to his people, you don't think he's going to do it to the United States of America? Isaiah 33 and verse 22, see we did not this is not the good ideas from yesteryear and a culmination of governments that are past. These ideas of the tribranch of government are actually from God's Word. It says right here, and look at it with me, Isaiah 33 and verse 22, for the Lord is our judge, there's the judiciary The Lord is our lawgiver, there's the legislative branch. The Lord is our king, there's the executive branch, he will save us. So we get our three branches of government from the Bible. That's where our founding fathers found them We also get the separation of powers from Jeremiah 17 and verse 9. And you see, there's three branches of government. The closest to us is the legislative branch. And that demonstrates it in the Constitution of the United States, because it shows very clearly Article I talking about the closest branch. Our representative government, it it has one, two, three, four, five, six, about eight pages in this pamphlet, just shows you the bulk of information that they dealt with the most powerful or should be the most powerful branch of our government. The second branch, which is the executive branch, is a little bit more remote from us. And it has Article 2, there is a part of a page and 2 and 3, and so about 4, half The third branch of the government, which is the judiciary, the Supreme Court and all the appellate inferior courts, here it is, here Article III, and there's a just a maybe a sixteenth of a page, one page, and that's it. So the third branch of the government, the most removed from us, the weakest branch, has now become the most powerful branch. Now why is that? You know why? Because we have forgotten some things that are biblical in nature, that are constitution in principle. And we historically have forgotten them. Okay, now I have a friend back here. He's going to help me. Come on up here. He's eleven years old. Okay? What's your name? Austin. What is it? Austin. Austin. Right, he's my friend. He's Austin. Austin, my friend. Okay? You're not nervous, are you? Look at all the people out there. They're looking at you. You're not nervous? No. Are you smart? Yeah. He didn't say that with a lot of conviction, did he? But I'm gonna help you, okay? And I'm gonna show everyone here that as an 11-year-old you can figure out something that most people on Capitol Hill don't know. You ready for this? Okay. I'm gonna help you. Ready, Austin? Alright. Eleven years old. That's double digits. Congratulations. Very good. Okay. Article 1, section 1, it says this. All legislative powers. Austin, that means all law-giving powers Okay, all law-giving powers, herein granted, shall be vested or put in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives. So here's the question Okay? If all if all law giving powers are given to the Congress, how much is left over for the other two? None. Give them a hand. Amen. Thank you. Wow. Right there. Isn't that amazing? So Austin, 11-year-old, has figured out in a few seconds That the only branch of the government that can actually make laws or amend laws by the Constitution, which is the supreme law of the land, is the Congress. So let me ask you a question then. Why is the Supreme Court legislating from the bench? If an eleven year old can figure out that all law giving powers are given to the Congress, that means none are left over for the judiciary. That means it's only their opinion. It's not law. It's just an interpretation of the law And the Congress, which makes the law, and the executive branch, which enforces the law, can ignore that if they wish. But Because there's so few people in the United States of America that don't understand a rudimentary thing like this that an 11-year-old just figured out. Because of that reason, everyone's bowing down to the Supreme Court And for that reason, folks, we as God's people need to be the conscience of this country. And we need to remind those that don't know What the Constitution says. There is hope, you see. A lot of people say, well, this the uh Supreme Court justices are lifetime tenured. They're not lifetime tenured It says in Article 3, Section 1, they're only there under good behavior. And I don't think redefining something they never defined to begin with is good behavior. And I don't think in 1973 where they started to discuss when life began when God already has that in the Bible, that's an un that's an inalienable right. When they start discussing when life began, I don't think that's good behavior. And you see, because we didn't know, we didn't do anything about it. We didn't think we could do anything about it. There's something in Article 3, Section 2, and Paragraph 2 that's called the Exceptions Clause It says this in all other cases before mentioned, the Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions or under such regulations as the Congress shall make. Is that what that says right there, Tom? Yes, it does. Exceptions. And it's capital E? That means, folks, it's the exceptions clause. We've used this 200 times in our nation's history. You know what we've done? We've accepted through our legislative body that passes laws, we've accepted from the Supreme Court anything we no longer want them to vote on. Isn't that interesting? You see, we can take from the Supreme Court, is that what you're saying, Brother Harding, what we don't want them to vote on anymore? Yes. But we need to get educated. We need to understand the exceptions, clause number one is there. And do you know That although we have some very good people there in Washington DC that are truly born again and find a good fight, that most of them don't understand the exceptions clause that we can use that Guess who's going to be going in and actually talking to a few of them and helping them to understand? That's why I need your support in your prayers. Because that's what I'm going to be doing. I've already talked. To them and and they know that I'm coming. And I'm going to show them something that we can do. See, the Supreme Court of the United States, the Dredd Scott decision, that's been rescinded. In the 1920s, Oliver Wendell Holmes, he said the people of lower intelligence should not procreate. And so he wanted them to be fixed. And that decision's been res that's decision has been rescinded. See, there's a lot of things that we can do and and we're not helpless. What we need to do is to understand the Constitution of the United States. In fact, our office is right across from the Supreme Court of the United States. I mean, I I'm I walk out and there it is. You know what's on top of the Supreme Court in the apex of the building? It's the Ten Commandments. And i you know what the Supreme Court has said? We can no longer view the Ten Commandments in public. But there it is right there. At the top of the building. So I decided I'm gonna take a tour. So I went on tour through the Supreme Court of the United States. And guess what's on the inside of the United States Supreme Court where the judges sit? The wooden doors that close, that they look at, carved in the wooden doors is again the Ten Commandments They look at them because our predecessors wanted to this understand the Supreme Court justices needed to understand that they don't judge for man, they judge for God, and God's with them in judgment And then over to their left or your right if you're out there, huge relief carved again in marble is a big depiction of Moses holding two tablets with the Ten Commandments written in Hebrew. So there's several hundred people there. And the guy said, is there any questions? I have a question. He said, yes. I said, didn't the ten didn't the Supreme Court say the Ten Commandments can no longer be seen in public? He said, that's right. And in front of several hundred people I said, Then then what's that over there? And he said, Oh, those aren't the Ten Commandments, those are the Bill of Rights. In front of several hundred people, that's what he said. I raised my hand again. Said yes. I said I don't remember Moses being at the Constitutional Convention. And I don't remember the Bill of Rights being written in Hebrew on two tablets of stone. You know what he said to me in front of several hundred people? He said, I I I know. That's what we're supposed to say. You see how much they're counting on us being dumbed down Does that kind of infuriate you a little bit? Does that kind of stir up some righteous indignation? That should cause every one of us to want to study, to read the Constitution of the United States. See. Our founding fathers never wanted a judiciary ever to be lifetime tenured again. They never wanted them to be untouchable. They said that in the declaration, they fixed that in the Constitution. I just showed you where they did. See. We need to be the conscience of this nation. Look, I don't care if the world thinks we're crazy. They shouldn't think we're stupid. I remember a story of a businessman and and uh he was very successful and and very intelligent and he was going to a business meeting and he stopped and got his uh tires rotated because he was a little shimmy in the front. And so the workman in the garage uh didn't put all the lug nuts on tight on the passenger side uh rear tire. And so as he drove along the vibration wore every single one of those lug nuts off until the last one literally fell off and he stopped just in time. Before his wheel literally fell off his car and was cocked like this. It was still on, but it was just slightly cocked. He had stopped perchance in front of an insane asylum and there was an inmate looking at him through the gates. And out of exasperation he got out and he said, what am I going to do? I need to get to this this meeting. He looked over to the inmate and he went And the inmate very calmly said, Well if you take One lug nut off the last three many tires, you can get that fourth tire put on safely and drive the next gas shas gas station gets more lug nuts. He went that's a yeah that's a great idea. What are you doing in there? He said, well I may be crazy but I'm not stupid I don't care if the world thinks we're crazy, they shouldn't think we're stupid. And it's an insult. To see how much they count on us being dumbed down. We the people, we are supposed to be self-governed. We need to learn about the Constitution of the United States. Because if we don't, there will be a time When our children will rise up and curse us for allowing the torch of liberty to go out on our watch, and I don't want to see that happen, do you? God's people have always been involved. A lot of people say, well, Brother Hardy, I just I I want to see a national revival. You know, our nation began with the First Great Awakening. It continued with the Second Great Awakening. The First Great Awakening began in the 1600s. Second Great Awakening began in the 1800s. Charles T. Fitty was one of the sparks of the Second Great Awakening. We call him a revivalist. You know what Charles T. Finney said, as a hindrance to national revival, quote, the church must take the right ground in regard to politics. Politics are a part of religion in a country as this, and Christians must do their duty to their country as part of their duty to God. God will bless or curse this nation according to the course Christians taken politics. End quote We pulled out of our involvement with government over 80 years ago. No one beat us out. We ran up the white flag and surrendered and walked away. You know why? Because the Johnson Amendment, LBJ, when he was elected as senator from Texas, the men in Texas were preaching for and against candidates by name And they were preaching against LBJ because they said he didn't line up with the Bible as much as the other candidate did. And they weren't telling their people how to vote. They just said you need to vote biblical values. And so when he got to Washington D C as a senator because he won anyway, he said, I'm going to get back to my own. And in the eleventh hour He tacked a little something on a tax appropriations bill that said the people of 501c3 tax exempt status better get their nose out of the public square or they may lose that 501c3 tax exempt status. And guess what? We believed. that. And we started backing out. Under the authority of our pastor. We started leaving. And people started saying, well, we don't want to be involved in government because we don't want to lose our tax exempt status. Do you know how many churches have lost their tax exempt status by being responsible, responsibly involved in government? Zero What we need to do as people of God is get back into engaging with our government. That's what pastors do when they come. Because If they're not there, someone else is going to be there to fill the vacuum. And they're going to be pulling them away from constitutionality, from biblical precepts in the Constitution. There was something called the restor the uh religious, it was called Rifra, Religious Freedom Restoration Act In Indiana, and and it was it was a train wreck because they put pressure on them, they rewrote it, and they opened up Christians to persecution and prosecution. And uh one of the six senators That didn't sign the rewrite in Indiana came to hear me speak in Indiana. And he said, Brother Harding, I really thank you for what you're doing because if the pastors had just shown up This could have been avoided. Because the pastors weren't there. A lot of good men and women buckled. See, it's up to us. It's our country. And we can do some amazing things. I I told a little bit this morning, ten phone calls is all we need to make. Ten phone calls. I asked my United States Senator in his office in Washington DC, how many phone calls do we need to make to make a difference for you in Washington DC to start running up the red flag of alert and listening to your constituents. And he said ten. You couldn't knock me over with a feather I said, 10? Why 10? He said, because every phone call for United States Senator represents 10,000 to us. Look how many people are here tonight. Do you understand how much power just your church has Now this egregious agreement with Iran that makes the world a very dangerous place to live for our children and our grandchildren and for us. It's going to give them pathway to the nuclear bomb. Look, folks, four days before our president signed that agreement The man that was there, the leader, was also in a demonstration four days before where they were saying death to Israel, death to America. Unbelievable. And we signed the agreement and we didn't even get our four hostages out of Iran. They still hold them. I guarantee ya, they came probably laughing down to their cells and said your president's signed agreement, and he didn't mention anything about you. It's time for us to start doing something. And and we can do so much more if we just start calling. I had two chief of staff to two separate congressmen Asked me to do something because they're in August recess right now. And this is what they said. We could possibly see a two-thirds majority, both the House and the Senate. in Washington DC, if enough people start calling their representatives in their districts and their state the u the U. S. state senators and tell them we do not want this agreement with Iran and start flooding their offices in their home state. You look up their office in their home in your home state and you make a phone call this week and you tell them Flood their lines and tell them we do not want this agreement with Iran. President says they're gonna if we don't do this, we're gonna have a a bomb in a few months. Hogwash That's nonsense. This is giving them the pathway to a nuclear weapon. You know The man who stepped down not too long ago from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, you know what he said? Mr. Muller? The director of the FBI He said it's no longer if, it's when America is attacked with a nuclear device and to what extent. I didn't say that's a director of the FBI. Say for the heart are you trying to scare us? No, I'm not trying to scare you. I'm just telling you what the news isn't telling you. It's better to know and not to need than to need and not to know. And we need to get some urgency about us and praying for our country and praying God's mercy upon our nation, you see. We'd understand God's people are the reason why this country is. There's no other reason why. Our nation began. Do you understand Christianity and patriotism has been so interlinked from the very beginning? John Clark had started for Rhode Island a Baptist, a Baptist colony where the first Synagogue also was established, and they that bless Israel, God will bless or curse. Amen. Church planning of Subel Stearns and Obadiah Holmes almost being beaten to death by the Puritans for preaching soul liberty The reason why we have a pledge of the flag because there was a Baptist preacher that wrote it. The reason why we have the Bill of Rights and the reason why for years When someone came by a Baptist church, if they weren't a Baptist, they would say, Well, when we come by the Baptist church, we tip our hats. Well, why do we tip our hats when we come by a Baptist church? Because the Baptists are the reason why we have the Bill of Rights The freedom of religion and the freedom of speech and the freedom of the press and freedom to peaceably assemble and the priest the freedom to redress our grievances to our government. Why? Because a Baptist by the name of John Leland had a relationship with James Madison, and he said, if you get there, you've got to give us the Bill of Rights. John Gano He saw a painting of John Gano baptizing George Washington. He was George Washington's personal chaplain. A Baptist. Did you know George Washington was baptized in deep water? It says it right there. We have been robbed. We have been and look, I don't like being robbed. Amen. I don't like those things taken from me that are irreplaceable. And our heritage is irreplaceable. I told you this morning I'm going to tell you the real story of Paul Revere because we've all been lied to. Except for Schofield and I. Brother Schofield lived there right by Lexington Concord. So he was telling me, Well, I'm gonna see if you got it right or not, Brother Harding. The story goes, you know, because of the poem, the Paul Revere rode through the village crying the British are coming. He didn't do that. And the reason why he didn't do that was because only one-third of the populace in America was on the side of the Patriots One third were monarchists, loyalists to the king. They didn't want us to win independence. One third were fence straddlers. You know, the people that straddle on the fence, you know, between they don't care who wins You know, that there were people that took picnic baskets and w and got up on the hills around Gettysburg and watched as our nation came to death grips there for three days. I don't want to be one of those people. I want to be in the fight. Amen. And we all should have that same spirit. So he ran Jumped on his horse when he saw the two lanterns in the Old North Church and he started to go to one man's house because he knew the British had two mandates. They wanted to take our weapons and our store of ammunition and they wanted to kill two men. Who are those two men? Number one, John Hancock. He was the one that signed his name nice and large in the Declaration of Independence. And some revisionist historians say you he did that because he's proud. No, he did that because he knew the king was uh in need of reading glasses. They didn't always have his reading glasses, so when he undid the scroll he wanted to see uh his name first. He wanted he wanted the king to know Jam. John Hancock was on board with the rest of the boys. I kind of like that. It's a little moxie. Amen. The other man was the origin of the first Tea Party. He was the one that told the British, oh, that's no problem, because the British said you better unload this T. If you don't we're going to tax you grievously. He said, that's no problem. We'll just unload it C-word and not landward. Believe when you want to have a good cup of tea, bring your tea and your crumpets and some sugar down to the Boston Harbor and just dip it in because we're gonna have a good time tonight. So Samuel Adams, they wanted him dead and they wanted Jan John Hancock dead. And Paul Revere knew because of the relationship between John Hancock and a man by the name of Jonas Clark that he most likely would be at Jonas Clark's house or nearby. So he wrote to Jonas Clark. He wrote to his house. He walked in, those three men were there. They stood up. He said, gentlemen, the British are on the move. And most likely they will come west here to Lexington Concord and then north to Boston. And John and Sam, they're after your heads. I've seen the written documentation of this Neither one of those men said anything. They looked at their host, Jonas Clark, and they said, Are your people ready? Jonas Clark said, Of course my people are ready. I've been preparing them for just this day. Who was Jonas Clark? He was a pastor The most political influential man of the day. And from his bell tower of his church rang the alarm that faithful April morning and summoned minutemen, over a hundred minutemen, deacons and members from his church, walked out on Lexington Green, faced off 800 British regulars, hardened troops And he had preached from his pulpit, don't fire first. Because God will bless a war of defense much more than a war of offense. But if they mean to have a war, let it begin here. Before our side fired one shot. The British shot ran out, and that shot that was heard around the world began the war for independence and 18 men before we fired back one volley lay dead and dying on Lexington Green All members of Jonas Clark's church. Don't tell me that God's people didn't have an integral role in this country. Oh yes, we did. Many, many times there were pastors that would lead their men into battle. John Peter Gabriel Muhlenberg, I love that story. He's in his black robe of the vesture of yesteryear. What do you think? Brother Leatherman and I would look like in black robes, amen. I don't know. I think I'd unzip mine pretend I was Batman or something. I don't know. Get people's attention. But what I'm saying is he he unzipped his robe and all the ladies went, ah and he had an officer's uniform in the Continental Army underneath. And he told his men, I shall not preach from this pulpit again until the tyranny of King George III is thrown off of our country, because very soon I won't be able to preach in this pulpit in freedom. How many of you men will follow me into battle and throw out this tyranny, referring to the book of Ecclesiastes? He said there's s there's a season under heaven for everything. There's a time for peace and there is a time for war and now is the time for war. A hundred and sixty plus of his men started turning to their wives and and kissing their wives and patting their children on the head and saying goodbye and followed him out By the next day, over 300 men formed the 8th Virginia Regiment. He was one of 16 men that became a major general and was with George Washington. when he received the surrender from the British eight years later. His brother, his older brother, was in New York pastoring and he wrote him a letter chiding him and said, You shouldn't have done this. You're a flock, a keeper, you're a shepherd of flock and and you shouldn't have done this. And he wrote his brother back and he said, There was another shepherd that left his flock for a time. And His older brother chided him, and he answered back, Is there not a cause? When this uncircumcised Philistine by the name of Goliath was defying the armies of the living God Well, his brother saw his church ransacked and burned when the British marched into New York and wrote him back and said, I'm wrong and you're right, and I'm in the fight. Amen. I kind of like that. Amen. Our stories of our nation are linked together with God's people and God's men, and that's what we must remember. We have a heritage. We must live up to that heritage. It's glory. God's given it to us. And we must be intelligent and show the rest of our fellow citizens that this is a nation that was birthed out of God. So, Brother Harding, what are you talking about? Well, I'm just saying this. We're forgetful people and God gives us memorials. He gives us those monuments to remind us what he has done. He gave the children of Israel twelve stones. Remember that when they were crossing over Jordan? And he told them, hey, twelve individuals from all twelve tribes. Pick up a stone, bring it over. Why? So that we can understand what God's done for us, that this can be an memorial to us. So our children in time to come, when they see these stones, they'll ask their fathers, What mean ye by these stones? And I can just see a little boy walking along and seeing those stones and pulling out his daddy's britches and saying, Daddy, well, what are those? Although that explains to him the miraculous power of our God. Quickly, I'm beginning to close now. Are you still with me tonight? I know I'm going a little bit long. Is everyone okay? Everybody alright? Am I am I doing okay on is okay? Okay. I'm going to show you tonight what we can do for our country. So if you just bear with me for just a little bit longer, I understand that the mind and heart cannot receive what the posterior cannot endure. So I I got that, okay? But let me just show you a few other things very, very quickly, alright? Look with me over, and this is so very important for us to understand, Psalm 78 Psalm 78. Why do we peak take our history and we give it to our children and our children's children? It says in Psalm 78, this thing very here, very very clearly here, give ear, verse 1 O my people, to my law. Incline your hearts, excuse me, incline your ears to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in a parable I will utter dark sayings of old, which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from their children, showing to the generation to come. Look at this now, the praises of the Lord and his strength and his wonderful works. God has done wonderful works for us. That He has done. Why? Look at verse 7. That they, the next generation, might set their hope in God. And not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments. You know the reason why our young people voted the way they did in these last two presidential elections? You know why our president ran on hope? Because he was basically replacing. This verse right here, and our hope is not in man. Our hope is in God. That's what we must remember. When you look into Washington, D. C. , you see the same type of memorials and monuments if you take a line and you take it from the Capitol and down to the Lincoln and from the White House over to the Jefferson, it forms a perfect cross. In the center of that cross is the Washington Monument. It's five hundred and fifty-five feet high. It is the number of God's grace times three. On the top of it, on the capstone and aluminum, visible owing to heaven, are these words in Latin Laos Dio, that means praises unto God. And there is a city ordinance and no other building can be built higher than the Washington Monument. Why? Because when the sun crests the trees, the first thing that it strikes is that tip of the monument because our founding fathers wanted to remind God that this was a nation that was founded to bring praise and honor unto him. And that's what we must again as Christians bring back to the mindset of our fellow citizens as they are suffering from Alzheimer's, we must be the conscience of our nation We must understand that this is not a democracy, it is a republic. We must understand that we have been given something very unique, but we will lose it if we don't understand it and start operating in it. Hey folks, we by our phone calls, we can make this Iranian agreement go away. You right here. But you see, two men said the same thing. George Washington said, if we lose the acknowledgement of our dependence of God. There's no way that our nation will last. Karl Marx said, take the heritage away from a people, and they're easily persuaded. And there are now monuments in Washington, D. C. that have the absence of God. Brother Miller, our World War II veteran, 91 years old, is that right? Brother Miller, the World War II veteran, and the monument doesn't have God mentioned in it. The reason why it was it was found, and I'm glad you have a World War II memorial. My dad was a World War II veteran But when you go and you look at it, when the ninety-some-year-olds go with with honor flights and they look at this particular message of FDR when he was talking about uh declaring war on the Axis powers to a joint session of Congress and he said America's righteous might will endure to ultimate victory. He ended it with four words. So help us God But they're not there. In fact the veterans come and they say, We're the four words that you that united us as a nation. Where are the four words that solidified us into One people that knew we had a faith in God. Where are those words? They're not there. This is something that they're doing. They're trying to take our heritage from us. Midway, the Battle of Midway, was the second greatest maritime victory in the history of mankind. We didn't have anywhere, any idea where the Japanese Imperial Fleet was. We had the whole ocean to look for them, and one particular squadron that we sent out with the entire ocean to search, fell out of the cloud cover right on top of the Japanese Imperial Fleet. And within a few minutes, they would change the ammunition. They weren't ready for battle. In just a few minutes they were at most of the Japanese imperial fleet was at the bottom of the ocean. The second greatest maritime victory in the history of the world. And you know what it says in the area of Midway there in the Washington, D. C. , World War II Memorial? It says it was a magic mixture. Of men and skill and no, it wasn't a magic mixture of anything. It was God's providential hand upon a Christian nation because he wanted us to win. So how'd the people of Israel do? Well, not too well. Look with me quickly now to Judges chapter 2 I'm almost there. Judges chapter 2 and verse 7, I'm going to start reading for sake of time. If you can't find it, look intelligently on whatever page you're on, okay? Judges chapter 2 and verse 7 it says, And the people served the Lord all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of the Lord that he did for Israel. And Joshua the son of none, the servant of the Lord died being a hundred and ten years old. Verse ten for sake of time And also all that generation were gathered unto their fathers, and there arose another generation after them, look at this now, which knew not the Lord. The whole head was sick They knew not the Lord, they forgot the Lord, nor yet the works which she had done for Israel, and the children of the Lord did evil in the sight of the Lord, and served Balaam, and they forsook, oh, the whole heart faint. They forsook the Lord God of their fathers, which brought them out of the land of Egypt. And here's the third downward digression. And followed other gods of the people that were round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked the Lord to anger, and they forsook the Lord and served Baal and Asheroth. And the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hands of spoilers that spoiled them, and he sold them into the hands of their enemies round about, so that they could not any longer stand Before their enemies. People say, Brother Harding, why do you have this ministry, this God and country ministry? Because I don't want to see America on the auction block. I don't want to see God's hand of providential protection taken off of us. Two verses and I'm done. Isaiah, first of all, chapter 1 and verse 9. As you turn there, you understand we're under three country curses as we sit here tonight? We're under the country curse of murdering our unborn under the guise of abortion. Do you realize in one year alone, we killed more babies than we did in all wars that we've ever been involved with? All military casualties and all wars from the inception to this very day, think about all those men and women that died in all the wars that we've ever been involved with, and we killed more babies just in one year than that. Do you understand that we're nearing the sixty million mark? And that Germany, at the highest estimation, only killed 12 million, and do you see what God did to them? And we're at 60 million? And it's estimated because of our lack of moral leadership, the world has been responsible for one billion babies being aborted. And that's something God doesn't forgive. He says he does not pardon the shedding of innocent blood. God says, in thy skirts is found the blood of the souls of the poor innocent. God's destroyed nations down to history over that one thing. Secondly, we have validated alternate lifestyles that challenge the traditional family. And as the family goes, so goes the nation. Look at it in history. Number three, we've turned our back to the nation of Israel. And God says in the Old Testament and New Testament, He will bless and curse nations and families that bless and curse his people. Wonder three country curses. So, why haven't we been judged yet, Brother Harding? May I say when judgment comes and it will come, it's going to be catastrophic. But the reason why it hasn't come yet is Isaiah chapter 1 and verse 9. Except, I know there's one interpretation, but there's many applications. I want to make an application with your permission tonight Except the Lord of hosts had left unto us, look at this, a very small remnant. We should have been a Sodom, and we should have been like unto Gomorrah. You and you ladies know what a remnant is, right? It's a leftover meat piece of material that's really not good for anything. God could have said remnant, and that would have sufficed, but he didn't say that. He said small remnant, but he didn't just say small remnant, he said very small remnant. Say, Brother Harding, why haven't we been judged yet? Do you understand that there's an EMP that North Korea is developing right now and that they just reported this on Fox News just recently? And and it's something that will ionize our atmosphere and will shut down all of our regional grids if it's deployed correctly and we'll be without electricity for six months to a year. Do you understand what that means? Your automobiles won't work? You have one toilet flush left? Have you seen the grocery stores empty out when it snows? Did you see what happened to the southern coastal states when Katrina hit while the rest of our country was rushing to their aid and how quickly social order broke down? Can you imagine a whole nation like that? There's studies, I won't even go into the studies because uh look I'm not trying to scare anybody. Spirit is not, does not give spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind But it is distressing. The reason why we haven't been judged yet I'm looking at those reasons right here Because you're here tonight. Because there's people here tonight and you're here with your children. And there's babies here tonight. And there's young people here tonight. And the reason why is because God still has a very small remnant here. You understand? And not only that, that very small remnant means something, you see. It gives us an exception. And do you understand where God says, blessed are the merciful? Because they shall obtain mercy. You know, we need God's mercy. And you understand we're the originators of the Red Cross? We're the first people. all the other countries when there's a catastrophe and we are there to give because we're beneficent people so we can obtain mercy. Well I'm glad about that. That excites me. Amen. That's how important it is for you to go to church because God sees it, He's honored by it, and that's the very thing I believe that He's withholding His judgment from our country today. That's one thing right there that we need to understand Look with me now, one last verse. And I don't know how many times I've read through the book of Proverbs, but Several years ago, God showed me something in Proverbs 28 and verse 2, and I want to show it to you tonight, and with this I'll close. Are you still with me tonight? Say amen. This is our country, do you understand? This is our nation. If we don't do something for our nation, I'll guarantee you it will dissolve. Quicker than you can even imagine. I just want to see it. I don't want to see it. You say, Brother Harding, can we stop God's judgment? No. He'll have to apologize to all the rest of the nations if he doesn't judge America. Then what are you doing tonight? Well, we can postpone it Say, is there a biblical principle and precedent for that? Yes, there is. I'm going to show you one right here. It says, Proverbs 28 and verse 2, for the transgression of a land Many are the princes thereof. That means a lot of people messed up this country too. But 180 degrees, by a man of understanding the knowledge, look at this, the state thereof. Shall that's a promise be prolonged. Phew. You know what that means? Fred changes things, right, Tom. And every single day, over nine years ago When I read that, I said, okay, I got it, Lord. It's like he turned that verse on with neon lights. And every day, every day since then, I've gone before the Lord and I said, Lord, I am a man of understanding and knowledge. I'm asking you to prolong. The state of this nation. See, I don't know, Brother Harding, when God decides to judge a country, he's gonna do that. Oh, yes, he will. Well, I don't know. Is there a precedent in the Bible where God postponed his judgment? Oh, yes, there is. The wicked Gentile nation of Nineveh was under a 40-day judgment call, and an unwilling and partially digested preacher showed up. I'm telling you, no wonder they paid attention to him. You could smell before you saw him, and when you saw him, it wasn't much of an improvement. I mean you come out of the whale of the belly after three days and and see what happens, you see I mean he was highly motivated. He hit the ground, the Bible says the whale vomited him up. So he hit the ground running and sliding probably a little bit too. Made a three-day journey in one day. Spoke an eight-word message. And the people of Nineveh got serious about praying to God. And God postponed his judgment from 40 days to over a century later. I don't know how long we need God to postpone his judgment off America, but we need him to do so. And we need some people that will determine to pray with me that God does just that. I pray, Lord, one more day, and I'll meet you tomorrow and I'm going to ask you then for one more day And then I'll meet you tomorrow and I'm going to ask you for one more day. Lord, you're no respecter of persons. You're the same yesterday, today, and forever. And if you did that for Nineveh, which was a wicked Gentile nation, you can do that for America. Because there as you said to your prophet Jonah, the unwilling preacher, there were there were so many that didn't know their left hand from the right, there's one right back there that doesn't know their left hand from the right There are other babies in here, young people, that don't know their left from their right. This little guy here, he doesn't know his left from his right right now either. Neither does she. They're la la la, they're gone. Amen. That's right. I kind of like young people being in church. Even if they sometimes bail out. It's okay. I told God, Lord, I'd like to see you postpone until the rapture. God said in the book of Ezekiel, I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge and stand the gap before me for the land that I should not destroy it. But I found none. He's going to find one, I'll guarantee, as long as I'm alive, he's finding one every day. You know why? Because we will pray, every one of us, in one of two ways. You say, Brother Hart, say take some determination. You ask me to pray every single day for the rest of my life? Yeah. I am. Before your head hits the pillar at night that God will postpone his judgment for one more day, and then you got and the way we pray is have mercy on us for baby murder for baby murder. for validating alternate lifestyles that challenge tradition traditional family, for turning our back on the nation of Israel, have mercy on us for those three things. That takes some determination. We will either pray out of determination or mark it down. Very soon, we will be praying out of desperation. And I don't want to pray out of desperation. I'd much rather pray out of determination. An old God. Lord, I'm not much, but I am a man of some understanding and knowledge, and I'm asking you to prolong the state of this nation. You did it for Nineveh. I'm asking you to do it for America. But I need some others. More importantly, God needs others. That'll pray that same prayer and get serious about it. Well, you know what I would love to see? Before we're taken out here, before the rapture occurs, oh one lady said, oh brother Hardy, I'm kind of nervous about the rapture. She said, I'm going to be taking a space trip without a spaceship. I said, you'll be fine, you'll be fine, sister. You'll be like that lady that went to a dude ranch and she told the fella, I've never ridden a horse before. He said, that's okay. We have a horse that's never been ridden. You can learn together. But before that trump sounds, you think about this. We started this nation from the Great Awakening in the 1600s. 200 years later in the 1800s, the second Great Awakening. We continued. It's been two hundred years. I would love to see a third Great Awakening. See, God's a God of threes. He's the triune God. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we saw this whole thing wrap up before God calls us home in the rapture? With a third great awakening. Where could that begin, Brother Harney? It could begin right here tonight. How? By us saying I'm not going to suffer from the sin of unbelief any longer. God's still a God of miracles, and I'm going to start praying for a miracle for my country. Wouldn't you just love to see God do that and see the rest of the world shake their head and scratch their head and say, how on earth did they get out of that? And we could tell the rest of the world. He showed up. That very small remnant. That's all God needs. He didn't need the thousands, he needed Gideon's three hundred. There is enough people, hear me. There is enough people here tonight that if we got serious And we've made some promises at this old-fashioned altar. God will hear us. And we could see it begin tonight with ourselves by saying, Lord, show me anything in my life that's keeping you from bringing a third great awakening, and I will take care of it. Lord, I'm going to pray before my head hits the pillow every night from now on for our children, for our grandchildren, for these little guys here. For these young ladies over here and this young lady that sang that wonderful song tonight, so they can grow up and see what God wants them to be and do come to fruition in their life. These young men back here can live in a in a free nation and have the opportunities that we I think it's worth it. Say, Brother Hardy, how do you continue to pray like that? Because I look at little ones like this little guy right over here and these young fellows right here. These young people in the front row. They're worth it. They're worth it. They're worth humbling ourselves. They're worth us praying in fragrance feet. They're worth us claiming verses like Proverbs 28 and verse 2. I want to see God prolong the stay of this nation. Oh, we will fall. But I would much rather see it after the rapture happens. Are you willing to flood this altar tonight? And to bring your body to the contrition of bowing before Him if you're physically able Are you willing to do something for our country that's biblical, that's been done before, twice in our history, and see a great awakening? You say yes, Brother Harding. I'm going to be the conscience of this nation. I'm going to be a person that remembers his strength, his power, his glorious works. I'm going to start praying out of determination because I don't want to pray out of desperation. Would you stand and come right now and join me at this old-fashioned altar? Would you come and let's flood these altars tonight? Would you come for your children, your families? Would you come in humility? Would you come out of memory of those that have died before us and entrusted to us? This great nation, just come and let's flood these altars. Come as far as you can. And if you can't come any farther, just bow where you are. And let's do some serious work with God tonight. That's right. Let's just bow right bow in the aisles. Kneel before our God who is going to listen to us tonight. But what are we doing, Brother Hardy? We could very possibly Be changing the course of our country. It could be beginning right here tonight. You determine not just this invitation, but every day For the rest of my life. Oh God. I'm going to be praying for your mercy upon my country.