We're going to be looking primarily at verse 11. We're just kind of taking this a little bite at a time, working our way through. Verse 10 says, Wherefore the rather brethren Give diligence to make your calling and election sure. For if you do these things, we've been looking at that phrase, these things, for if you de the do these things, ye shall never fall. Now note the punctuation at the end of verse 10. It's a colon. For so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom. of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. An entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom Of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I want to talk about this abundant entrance that he references here. Father, bless our study of this passage here tonight. I ask That your Holy Spirit, as the author of the Word of God, that you would open our hearts and minds, that we could behold here what you're saying, we could understand what this truth is and how it applies to our lives. And Holy Spirit, you know better than I how to apply it. And so I yield my will to you, and Lord, I in this time, in this message, I present my body anew, and Lord, I ask you sincerely. That you would fill me with your Spirit, and that you would speak through me tonight to each of our hearts and lives, and that we could grow in our faith, our commitment, our walk with you. And so please bless, I pray. Help us in Jesus' name. Amen. Verse number eleven, as we tried to point out here as we read through, is a continuation of the statements made in verse number ten Verse number 10 ends with a colon, and that implies that the following statements are going to be a bit of an elaboration of the previous statements. He's building on what he said previously. He's not introducing a new subject. He's not talking about a new topic. This is a continuation here. It's a maybe somewhat of a description or elaboration on what he said before, an explanation. And in verse number 10, he says that if ye do these things, You shall never fall if you do these things. Now, the question is, and we've answered it several times now, but I want to touch on it again tonight, what are these things he's referencing? He says, if you do these things, if I do what things? Well, he says several times through here, these things, these things, these things. And if you remember, we pointed out that these things are referring back to verse 5 through 7. These lists of disciplines, these lists of virtues. that we are to diligently add to our lives. Let's just review them for sake of review. Verse 5 he says, and besides this, giving all diligence, and this is something we're to apply ourselves to, this is to have high priority. Requires our attention, our energy, our effort. Give all diligence, giving all diligence, add to your faith. All right, we start with faith. That's the groundwork. Add to your faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge temperance, and to temperance patience, and to patience godliness And the godliness, brotherly kindness, and the brotherly kindness, charity. That's where it ends. That's the ultimate. It's our end game, is to love as God loves. unconditionally. And so he says over and over, verse eight, for these things, verse nine, he that lacketh these things. Verse ten, if you do these things, come down to verse twelve, putting you in remembrance of these things. Verse fifteen, after my decease have these things always in remembering. Keeps referring back to this list that he instructs us to diligently add to our faith. And so if he does these things, according to verse 10, as we preached before, oh, by the way, I meant to say this at the beginning. My message tonight, I think, is going to be unique in two ways. Number one, you're not believing me, but I think it's going to be shorter than normal. I I I really do. I know it's the same reaction every time. But number two, I don't have an outline. I I like outline. I'm an outline preacher. I like to have an outline. Anybody notice that? My messages usually have outlines I'm not. I just want to look at this verse tonight, so a little different that way. But he says there, referring back, verse 11 is building on verse 10. In verse 10, he pointed out that those that do these things, diligently add these things, they're not going to stumble. They're not going to get messed up. They're not going to uh trip up and get off track. Oh, it doesn't mean they're not going to have their ups and downs But they're going to stay consistent. They're going to stay on course if you do these things. They're going to have a good clear testimony. Somebody has virtue and they have an understanding, a knowledge of the Word of God, and they're tet they're self-controlled and they're uh patient and they're godly and they are kind and they love unconditionally. Would you agree that kind of person have pretty good testimony? Somebody sees that in your life And so they're not going to get off course. They're going to have a good, clear testimony, and I believe he's saying they're going to see consistent growth. And I don't know about you, but that's encouraging to me that I can apply myself in these areas, in these disciplines, and work towards seeing them a part of my life And I can anticipate I'm going to grow spiritually. I'm going to grow in my faith. Then we come to verse 11, and he says, if we do these things, he's continuing on And he says that we will have an abundant entrance into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord. Now, what does he mean by that? Well, what does he mean by the everlasting kingdom? The word everlasting means what you think it would mean. It means to go on forever. It has the idea of no beginning and no end. It's a kingdom that had no beginning, has no end. It's perpetual and eternal. Our Lord's kingdom is an eternal kingdom. It's a perpetual kingdom. It's unending, no beginning and no end. And then it's a kingdom. A kingdom is a place where a king has dominion over It is a royal authority, is authority given to one who holds a royal position And our Lord is referred to in Scripture repeatedly as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He is king over all. Our Lord's kingdom is an eternal, perpetual kingdom. Throughout the Bible, the Bible refers sometimes to the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom of God. Here it's this eternal kingdom, everlasting kingdom. We are studying in prophecy in our Bible Institute, the millennial kingdom, where Christ reigns literally here on earth. I think what Peter is referring to here when he talks about this everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, I'm thinking he's referring to the kingdom where Christ now sits on the throne of heaven. And rules eternally, from eternal past to eternal future. Overall, kind of unseen behind the scenes, but nevertheless, he's there. We say it all the time. Hey, Christ is still on the throne Talking about that kingdom that he has, that authority, that domain that he rules. I believe Peter is referring to heaven, where the Lord is ruling here and now. And so he says that if we do these things, do this list here we keep referring to, an entrance. Now, this is my message. An entrance shall be ministered unto us abundantly into this kingdom. We do these things, And entrance into this kingdom will be ministered or given, bestowed upon us in abundance. Now what's he talking about? If we do these things, I think this is what he's saying. We're not just going to get to heaven But are going to get there with an abundant entrance. An abundant entrance. Now let me be clear. Here we're getting to the meat of it here. How many people are still with me? Alright, how many people are still conscious out there? Alright, most majority. Praise the Lord. Let me be very, very clear now before we go any farther. There is only one way to heaven. And it's not by keeping a list of do's and don'ts. We don't get to heaven by diligently adding to my faith virtue and to virtue knowledge and the knowledge uh godliness and the godliness temperance and the temperance pain we don't that's not how we get to heaven by developing christian characteristics We get to heaven one way and one way only through trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. It's by grace through faith, plus nothing, minus nothing. Very familiar passage we quoted all the time. Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, and the light. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. So we want to be very, very clear on this. There's only one way to heaven. But I want to suggest to you there are two entrances. One way, but two entrances. Now the term entrance here in verse 11 has this idea: the act of entering something There's two entrances. You know what the two entrances are, as I understand it? One is either through the entrance of death. Or the entrance of the rapture. Now, Jesus is the way. I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. That's how I get there. But the entrance, I may go to heaven by way of death. How many people understand that? Absent from the body, what? Present with the Lord. And praise the Lord for that Or there is a generation of believers who will enter heaven, not by way of the undertaker, but by way of the uppertaker, the rapture. You with me? So there's two entrances, one way to heaven, trusting Jesus Christ as Savior, but there's two ways we may end up getting there. Either through the rapture or through death. I don't know about you, but I'd just soon go the way of the rapture, you know. Just uh, come up, boom, out of here. Wouldn't that be something Or the way of death. Peter was not looking for the rapture Paul was. Thessalonians, he said, then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together. Paul was looking for the rapture in his lifetime. Peter was not. Peter knew he wasn't going to be alive when the rapture took place. You know how he knew that? Because the Lord told him in John he was going to be martyred. Peter already knew what his entrance into heaven was going to be. He knew he wasn't going to enter heaven through the entrance of rapture. He was going to enter heaven through the entrance of death, through martyrdom. And he did. He was faithful right up all the way to martyrdom. The Lord told him. So there's two entrances. So Peter says here: so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into this everlasting kingdom, the presence of the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. An entrance made abundantly. So that entrance may be through death or possibly through the rapture. Now, I believe what he's referring to, he's implying here, that there are two conditions that I enter into, either through death or the rapture When I enter into the presence of Christ, the kingdom of God, there are two conditions I may be in. Now I have to be saved to get there, right? I feel like I need to keep reiterating that. It's only Christ that gets me there. But getting there through these entrances, I may enter the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I may enter into his presence, into his kingdom, abundantly. With abundance. Or the implication is if I don't add these things, five through seven, if I don't do that. Then my entrance would not be with abundance, but what's the implication? It would be with what? What's the opposite of abundance? Meagerly, right? That's the opposite of abundance. Enter heaven, but not with abundance, but meagerly. Meagerly. Everyone that sincerely calls on the Lord Jesus in faith, sincerely in faith calls on the Lord Jesus, they will enter heaven. Sometime it hasn't happened for a long time, I think folks understand, but years ago we would at the uh end of the year we'd give our annual report and how many professions of faith we had and how many baptisms all of that. I think it's good to pay attention to that. But every now and then I would have someone come up here, maybe we have a large number of professions of faith, and they would say this to me. They would say, Preacher, do you think all those people really got saved? Well, and my answer is always this. All those people that sincerely, genuinely called on the Lord Jesus Christ got saved. The Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, help me, shall be saved. So if they sincerely, genuinely, biblically called on the Lord for salvation, then they got saved. So everybody that gets to heaven everybody that sincerely calls on the Lord in faith will enter heaven, either by death or the rapture. They're going to get there. How many folks here tonight? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. That's true, then every one of us will end up in heaven. Eventually, a hundred years from now, we'll be all together in heaven. All of us that sincerely call on the Lord. We're going to get there. Maybe the rapture will take place tomorrow morning at I don't know Or maybe by death. But if we call on the Lord, we will get there. We will get there. It's not what He's suggesting that we don't. However, Not everyone who enters heaven will do so abundantly Those that do these things diligently add these things to their faith, those will enter into heaven with abundance. Abundantly. Let me try and explain what he's saying here. Come over, if you would, to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Now, here he's referencing the judgment seat of Christ. And at the judgment seat of Christ, it will reveal whether my entrance has been abundant or meagerly. 1 Corinthians chapter 3, and I want to begin reading in verse 11. For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Let me word that in context of what my message is. Nobody gets saved apart from Jesus. That's the foundation of our salvation. That's the basis. Now, verse 12, if any man build upon this salvation, in other words, he trusted Christ, he got saved. Now he's building upon that foundation of faith in Christ, Jesus Christ. He's adding to his faith Virtue and knowledge and temperance and patience and godliness and kindness and charity. He's building on that Now, if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stone, then he contrasts would hay stubble. Every man's work shall be made manifest, whether it's abundant or whether it's meager. Every man's work shall be made manifest. For the day, the judgment day, will declare it. Because it shall be revealed by fire. Fire is referencing the judgment of Christ And the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereon, he shall receive a reward. That's, I believe, is what Peter's talking about. That's the abundance. I invested, I got saved, and I invested in my life. um uh uh doing right, virtuous, living a virtuous life and and learning God's will for my life and and being temperate, self-controlled and being patient with people and uh uh and uh uh uh and adding godliness and and being kind to people and loving people unconditionally. I've added all of that to what my foundation of my salvation was I diligently worked to live that way. And he says, oh reward. Reward. The reward here is not my salvation. Salvation is what got me into heaven. The reward here is this abundance that I get to him. Is everybody following me so far? Then look what he says. Verse 14, if any man's work abide, which he hath built thereon, he added these things, he'll receive a reward. However, verse 15, if Any man's work shall be burned. In other words, he lived for himself. Wood, hay, stubble, lived for temporal things Self, me, what I get out of this, here and now. It's all about me and what I want and my will, my way, my way or the highway. Oh, he got saved. He trusted Christ But he never built on that. He never added to that these Christian virtues that Peter keeps emphasizing are so important. And he just lived for here and now, me and mine. Get what I can uh uh get what I can and can what I get. And look what happens. If any man's work shall be burned, and he shall suffer what? Would you agree suffering loss is the opposite of getting abundance? This is not entering with abundance into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord. This is coming with loss, not losing salvation. But losing reward, losing blessings. And he look what he adds this on, just to be clear, at the end of verse 15. But he himself shall be saved. So is by fire. He has nothing to offer the Lord. He has no life that he's lived for the glory of God and for the advancement of the gospel. And for the pleasure of the Lord, the will of God, none of that. It was all me. It was all living for myself He gets to heaven and the judgment, he has no reward. It's just wood. Hay stubble is burned up. He has nothing. It's meager. Peter's telling us that if we, those, those seven, eight things, seven things to add to our faith, they are so vital. If we'll diligently work to add them to our life and live that way, when that day comes that we have entrance into heaven, it'll be with abundance. And I'll be able to kneel before the Lord at the judgment seat of Christ and cast my crowns and these rewards down at his feet and say, Lord, it was all for your glory. Or it's all about me and self. I get there. I'm nothing. Thank you, Lord, for saving me. That was it. That was it. Peter is challenging, he's urging, exhorting these believers, listen, don't just get saved and do nothing. You trust Christ. You start living for Him. You start adding to your faith. You start building on what God has given you. Jesus illustrated that all through the gospels a husband, a master would give his servant certain talents or certain things, and then he'd say, do something with it. Make something out of it. Use it. He comes back and they say, Lord, my this five talents gained another five. I've got ten. And he says, Boy, bless him. That's an abundance. There's inevitably in those illustrations, there's inevitably that one. He got the talent. And the talent is referring to a monetary type thing. He got that. And he hid it in the ground, didn't do anything with it, and the Lord comes back. His Lord comes back. And he has nothing to show. Nothing to do. Nothing to give. I'm afraid there's too many Christians are satisfied with just being saved. Well, praise the Lord, I'm going to heaven. We had a young man out in Indianapolis, got saved, and he was probably 16, 17 years old, somewhere around there. And um And I think he genuinely got saved. We were talking about baptism. I instructed him what the Bible says about baptism, the importance of it. And one day after the morning service, I got back from my bus route And he was sitting on the front steps of the church there and went up, said hey to him before I left, and he said, I got a question. He says, waiting for you to get back, I had a question. I said, okay. He goes, you're talking about baptism. I said, okay He said, I want to get baptized, but I don't want anybody to see it. I don't want anybody to know about it. Just baptize me this afternoon when nobody's here, so nobody sees it. I said, Brett, you're missing the point. Baptism is a testimony to the fact that you've trusted Christ. It's a declaration. It's so that people do know you're a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Some time went by and um he never did get baptized. Some time went by and we were preaching on soul winning and doing soul winning training, much like what Pastor Matt does, and we go out every week He came to me one time, I think he was under conviction. He says, Preacher, he said, Pastor Dennis, they called me, he said, can a person still go to heaven even if they don't witness to people? He said, how how many do you have to witness to and still be able to go to heaven? I said, it sounds like to me you're trying to do as little as you possibly can, yet still get to heaven. I said, it's not witnessing to people is not what gets you to heaven. I said, but if Jesus Christ has saved your soul from sin in hell, The reasonable thing to do is to present your body a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable in the Lord. And serve Him and live for Him and build on that salvation that God has given to you and add these things to your life. To grow and develop, and then you enter into heaven with an abundance. An abundance. I don't know whatever happened to him. We left not long after that, went out, moved on. I don't know whatever happened to him. If he was saved, and I seen genuine was sincere when he called on the Lord, if he was saved, and that was how he uh ends up entering into heaven with that frame of mind I tell you, he's not entering with an abundance. He's entering with wood, hay, stubble. You with me? Peter said, if you do these things, boy, you build that, you build your Christian faith. You build with knowledge and virtue. Doing right and loving others and serving and giving and being self-controlled, all these seven, eight things. You build on that And that entrance, whether it's through the grave or through the rapture, that entrance, oh, it'll be with abundance. It'll be with abundance. Too many are unwilling to give of themselves Oh, they'll accept the fact that the Lord gave of Himself. They don't want to give of themselves. Too many are unwilling to diligently do these things. In 2 in Peter chapter 1, verse 5 through 8. These things, these things, these things. Several, it's been probably several years now, it's been a good while ago, I had some Jehovah's Witness come by the house, and um I met them out on the front porch and We got talking a little bit there. We kind of went back and forth, you know how it is, vandered back and forth there a little bit. So finally I just asked them. I said, well, let me ask you a question Do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, and that you go to heaven and not to hell? Now, for Jehovah's Witness, that's a loaded question. Number one, they don't believe in hell. And number two, they don't want to go to heaven. So I asked him, I said, Do you know for sure if you die right now you go to heaven, not to hell? Your sins are forgiven. Only go to heaven, not to hell. They said, well, we certainly don't want to go to heaven. I said, you don't want to go to heaven? They said, no, we want to stay here on earth, live on earth forever. They quoted a few things from their writings. I said, well, the judgment of sin, the ways of sin is death. That's separation from God and hell. Oh no, we don't go to hell. That's just the grave. Hell's not a place of torment. It's just the grave. That's it. I said I said to him, I said, who in the world would convince you That you don't have to worry about hell and you don't want to go to heaven. There's only one being in existence I know of. That would want to convince somebody they don't want to go to heaven and they don't have to worry about hell. And it's certainly not the Lord Jesus Christ. It's the devil himself I said you're believing a doctrine of devils. You're buying right into it. I don't know about you, but I'm looking forward to going to heaven. I'm looking, whether it's through the grave or through the rapture, either one, I'm looking forward to going to heaven. The older I get, the more I look forward. What a day that will be, when by Jesus I shall say. But I want to get to heaven When I cross heaven's threshold, whatever entrance that may be, death or rapture, but when I cross heaven's threshold I want to cross that threshold huffing and puffing and wore out, exhausted, and just collapsed at the foot of Jesus, wore out trying to serve him. And I would love, and I think talking a lot of people feel the same way, to get there and see the Lord. And be able to say, Lord, here's glory. And here's the rewards. God, I've sought to bring glory to you. I've sought to win souls I've sought these rewards and just cast them at the feet of Jesus. And I want him to hear, say, I want to hear so badly. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. That is the abundant entrance Peter's talking about. Not just getting to heaven, strolling across, well, here it is, check it out. What do you got? Well, I had a nice boat. I I invested tens of thousands of dollars in a nice bass boat That's nothing. Well, we had a forty four uh I don't know these numbers, uh 10,000 square foot house. Is that big? I had a ten thousand square foot house. That is the opposite of an abundant entrance. You follow am I making sense tonight? You follow me? I want I I'm looking forward to going to heaven, but I don't want to walk into heaven. I guess this is what I'm saying. I think this is what Peter's challenging us I don't want to walk into heaven empty-handed. Nothing to show for my Christian life. No eternal. No souls. No nothing. I want to come in with abundance. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray we could heed Peter's admonition. And then we would diligently apply ourselves to add to our faith these Christian virtues here, these Christian disciplines, and we can grow and have an influence in this world and make an eternal difference. And get to heaven and see the effects of our life here and now. That it would be abundant Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many like me say, Preacher, I'm looking forward to get to heaven, but I don't want to go empty-handed. Any like that? We sing that song, don't we? Must I go and empty-handed? Thus, my dear Redeemer, me. No, I want to go in abundance. Father, bless our invitation. Help us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.