And turn to first Samuel chapter number twenty, if you would. And if you'll give me a minute here Get wired up. I could do a draft quartet. Some of the one of these days we'll have to do a ladies draft quartet. How about that? That'd be pretty good. Alright, 1 Samuel chapter number 20. And we're going to pick up and begin reading down in verse number 24. And I want to read down through verse 34. Alright, I think I'm set. Am I turned on, Dave? I am not. There we go. 1 Samuel chapter 20, verse number 24. We're studying the life of David. Now just to get the background here, I think most of us are aware it's been a week or two since we've been in this, but um Uh David has come to Jonathan, the son of King Saul, and uh pressed him about why in the world his daddy's out to kill him. Jonathan initially doesn't believe David, although it's to us it's pretty obvious that David's correct. Saul is out to kill David. And uh so Jonathan defends his daddy. So David suggests they do a little scheme kind of thing Uh there's a feast day coming up, the feast of moon, new moon, uh feast of the new moon, I think it's called. And um he says, tell you what, there's everybody's expected to be there Um I'm not going to show up. I'll stay out. I'll I won't show up. And if your daddy is fine with me not being there, we'll give an excuse why I'm not there. If your daddy's fine with me not being there, then we know that he's okay, there's he's no threat to my life and I'm I'm wrong. He tells Jonathan, if I don't show up and if your daddy gets very, very angry and he reacts then we'll know that I'm right. And then you will know, Jonathan, that what I'm saying to you is correct. So Jonathan agrees to it and he expresses his loyalty. And so they're setting this thing up here and that's where we pick up in verse number 24. So David hid himself in the field when the new moon was come. The king set him uh let me start again. So David hid himself in the field, and when the new moon was come, the king set him down to eat meat. And the king sat upon his seat, as at other times, even upon the seat by the wall. And Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty. Alright, how's he going to react to this? Nevertheless, Saul spake not anything that day. For he thought something hath befallen him, he is not clean. Surely he's not clean And it came to pass on the morrow, which was the second day of the month, that David's place was empty. And Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to meet, neither yesterday nor today? And Jonathan answered Saul, David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem, and he said, Let me go, I pray thee, for our family have a sacrifice in the city, and my own. my and my brother he hath commanded me to be there, and now if I have found favour in thy sight, let me get away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. Therefore he cometh not to the king's house Now, I don't know about you, but I can feel the tension in the room here. You can't tell me Jonathan isn't on edge waiting to see what's going to happen. And here it is. Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of a perverse, rebellious woman Do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse Thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own confusion and unto the confusion of thy mother's nakedness For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom. Wherefore now send and fetch him unto me, for he shall surely die There's Jonathan's answer, huh? Jonathan answered Saul, his father, and said unto him, Wherefore shall he be slain? What hath he done? Do you notice Jonathan's always defending people? Every time he's defending people. And Saul cast a javelin at him to smite him, whereby Jonathan knew that it was determined of his father to slay David. So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no meat the second day of the month, for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame. I want to talk tonight these verses here about an angry king. An angry king. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for the Word of God, for the opportunity to come together on a midweek and assemble together with your people. We ask that your presence would be here tonight. And as we look in your word, as we sing these hymns, and then we have prayer time, we come to your throne. Lord, please help us to be aware in a very real way of your presence. And I pray you'd speak to us and challenge us and help us, young and old. And uh particularly in this matter of dealing with anger, as we see Saul here, and then Jonathan. So I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body to you. I yield my will to you. With all my heart, I pray, Lord, that you would speak through me. and be our teacher tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I was coming up Dennett Road this afternoon, uh towards Broadford, towards the church here in that big dip down there. There was a car ahead of me, a couple hundred yards ahead of me And uh it just caught my attention uh that there was a shadow of a cloud right that car as it was driving, the shadow of the cloud was moving right along that car. And so the whole way I followed it up Dennett Road, that car in front of me was in the shadow of this cloud just following it. And I thought, boy, that's the way life seems sometimes, you know, it's just under the shadow constantly. And um I thought about David when I saw that, and I was the message, of course, was on my mind all day as preparing for tonight. And I thought David's under a bit of a shadow here, no matter where he goes, in the king in the in the palace with the king, he goes to his own home. He's out in the fields now with Jonathan, no matter where he goes, he cannot get out from under this shadow of King Saul's envy and hatred towards him. And that shadow, so to speak, over David, this King Saul's attitude and his bitter malice and hatred towards him, he can't escape it. And uh it's developing in David, we're seeing here, he's developing in David fear, he's getting fearful. I sense more fear in David now with King Saul than we've picked up when he was out on the battlefield with Goliath. He's starting the he's dealing with confusion. He doesn't know why this is happening. He doesn't understand Saul's motive. He doesn't understand Saul's reasoning behind this. He's dealing with doubts. He's starting to take things into his own hands. I found when I start to take things into my own own hands that usually doesn't work out too well. So David's starting to take things into his own hands. He's lying about this whole situation. He's struggling with injustice, and he has this cloud over him And I want to suggest to you, I want to suggest that one of the biggest things David's struggling with is not understanding why this is happening. Did anybody ever go through a trial or difficulty and the whole time you're thinking, why is this happening? Why are these people doing what they're doing? Anybody know what I'm talking about? And it seems like if we can it seems like if we can just understand the reason behind the difficulty or a trial we go through, if I can understand that there is a reason for this, there's a purpose behind this. It kind of helps us accept it a little better. I say, all right, why in the world is this happening? And then we explain and say, oh, okay, all right, I understand. It's hard, but I know, okay, I see the purpose here. But it's when we don't know why. It's when we see no purpose for an injustice or a struggle we go through. That's when we uh really struggle. Now we look back on David And we know why God's allowing him to go through this. We've been talking about this. God's allowing him to go through this for what? What have we been saying over and over? Go through these trials and these difficulties. What what what did we suggest was the reason? Somebody talk to me now. Help me. It's preparation, exactly. God's preparing him for the throne And that God's preparing him to deal, to establish a throne. God, through David, is going to establish the throne that Jesus Christ is going to rule from during the millennial reign. That position, King of Israel, the throne of David, is the throne that our eternal Son of God is going to rule from. So God's preparing him. David doesn't see it. He doesn't understand it at this point. He's struggling. And uh my heart goes out to him. He's trying to deal with all this And uh uh and uh but God has a plan, God has a purpose. Now King Saul is under a uh cloud also, but it's a cloud of his own making And uh it's a cloud of envy has absolutely overshadowed King Saul. And every record we have of King Saul here, he is eat up, every action he takes, everything, it's like it is just cannot get it off his mind. He's there constantly, this issue of David, he must be eliminated. Saul is under this cloud of envy that he's created himself. That cloud of envy is now producing hatred. It's producing malice. What is malice? Somebody talk to me. We have group involvement tonight. Malice is anger, but there's another aspect to it also. Alright, stirring up trouble, anger, hatred. Somebody said hatred is involved in that It is anger and hatred with the intention of doing ill to the one that is hated It's one thing to hate somebody, oh, I can't stand that person. It's another thing to say, I hate them and I am going to hurt them. That's malice. The intent to do harm. The intent to do damage to the object of my hatred. And so Saul is eat up with malice, and he's eat up with anger. Anger, I believe, is an issue that we have to deal with in life. Anger, we must deal with the issue of anger Let me say this. All of us are human beings. We're fallen human beings. If we don't conquer, if we don't conquer this I'm going to say sin of anger. If we don't conquer it, it will conquer us. We cannot let that anger take root. We cannot let that anger dwell and settle in and uh and uh um and uh simmer on the stove of our hearts and minds It will absolutely take over. Anger, we must put off anger. Now I wish I could tell you I wish I could say to him uh you know as a Christian, oh preach uh he's a preacher somebody says, Oh, he's the preacher, he never gets angry He's a pastor. He won't ever deal with anger. I'll tell you, I get so mad when people say that. Fact of the matter is, anger is a work of the flesh. Read Galatians chapter 5. It is not a fruit of the Spirit And as long as I'm in this flesh, as long as you are in this flesh, it's going to be something we must face, we must deal with, and we have to conquer, or it will destroy us. Now I put down by way of introduction just and I I picked this up in my devotions over the years. I just as I was studying, it was in the margin of my Bible, I can't even tell you when or where these These came from just in my Bible reading. But I put down about five things about anger. I just want to throw that introduction. I want to give you the outline here very, very quickly. I put this down in the margin of my Bible. Anger is controlling. It takes over. Anger has taken over King Saul. He is a slave to this anger and this hatred. I put this down. I had in the March of my Bible. Anger is unkind. It is unkind. When anger is in control, when anger is controlling me, I will not be kind to the object of that anger, the focus of that anger. Anger is unkind. The fruit of the Spirit is kindness. The work of the flesh is anger, and that is anger is never kind. Anger is never kind. Uh number three, anger is contagious. And we'll see that here in a little bit. It's contagious. We've brought that up before in dealing with King Saul. Anger is contagious. You get one person gets angry in a group of people and it don't take long until everybody in that group is angry You get one person gets mad at the other, and I'll tell you, it's tough for someone to be angry at you in your face and not to get angry back. Am I right or wrong? So it's contagious, highly contagious. I put this down. Anger is increasing, and again, we'll see that here in a little bit. In other words, it never just stays a little tiny anger. puppy. It never stays a little tiny anger kitten. It grows into a monstrous lion. That's why I don't have cats. Um increasing. And then I put this last one down, and we'll see this here again also, but anger is shameful, contemptible. Anger is shame. I wonder how many times folks have gotten angry and said and did things and then after it was all blown over, it was like Man, I'm so ashamed of what I said and how I acted, what I did, right or wrong. It it produces shame. It's shameful. Alright, I've divided this section up here, verse 24 down through verse 34, into three heads, three thoughts here. The first one is I put this down, the travesty of the king's anger, the travesty of the king's anger. Verse 24 through 26. Now what is a travesty? So I know I'm asking a lot of questions. I want you to think tonight. It's hot summer. Everybody just stares straight ahead. I want you to think with me. What's a travesty? All right, a tragedy, yes. And a travesty would be bad, but what would a travesty be? It's what? What's that? Alright, an injustice. It was a travesty. Um, you guys are A perversion justice. This this is this is what travesty is at least this is what I'm making it mean. Um It means to make a mockery of something. It's a travesty. They're just somebody's in a position. Suppose somebody has a position of great honor. And they behave themselves in such a way that's that's embarrassing, it's shameful, and they're making a travesty of that position. You follow what I'm saying? To make a mockery of something that is honorable, to treat disrespectfully something that is honorable. It's a travesty. King Saul is anointed by God Almighty. To be the king of the nation of Israel, of God's people, the most favored people on planet earth, the chosen people of the creator of heaven and earth. He's their king, and he is behaving in an absolute travesty. He's making a mockery of that responsibility and honor he has. Notice in verse number 24 we have this feast. Verse 24 he says, it says, So David hid himself in the field. And when the new moon was come, the king sat him down to meet. Now this is a feast that the Jews held once a month. Generally it was once a month. It was not something that was ordered by God to do. But it was uh as I studied about what this meal is, this feast they were having, uh it is referred to as the feast of the new moon. It was a monthly feast. Of course, the Jewish calendar goes off the lunar calendar, not the what we have. And so each each new moon would be the beginning of a new month for them And uh the one uh uh research I found, I was reading about it, one was at the beginning of the month, they would have folks that would watch at night for that little sliver of the new moon coming on. And when they saw that, they would blow trumpets, and uh that means the new month has started, and they'd come together and have this big feast. It included sacrifices. As I said, the trumpets would sound when they uh when they observed that that new moon. Uh it was a the one article I was saying uh I was reading said it was a very joyful, the Jews loved it They'd have big feasts and meets. Sometimes it would last two, three, four days at a time. But here's the purpose of that feast. The whole purpose of it. Now this is important. The whole purpose of this feast of the new moon was to consecrate that next month to the service and worship of the Lord God. That was a whole purpose. They're assembling together for the purpose of publicly consecrating ourselves. We're offering these sacrifices. And this next month I am committing myself, devoting myself to live for God, to please Him with my actions, to serve Him with my uh abilities, and to live for Him and bring glory to Him. That was the whole purpose. So you have this feast here for the whole thing designed about it was to glorify God and be committed to the Lord. Now this is what I'm getting at. Notice the farce. That's the feast. But notice the farce. What is a farce? Something that's phony. Isn't real. Look here at verse 25. And this is what got me. And the king sat upon his seat as at other times, even upon a seat by the wall. Here is now this isn't something God commanded them to come to do. It's a voluntary thing they do themselves. And here comes King Saul. Into this feast, the whole thing is designed to commit ourselves to the Lord. And Saul comes in here to observe this. And you know what that is to me? That is the epitome of hypocrisy. His heart and mind is filled with hatred. His heart and mind is filled with malice. It is anything. Saul at this point is anything but godly. He is a hard-hearted rebel against God. And he goes in publicly and puts on this show as if he's dedicating himself to the Lord, as if he's committing to live for God. This is this whole thing is a farce on his part. He had an outward display of dedication to the Lord, but inwardly he was filled with envy, hatred, malice, anger towards another one of God's people, towards God's anointed And he comes in and puts on like this uh as if he's some uh great man of God dedicated to the Lord. What's that called? I could I use the word farce, but what's it called? It's what? It's hypocrisy. It's hypocrisy. Hypocrisy has always been an issue with God's people. It always has been. It's always been something we have to deal with. From all the way back in Genesis chapter 4, you have Cain He brought his sacrifice to the Lord, he brought his offering to the Lord. What was wrong with Cain's offering? It wasn't a what It wasn't a blood offering. It was there was to be bloodshed. There was to be, without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sins. And he brought the fruit of the ground. And he put on a show, I'm offering to God, I'm serving God, I'm I'm committed to the uh Jehovah, God, the Creator, but I'm doing it my way. And it was hypocrisy. Jesus, we studied in Matthew chapter 5, 6 and 7, the Sermon on the Mount, over and over and over, he'd addressed, be not as the hypocrites, be not as the hypocrites, be not as the hypocrites. That tells me that there's a very real possibility, a real danger of disciples being hypocritical in our Christian lives. That's you and I. It's a danger. It's very possible us to put on a show, outwardly look like we're something. And inwardly we're eat up with all kinds of sin and unbelief and disobedience to God. But we put on this show, it's a farce. In fact, it's going to be an issue all the way until the day the Lord comes back in Timothy. He says in 2 Timothy, I think it's chapter 2, he says, having a form of godliness, a form of godliness, but denying what? The power of. There's no substance to it. There's no reality to it. There's no presence of God in it. It's just a show, just a farce we put on. I tell you, that's something you and I have got to, we have got to face, we have got to deal with in our lives. You say, well, if I'm not what I ought to be, so I'll just stay out. That's not the way to solve hypocrisy. The way to help solve hypocrisy is what? Make the inside what I'm portraying the outside to be. Right? If I'm if I'm putting on this image of a of a a humble and godly and loving and sweet Christian that loves God and is concerned for souls, and inwardly I'm not really that. The answer isn't, well then don't go to church. The answer is get the inward right Saul's need wasn't to avoid this feast. His need was to humble himself before God and make things right. And so hypocrisy. You have the feast, you have the farce, and then I noticed in verse 26 there the figuring. Look what it says. Nevertheless, Saul spoke not anything that day For he thought, he figured, he thought there's something that's befallen him. He's not clean. Surely he's not clean. So Saul gets in there, he's you know, he's being hypocritical, but he sp gets in here, he gets his seat, he's looking out, David's seat's empty. And his very first thought, I thought this was interesting, his very first thought was, oh, David's dealing with something. He wants to be right. He doesn't want to be a hypocrite. If something's unclean, he's not going to come in and act like he's uh clean when he's really unclean. David's not going to be a hypocrite. This is the hypocrite uh res uh thinking, figuring that David's not here because he's sincere, he's honest with his condition. That tells me a lot about David's testimony. That tells me a lot about even his most hated archenemy, the man that hated him more than anybody else in the world. You know, indirectly, maybe Saul wasn't aware of it, but thinking like that, he's speaking very highly of David. And so he gets figuring about that. Even his archenemy didn't believe David would be a phony. And ironically, that's exactly what Saul was doing. Then, so first of all, you have the travesty of the king's anger, and it's just a shell he's putting on here. Then uh number two, I like this one, you have the triggering of the king's anger. If you watch news at all, everybody's triggered about everything, right? You see that? You wear a certain hat, people get triggered, you say something, you get triggered, uh, you say that, the snowflakes get triggered. I saw this video uh a couple weeks ago with some kind of socialist democratic convention down in Atlanta. And uh did anybody see that? Oh brother, they were trigger uh don't talk too loud, it triggers my anxiety. And uh we had these silent rooms you can go in there and they just want all this stuff, they're all triggered by everything. I tell you, that set me off. Well King Saul gets triggered here. Look at verse twenty seven. And it came to pass on the morrow, which was the second day. Oh, by the way, wasn't it good that Jonathan said, let's uh wait three days. We're not going to react right away. You wait till three days go by, then we'll see. If they would have if they would have based their conclusion on what happened the first day, David would have walked into a death trap So there is great wisdom in being patient and waiting. And I think Jonathan was very wise in that. But look here. And uh his seat was empty. Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Wherefore comest thou not Cometh not the son of Jesse to meet neither yesterday nor today. Jonathan answered Saul, David so earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem And he said, Let me go, I'll pray thee. And he gives all the excuse there, and I've found favor and eyes. Therefore he cometh not to the king's table. Look at verse 30. Then the king's anger was what Kindled! I looked up that word kindled. It means what you think it means. It means to flare up. It means to ignite. Um, do you ever put um I put um I like to have a little fire on the back deck. I don't like to burn the back deck. I like to have a fire on the back deck. And I put all the wood on there. And I'm telling you, uh I just soaked that thing down with Kinlin Liquid kindling. I pour that thing. Last night I had it all over there. I had a little brake fluid left over. I'll say, I'll pour some of that on there too. And uh put all that in, I lit that thing, whooom! It was triggered. That fire ignited, it flared up. Uh it's uh that when it says his anger was kindled, it was set off, it was triggered. I put this down. Anger is an ugly thing. Anger is an ugly thing. Verse 31. Look at verse 30. And Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan. And look what happens. This is ugly. And he said unto him, Thou son of the perverse, rebellious woman. He's talking about, he's talking about his wife. He's talking about Jonathan's mother. What does she have to do with any of this? Then he says, I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own confusion. And unto the confusion of thy mother's nakedness, this is a man anointed by God. This is a man that sits on the throne that ultimately Jesus Christ is going to hold a position. And he's talking this way. That is anger has taken over him. And I'm telling you, anger makes us ugly. It's impossible to be angry and be attractive at the same time. Anger can lie dormant in a heart Until the wrong word or the wrong action takes place and it sets it off. Anger can and often does attack innocent uh and and uh innocent people. It often attacks uh it often affects the homes. Now uh I want to be appropriate here, but Saul is saying some very, very ugly things He says that he is the son of a perverse and rebellious woman. What he's saying is, in a very nasty way, about his own wife, the the mother of his son, he's accusing her of being what? A prostitute. He's saying you're the child of a harlot. He's saying you're an illegitimate child. A daddy to his son saying that. And to a loyal son. He says, he says, I know I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse, that's David, to thine own confusion. What's he accusing him thereof? He's suggesting that Jonathan and David are in a sodomite relationship. It's to their confusion. And alive. He says, and he says, and unto the confusion of thy mother's nakedness. What's that mean? He's suggesting here that Jonathan's an illegitimate child. We don't even know who the father is. There's confusion. It's, you know, your mother slept with somebody. Who knows who? And you're the product. I'm telling you, anger is ugly. Anger is an ugly, ugly thing. And when we get angry, if we don't put it off, We say things that are horrible and hurt people deeply. By the way, what Jonathan what King Saul is saying here too and about Jonathan To me, that says a whole lot more about King Saul than it does about Jonathan. He's trying to make Jonathan look bad. He's trying to make Jonathan look horrible, and all King Saul is doing is making himself look horrible. Anger is an ugly thing, and anger is a hurtful thing. Verse 33, and Saul cast a javelin at him, his own son, to smite him, to smite him. Wherefore Jonathan knew that it was determined his father to slay him. Anger is a hurtful thing, it hurts families. I wonder how many families and children have been hurt deeply because of the anger of a father or a mother. uncontrolled takes over and things are said and done and it hurts deeply. Wonder how many spouses Wonder how many how many ministries have been hurt? Goes somebody in a church can't control their anger. Somebody uh in a ministry and and uh with other uh God's people and they let the flesh get over and man that anger takes over and they say things and they hurt people Wonder how many relationships, friendships have been destroyed because of anger. Proverbs 22, 24 says, make no friends with an angry man. Proverbs 29, 22 says, An angry man stirreth up strife. Strife is division and hostility. Anger You've got an angry king here, and he's hurt David. He's out to kill him. Now he's hurt his wife, and now he's hurt his son. Because of anger. I'm telling you, you and I must not give place to anger. We have got to put it off We've got to put it off. And then I notice, last of all, the transfer of the king's anger. Verse 34. So Jonathan arose from the table in what? Fierce anger. The anger that was in the heart and mind and soul of King Saul has now been transferred. into the heart of Jonathan. I said before it's contagious. It's contagious. And now it's infected Jonathan. And now it has gotten worse. It is fierce anger. Fierce anger. The word fierce there means wild and savage, violent, red-hot, intense. Now Jonathan's angry. Anger is contagious, and as we said in the introduction, anger is shameful. Look what it says: because his father hath done him shame. Shame there, the word shame has the idea of humiliation. Saul's angry actions, throwing a javelin, and Saul's angry words hurt Jonathan deeply. And he's ashamed listen to this. He's ashamed of his father. I read about in the spring of in 1894 the Baltimore Orioles. How about that? They can't they run up to Boston, they're gonna play a baseball game. They're playing a routine ball game, part of the regular schedule. And what happened that day was nothing but routine. The Orioles, John McGraw, got in a fight with the Boston Third Baseman. Within minutes, all the players from both teams were out on the field in a brawl. The anger and the fighting going on on the field quickly spread up into the grandstands. And then among the fans, the conflict went from bad to worse. Someone set a fire to the stands. Of course, back then there were wood. And the entire ballpark burned to the ground. And not only that, the fire spread outside the ballpark and burned down a hundred and seven other buildings in Boston. All because one guy got mad at another guy. And it took off. And what I take away from this passage here and King Saul is What we're told to do in Colossians and what we're told to do in Ephesians, put off all anger, malice, and evil speaking Put it off. Put it off. Somebody says, oh, but preacher, the Bible says, be ye angry and sin not. Yeah, you know what being angry and sinning is? Is getting angry and not putting it off. That's what the sinning is. Put it off. That anger swells up. Put that thing off. Die to self. Get alone with God. And do what we need to do. But we must guard ourselves against anger. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, I pray we could learn from King Saul here, and that you would help us in a world that's so angry you can't even hardly read the news without anger everywhere. I pray that we, as temples of the Holy Spirit, it would help us to die to self, put off these works of the flesh, and allow your fruit of your Holy Spirit. To bear that fruit through us in our lives. And we could be a little bit of sunshine, we could be a little bit of blessing, a little bit of peace in a world at war with itself