And uh wonderful thing about our country is is how the people of our nation recognize God's hand. In our inception. John Jay was the first Supreme Court justice. John Jay was an excellent individual and a Christian and a student of the Bible. And uh this is what he said. In fact, he and John Jay also was one of the three men uh that contributed to the Federalist Papers that were, and now you can get them. And like I say, the original argument on our website, please uh uh get a copy of that. Now it says it's written by Glenn Beck, but it's not. It's written by students. So Glenn Beck put uh his name on it at at the time Uh he was much more had much more notability than he has now. Uh but in any case he put his name on it to get it out more. But it was uh the brainchild of several students And uh he just saw the importance of people understanding it, so don't let that scare you off. It is truly a tremendous work of the Federalist Papers. Now if you read the Federalist Papers themselves And I was telling someone uh today, several people, I think it was your pastor and some others, that uh when we go to the Library of Congress And uh Evan got his Library of Congress readers card, and that's a blessing. But uh oh I know, it was your mom and dad I was talking. That uh I've seen the personal copy that Thomas Jefferson received when he was in France. uh of the Federalist Papers, bound copy. Uh because Alexander Hamilton, John Jay, and James Madison were the three men that wrote under one pseudonym name uh to the to the people of America to explain what the Constitution was. But if you read the Federalist Papers themselves, it they're so boring they'll bring you to tears. Okay? But the original argument is much more updated and much more interesting. and written in such a way of uh that we can understand it from our vernacular. But but I I I love that I love that book because um the book of the Federalist Papers given to Jefferson when he was in France as our ambassador, was given to him by Aleg Mrs. Alexander Hamilton to a lady by the name of Mrs. Church And then to Thomas Jefferson. And I've and I've held the actual book that's in the Library of Congress. And it says Mrs. Uh Mrs. Alexander Hamilton, Mrs. Church, and then Thomas Jefferson. You leap through it, it has all Thomas Jefferson's notes in it. I just think that's great, you know. I mean Thomas Jefferson was writing that book, you know, and I was just I felt like taking the book and wouldn't rub some of that some up, you know. John Jay said this, quote, the glorious revolution distinguished by so many marks of divine favor and interposition in a manner so singular. And I may say miraculous, that when future ages read its history, they will be tempted to consider a great part of it as fabulous. Extraordinary, as if, and along the same lines as the emancipation of the Jews from the Egyptian servitude. John J. , September 8, 1777. Another man said this. There are instances of almost astonishing providential favor. Our success has staggered our enemies and almost given faith to the infidels. So may we truly say it is not our own arm which has saved us. Now remember that. Because a lot of times people say, just doesn't seem like there's any hope. God's arm is still as strong now as it was then. And then he goes on to say The hand of heaven appears to have led us on to be, perhaps, humble instruments and means in the great providential dispensation. Which is compelling. That's Samuel Adams, August 1st, 1776. There are many miraculous miracles in our nation's history. And I know that's redundant, but Mai purposely said, we must consider this matter carefully. Even the very idea that the Lord of the Universe Intervening in the human of human affairs in itself is miraculous. Think about that. I mean, the God of the universe intervening in our behalf as people in America. Isn't that that's just it's staggering, that thought. And of course the verse Psalm 8, verse 4, what is man that thou art mindful of him, and the Son of Man? That thou vis visitest him. And I I believe that's so so true. Exodus seventeen, Exodus seventeen It says here, and we're talking about right after they came out of the servitude of Egypt. And uh you say, Brother Harding, these messages that so moved our founding fathers, can they be found? They can be found. Uh again, I have that book as well, and I've read the messages From men like Cyprian Strong in the sixteen hundreds and Elias Bunio and Isaac Bacchus, these great men That put the stamp of approval and the moral force upon the war for independence. So that we would have never, as a nation Gone up against the King of England ever. Because too many people believed in the divine right of kings. But pastors were pointing out, preachers were pointing out, the divine right of kings is only for one king And that's the King of Kings. And the divine right of kings as a man is a twist, is a perversion of the truest sense of the word. And so It says here in verse eight that Amalek fought with Israel and referenced him. And Moses. Said unto Joshua, Choose us out men, and go out, fight with Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in mine hand. So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and fought with Amalek. And Moses, Aaron, and her Went up into the top of the hill. And it came to pass when Moses held up his hand that Israel prevailed. And when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed. But Moses' hands were heavy. And they took a stone and put it under him. And he sat thereon. And Aaron and Hurst stayed up his hands. The one on one side And on the one on the other side, on on the one side, and and on the other side, the other side, that's kind of interesting, but in any case, and his hands were steady until they're going down the sun. And Joshua Discomforted Amalek and the people with the edge of the sword. And the Lord said unto Moses, Write this for a memorial in a book. And rehearse it in the ears of Joshua. For I will utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. And Moses built an altar and called the name of it, Jehovah Nisi, where he said, Because the Lord Hath sworn that the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much that this truth. From so many years ago is still as fresh as it was when you spoke to your leader, Moses. Oh God, tonight speak to us Do this thy servant. And Lord, I surrender once again everything that I am to you. My mind. My tongue and lips, every fiber of my being. So use, Lord, this time together to encourage we thy people in the battle that we are with, that you might Of course, Lord, I know you understand, but help us to understand that the left and the people that once called themselves Democrats Who are now communists, socialists, fascists, are truly and have that spirit of Amalek, enemies of your people Of this nation, of our Christian heritage. So, Lord, help us, Father, to see you through the message tonight And Lord, we ask once again for the unction of your blessed and Holy Spirit, that his presence would be so readily evident. by each and every person here, and that our minds and hearts would be open unto Him. Help us, guide us, lead us. And Father, we'll be very careful to give you all the praise and glory for what you are about to do. For we ask it in the precious name of your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And by the authority that's in his name, we pray. Amen. So our founding fathers, those men that went before us, came here very carefully with a preserved vision. Upon the Bible, not upon the age of enlightenment, as some people have tried to say, or other heathen ideologies Why is this particular ministry so very important? Why are pastors so important to our country because every Sunday, pastors meet with one-third of our populace? Because pastors were the ones that gave our founding fathers the wherewithal to assign that document. Because pastors many times were those men that led their congregations of men into battle. The Bible, so very rare in those days, precious in those days, we look at it not theologically, not philosophically But spiritually. Amen? In this instance at least. And to defend it, if we want to be self-governing people, we must ourselves Know our government. Know that these people in Washington DC are there for a reason And uh I truly believe this uh President Coolidge once said this on October 15, 1924. There are only two theories of government in the world. One rests in the righteousness of God, the other on force. One appeals to reason. And the other appeals to the sword. One is exemplified in a republic, the other represented by despotism. The history of government in this world almost entirely is a history of rule by force held in the hands of very few people And they're trying to do that once again here in America. But I want to tell you there is good news tonight. Because number one, God's still on the throne. And number two, there are some amazing people in Washington DC. Now I think you've seen this before, but I want to point this out to you before we look at some of the photographs that I have for you tonight. And this is going to be a different type of a message So please understand this is the second time I've ever done this where I've shown photographs Uh this actually was uh the this church right here is the first time I ever preached uh a conference on the cultural war, the Christian and the cultural war, because we are at war Right here is where I preach that the first time, and I've replicated that in other churches as well. It's just the second time I've ever actually given a report to the church uh through photographs, but I believe it's something that God wants us to do. You see, because my wife and I have been called to an errand in her ministry. To a ministry where we're calling other people to come in and literally hold up the hands of our representatives, much like they held up the hands of the people Of a person, I should say, in Moses. We too are battling a spiritual warfare. Satan, powers of darkness Casualties of war, we've seen that as well. And uh we need to understand uh that there's a lot of social ills going on today, but we cannot bow nor fear. We must stand. We must stand after we have prayed and speak up loudly. A preacher and evangelist from the second great awakening Reported that over 500,000 people had accepted Christ directly under his preaching. He also took a strong stand in confronting sin and influencing the culture. His name was Charles G. Finney. He said this, referring to the hindrances. One of the hindrances to national revival. He said this: the church must take the right ground in regard to politics. Politics are part of this country. And the time has come for Christians to vote for honest people, consistent with what the Lord has given them. To vote for them or God will curse them. They must be honest men themselves instead of voting for a man because he belongs to their party. They must find out His honesty, if he's fit to be trusted, and he will give that vote only to that type of man. As the Bible says in Exodus chapter 18 and verse 21 Men of truth, hating covetousness, such as fear God, able men Those are the type of people that we need to be looking for and praying for. And I'm sorry to say, and I'm well maybe not sorry, but I must say that women as well And here's the thing. There are such a tribe as the tribe of Deborah, where there's not enough men standing up. to run for office that women stand up and run and truly are as Deborah was heroes to our country. And I'm thankful for those ladies also. And we prayed for those, some of those, and I'll show you that in just a minute. And so God cannot sustain this free country in which we love and pray for unless the church takes the right ground. And that is a checkpoint. Towards revival. Say politics. Dirty, dirty business. It's dirty because we're not there. It's dirty because we ran up the flag of surrender decades ago and walked away. No one beat us out. When you look to Webster's 1828 dictionary The definition of politics, listen to this. It is the science of government, that part of ethics Wait a minute, I don't see ethics in government, 'cause we're not there. Which consists in the regulation of a government or nation or state for the preservation of its safety, peace, and prosperity, comprehending the defense of its existence and rights against foreign control or conquest, not selling millions of barrels of oil to our worst enemy. Hello? The augmentation of its strength and resources, and the protection of its citizens and their rights, not sending Billions of dollars to communist nations as they squabble over power while our people in Hawaii are suffering. Politics as a science or an art is a subject of vast extent and importance. The Bible clearly recognizes God. As in the home, in the church, and human government. Logically, Christians know to search the scriptures clear instructions on design and function of the homes. We also search the scriptures for the function of the local church. And yet illogically we don't search the scriptures and your pastor and I were just talking about that years ago, we weren't searching the scriptures for God and government. And God called me to do this 20 years ago We always lean and mean. I'm very thankful for my wife. Because remember I told my wife, I said, you understand most people won't have any idea what we've been called to do. And how it was called because my pastor said at the time, my pastor, like your pastor, said, you need to pray about this. And when my pastor tells me to do something, I understand something. Positionally, the pastor has wisdom for anyone that puts themselves under the auspices of the New Testament Church of Jesus Christ more than anyone else because of his position. There's no perfect pastor, but I would never ever shun something that your pastor has advised you to do, pray about, think about, or whatever. So I Prayed that night and told my pastor the next morning that's exactly what I believe God wants me to do. I didn't just dream this up. Well that'd be pretty cool, you know, to go here and do this. No None of this is my idea. I take no credit for any of this. It's all God. I'm just holding on to his coattails. I'm enjoying the ride. It's fun. You know why? Because it's fun to serve the Lord. Look with me very quickly over to First Timothy. Over the first First Timothy. You know at one time there was election sermons. Do you get that? At one time after every election, they'll call a preacher and to preach. I wish they'd do that for me After they just had a midterm, I wish they'd call me into the Congress, let me preach them for a while. I would I I would not shirk that responsibility, I'll guarantee you. Amen. But they had they had election sermons all the time. And you know how important they were? They printed them. Now, now to today, us printing a sermon is nothing. Back in those days, you know how expensive it was to print a sermon? They had no way of recording it. It was all it was something that had to be written down. And you had to write pretty fast because some of the men back in those days preached pretty fast. And then they had to transpose it and then they had to print it and it cost a lot of money to print it. But there was election sermons printed all over the place. in our country because they were so important. And we see something about the election sermons. Here is one I love specifically given to uh the Connecticut uh the the Connecticut legislature uh legislation, excuse me, May 12, 1803. Listen, listen to this, listen to this. This was given by Matthias Burnett, the pastor of the First Baptist Church in Norwalk Connecticut, quote, consider well the important trust which God has put into your hands. To God in posterity are your children. You are accountable for your rights and your rulers. Let not your children have reason to curse you for giving up those rights and prostrating those institutions which your fathers delivered to you. See, my father was World War II veteran. He fought for liberty. He did that for me and for you. We have a World War II veteran right there. He fought for us. I'm not going to let Terry down. Terry came in tonight and everyone cleared out of his way. Because he was on a roll, amen. Literally on a roll. You gotta get out of Harry's way. He said, You better get out of the way. I'm gonna run you over. I like that spirit right there. That's the spirit of the World War II veteran. Come on But I'm not going to prostrate the rights that that man fought for and the other veterans that are present here tonight. Let not your children have reason to curse you. He goes on to say, think not that your interests will be safe in the hands of the weak and ignorant. Or faithfully managed by the impious, the desolute, the immoral. Think not that men who acknowledge not the providence of God, nor regard his laws Will be incorrupt in office, firm in defense of the righteous cause against the oppressor, or resolutely oppose the torrent of iniquity, watch over your liberties and privileges. I'm honored and humbled to be able to go into our capital And to bring pastors in and to pray with these men and women that have the spirit of the founders, to be able to, you might say, in them, not this type of venue, but to encourage them With biblical principles. Our founders recognize that God had established the home, the church, and human government. A scornful man bringful men, excuse me, bring a city into snare to a snare, but wise men turn away wrath. That's what I want to be. I want to be one of those wise men. So Brother Jamie, could we have the first photograph? Right right up here? The men, they travel in. This is a portion of the men. They travel in on Monday And uh it just so happens that uh I have a uh good friend who's a Secret Service agent and Independent Baptist So every time we have pastors come in, he said, don't you have to go through your senator or your congressman? You go through me and I'll get you into the White House. And so there we are. And we start 8 30, Tuesday morning. They come in Monday night. They travel in Monday night. I give them an after hours tour through the Capitol. And then here we are. This is in front of the presidential seal. in the White House. Okay, next slide, uh next photograph, it's not a slide I know. Here's one of the funniest. This is a Secret Service man. We uh witnessed to him as we're coming out. Uh we call it the White House, but it wasn't always white, you know that, right? It was gray until the War of 1812. You say, well, what happened? Well when they burned it down, they couldn't cover up the the the burnt marks with anything else but whitewash And so after the War of eighteen twelve when the British partially burned the White House down, then they painted white and that's where the White House and so uh here we are in just over two our left there is a very small area where you could see at one time it was the Greyhouse, okay? Okay, next next slide with this Secret Service guy. Here we are. This this man is from Wisconsin His name is Derek Van Dorn and he is a former SEAL in the United States Navy. We're praying for him in his office. I I went to his church and preached up there in Wisconsin before he even ran, had lunch with him, and and he's a very good friend and uh welcomed us right in. Okay, let's go to the next slide. This man here, this is Clay Higgins. So why are you why are you praying for men from Wisconsin and Clay Higgins from Louisiana? Well the reason why is because of divine appointments. We just run into these guys. We we know that they're in need of prayer. We're holding up their hands like Garner Hur holding and look at this guy here. I mean you can see How much he appreciates it. See what he has in his Bible? First time we ever went in to him with the Louisiana guys to pray? He said, before they pray, let me get my King James Bible off my desk. I said, you go right ahead. And he did. He brought it to his head and went to his knees and we went to his knees around him. These these men, you can see it. It's oxygen to them It streams in the desert. These men are beaten beaten upon every day. Their staff members are getting the most hellacious calls and cursings and this sort of thing. And this is like He stepped out between two different committee hearings and gave us some time because he said, uh uh I I know you want to do this, but even more than that, I need this. Let's go on to the next photo. This is another man here, and you can see former military man, and he's got his insignia there. He was uh And and uh the our artillery and we're praying with him and you can see the look on his face. It's like it it's like uh they they get this burden that just kind of sheds off of them and we walk in. Let's go this go the next one. Here we are. This is uh at the Capitol Hill Club, and this is breakfast. And the man at the end of the table, that's Russ Russ Fulcher, Independent Baptist Another independent Baptist. I bet you didn't know there was a lot of independent Baptists as U. S. Congressmen that truly know God and love the Lord and study their Bible. And there he is from Idaho. First time I ever met him, my wife and I were in a high level meeting. The highest a level conservative meeting in Washington, D. C. And this man walked in, he was just elected recently, and he was introduced as the only congressman at that time that had the American flag and the Christian flag outside of his congressional office And then he got up there. You know what he said first thing out of his mouth? He said a lot of times people think this is political. It's not this spiritual warfare. I looked at my wife, Cho, I said Stay here, honey. I'm going to slip out after this guy gets through speaking, because I want to meet him. Okay? And so there was other speakers as well. And the next speaker came in and I slipped out and I walked up and shook his hand. I said, hey, hey, this was Wednesday On Sunday, talking about divine appointments. On Sunday, I was going to be in Idaho. And so I said, hey, I'm going to be in your state. He said, really? Where? I said, Meridian. He said, that's my hometown. He said, where are you going to be preaching? And I told him the church. He said, that's my home church. And I told the pay I told him the name of the pastor. That's my pastor. I said, Are you going to be there? He said, Well, I wasn't going to be there, but I am now. So he changed his whole schedule, flew out there, brought his 90-year-old mother into the service, and I Told the people, I said, you know, Russ Fulcher grew up in this church. Some of you older people maybe saw him as a little kid running around, but now he is standing in the gap for your life, your liberty, your pursuit of happiness. I said, you need to be praying for him every single day by name. He went through renal cancer, kidney cancer. He scheduled his chemo so he could still be on Capitol Hill. And he actually said, he said, you know In one way, I'm thankful because through my cancer, I was able to be get this now. Listen to what he said. I was able to be a more powerful witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. I went, oh, that's just, that's amazing to hear someone say that, especially United States Congressman. Amen? Okay, let's go to the next photo. That's uh Ryan Zinke. You see above his congressional pin? That's his SEAL. Former commander of SEAL Team 6 that took out Osama bin Laden He was walking down the road and had that cowboy hat on. I recognized him, walked up and and of course uh I I told the Florida pastors I said, here comes a uh the commander of SEAL Team Six, former commander of SEAL Team Six. And they were all like, Wow. And then when he came up and said, Hey, he said, You know him? I said, Yeah, I know him. I've known him for years. Go go go the next one. This man here is former Ranger from Oklahoma. He wanted us not just to pray with him on the street. This is on the street. Get this now. This is on the street. And the street, of course, has been blockaded on both sides for security reasons. And so this guy was waiting for us to get through with uh Ryan Zinke so we could go pray for him Amazing. Go to the next photo. This is again, this is this guy's name is Stuby and uh tremendous. You can tell. You can tell by his build and all his honor coins, former military as well And uh we pray for him and he's a tremendous Christian man and uh and truly uh one of those men that have the spirit of the founders. He knows exactly what he's doing there on Capitol Hill. And these guys What I love about these guys is they got that fire burning in their eyes. They're not in the Molly Gloves. They're not saying, oh, yeah You know, they're they're they're they're not a bunch of little babies, you know. They're not a bunch of little buttercups. They're saying, Hey, I'm in the fight. I believe God's gonna do something great for our country. And and I'm gonna help that endeavor by following God and the Constitution of the United States. And then they say this, but guys, I want to tell you, sometimes it gets tiring. And you guys come in here, it's like oxygen. Just wonderful. You can see it on his face. Go to the next. This man here, his name is Morgan Luttrell. I told the Michigan, this is when the Michigan pastors were here, and they were waiting for the next appointment with their representative. I said, I'm gonna walk down the hall, I'm just gonna make some some calls. The one soul winning Washington DC is wonderful. On Capitol Hill, you don't have I mean, they're welcome, Matt. You don't have to even knock on the door, you just walk right in Amen. These are our public servants. I walked in and normally there's a bunch of people out there in the front and and he and the congressman's back. Well he was just standing right out in front. No one was there And he was watching C SPAN. I walked up and shook his hand and introduced myself to him. He said, That's great. And and I he I said, I know who you are. He said, yeah? I said, I know who your brother is. Marcus Luttrell was the lone survivor. the man from SEAL Team Ten that tried to take out a Taliban, the only survivor out of a national best seller And he said, My brother's my brother's here somewhere. I said, I haven't come to see your brother. I came to see you. He said, Oh, really? I said, Yeah. Because his brother is really a celebrity. But he's a former CEO as well. And so in any case I said, hey, I got the Texas guys coming to pray for you. He said, today? I said, no, not today, but They're coming. I said, but I got the Michigan pastors here. Would you like them to pray for you? He said, Oh yeah. So he followed me out. Okay, go to the next photograph. Okay? This man here was former Baptist pastor. He said I got too old for for the the deacon's meetings. He said I got tired of my deacon's meetings So I I decided to go to Congress. Someone said, I mean, how on earth you're going to go to Congress here, Pastor? He said, Are you kidding? Thirty years with D. Kids and meetings, this is going to be a walk in the park. These are the Michigan pastors here. Let's go to the next Photograph. This is a Greek man that I am just explaining some things to him, helping him understand what God's called him to do, and you can see how he's listening I mean he's not just putting up with me. He is leaning in to the conversation as I'm explaining some things to him and what we're doing. Go to the next photograph. This is another great man who can see the all the different uh I really like this, all the different uh services in our military. And see guys, he has Space Force. Amen. Now, it's just curious to me the Space Force is the same emblem that they had on Star Trek. Live long and prosper, okay? All right. So let's go to the next one The White House, another view of the White House as we're coming out. Can you see the looks on these pastors' faces? They're so excited to be there. And the reason why is because God took care of everything. I mean, God was all over This meeting as he is every time the prayer partnership takes place. Let's go to the next photograph. And there's another one with uh that shows you the actual face of uh uh Derek Van Orden from uh Wisconsin. You see the smile on his face. And this is one of his staff members over here on the far right. And again, just tremendous Christian man and doing a wonderful job next. This uh this lady um she is a dedicated Christian as well, and I'm trying to remember her name, I can't write off hand, but uh tremendous lady, and again one of the tribes of Deborah Was it a man to run? It was Christian. So she stood up. And there she is. Okay, next next photograph. This is Anna Polina Luna. I pray for her every day. She's part of the Freedom Caucus She's by the 52 people in Washington D. C. that truly are standing heads and shoulders above everyone else A lot of times people say, well, Bill Harning, why is the Democrats all so unified and the Republicans, it seems like there's a bunch of different uh sections. Well, there's fifty-two Freedom Caucus, there is the Tuesday group, which is the mo which are the moderates, and then the Rhinos, which are Republican in name only Okay? And and the reason why the Democrats all march to the tune is because they're marching to the tune of the devil, in my opinion. To the tune of the Antichrist. So yeah, they're all definitely, you know, in lockstep. Coming to get you, you know. And uh but the Republicans, you know, they have much more freedom of thought and expression. And I and I kinda like that. Because uh hey, being able to disagree agreeably is part of uh the American culture. Amen So let's just go to the next one. She's a tremendous lady. And there we are, this just shows you in the Longworth building, the Capitol in the background. And uh with these guys, remember I walked 20 miles in two days Twenty miles in two days. So they're putting on a brave front right here. I think this is the first day. Because they're still smiling nice and large. Okay. Okay, let's go to the next photograph. And there we are in front of the Capitol building. Beautiful edifice. Okay, let's go to the next one. And that's at the Supreme Court of the United States. Let's go to the next one. And that's go the next that's a duplicate. Let's go to the next one. And that's there again there's Ryan Zenke. You can tell by his face after we prayed for him, and he's just charged and ready to go. He got his batteries charged right up there on the street and he is ready to just uh uh charge, you know, uh hell with a squirt gun. Okay, let's go to the next one And that, this man here is from New York, I walked up to him and he was the other man that was waiting while we got through with uh the seal and the ranger And I walked up to him. If you can see underneath his congressional pin, he has a s a little emblem. And I walked up to him and he started quoting scripture. He said, I'm the first atomic submariner ever elected to the United States Congress So I'm a born-again Christian. It sure is wonderful to see you guys just simply here praying for us. I c yeah I said I can't put into words. I said, well I got the New York guys coming and I do they're already scheduled. I got the New York guys coming, but hey let let's let the f the Florida guys pray pray for you. And this is the Oklahoma guy again, let's go on This here, you know what this is? These are all the uh wristbands, the different types of wristbands that are coming through illegally our southern border. And it talks and shows you those people that were trafficking in sex and trafficking in drugs and uh so all these different wristbands. Let's go one one more That's that that gentleman you can see he lost his legs in service to our country. We prayed for him. Go to the next slide. That's Scott Perry. We met Scott Perry at the Capitol Hill Club. He is the chairman of the Freedom Caucus. So he's the guy that is over the 52 people. And by the way, if you want to pray for someone Pray for the 52 people in the Freedom Caucus, though their list is on our website that you can look at. I pray for them every day. If there's people in Washington DC that we need to pray for, it's them It's and he came up to me and uh he knows me and and the guys were there. He said, Who do you have with you today, Dr. Harding? Amen. And so I told them, and this was right after they had just elected Kevin McCarthy, and I was explaining to them what the Freedom Caucus had done. And how I was getting calls from conservatives saying, what are they doing? What are they doing? They're we're working again, Joaquin Jeffries. I said, no, we're not. They're not going to vote him in, but you don't even understand what's going on. This is how America works A debate, a free and fair debate on the floor of the House with all the representatives there. I said they're getting concessions From McCarthy. And it's not just going to be something that they want. It's going to help the speaker out as well. And I don't know if you've seen it, but Kevin McCarthy, boy, he's standing strong. And I prayed with Kevin McCarthy in his office. He's a born-again Christian. But again, you know, again, they they need help in holding up their hands. Okay, let's go on. That we are just entering into the White House, let's go on. And there we are with one another Secret Service agents. We were just witnessing everywhere. There's four people got saved during the time that we we were there. Amen. Four people came to l to know the Lord Jesus Christ, okay? And we're given tracks out there everywhere. Okay, let's go to the next one. There we are in the Bible Museum, the King James Bible. In the middle of Washington D. C. , get this now. Is the museum of the Bible. I don't know about you. That just gives me shivers. Even think about that. In our country, a multi-million dollar complex started by the Greens of Hobby Lobby and then their millionaire friends joined them and it's better than any Smithsonian institution. It's done better. It's it's world class. And there we are in the that is that shows you the 1611 King James Bibles. And I've actually looked at the King James Bible, one of them that made the oceanic voyage to the new world, okay? Let's go on. And that's a duplicate that's gone. And this is a young man from Michigan, tremendous Christian and Republican and uh boy he was he just came alive when we walked in and prayed prayed with him. Let's go on the next one. And there we are again, just uh with the Capitol, and these are the Michigan guys that's going to the next one. Another shot. You can see some of them are beginning to grimace a little bit because at this point we had uh already exceeded ten ten miles and with the Florida guys it was twenty, with the Michigan guys it was eighteen. Okay, let's go to the next one. Now this is very unique here because this is Russ Fulcher and he orchestrated for us an after hours tour. And something that the Lord just kind of gave me. You know, Thomas Jefferson used to go to church services in the nation's capital. Did you know that? He used to attend churches, churches in the nation's capital. So I said, what we're going to do on Wednesday night, we're going to have an after hours tour. We're going to be the only ones there. We're going to go under to the rotunda, where we are right there And we are going to have church. And so that's what we're doing right right here. We are we sang And there were time there, and you remember this, Brother Letherman, you were there one of the times that we sang, and it's just it's wonderful acoustics. So we sang and we preached. Right there in our nation's capital. I don't know about you, but that's just a wonderful thing. So I thought, you know, that's a great thing to do on Wednesday nights. We'll just go on an after hours tour have church in the rotunda of our nation's capital. Amen? Isn't that great? I mean I just I love I love this. But it's all because of the friendship and because of those relationships of trust. That we establish with these people. In fact, the first time we went to the floor of the house, God's allowed me the distinction to have led the largest group On an after hours tour in our nation's history, over 400 people, right to the floor of the House. And the representative that was with us at that time said, do you understand That 98% plus of the people in America never get to come to the floor of the House. And the only reason that you're here is because relationships of trust that had been established between your guides and myself. So that's God Amen. Great door and effectual has been opened. And we're just walking through the door. Okay? Let's go to the next one. There we are right outside afterwards. Next one. Again, another shot. These are the Maryland pastors there in the White House. And the next shot. And we are coming out. Next. And by the way, that's my pastor right there standing next to uh uh boy, I'm drawing a mic here. Who is that guy from Texas? Um Huh? Chip Roy. Chip Roy from Texas with the goatee. And we're going into the Capitol Hill Club to eat. He's coming out. Another divine appointment. Chip Roy is a very, very unique individual, part of the Freedom C uh Caucus, and a lightning rod. He's the one that's always standing up, getting a lot of heat, and so he's coming out and I I introduced him to the Maryland pastors. You know what he said? Hey, I was I was brought up in Maryland. I said, you were? He said, yeah. I said, ah, it's great. He said, would you like the Maryland guys to pray for you? He said, I sure would. And right there In the Capitol Hill Club where the Republicans eat, we bowed and prayed for Chip Roy. And he walked out with the biggest smile on his face and a spring in his step and a gleam in his eye, Amen. Because again, God Set that meeting up right there. Okay, let's go to the next one. That's my pastor that I'm standing next to. That's Frother Tyson from Woodlawn Baptist Church. And and that is the only Maryland representative that's, I believe, Republican in the Freedom, Andy Harris Uh from the Eastern Shore. The only can you imagine? We have a congressman in the Freedom Caucus from Maryland. Miracles of miracles, amen. But he's from the Eastern Shore, and of course they're very conservative over there. But again, you can see the smile on his face, and he stepped out of a very, very important committee hearing right across the hall because he said this to me is very important. And he came in. Let's go to the next one. And that uh is uh part of the Gutenberg Bible that um and how it was printed there in the Bible Museum. Let's go to the next one. And we are praying for one of the representatives, that's the the Greek man that I was talking to about. Go to the next one. That's uh Matt Gates right there uh from Florida, that they tried to disparage, even took him to court and tried to charge him with fallacious charges. He's exonerated from everything. And I'm telling you, he stepped out again of a committee hearing and uh he just talked about nothing but God God has done this for me, and God's done that for me, and God's been fulfilling this and doing this. And so he kept on, and before we went to prayer, he said, Now don't let me miss this vote. It's an important vote, but I need to do this. And so there we are praying for Matt Cates. Cates go on the next one. And there we are praying for Andy Harris. And uh And that's some of the Maryland pastors and we're praying right there across the hall from the from the last committee here. We are eating at the Capital Hill Club, my pastor and I, and the other men's go to the next one. And that's it. A great door, an effectual, has been opened. And there are many adversaries. There are people. That attack. And that's okay. Because serving God and trying to do something for the country that He gave us It's worth it. Look, no one can do everything, but everyone can do something And tonight what I'd like to do as we end, I I want to propose this to you. What can you do? Well your pastor has already said, let's make a phone call. But you know what else I believe we can do? We could get a working knowledge of the Constitution. We could pray Fervently. Understanding the urgency should lead us to pray fervently for our country. God says in 1 Timothy chapter 2. I exhort therefore that first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings, and for all that are in authority. Those people that are in authority. Why? That we may lead a quiet, peaceful life in all godliness and honesty. Now I want that, don't you? For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior. That's a stamp of approval. Who will have all men To be saved and to come into the knowledge of the truth. And that's what it all comes back to. It always comes back to the cross. It always comes back to the freedom of the pulpit. It always comes back to the propagation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So you say, well, what can I do for my country? Well you can pray for your country. And you can kick your prayers way up in fervency for your country using those pamphlets that we've given out that you might have that are still back there for free. But you could also say, Lord, is there something that you want me to do? Is there a board that you want me to run for? I went to Louisiana. I've been there several years now, and uh a young man came up to me and said, Brother Hardy, I just want you to know something He said my pastor, he caught on fire last time you were here for Memorial Day, and I w ran for our local um board of education, our local school board, and and I and I won. And I walked in the first day and they were all arguing. You know, what are we going to do? And and I said, hey, you know what we need to do? Let's pray. He's just a young fellow. Let's pray. Before we start. He said, we start praying. There's no more arguments. We're getting a huge amount of things done. He said, people were asking, can I pray this time? He said, yeah, you can pray. And so what you know they weren't doing was putting God first. And when we do that, my oh my, I mean young men, twenty-six year old up in Maine, twenty-six year old ran for a state senate seat against an eighteen-year incumbent on a shoestring And I mean and I I uh first time I saw him, he he was combing his hair in the old fashioned style of the kids that Looked like sharp boy, you know. That was all that was a thing, you know. He came up to me and and his hair was like this and I went Okay, you know, thank you, Brother Harding, for you know I preached on Romans thirteen. And I said, Uh you're you're welcome, young man. And I started walking away. He said, Wait, wait, wait. I thought he was a teenager. He said, I'm Senator Garrett Mason. I said, oh Senator, Mr. Senator. It's good to meet you. Tell me your story. He said I kept on telling people, my senator, my state senator's not giving me any time. I need we need someone to run against him I kept on telling that to people. And finally someone said to me, Why don't you run against them? He said, Well, I can't run against him. Why not? Well, he said, are you a resident of Maine? He said, yeah. He said, and then you're qualified. So he said I ran. Against an 18-year incumbent. He spent hundreds of thousands of dollars. I spent a shoestring. But you know what I did do? I started visiting people. And winning people over. One door after another after a door. He said, I am the youngest leader of the Senate caucus in the history of our country. And he was. I mean I walked with him through the main state house. And I mean he was this this kid that didn't look any older than you, Evan. He's why everyone saying, Mr. Sandra, can I have a few minutes of your time later? Sure, sure, sure. You know. And I'm thinking, man, wow. And he took me into the Senate where they were caucusing. And this is what he said. He said, this is Dr. Chuck Harding. He just spoke at our church on the Constitution. And how God has given us this country. And without any provocation whatsoever, the entire main Senate stood up and gave me a standing ovation. Good, knocked me over with a feather. There are people all over. There are pastors that have run for office and now are in office. There are pastors that are ahead of Republican parties in their locale. There are people that are on councils. At least we could start getting educated. And once we get educated, getting engaged by calling, entreating God's mercy upon our country, encouraging others to do the same. Why? So we can continue to evangelize the lost. So you won't have as many clients that you're watching. Amen? Because when you become a good Christian, you become a good citizen. So, tonight as we end, could I ask you a question? Would you come to the altar just one more time and just say, Lord, If there's something that you want me to do, that I can do, and I know there's some of you work full-time and you you can only do limited things, I understand, but everyone can do something. And just say, Lord, what do you want me to do? And Father, you show me, give me the wherewithal. And Lord, I I want to do something and I'm going to do something for my country. I'm going to make a phone call. Even if it's coming saying I'm going to I'm going to f and you might be nervous That's okay, because you're not going to see the person you're talking to anyway. Amen? And of course Matt will have all the numbers, as the pastor's already said. But uh but make that phone call this week. Because I'll guarantee you phone calls make all the difference in the world. You may not know it, but I've been told by senators every one phone call. Matters. Now I'm on the radio to a million people every Friday, and before we had that big vote on the set the $6 trillion bill back better bill I had everyone call Joe Manchin's office. And Joe Manchin not only voted against it, he came out and said, it's dead. I mean, he was like emboldened The reason why is because he got, in my opinion, thousands of calls. Amen. So to end this God in Country Day, Would you come forward and just say, Lord, I I want to do something. I don't know what it is. And maybe I can't do much, but I can do something. And Lord, you show me, and I'll fulfill that. And I'll start by thy grace. Do you think that I ever, in the wildest imagination, believed that I'd be doing what I'm doing? No. You know what I did? I just followed God. He opened the door. I walked through it. Why just say, Lord, you open a door and I'll walk through it. That's what I'm going to ask you tonight. You say, why why do you get people to come? Because God says if we submit to him, that's when we do What he wants is a humility if my people are called by my name shall humble themselves. This is humbling ourselves. That's why it's important. So would you stand and come and join me one last time