And uh we're gonna look at verse number ten. I noticed a bunch of people had their eyes on something setting on the pew up here. I had several people some That is hands off. There's a reason it's up here to keep it from others stealing. It's actually a nice little cinnamon bun that uh was made and uh they it is really good and I was hoping my wife and family wouldn't know that I had it, but they found out now John chapter 10, verse number 10. If you would, let's read verse 10 together in unison. John 10, 10. For a lot of us, this is a very familiar verse, no doubt. There's many that have it committed to memory. It's a good verse to memorize. And uh but nevertheless let's read it together. Everybody got it there. Verse 10, chapter 10, all together. The thief cometh not, but for to steal and to kill and to destroy I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. I've entitled the message, An Abundant Christmas Life. An abundant Christmas life. Let's pray together. Father, I ask your blessing now on the preaching of your word. I thank you for the good songs, the music, the fellowship we've had together. It's been such a blessing and such encouragement. And Lord, as we stop now at this time of year, particularly today and tomorrow, and we remember the birth of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, I pray that you would use this passage and some thoughts from your word this morning. to focus our hearts and minds on what that Christmas birth was all about, and we can have life and have it more abundantly. And I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord. I present my body and yield my will to you. Lord, I pray you'd speak through me. And Lord, I readily, publicly, and before you acknowledge God, I am nothing in and of myself that is any spiritual value or any eternal value. God, in my flesh there dwells no good thing. And so I pray that you would speak to our hearts and minds through me from your word. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. The Gospel of John is a tremendous book of the Bible. Of course, all the Bible is profitable and is good But the Gospel of John in particular, I think it is one of the best books for a Christian who is going to begin reading their Bible on a regular basis. Now I emphasize this all the time, and I've tried to practice this in all my 38 years of Christian life. I've tried uh to practice reading sometime, spending some time every day in the Word of God. Now, if you have a Christian, maybe you're here this morning, you're a Christian, you've trusted Christ, you're saved, you've not had that practice, you've not established that habit. I want to challenge you as we face a new year beginning next week for tomorrow. We'll have a new year. Be a good time to start spending time every day reading the Bible Regardless of where you're at spiritually, regardless of how you may view your spiritual strength, whatever, every Christian ought to spend a little bit of time every day in the Word of God, letting God speak to us, letting God direct us, letting God challenge, encourage us, and give us wisdom. Now, if a person is not doing that, you're not in that habit, I would highly recommend the Gospel of John as a place to start doing that. It's a very simple book, it's a very e for the most part very easy to understand, and uh it is a tremendous, tremendous book for that I recommend to new Christians when a first person first gets saved. Many times I've had folks preacher, I started reading in Genesis, I got saved, I started reading in Genesis, Genesis went great Uh uh Genesis Exodus was a little rough. Uh Jesus Leviticus got pretty bogged down in there. I didn't know what they were talking about. By the time I got the first chronicles, I was so lost I gave up Well, that's typical. And what I recommend is back up and come to the Gospel of John and get a clear picture and understanding of the Lord Jesus Christ. So the Gospel of John is a tremendous book and perhaps the best book of the Bible to begin your daily Bible reading as a new Christian to grow. I believe the Gospel of John is one of the most beloved books of the Bible. Of course, Psalms, everybody loves Psalms and the tremendous passage is there. But the Gospel of John is also a very beloved book There's a lot of tremendous passages. Of course, the golden verse of the Bible, the most famous verse in all the world, John 3. 16, for God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. What a great verse that is Often thought, if there was one verse that I could make sure every person in all the world was exposed to, I believe it would be John chapter 3 and verse 16. Then of course you have John, you have the story of the woman at the well What amazing story that is. What a tremendous testimony of the Lord's love and grace for a sinful woman and how he loved her and and forgave her and gave her a new life. We have the resurrection of Lazarus. How many people like that record there? The Lazarus being raised from the dead. And the power of Christ, as he looks at that tomb and he says, Lazarus, come forth! And Lazarus has to obey. Death is submissive to our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. And Lazarus comes out of that grave. Somebody said Why did he why did he call out Lazarus? Why didn't he just say come forth? Preacher suggested perhaps the entire graveyard would have rose from the dead and come out. So he uh pointed out Lazarus. But what I'm trying to say is this. is the Gospel of John is a tremendous book of the Bible. Every Christian ought to read that. Every Christian ought to get familiar with the Gospel of John. If you would, keep your place here and turn to the back of the Gospel of John, chapter number 20. And I'd like for you to notice verse number 31, second last chapter of John, the last verse of the second last chapter. John chapter 20, and look at verse 31. And here we have the purpose that the Gospel of John was given to us. This is the reason God inspired This passage of scriptures, John was recording it down, God, through the Holy Spirit, was directing his thoughts, directing his pens, and God has preserved it for us to this day. And he tells us here the purpose for the book of John. Look at verse number 31 with me. But these are written. Alright, here's why we wrote this. This is why it was given. That we might what? Believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing ye might have what? Life through his name. That is the purpose for the Gospel of John. Is so that we can understand who Jesus Christ is. that he's come from God and that through him we can have eternal life. We can have eternal life. So if you would come back to chapter 10, it's interesting. This is not maybe typically a Christmas passage. The Gospel of John does not have the record of Jesus' birth. It doesn't tell him coming to Bethlehem. It doesn't tell about the star, doesn't tell about the shepherds and the angels' announcement Doesn't tell us about any of that. It doesn't give us an account of Christ's birth, Christ's incarnation. By the way, you hear that term incarnation, you hear that in the hymns Preachers talk about it, incarnation. It's a big word. It's kind of a theological word, but it's just a simple truth. It is simply this. The incarnation, uh carnation comes from the word uh carnal or carn uh or concarni. I like to teach this. If you ever have chili con corny, what is that? Chili with flesh. You've been around here, you've heard me say this many times. It's flesh, the incarnation. And what it is, is God, the eternal Son of God, coming down and taking on flesh. And in Mary's womb, God Almighty, through the person of the Holy Spirit, placed in the womb, miraculously placed in the womb of Mary, a little body for the Lord Jesus Christ, the Creator of heaven and earth in her womb to develop and gestate until she eventually gave birth on Christmas, as we celebrate on Christmas. And uh and so John doesn't really give us a record of that. Let me back up and just I got thinking about this this week. Let's for a moment put ourselves in Mary's shoes. Think about this, as she finds out that she's with child And how that came about would be how many people agree with me, that would be mind-boggling. That God, the Spirit of God, overshadowed uh if if I was married, overshadowed me and placed within my womb a little body indwelt uh by the the eternal son of God. And then that little body begins to develop. Now think about Mary laying at night, waking up in the middle of the night, and thinking that in my womb is the God. That spoke this universe and everything there is into existence. That omnipotent God has laid aside his deity in the person of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, laid aside his deity and now humbled himself and dwells in that body inside the womb. How many people agree with me? That'd be a little overwhelming. That'd be overwhelming. I would imagine Mary just staggered in her mind at that thought. So John, getting back to our subject here, John does not give us the account of all these events surrounding the birth of Christ. However, I believe John chapter 10 and verse number 10 gives us a Christmas statement. The thief cometh not, but for the steal and the kill and destroy. But then that next statement, but I am come. I've showed up. Jesus is saying, I have entered human existence. I have entered the human experience. I have come. To me, that's a Christmas statement. That is the incarnation. The word come there has this idea: to arrive at one place from another place. He says, I have arrived here on planet Earth. I have arrived into the human experience from another place. And Jesus Christ is, was, and always will be the eternal Son of God. Now I think we all understand this, but I think it's important to state it. Jesus' experience, Jesus' existence did not begin in j at uh in Bethlehem on that Christmas morning. He is the eternal Son of God. He always was, he always will be. But He has come, He has arrived at one place on planet Earth from another place in heaven. And to me, that is Christmas. That's Christmas. Jesus coming down, becoming a man, at the exact moment of time, at a very precise moment of time Jesus Christ left heaven, took upon him that little embryotic baby in the womb of Mary. Developed, was born, grew, and for 33 and a half years, lived here as a man here on planet Earth. All for a very specific purpose. Now, I want to look at our verse, and I'm not going to keep you long this morning. I know some of you do not believe that for one moment, but it's true. It's true. The fact that you're laughing tells me you don't believe me. But I do, believe me. Number one, the first thing I notice, I just want to look at this verse number 10 here for a moment. The first thing I notice is opposition from Satan. Opposition from Satan. Look what he says. The thief Cometh not, but for three things to steal, to kill, and to destroy Steal, kill, and destroy. That's what the thief comes. I got looking up that word thief It's an interesting word. It means pretty much what you think it would, but it has this idea. As I looked up various definitions, how it's used different ways. One of the definitions was this: one who embezzles from others. One who will take from others in an illegitimate way, embezzles things from others. Another definition was one who pilfers. Somebody just goes through and just takes stuff for themselves that is not theirs. One who embezzles, one who pilfers. And then I came across this definition. It was this, one who will abuse your confidence for his own gain. In other words, somebody that will convince you that you can trust them. Somebody that will convince you that everything's okay, that what they're uh selling you and what they're advising and what they're involving you in is everything is fine, it's good. They win your confidence over only for their own gain Now, to me, when Jesus said the thief cometh not, but for to steal, to kill, and destroy, to me it's a very clear reference to Satan himself. The Satan himself. Satan is the ultimate thief. Satan is the eternal thief. I just want to give a simple little reminder to all of us, young and old, Satan is not our friend. He is the mortal enemy of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the mortal enemy of every child of God. And I want to suggest to you: he is the mortal enemy of humanity as a whole. I was reading an article the other day, it came across uh the computer somewhere, and uh it mentioned that in the United States of America, paganism is on the rise. And there's more and more people who are shedding the God, the God of the Bible, the true and living God, and seeking other gods, even to the extent of Satanism. I don't know that it's as prevalent as the media, this media was trying to present it, but no doubt Satan is alive and well on planet Earth. And Satan is a thief. He is not our friend. The Bible is very, very clear that Satan is real. He is real. And uh I'm glad babies come to church, aren't you? I'd rather have a baby in church than not in church. Amen. And so we're glad to have babies here. And um I can preach louder than any baby can cry. And if you don't believe me, I'll prove it. So, but we're glad she's here. God bless her. But my point I'm trying to make is this. We do have a very real enemy. Now in our modern day and age, our intellectual and our technology and all our information, some people like to uh uh poo-poo the idea there's any such thing as Satan, but I'm telling you, Satan is real. Satan is real. Jesus Christ believed and taught that Satan was real. In fact, he countered him himself directly. We look through the scriptures, the passages of scripture, and over and over and over we find Satan raising his ugly head and wreaking habit, stealing and killing and destroying. Satan is very real. The Bible says that Satan is the God of this world. He is the prince and power of the air. And behind every false doctrine, and behind every sin, and behind every every uh crime, and behind every tombstone, and behind every grave, and behind every sickness We can trace it back to Satan's influence on mankind. Satan is the god of this world. Satan is very, very real. Satan, I want to remind you, and Jesus pointed this out in John chapter 8, but Satan is a liar. He will convince us that he doesn't exist. He will convince people that we don't have to worry about him. He will convince us He will convince mankind, and he's getting very, very good at this, and man is buying into this more and more, he will convince us that that which is wrong is is good and that which is good is wrong. Satan is getting very good at that with convincing mankind that that which is evil is good and that which is good is evil. And he has absolutely turned around In fact, if you take the Ten Commandments and you reverse them, you have pretty much the philosophy of this world and of Satan himself Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Reverse it. There will be many, many gods before me. Am I right or wrong? Do we not live in a world that worships everything and anything except the true and living God? Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Reverse it. And you can't even go to the gas station without hearing God's name taken in vain. I'm suggesting to you, Satan is behind all of that The thief. And so we have this opposition from Satan. He is a liar. He is a thief. He is a a murderer. He is the most wicked being in existence. He is the author and perfecter of sin. The thief. The thief. Satan. Satan is out. If you're here this morning or you're under the sound of my voice and you're unsaved, if you do not know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die you go to heaven, not to hell, if you don't have that matter settled, eternal life, I'm here to tell you Satan will do everything he can to keep you in that condition. Satan does not want you or anyone else to be saved. In Kazakhstan, there's 17 million people. We know of two. Independent fundamental Baptist missionaries that we support. Now there are other Christians throughout the country and others involved. But what I'm trying to what I'm saying now is Satan's doing everything he can to keep that nation in darkness To keep let it keep as many people from knowing Christ as Savior as possible. And not just Kazakhstan nations around the world and even in our community. He is the opposition to Christ. In 1 Peter 5, verse 8, the Bible tells us this, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Satan's out destroyed. I appreciate the young people in the service this morning, the children's church. I really appreciate our children's church workers and our teen workers. Pastor Brett uh visiting family for Christmas so he's not around but I appreciate Pastor Brett and our youth workers and and children's workers. Why? Because there is a very real devil that wants to destroy these young people's lives And he will lie to them, and he will steal from them and he will destroy them any and every way he possibly can. And thank God for our church and others like it that are teaching children about the Lord Jesus Christ and giving them some sort of defense against our spiritual enemy. Is very, very real. I was saying May 7, 1979. Did I ever tell you about that? I'll tell you sometime. But I was. And it wasn't long after my salvation. In fact, immediately upon my salvation, I sensed immediately that I had a spiritual enemy. That there was forces fighting against me growing as a Christian. Even before I was saved, I sensed that And all these thirty plus years, whatever it comes to, thirty-eight, thirty-nine years, thirty-seven, all these years, I would have thought by this point in my Christian life, after thirty-some years, I would have thought after this point in my life Satan would no longer be an issue. Satan would be I'd have that settled, I'd have him defeated. You know what I find out? Every day I struggle with him. And I hate to admit this. But sometimes, some days, more often I care to admit, Satan gets the upper hand. And through my own sinful flesh and through the influence of the world, he gets shots in. Take a blow. How many people know what I'm talking about? How many people know I'm talking about? It's a very real, very real, very real. If you're here and you're saved, you've trusted Christ as Savior, I'm telling you, Satan is very active in your life. to keep you from growing as a Christian. He will do anything in your life and my life, and I deal with it, and I know this, to get us to mess up our testimony so our witness is hindered. And we cannot be the influence in this world that God would have us to be. And that is our battle. Be sober Be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour, steal, kill, and destroy. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 27 tells us, give no place to the devil. Don't give him uh an inch. Don't crack the door. Don't open the door a crack. He'll push it wide open. Give no place to the devil. I got thinking about and studying Christmas and the events taking place there, and we really don't think about this much, and we probably ought not to too much. We don't want to give too much credence there. But I got thinking about Satan's activities. At Christmas time, in the birth of Christ. Do you know Satan was adamantly opposed to Jesus Christ being born? Satan did everything he can to destroy the nation of Israel so that the lineage that Jesus Christ would come through to sit on the throne of David would be eradicated and would never be a Savior? Even at the birth of Christ, even after his birth, what did Herod do? He had all the children, two years old and under, slaughtered. I believe that was a direct satanic attempt to destroy the Lord Jesus Christ before he could ever even develop and accomplish his mission. And of course we see throughout the life of Christ Satan over and over again, even in the Garden of Gethsemane, Satan trying to derail Christ, trying to get him off of his mission. So the Lord warns us here in John chapter 10 and verse 10 about opposition of Satan. Opposition of Satan. He was active on that Christmas event, trying to keep that from happening. By the way, I'm saying all this. Let me just throw this in here. Satan did not win. I want to remind everybody, Satan will not win in the end. He ultimately is defeated, but you and I have to deal with him. And he's very active in your life and my life. He really is, whether we recognize it or not. You say, ah, Satan don't bother me. Brother, you better check things out in your life because that's a dangerous place to be. And by the way, he is bothering you, you just don't recognize it. You just don't see it. A very real and a very effective enemy to mankind and to our Christian life. So, number one, I see the opposition from Satan. Number two, in this verse here, I see the purpose of our Savior The purpose of our Savior. I am come that you might have life. I remind you, and a lot of us, most of us no doubt understand this, Jesus did not come to be an example for us. He didn't say, I am come that I'll be an example, and you just follow and do what I do. What would Jesus do? And you just do that. That's not why he came Jesus Christ did not come to be a teacher. He didn't say, I am come to teach you a better way of life, I am come to teach you how to live and all of that. He says that's not the purpose for my coming. He didn't come to be an example, he didn't come to be a teacher, he didn't come to be a miracle worker. Doesn't say I am come that they they I might perform miracles and they can have their sight restored and their uh limbs uh re re strengthen and they're the lame to walk and the deaf here. That's not he didn't say that's why I came. Now question, is Jesus a good example? Absolutely. We will never go wrong following the example of Jesus Christ. Question: Was Jesus a teacher? Best that ever walked this planet? Read the Sermon on the Mount. Great teaching there. And I tell you, this world would be a better place if everybody followed the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ. We wouldn't have rioting in the streets. We wouldn't have corruption in all levels of government. We wouldn't have false doctrine if people would just follow the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's a tremendous teacher. His l his lessons and his his messages he taught uh were eternally powerful. So he is a good example. He is our example. He is a good teacher. Question, did Jesus perform miracles? Absolutely. We read them through the gospels. I want to suggest to you God is still in the miracle performing business. Now, I don't buy these crackpots on TV. I don't buy these fellas, these sensational uh all this nonsense going on TV, but I'm here to tell you God still heals the sick. God still does miracle. There's no doubt in my mind. We have church folks in our church could stand up and testify, God healed me miraculous. Not through me touching them or swinging my coat and them falling over. None of that nonsense. But the Holy Spirit and power of God touching a sick body and making it well. I'm telling you, God still does that. So he is an example, he is a great teacher, he is still a miracle performer, but that is not the purpose of his coming. Jesus Christ was born of a virgin. Jesus Christ laid aside his deity and humbled himself and took upon him the form of a man for the purpose So that you and I can have life. So that you and I can have life. Um I am not a Greek scholar by any stretch of the imagination. And so I don't want to misrepresent myself, but the way I understand it from what I was taught by in Bible college by Greek scholars. And from my reading and studying books on the subject, I understand that there are two words, Greek words, that our word life comes from. One of them is biological life, physical life. How many folks here this morning, you're here and you have physical life? Raise your hand. Good. So I'm assuming everyone that did not raise your hand, you're dead. And some of you it looks that might be true. So one of the words is physical life. That's not the word that the Lord used here. There's another word. The Greek language is very specific. They have very specific words. America In English, you know, one word could mean 25 different things. And so you've got to go to the context, figure out what it is. But I understand the language that this was translated from is very, very specific. And they have a word for life that does not mean biological life, but it means alive, as in always has been, always will be, eternal life. And as I understand it, that's the word used here. I am come that you might have life. Everybody says, great, Jesus came, might have life. I'm already alive, so what's the deal? He's not talking about physical life. He's talking about you and I having eternal life, spiritual life Um, God, I say this at funerals all the time. I try to work it into every funeral I do, regardless if it's a saved person or not, regardless of their spiritual condition of the one we're doing the funeral for I try to work this in. God did not create mankind to die He didn't create us to die. The Bible says in Genesis chapter 2, I think it's verse 8. Genesis chapter 2, the Bible says, and God formed the body of man. I'm putting this in my words here. He formed the body of man out of the dust of the earth. And then it makes an interesting statement. The Bible says that God breathed into his nostrils God, eternal, invisible God. Had this little body of dust and clay, and God breathed into his nostrils the breath of what? Life. Life And that inanimate dust of the earth became alive. Became a living soul, the Bible says. I'm telling you, life is a gift from God. And evolutionists are liars. When they say that life came from material things, non-life, only life can produce life. And God, the eternal living God, breathed into our first parents the breath of life. They became living souls And all of that was so that man could live, not die. It's not why man was created. That's not why God gave us life, so that we die. God created our first parents, Adam and Eve, for the purpose of living, living eternally. But a thief showed up. What do thieves do? They steal and kill and destroy. And that thief enticed our first parents. Into disobeying God and sinning against God. And God said: the day you eat of that tree, the day you break my law, you will die. You will be separated spiritually from me because God is holy. Our first parents broke God's law And through that sin, death entered our existence. And from that day on, oh, by the way, that moment that they ate into that fruit, which by the way wasn't an apple, But the day they ate, whatever that fruit was, that tree of the knowledge, the good and evil, they ate that fruit. The moment they ate that, they died spiritually I don't know. Could they sense it? Did they know that something took place? I, my feeling is they did. I put myself back there and I can just see, I can just kind of sense in my imagination as they bid into that something went empty inside. A vacuum took place. I think they knew immediately, and the reason I say that is because the very first thing they did was they hid from God. They tried to cover up. Something had changed. Something about fundamentally about their very nature had changed. They were spiritually dead. Spiritually dead. And because of that, you and I, as their offspring, have inherited Not only a sinful nature, but we are born spiritually dead. We're alive physically. By the way, they eventually did die physically, because the wages of sin is death So spiritually, they're separated from God, this vacuum, this emptiness. You and I, as their offspring, have inherited that sinful nature. How many here have noticed, if you have children, little children, how many noticed you don't have to teach a child how to lie? How many people took your kids and say, all right, alright, Bobby, this is how you lie? No, you don't teach them how to lie, you teach them what? Tell the truth. And I got stories about our boys that I could prove that for me. But we don't have to teach and lie. Do we want to teach a child to be selfish? Why? Because we have a sinful nature. We have a selfish nature. We have a dishonest nature. Our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. And we've inherited that from our first parents. A sinful nature and spiritual death. I think it's interesting, immediately, immediately upon Adam and Eve's disobedience to God, immediately God stepped in and began a restoration process. Immediately God steps in and says, Adam, where are you? He goes, he's looking for him. He's looking for him. God wants to restore that life. That life that He created them to live must be restored. And God seeks them out, He deals with the sin. He deals with the issue. And what does He do? There is a sacrifice is made, and coats are made. And they're covered. For thousands of years, millions and millions of oxen and sheep and rams and goats and lambs died to cover man's sin, pointing to the day that Jesus Christ would show up. When sin could be dealt a fatal blow by the blood of Jesus Christ. So he says, I am come that they might have life. Why would he say that? Because you and I are naturally spiritually dead. Might have physical life, but spiritually it's not there. I'm come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. More abundantly. We are created to live, and God, Jesus Christ, came for uh for us to restore that spiritual life, to provide eternal life. The moment a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, the moment a person believes that Jesus is exactly who he says he is And that he paid that price for my sin on the cross. And I turned from that sin, I turned from that unbelief. And I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ as my Savior. The Bible says, my sin is forgiven and I am spiritually alive. He told Nicodemus, Nicodemus, you must be born again. Nicodemus says, What? I go back in my mommy's womb? No. Jesus says, no, no, no. You're already alive physically. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. You've got physical life. What you need is to be born spiritually You need that life that God initially gave to man, creating man. You need that restored and established. And so Jesus Christ came that we might have life, not physical life, but spiritual life, eternal life By the way, eternal life begins the moment I am saved. For me, it was May 7, 10:30 at night, May 7, 1979. I knelt by my bed, called the Lord, God saved me, He gave me eternal life. No bells ringing, no angels singing, no lights flashing, but in my heart and soul I knew God had did something. He gave me eternal life. And by the way, that is the beginning of eternal life. What I'm trying to get at is this. We don't get eternal life when we go to heaven. We get it the moment we get saved. And this old body, because of sin, wears out and decays and eventually dies, and the and you and I, you and I are not a body. We uh we we are a soul, we have a body. And so when this body wears out, this eternal life that I got back at my salvation, it just continues on as I shed the body and go into the presence of God. That is a continuation of the life that began the moment I trusted Christ. You follow what I'm saying? It's a continuation. Oh, I get to heaven, I'll get eternal life. No, if you're saved, you've got it now. Heaven's just a continuation. It's just a perfection of that which begins here on this body on this earth. I am come that they might have what? Life. Life. Life. The only source for spiritual life is the Lord Jesus Christ. The only source of eternal life is the Lord Jesus Christ. He said in John 11, verse 25, he says, I am the resurrection and the life. John 14, 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Listen, I'm here to tell you without Jesus Christ, you are physically alive, but you're not spiritually alive. Ephesians chapter 2 says, You and I, without Christ, are dead in our trespasses and sin. Without God, without hope in the world, our hearts and lives are empty. All the garbage that was true in my life before I got saved, the primary thing, characteristic of my life was empty. Empty. I found Christ. I'm far from everything I ought to be. But when I found Christ, I found purpose. I found meaning. Found fulfillment. That vacuum is filled. And that hole in my soul that mankind lost when Adam and Eve sinned was filled. And the presence of God and the presence of Christ in my life. How many people know what I'm talking about? So life, Jesus. Jesus is the only source of that. That baptism pole cannot give life It's just the testimony of those who have trusted Christ and found that life. Church membership. Hey, uh there's not a uh the Catholic Church, the Baptist Church, the Methodist Church, the Brethren Church, the Lutheran Church, any church you can come up with. They cannot give life. Only Christ can give eternal life. I am come. They might have life. And then last of all, real quickly, I notice I put it this way, and I'll have to explain this, but the prosperity of submission. I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it what? More abundantly. I thought it was interesting how the Lord words it there. He doesn't say that they might have it abundantly, that they might have it abundantly, he doesn't say that. He doesn't say that I'm come that they might have life and have lots of it He doesn't say that. He uses two tremendous words that they might have it more abundantly. I got looking that up, how it's used, it has this idea to be over the top. How many people ever used that phrase? You went somewhere and they just did something way over and beyond that you ever expected, and you say, Man, that thing was over the top. Anybody know what anybody ever hear that statement? That's what this means. Over the top, boiling over, just super abundant is the idea behind it. It's one thing to have life It's one thing to be saved, but it's another thing to have eternal life, be saved, know I'm going to heaven, know my sins forget. It's one thing to have that, and it's another thing to have abundant life. I talk to people all the time. Do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? Oh yeah, I'm sure. How do you know it? Trust in Christ as Savior. And they're saved. But nobody in the world would say, boy, they've got an abundant life. There's various levels of life. There's various degrees of life. You can have a little smoldering candle, and just a flick of fire on that little smoldering candle. And that fire is alive. It's there. It has life. But there's sure not much to it. Or you can have a blazing bonfire. And lighting up the place and heating the place and changing the whole atmosphere. Both are fire, both are alive, but there is a world of difference in degrees. And Jesus Christ says, I came not just so that you can know you're going to heaven, although that's important, that's vital But I came that not only you can know your sins being, but that you can have a life that is so full and so vibrant and so alive that it's overflowing, overflowing, overflowing. I use the phrase the prosperity of submission. Now I use that word prosperity very hesitantly. There's an element in Christianity that has this idea. Jesus Christ came to make you rich. Jesus Christ wants you to be prosperous, live in mansions, and drive fancy cars and wear fancy clothes and Just be rich. There was a joke going around about one preacher on TV. They said uh he was preaching on the ark, and he says, The lesson from the ark is God wants you to have a yacht. That's a joke. That's not the lesson of the art. And the Bible nowhere suggests that God's intention for everybody is to be over-superabundantly wealthy. Now, God in his providence and in his wisdom gives some people wealth. And God, in his providence and his wisdom, gives some people poverty. It has nothing to do with my spiritual well-being. And Jesus is talking about abundant spiritual life. And by the way, it's far better to be alive in poverty. And to live in a mansion and to be spiritually dead. To be spiritually. Ask Solomon about that. We're studying Ecclesiastes Sunday nights. Asked Solomon. He said, I had wealth, I had pleasure to its ultimate degree. I built buildings. And what was his conclusion? Under the sun, without God, without life, it was vanity and vexation. It was empty. I'm talking to some folks. And you look in the mirror and you're honest with yourself and you're honest with God, you'd say this, my life is pretty empty. Oh, you might have stuff. You might drive some nice vehicles. But if you're honest with yourself, it's pretty empty. Pretty empty. I might be talking to someone this morning, you're so insecure, you don't know if you're coming or going, you don't know what anybody thinks about you. And look in the mirror. Say you know, it's pretty empty in that's in those eyes. Listen, God wants to not just save your sin, save your soul from sin in hell and take you to heaven. God wants to give you a life of purpose And meaning and fulfillment. That's not found in riches. That's not found in the perverse pleasures of this world and in the sins. That's a lie of the devil. He's a thief. That life, that abundant life, is found simply in submission to Christ. It's faith Living by faith. I'm talking to some folks in recent years, you've been through awfully deep dark valleys. I'm talking to some folks who have wept yourselves to sleep night after night after night, broken hearts, setbacks. physical pain. I'm here to tell you eternal life, the life that Christ gives us does not necessarily take the heartaches away. Does not take the pain away, does not take the chip difficulties and challenges and trials of life away. It does it. But he helps us live an abundant life in those trials. In those trials, that when my heart is broken, there's still a peace and a presence of God and a joy and a fulfillment and a confidence that is there that the worst heartache in the world cannot shake. That's abundant life. Setbacks, I can still rejoice. I'm coming, you might have life. Now you can have it more abundantly. I would like to have. I would like to experience that abundant life. Wouldn't you? As a Christian I would like to have victory over sin. I would like to have joy in the midst of sorrows. I would like to have peace in times of turmoil. And it's available to us. If we'll just trust God, live by faith, let the Lord direct us, instruct us, follow his instructions and trust him. By the way, whether you're a victorious Christian or a defeated Christian, God doesn't love you more or less. He loves us all the same, but he offers this to us that they might have it. And I can accept it. I can trust him and let him fulfill that life, give me that life, or I can try and make it on my own. And so many are struggling. When I got saved back outside of Philly, the church I first attended, right after I got saved, there was an older couple in that church and This was like 1979, and they were very elderly at that point, so I've no doubt I've lost touch years ago. I'm no doubt they're with the Lord now. But they were an old couple. He was a big old guy. She was a little smaller. They reminded me a little bit of Brian and Sandy And we got I got to know them. They sang in the choir a little bit and they hobbled up and down, and they were the happiest, sweetest couple, I think, one of, that I've ever met in my life. And we got talking, and as I began to get more involved in the church there, I got to know them, found out that they had met each other as young teenagers, they met each other in a Billy Sunday meeting in Philadelphia. Back in the early 20s, they sang in the choir, got to know each other. How many people recognize the name Billy Sunday? Great evangelist. And they said, we were singing in the Billy Sunday choir, we were in the choir, and we met each other. I'm telling you, you want to talk about abundant life, and I don't even remember their names. I can still see their faces. But that dear couple had the joy and presence of God. They told me that through the years, the different trials they've been through, the difficulties, the heartaches, and they made this statement through all of that. God has given us peace. God has given us joy. God has removed the bitterness and the anger that comes so easily in life. God gave us joy. You know what they were displaying to me? Abundant life. Abundant life. Several years ago I was traveling, I don't remember where it was, it's been a number of years ago, and I was flying somewhere and Before we got on, they called my name up to the counter there outside while we were waiting to board the plane, and the lady said, Mr. Leatherman, uh we've overbooked a little bit. Would you mind if we put you up in first class? I said, well, let me think about it. No, I wouldn't mind at all. I very seldom, if ever, outside of this, flew first class. If you've ever, some of y'all are classy, you some of y'all flew in first class. It's pretty nice. And so we got on there and Mr. Lederman, here's your seat and sit down. Here's your peanuts. In fact, you get extra peanuts in first class. Oh Uh you want some champagne? No thanks. Uh I mean they treat you pretty good up there in first class. How many people have ever been there? Anyone know what I'm talking about? And uh wow. So I'm sitting on there and all the peasants are going by. I tell you, I didn't get to my destination any quicker than the people back with the peasants in the back. When we hit turbulence, we had just as much turbulence as first class as we did back in coach. I flew back last time I came back from New Zealand the way back 15-hour plate I'm smashed in the middle. It's five five seats across. I'm smashed in the middle. This woman that would not stop talking and this other woman that slept and snored And there's first class people up there. First class we got there just as quick as coach, just as much turbulence. All that was the same. But the ride It's a whole lot nicer. And I'm here to tell you: if you trust Jesus Christ as Savior, He'll forgive your sins. You've got a home in heaven. Assured, guaranteed, eternal security is set. There's some people that are going to heaven, they're way back, they're not in coach, they're down in baggage. You're struggling, you're mad, and you're upset, and you're empty, and you're all messed up as a Christian. And God said, I didn't come for you to live an empty baggage class life. I'm coming you can live a first-class life And you're still going to hit turbulence, and you're not getting there any quicker, better than the people back in coach that are struggling. But you sure can enjoy your Christian life a whole lot better with peace and presence and the and the fulfillment of the presence of God. Am I making sense? Abundant life is hard to explain, but we understand what it is. That's what God wants you to have this Christmas. A Christmas abundant life. And it comes by faith. And say, Lord, I don't understand this turbulence you brought in my life. I don't understand this step back. Lord, these people, what they're saying and doing, is hurting me. And I want to strike back and I want to I want to react. The Lord says, no, no, no. I can give you abundant life, peace, and joy, regardless of circumstance, regardless of what others say or do, regardless of anything, you can have the joy and presence of God. That's what He's created us for. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, that you would help us. First of all, know that we have life, that we have eternal life, our sins are forgiven on our way to heaven. Then I pray that this coming year We can know what you mean by that abundant life, by trusting you and following your instructions and letting you lead us and guide us, submitting to you So that you can fill us and bless us. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many this morning say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. I know I'm saved. I have that settled. But And this is between you and the Lord, so I understand this is maybe personal, but you say, preacher, I don't have that peace of God that I know a Christian should have. Maybe you say, preacher, I'm so overtaken by bitterness. Say, even as a saved person, my life just seems empty. Something missing. As a Christian, see I don't have that abundant life. I'm telling you, Christ is the only one that can give it to you, and he will. We will just by faith trust him and submit to him and let him have his way. Follow his instructions, do what he leads us to do. He'll give us that abundant life. How many like that by the uplifted hand? Say, preacher, I need that. I need that. How about it? Any at all uplifted hand, preacher, I need that abundant life. God bless you, hands around. I wonder if there'd be some here this morning who say, preacher, I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. I sure would like to know that. I sure need that settled in my heart, that I have eternal life That when I die I don't go to hell and I do go to heaven. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. Pray for me. I need to this eternal life. I need to know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. Any at all? The uplifted hand, any at all like that One last question. How many would say, preacher, I'm getting together with family? I have some folks that need the Lord. I'm not trying to be judgmental, but they they're not saved. And I want to be a good witness. I want to be a good testimony And you say, preacher, pray for me that I'd be a good witness through this holiday season. Friends and loved ones that need Christ. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I'll be a good witness. God will help us. He sure will. Now, Father in heaven, I saw hands raised, you know our hearts. As we give the invitation, I pray you'd stir us and help us To get victory in these areas and to be that witness and to have that abundant life. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed