Flood. I feel like it's a little bit strong, brother Dave, back there. A little maybe it's just the monitors, I'm not sure, but um Genesis chapter six, I want to read just a few verses Tonight's message is a little different in that, and I'm going to try and get to the point and get through this here in reasonable time, but it's a little different in that there's a lot of just information being given here in this portion of scripture. I'll begin reading in verse 13. I'm going to read down through verse 16 of Genesis chapter 6. And let's see what it has here. Look at verse 13 with me. And God said to Noah, and we we looked at this passage last week. God said to Noah, for behold, It is corrupt, and all flesh hath corrup Oh wait a minute, verse thirteen. And God said unto Noah, the end of all flesh has come before me. For the earth is filled with violence through them, and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Now notice the next couple of verses. Make thee an ark of gopher wood. Room shalt thou make in the ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch. And this is the fashion which thou shalt make of it, make it of. The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits. A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou finish it above, and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof, and with lower With lower, second, and third stories shalt thou make it. An ark of gopher wood. Let's pray and real quick and let's get into this. Father, please now, as we open our Bibles We ask your spirit would speak to our hearts, give us direction, instruct us, and help our faith in you to grow. I thank you for the singing, the testimonies. We've had a full plate already, Lord. So fill me with your spirit, I plead, I yield my body anew and my mind and will, and ask you to speak through me, I pray, in Jesus' name Amen. Noah, or the Lord, has given Noah, as we've been noticing the previous verses, some very disturbing information. God is really giving him prophecy. God is telling him what's going to happen, and um it's not a pretty picture. The statements in the previous verses, as I said, are very disturbing. Even to this day, some of the things that God says at least in my mind, just don't sit well when God says he's wished he hadn't created man. Nevertheless God is now expecting something from Noah because of the prophetic information he gave him. Now what I'm trying to say very quickly here and pointedly is this, when God gives us prophetic information, and what do we mean by prophetic information? Yeah, God tells us something that's going to happen in the future. He gives us information about what has not happened yet. Whenever God gives that to us, he doesn't just give it to us to satisfy our curiosity Alright? It's not just say it, it's not like, oh boy, I I wonder what the future holds. And God says, oh, well, I'll tell you. It's not like that at all. Every time, particularly through the New Testament, every time that God gives prophetic information, that information is always followed by instruction. And somehow our behavior is to be altered because of the information he gave us. We are an independent fundamental Baptist church That's what we are. It's what we have been. As far as I have any say in the matter, it's what we're always going to be. Now what is it to be fundamental? Well you have the you bel you hold to the fundamentals of the faith. Yes, that's necessary, but being a fundamentalist, uh fundamental Baptist, we do more than just have that on paper. Those truths affect how we live. We take them literally. So God's telling Noah, Man, I wish I wouldn't have made the earth. Um the end of all flesh is gonna come, I'm gonna deal with this, I'm gonna destroy them, and all that And um Noah says, Well that's interesting. And God says, Alright, now's what this is what you need to do. And you get that all through scripture, as I said In the Gospels, Matthew 24, 23, through there, the Gospels, Jesus would give information about the end of when he comes back, what it's going to be like. He gives all these prophecies. And if you'll notice carefully, they're riddled. His prophecies are riddled with terms like this. Therefore beware. Watch. He says, I jotted some of them down here. Be ready. Be prepared. God expects when we read and he informs us of future events, he expects that truth to alter our thinking and our behavior So that we can be in line, as far as God's concerned, with what's going to happen. And that's what he's telling Noah. He's not telling Noah this stuff just so Noah can know He's doing it because he needs Noah to do something. He needs Noah to take some action. Titus chapter 2, having this blessed hope. And he talks about her behavior. I wanted to turn there, but we won't for sake of time. 1 John chapter 3 says, he that hath this hope in him purifieth himself. The hope being the second coming. So prophecy is given to us by God so that we can respond properly and affect our behavior God reveals to Noah there's coming judgment on the earth, then explains to Noah what his response is to be to that and what his responsibility is, which is to build this ark made of gopher wood Now I think it's interesting. Let me just point a few things down here. Everybody okay? Everybody alright out there? Okay. Lotus with me, verse uh he says here, verse 14, make me an arf of arf an arf of goker wood, not He didn't say make an arf of goker wood. He said make an ark of gopher wood. Um and look what he says here. And uh then he gives all the instructions and different details about it. We'll look at this here we'll go. Then In verse 17 he says, Behold, and behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth. I think it's interesting God tells Noah about this ark and how to build it and what he requires of it. Then he tells them he's going to send a flood Now, question, had Noah ever seen a flood? No. Had Noah ever seen rain? No, it hadn't rained up to this point. So he's telling them to build this vehicle of sorts, this vessel for water, without before he told them to build a flood. And put yourself in Noah's shoes. He's there, all right, I'm building an ark, an ark, an ark, this last thing, and doing all this and doing all this stuff. What exactly is this about? Oh, you know, they're doing a and then once he gives them all, then he tells God, you know what I found out? God isn't always concerned about whether we understand what he's doing. He's always concerned that we obey what he tells us to do. Sometimes we don't understand. How in the world giving out 20,000 tracts and uh spending money and all that effort and you don't have any visitors or his own, I don't understand that. Listen, God said we're to preach the gospel, he's the one that would save the souls. And so uh I thought that was interesting, the order that God gave it here. Now, real quickly, and uh if you knew how far I was in my notes right now, you would be shouting, Amen, glory to God, praise the Lord. I mean we are screaming. I want us to notice first of all, number one, the in the layout for the ark. Now this is where it's just kind of facts, but they're fascinating. And this will kind of picture in our mind the reality of what's going on here. He gives the layout of the ark in these verses I just read. Let me say this the biblical account of the ark and the flood is very sane and very sensible. There's nothing about what's given us here that is absolutely outlandish or ridiculous. Everything here is very doable and is reproducible. Now, I told myself I wasn't going to say anything about it, but our neighbors to the north. What they're building is not anything at all like what the Bible tells us here about the layout of the art. I studied this, I looked up every word, I cannot find a Hebrew word for steel I-beams anywhere in here. So anyway, uh and I said I wasn't gonna say that, but I did anyway. I say I'm not gonna say a lot of things, Tom, and I still say it, so But it's sane and reasonable. And if you read this through, I got the idea this sounds like the testimony almost of an eyewitness account. Somebody was there and saw this. But because not every detail is given to us here, the critics say, how can this be? The crit because not every detail is given here, the critics challenge the biblical record here. And they'll ask things like, well, how could Noah build something like that? How could a ship that large contain how could you contain all those animals? How this? How that? How this Now God could have, if he would have chosen to, to give us every little detail about this, and we would fully understand how it worked. But number one, that wasn't the purpose of the record here. It's for us to understand every detail of it. And number two, it would take volumes and volumes and volumes to give us all the details here. How many people here have ever heard or at least seen pictures of the pyramids? Raise your hand. How many people know what I'm talking about when I mention the pyramids? Do you know even to this day, archaeologists do not understand how in the world the Egyptians built those incredible pyramids? There's theories, there's ideas, the way I understand it, and I'm not a Egyptologist, I'm not a pyramidologist My doctrine is not in pyramidology, but the way I understand it, they're not even sure where they got those stones from. But they built that thing. There's an idea that they somehow brought him across the Nile and and transport him in and quarried him out some distance away. There's all these different theories Uh they're not exact they don't know how in the world the Egyptians with no heavy equipment whatsoever were able to to chisel those things out, to fit them so tightly and perfectly, to build them and get them up that high things that weigh tons. Without any equipment, without any motors or anything like that, how they were to complain. There's theories, there's ideas, there's suggestions Sometimes they have pretty good ideas just to get the archaeological, or not the archaeological, architectural, all of that put together. I got studying this and reading this. You know, I came to the conclusion If we did not have any pyramids, if there were none in existence, and the ones that we have were in existence thousands of years. Suppose there were no pyramids in existence, and the Bible described a pyramid and gave no more details about how it was Built and uh assembled, then what we have of the ark, the critics would say it's impossible to build a pyramid. If all the information we had on pyramids was what we have on the art, the liberals would say that can't be true. There's no way that's society could build something of that magnitude that requires that much mechanical int uh intelligence, uh that couldn't have happened. Nevertheless, do you know there's pyramids in Egypt and in South America and around the world So obviously, ancient civilizations, as we call it, were capable of doing things that even today we don't fully understand. So I have no problem with the art. I have no problem, and I would like to believe that even if I didn't believe the Bible, knowing what we know about things, we shouldn't have a problem with the ability of an ark like this being built Alright? So it's a sensible, reasonable thing. There's nothing here that's outlandish. And so that's the case. Now he gives us, and I'm not going to get through all this, he gives us seven features In this layout of the ark, he gives us seven features. And these get interesting. How many people ever saw a picture on a nursery wall of the ark? I'm here to I'm I'm about to listen if you don't want to get discouraged cover your ears up right now. That's not what it looked like. You're going to be amazed When we go through this, what the Ark actually looked like. It didn't have Noah with a long beard standing on the front deck Then happen. Um let's look at this. Uh by the way, the word ark itself can refer to a vessel of any sort. It is not, the word arc itself is not even necessarily associated with some type of ship. Although that's what this became. It is simply a vessel of anything. It can have any proportions, it can have any shape to it. Something a vessel you put things in. The word itself, that's all it means. And the ark here in Genesis 6 that Noah had is not necessarily a ship like we understand a ship. The closest thing when I'm studying this, the closest thing I could picture in my mind to what's being described here would be something of like a barge. A three-story barge. It was not designed to navigate through the ocean. I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but it didn't have any type of uh what's the word I want, propulsion There was no motor, obviously. There was no rows. There was no sails. It wasn't designed to move from point A to point B All the ark was designed to do was to keep stuff in it for a period of time. That's it. So let's look at it here quickly. And I don't I want to get a picture of my mind. And I don't know how much application is going to be in this. But some interesting facts God gave us. First of all, notice the type of wood in this layout God gives Noah, the type of wood. It's gopher wood. That is the only time in the Bible the word gopher is used as referring to gopher wood. It is actually, nobody really knows exactly what kind of wood it is. The word that gopher wood comes from is very similar. The root word is very similar to the root word for cypress. Wood. And so the majority of people believe that this is probably some type of what we would call cypress wood. We don't know this for certain, but it fits the bill. Cypress wood, as I understand it, was very is very durable. I found this out in preparing for this. Cypress wood generates its own preservative oil And I actually found this from a lumber company down in Georgia that deals their specialists with cypress wood, and they had a list of characteristics why cypress wood is so beneficial, not talking about the ark, just talking about the wood itself. And they said this, it generates its own preservative oil. It is resistant to decay, insects, and corrosion. Does that sound like something that might be good to have on an art? Sure. Generates its own preservative oil. It is resistant to decay, insects, and corrosion. It is and was often used for outdoor type items such as fence posts, telephone poles, railroad ties, I thought this was interesting, and docks for parking your boat at. So in other words, it's used for in water often. That fits the bill. It's resistant to splitting and warping. I people think it would be good if the wood the arts made out doesn't warp. That'd be bad. And so it's resistant to all that. And Cypress trees, as the area we believe where Noah was in that type of area, uh was uh was very uh it was readily available. There's cypress trees all over So the type of wood is very unique, very interesting. Second thing we find in the layout given to him, there were rooms that were to be built in the ark. Look at verse 14. Chapter 6. He says here, make the ark of gopher wood. Rooms shalt thou make in the ark. That word rooms there is translated in our King James Bible's other places. It's sometimes translated nest. A birdie's nest. So it's the concept here, the word rooms is translated nest 12 times in our Bible. And I think the idea of what he's saying here is these are kind of like cabins. These rooms. They are kind of like we might call them living quarters, nests. So this ark is consistent. He says to him, look what he says there. Build uh thou shalt make um uh Let me back up here. He says, uh make rooms shalt thou make in the ark. So the ark is apparently, it's not just some open container But it is actually sectioned off into these living quarters, these rooms throughout the whole thing. How many people ever saw a picture of the art? And on the inside, and it's all just like a big gymnasium, and there's animals all over and uh stand around interacting with each other. Anybody ever see pictures like that? That ain't right Apparently the animals had their own little living quarters where they were, all sectioned off in their own little nest. Alright, so you have the runes here. How many people are impressed with how fast I'm going through this? I knew it would be. Notice number three, there's pitch applied to this. Now God's telling Noah to make this, He's giving them the layout. Look at verse 14, the last part, and shall pitch it within and without with pitch. Now sometimes the way the Bible words things kind of brings a chuckle to me, but you pitch it with pitch. That makes sense to me. Amen? And so what is this pitch? The word pitch, uh, fascinating. The word pitch means literally a covering Get this. In the book of Leviticus, the word translated pitch here in Genesis, in Leviticus, the exact same word is translated atonement. How about that? He says, pitch it within and without. Apparently, this pitch was some type of tar. that covered the surface of the wood. And they covered the surface of the wood. Both outside they covered it with this pitch, some type of tar. And then they went on the inside and covered the whole side of the inside with this pitch or this type of tar. What would be the purpose of that? Well, it would obviously make the ark completely what? Seal waterproof. It would fill in the gaps, both outside and inside. That's seeping in. It's filling in the gaps, so it would make it waterproof. But it would do something else to the ark. It would make it pitch black. The whole ark is black. Now, do you ever look do you ever see a picture of ark and it's all nice wood grain? It's like finished and has shellac on it, you know, and it just looks beautiful. That's not the way it was at all. Apparently, this ark was a big square black box. It was not designed for beauty It was designed for to be for to be used, I guess is what I'm trying to say. And so they pitched it within and without. These uh uh I keep thinking of pictures you see of the ark, and as I study this I realize the ark wasn't anything at all, didn't look anything at all like the way these people describing it And I got thinking, you know, some of these artists are very good at drawing, but they're terrible at interpreting scripture. You know, they can they can draw it the way they want. And so just now you say, what does that have to do with the word atonement? Why why would that be associated? I put this down. Just as the pitch kept out God's judgment and judgmental waters and kept the people inside safe, so the atoning blood of Jesus covers us from the judgment of God for our sins. What a beautiful picture. Number four, the layout. You have the measurements of the ark. Look at verse 15. And this is the fashion which thou shalt make of it. The length of the ark shall be 300 cubits The uh breadth of it 50 cubits and the height of it 30 cubits. Alright? So here. Obviously, as I said, this arc is not being built for speed It's not being built for maneuverability or agility. It is being built for capacity and stability. To get as much stuff in there as you possibly can and keep it from sinking. That is the only purpose of the boat. His many asthmals and keep them from going down. Uh no sort of propul pro propulsion propulsion Am I saying it right? What is it? Propulsion. Uh no sort of that, no oars, no sails. 300 cubits long. 50 cubits wide. Uh three 30 cubits high. Uh question. How in the world, how big is a cubit? Yeah, I know you got Schofield Bible. He tells you in the margin. But um I did some research. There's actually almost each nation, each society kind of had their own measurement for a cubit. Uh I think the Egyptians it was 17. 5, one group of folks it was about 21 inches. So it varied a much of a bunch of monk bun uh a bunch of munch people, a munch Around a lot uh varied. And so uh you know how fast I'm trying to talk. Um so anyway We don't know exactly how large a cubit was in this day and age when this was written. We can safely say 18 inches. Give or take a few. It's in that range. Generally, the idea of a qubit was the distance from a man's elbow to his the end of his longest finger. Pretty much the idea of a qubit. So 18 inches we're safe. We make it to heaven, find out it was 17. 5. But we're close. So that makes this vessel 450 feet long. That's a big vessel. Think of a football field 300 feet. And so this thing's 450 feet long. That's one and a half football fields. It's 75 feet wide. It's 45 feet high. Now, this is not my area of expertise. No doubt others were, but as I was studying what some folks said about this, it was pointed out that hydrodynamically Are you impressed? Its ability to function in water at this size with those dimensions, it would be, according to this one expert, exceedingly stable. It would be very stable at that thing, at that size. I was uh I saw a video, I think Ken Ham have it had it, uh a DVD, and he said if it would have been any larger, if it would hit a uh a wave, it would have broken the middle. It wouldn't have been able to sustain. But at this size, it could handle rather large waves. Because of the proportion, it would most likely not go long ways into the wave which would promote, but it would go sideways and would be wide enough that it would not tip over And the suggestion being by the it would be these proportions are almost ideal for just simply staying in the water, not sinking and not breaking in half Or overturning. I thought that was interesting. According to these measurements, that means there was 1,400,000 cubic feet of space inside the Ark. So there's a lot more room than what you think. You ever see the little playgrounds with a little arkbacka out back and a little slide? It was bigger than that Uh one book I was reading, the guy that's measured all this and is a mathematician, he said you could put 522 standard-sized livestock trailroad trains Cars into the art. 522 livestock railroad cars, you could stack them inside the art. That's a lot of livestock. So it's measurements. Then he gives here in the layout, he gives a window. How many people ever saw a picture of the ark and Noah has a little window open, a little pella, glass window? Shh. And he's letting a little wit uh turtle dove out. Anybody ever see that? And he's waving to all the fish. Uh, that's not the way it was. In fact, look what it says here. This is the fashion, the length of it, height of it, verse 16. A window. Now look how it's worded. A window shalt thou make to the ark, and a cubit shalt thou finish it above. Now that's kind of a weird way to say that. He doesn't say put a cubit-sized window. He says, make a window and put it a cubit, in a cubit shalt thou finish it above. Best we can tell that this well let me let me get back up here a bit. The term window itself is translated 24 times in the Bible, other than this, and every time except for here It is translated noonday light. Exact same word. 24 times. It's used 25 times in the Bible. One time it's translated. . window, other 24 times it's translated noonday light or something to that effect. . The noonday. So that's telling me here, this is not a window necessary in the sense that we view something like this, where you just let something. This is something where when the sun is up, it is allowing light in Follow what I'm saying? It's allowing sunlight in. And the best we can tell, a cubit again, it's 18 inches, and so apparently Again, we're not given a lot of details here, so we speculate a little bit on this, but apparently what we have here is an 18-inch opening that apparently went around the entire top, an 18-inch opening, around the structure To allow daylight in, and what else would something like that, an 18-inch opening that goes all around, it would let daylight in, but what else would it provide? Ventilation, exactly. I mean you've got how many thousands of animals in there? I don't know about you, but I'd want some ventilation. Uh we got two dogs, one's little, one big. Sometimes our house needs ventilation on the dogs, you know. And so uh it would provide ventilation. Come over to chapter 8 and verse number 6. We're going to give a little bit more information on this window. Chapter 8, verse 6. It says, and it came to pass At the end of 40 days, look at this, that Noah what? Opened the window of the ark which he had made. What is that telling us about this window? It somehow you could apparently open and close it. Open and close it. So however this thing was set up, again, we're not given a lot of detail, but apparently it was designed to allow light in. Um it apparent somehow could be open and closed where they had some type of uh meca mechanism where he could roll and maybe like uh um Not shingles. Uh shutters. Yeah, a shutter type thing could come down. And then what maybe at night they would want to do that or close part. Maybe rain's coming a certain way that could close one side. We don't know But it's fascinating to think of it that way. Then we have the door to the ark. In verse 16, look what he says. He says, and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof. That's all we're told. Preacher, what how big was the door? I don't know. Where bounced on the ark? Was it at the top, at the bottom? I don't know. Was it in the front or the back? I don't know. All we're told about this door was God told them to build it. Later on, we find that God closed it. But we're told nothing more about this door. The only thing we know for certain it was for entering and exiting. And apparently this window was in such a position where nobody could get in or out of the window. It was the only access to the ark was this door, as far as entering and exiting. And then last of all we notice here in the layout, verse 16, he says, and the door shall send the side thereof with lower, second, and third stories. Shalt thou make it. So the ark's 45 feet high, so we have 15 feet per story we have to work with. We don't know how thick the floors were or whatever. So apparently the the stories were fifteen feet or less uh an area like that. What is your story what's your average story today Eight foot, isn't it? Eight foot story. So you've got plenty of room here. These are pretty high ceilings. You've got floor three floors And this is the picture that I get from this, is this ark is sectioned off into rooms, into cabins, into nests. All the top stories, second uh third story, second story, first story, it's all sectioned off, sectioned off, sectioned off. And when we get to the part where the animals start showing up, we'll find where all of that plays a part. At this point, Noah knows nothing about animals showing up. At this point, Noah knows nothing about floods and water. All he knows is God tells him to do this. And he's supposed to trust and obey God. We don't have time, but we could go back to Hebrews chapter 11, where it says, by faith. Noah, moved with fear, built the ark. And that's exactly what we're supposed to do. You say, preacher, you know, sometimes things God tells me just doesn't make sense to me. Trust. And obey. Trust and obey. Father, please bless our study of your word. We've tried to lay a little foundation here. Lord, I don't know. A lot of this is speculation on my part. But God, we believe your word And we have no doubt that what you did, what your word says you did, you absolutely did. And help us today to learn from Noah. To have faith in you, to trust you and obey you. And uh we'll give you the glory. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I have no idea how in the world the Holy Spirit would take something like this and apply it to your life or my life There may be some very specific issue that God's dealing with your heart about and he's saying, listen, you've got to trust me on this. Listen, just do what I'm leading you. Just trust me on this. I know what I'm doing. I got a plan. Someday you'll understand. Just trust me on this. Is there someone here this evening saying, yeah, preacher, you know the Holy Spirit is dealing with my heart There is an issue where I need to just trust God. And uh, even though I don't fully understand, is there anybody like that? Preacher, pray with me. There is some areas. I just need to trust you. God bless you. Bunch of hands around Let's just do what Noah said, what Noah did, follow his example, we'll trust God and do what he instructs us. Father, bless