Little bit from uh from 1 Corinthians 16, and that will be the basis of what I want to give you here in the next few minutes. And uh actually I had the message together And I did not have a title for it until I got here. And then I heard through the pastor What Brother Fox had done this morning in preaching on an exceptional Christian, an exceptional church member, was that it? Exceptional church attendance. Yeah, okay. Well tonight thank you for the title. Tonight I'm going to talk to you about an exceptional man and an exceptional church. Is that all right? Hey listen, I take help anywhere I can get it, amen? All right. Uh we we we all do that and uh and gladly so and the guys that say they don't are not telling you the truth. But anyway. 1 Corinthians 16, and I'll read right down in the passage just a little bit, but keep your Bible open because we'll look at some more of it. But starting in verse 5 The Apostle Paul is the man, and he's writing to the church in Corinth. Now, some of you know the history of the Corinthian church. And you say an exceptional church, read Second Corinthians. Okay? Yes. Did they have problems? They did. But with the help of the exceptional man, they became an exceptional church. They got it right. Now, so reading verse five. Now I will come unto you when I shall pass through Macedonia, for I do pass through Macedonia, and it may be that I will abide. In other words, he said, I may just come to stay for a while, yea, and winter with you, that you may bring me on my journey whithersoever I go. For I will not see you now, by the way, but I trust to tarry a while with you, if the Lord permit. But I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost. For a great door and effectual is opened unto me, and there are many adversaries. Now The Apostle Paul was an exceptional man, and that could be noted on any number of ways. He was a Jew, he was somebody who achieved prominence before he became a Christian Uh perhaps enough so that my guess is, just based on what I've learned and read from the Bible, he was probably pretty well off uh financially, and certainly had prominence, uh had notoriety people knew about him. And uh yet when he became a Christian a lot of that uh changed and uh he took on a whole different role And uh the same man that had been so aggressive and so motivated when he was unsaved directed all of that energy The Lord's guidance and direction, grace, mercy, and goodness in his life, and he became the apostle to the Gentiles. He became a preacher extraordinaire, a missionary of uh great report. And uh on and on the list could go. So an exceptional man. And as I noted, this church, yes, they had all kinds of issues and problems. But with the correctiveness and the leadership that Paul gave to them, the church emerged into something very, very solid and good. Now, let me just make note of the fact that anywhere And everywhere that the Lord has been up to something. I'm talking about in history, in years gone by. Anywhere and everywhere that the Lord has been up to something He always has a man that he puts in the right spot to get it done. Every time. You know, when the early in Genesis, when the world soured, became exceedingly wicked God uh said, I'm going to have an ark built, and he looked around and found Noah. I mean he knew right where he was, but he he said to Noah, You're the guy, you'll build the ark, you'll save the the race, you'll save the world And Noah was the man that God used in that instance. Later, when Israel was enslaved, there was a man named Moses. The Lord picked to be the leader, and he used him to get them out of Egypt, out of that bondage that they'd been in for so long, when Israel was on the brink of the promised land They were they were within inches, so to speak, of uh achieving what God had promised, and um it became the lot of another man named Joshua uh to lead them in and to take them to where that uh the Lord had promised that they would be. Later, some years later, many years later, when uh Things had soured in Israel and a wicked guy named Ahab had uh ascended the throne and he was married to an even more wicked woman named Jezebel, and the two of them I mean you talk about wickedness compounded The two of them, I mean, absolutely unbelievable how wicked. In fact, the Bible says nobody in all of Israel, no leader in all of Israel had been so wicked as the two of them, and uh yet uh God had a man. In the midst of all of that. I mean when times were sour, everything was going down the tube for the nation of Israel. There was a man named Elijah, devoted, dedicated to God, fearless in so many ways, stood up to be counted, spoke truth to power When he addressed Ahab and Jezebel. God has a man. God used a man. When God was uh looking on another day for a king When others thought it might be this one or it might be that one, God said, No, there's a shepherd boy out managing the sheep, and that's the one. He'll get the anointing. He'll be he's the pick And King David, the greatest of all the kings of Israel, was chosen of the Lord. He became the man. When God built a temple, there was a man named Solomon When God needed a voice to speak loud and clear, there was not only Elijah and Elisha, but there was Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel and a host of others that God used every time a man God picked set in place. Uh whenever the whole uh prophetic uh uh thing about the Messiah was about to unfold with the birth in Bethlehem Uh you know, um there was there was a forerunner uh before Jesus' uh uh ministry was uh uh announced publicly John the Baptist was on the scene of setting the stage, preparing for the announcement that Jesus was the Messiah. Again, a man. After the ascension At the uh feast day of Pentecost, that big deal on in Acts chapter 2, there was a man who led the parade that day. It was Simon Peter. And now then we look around and see the New Testament and all of those writers. Matthew, Mark, and Luke and John and Paul and others, all of these men, God greatly used them. Exceptional men Doing extraordinary things, building exceptional works, every single one of them. The passage here that I've read The apostle Paul said, I'd love to be there with you guys. But I can't do it right now. He said, I want to come to Greece, but I can't do it right now. He said, I may send somebody else, but for now I'm gonna I'm gonna be tied up here. Now That being the case, he said, but I'm going to lay out some things. And uh at this point, when we get to chapter 16 He's already talked about the problems. He's aired some of the issues over the personalities. He's laid out good godly principles for them to build on. He's rehearsed the promises of God in their mind. He laid out that great resurrection chapter and showed them the prospect that they have for the future. And all the way through, there's precautionary statement one after another when he tells them, watch out for this, watch out for that, don't go there. Better not do that He lays all of that out. But when he gets to this chapter, he's setting priorities in place. Now, let me pause and say here for just a moment. Thirty years ago Thirty years ago. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church was here, but uh it was a smaller entity at that point Much smaller. And uh little little did any of us know, including Brother and Mrs. Leatherman Little did they know, little did we know, that something was in the works here. That God was up to something. Thank God. But he was. Yes, sir. And uh the the coming of Brother Leatherman was the catalyst that set in place Uh a bunch of plans. Somebody mentioned a minute ago about uh about uh I think it was you brother that said something about uh uh the the impact of traveling beyond Garrett County. And uh, you know, the things that you all have done and that he has led in doing where you've had uh impact in New Zealand and other places like that Uh you know, you say uh all all all of those things, yes, they've come out of Garrett County because there's an extraordinary exceptional place in Garrett County Now, I I point out the fact that the Lord brought you an exceptional man. And I may embarrass him a little bit, but he'll get over it. Because I I I knew Brother Lederman before I started coming over here for meetings. We'd met prior to that. And over the years I've gotten to know him very, very well And uh and I know something about who he is. You know, sometimes you see people at a distance and you appreciate them. And sometimes that person, then later you get up close and you see them up close, and all at once your appreciation begins to diminish because up close don't look as good as it did at a distance But with Brother Leatherman, that's not the case at all. The more I've gotten to know him, the more I have become appreciative of him. Absolutely. And thankful for him and well aware of what is in his heart to do and how that he has just planted himself here To be the Lord's servant and to be your servant as the pastor of this church. And I'm telling you, it's something very, very special. And that's why, Brother Fox, I was kidding a little while ago, but indeed the title of this, you gave me the thought because of what you preached this morning. An Exceptional Man in an exceptional church. Folks, across the land, that a lot of churches that are not even open on Sunday night. Right. And you got a you got a good crowd. You got a bunch of folks here. And uh uh thirty years ago, twenty-nine years ago when I came over here the first time, in fact I lived all those years in Westminster and never came to Deep Creek Lake one time I heard people talk about it. Some of our folks would uh tell me they came over here for uh a week or something, you know, and I thought, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know how that is. God bless you. I never came And then the first time I came over, I said, My, oh my, look what I've been missing. Now, I'm just simply saying, folks, whenever you and I consider what we have here And what the Lord has done in this place, and here's a little sketch of things out of this chapter. Whenever we have an exceptional church, look at verses one and two. He says, now concerning the collection, what's he talking about? He's talking about the offerings. Folks, do you realize, do you realize I mean when I pulled on the parking lot out here tonight I saw vans and buses sitting out there that were not there 30 years ago. Well, how did they get there? They got there because concerning the collection, concerning the offering. That's how they got there. You all invested in that so that you could do what you do with those vehicles. When I drove on the lot tonight, I saw the building that I saw last year was not quite complete, but it looks to me like it's done. It's ready. It's being used tonight. Well, how did that come about? Well, because an extraordinary pastor, an extraordinary, exceptional check pastor in church Banded together, bonded together, and they did so and invested. When we talk about the offering, we're talking about the investment that we make My predecessor at the sword, Dr. Curtis Hudson, used to say, you know, you you can't you can't build a church on pocket chains. You know, it it takes more than that. And it does take more, and obviously you folks have invested in the work and made it possible for the work to go forward. Now So an exceptional church pays attention, as he says here, upon the first day of the week, let every one of you lay by him in store as God hath prospered him. There be no gatherings when I come. Verse three, he talks about their liberality. That's uh the only You know, when I see that word liberal in the Bible, I I it's in a good sense, uh most of the time when I see the word liberal, I may I make an ugly face, uh which is not too hard for me to do. But anyway, uh, you know, the word liberality here has to do with generosity. They had been especially generous in that regard. And folks, whenever we look at an exceptional church anywhere You can be sure that some folks have loved it enough that they've invested in it. And that is much of the story that has happened here as well. Now, second thing Second thing, you'll notice down in verse 9, he says, there's a great door that has opened unto me. What's he talking about? He's talking about opportunity. Opportunity. Opportunity sometimes comes disguised in work clothes. Oftentimes it does. And uh these folks apparently recognize that as you all have, and uh whenever we see that, grand opportunities are before us at every turn in the road We uh we look all about us. Listen, Garrett County, Garrett County needs a place, a place, an exceptional place. a place that'll provide leadership, a place that'll have influence, a place that will have an impact far beyond the Sunday morning attendance. Far beyond what goes on on this campus. It needs to be the kind of an exceptional place that uh has impact on the far side of the county and beyond. And so whenever we think about the opportunities, uh we're not talking about something, well, maybe we could do that ten years from now. We're talking about now and we're talking about here and what a privilege it is that we can be involved in something like that. When Betty and I moved to Maryland, uh been quite a few years ago now, but when we came to Maryland, we'd never heard of Westminster, Maryland. I didn't know it existed on the planet. But I got that phone call. And you know there was something in that phone call. I mean I could I could sense it. I could feel it. Uh we came up, I preached on a Sunday, and we sat in that little uh hotel across the boulevard from the church Well, it was then, they've renumbered the things now, but it was then then it was room 48 around on the backside. She and I sat over there on a Sunday afternoon I mean the church they they hadn't even offered anything to us. They they had not voted. But Betty and I sat over there and and instead of napping, we were both sitting over there with tears in our eyes because we sensed that God was doing something with us and and we we knew in advance that it was going to happen. And so it is. Whenever God works and moves in a situation The opportunity is there, you grab hold of it. And the the the options, well, they're just there's no outs. There's no there's no there's no there's no exits, there's no off-ramps If it's God's will, we get in it, we do it, and we invest in it, we capture the opportunity, and we go forward from there. Now you'll notice that ninth verse. Also says, and there are many adversaries. Adversaries. No great opportunity comes without some adversarial things. The reason being, action always generates friction. Action will generate friction. Now, I I I'm going to say something here and I I don't mean this ugly at all. But you know, uh there there's some folks, unless they shape up, I don't want them on my team. Now if they'll shape up, welcome aboard But sometimes folks are so I mean I describe them as being in the negative uh kick kickative mood in the negative spirit. I mean that they just they they're opposed to everything Now, uh sometimes folks mean well, but uh but some folks I mean I'm glad the liberals are against me And whatever antagonism they throw in my day and my way, I welcome it. I say, bring it on, bring it on, you know, because everything they stand for, I'm against. And everything I'm against, they're for. So I'm just simply saying nothing worthwhile goes forward without some opposition. And if somebody out in town Criticizes the church. Don't worry about it. You know, somebody somebody kind of gets been out of shape. Nothing worthwhile goes forward without opposition Now, nothing eternal happens without the devil getting stirred up. You can count on it. He's going to get after it He's like a roaring lion walking about seeking whom it may devour. But the instruction we have from the Bible in James chapter 4 is to resist the devil. We're not to give in to him, not to cave into him, not to give him place and just say, well, you know, we'll let you have your No, no, no. Not at all. We're to resist the devil and make that a priority. So an exceptional church Yes, it does invest. It does deal with the offering. Yes, it does have opportunity. Yes, it does have opposition. And if you look at verses 10 and 12, 10, 11 and 12, it talks about Timothy. And Apollos. Now, we recognize those names because they were co-workers of the Apostle Paul They were folks that had been faithful, they had been dedicated, and they were investing themselves, sometimes with him, sometimes apart from him. But these were other people. And for the sake of my outline, I'm just going to refer to them as operatives. Operatives. Alright? Now, unless we have some folks like Timothy and Apollos who help us The pastor and whoever else might be in uh leadership in the church unless unless we have help We're not going to get anywhere. We're not going to get anything done at all. But Timothy and Apollos and others like them Come in, plug in. Some of you weren't here 30 years ago, but you came 10 years ago. You came six months ago, and you're here, you've plugged in, and you're helping with the work. And listen, the more The more and more that we find ways to uh just say, I can help with that, you can help with that, you do that, I'll do this. If we can make that work and everybody finding some way in which they pitch in and become a part. I heard Pastor ask somebody about the nursery as they were coming in the door. Thank God. Thank God for those of you that work in the nursery. You know? And other parts of the ministry here. You talked about that chicken dinner. I mean, I I'm sure somebody was working in that kitchen to make that happen. And all of that plays a role. I've I've often said You've probably heard me say, the folks who work in the nursery, these guys who run the sound equipment, these guys who usher. And folks who fix the dinners and all that. I mean, I mean, uh brother, brother Dennis and I, I mean, we we we would not begin to be able to do what we do when we're up here Without help like that. And so every time, every time some good thing happens, all of us are in on that. We're all in on that. Because we're all operating, I mean it's like a big machine and one has a hole in, you know, sometimes I give people tours through our print shop at the sword. And uh, you know, I look at those different pieces of equipment and I know what they are. I don't know much more than that, but I know what they are. I know what they do. And you say, well, why don't you go over there and uh run that uh paperback binder? Are you kidding me? I wouldn't know which button to push. But we've got some guys in there who do. They know how to do it. You know, the way they come to me, they'll say, hey, that that that piece of equipment broke down We're going to need $5,000 to fix it. That's when they want to hear from me. Amen. But we work together. We work together. Everybody plays a role. Everybody pitches in and helps And uh, you know, we you see our paper comes out twice twice a month. We wouldn't get that done except for 35 other people who work there every day. Those are the kind of things that have to happen to make a church exceptional. Now, the final point that I make here, verses 13 and 14. He's uh saying to them, and these are the orders that he's giving. He says, Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, quit ye like men, be strong, and let all things be done, let all things be done with charity. So these are the orders. See what's he saying? Number one he says, be watchful. See what's that mean? Well you better better watch and be through the plan of salvation straight. You better better watch and be sure that the doctrines that are taught from the pulpit, in the in the Sunday school classes, etc. , uh on the radio station, all of that Uh the the be watchful that all those things are in place. We need to be watchful that this old winning doesn't dry up. Be watchful so that those buses be sure to run every Sunday and that somebody's taking care of them And uh and getting them filled up. Be watchful. And then then he says, not only be watchful, but he says, stand fast in the faith. That means we get a hold of the right things, we don't turn loose of it. Some folks decide, well you know this is the 21st century now. The cheapest calendar you can get at Walmart tells you that. It is 21st century. Some old sheep calendar tell you that. But what they mean by that is, oh, you can't be like you were. You can't You can't believe the things you used to believe. You gotta go with the times and the culture. Listen, folks, that is absolute trash pit stuff. When they talk like that. Stand fast in the Lord. Get hold of the right things and don't let go of it. And then he says, quit you like men. What's he saying there? Be mature. Go ahead and grow up. You know, just just just go ahead and develop into something special. You know, uh you say, well, how how how does the church become an exceptional church by standing firm and being watchful and just staying at it and staying at it and staying at it By building one little success on top of another little success, and ultimately exceptionalism develops And that's the kind of thing that we really ought to have. And then he says, not only to quit like men, but be strong and let all your things be done with charity. Or to be loving We heard some testimonies about that. And be uh be kind, all of those things. Folks, there there is there is a way. That's the Christian way, the Bible way, and the right way. And that's always the best way And if there is a Christian way and a Bible way and a right way, why would we even think of doing it some other way? Just doing it God's way. I'm telling you, there there ought to be a place in Garrett County. There ought to be an exceptional ministry in Garrett County. There ought to be a place where people invest. There ought to be a place where opportunities are grabbed hold of. There ought to be an exceptional place where opposition does not stymie the work. There ought to be a place where people say, I'll help you operate that thing. I'll help you keep it going. And not only that, but where we'll take our orders Not from headquarters somewhere, but take our orders from the book that God's given us. That's the kind of thing that is exceptional, and that's exactly what is going on here for a good period of years. And I'm not I'm not just stroking you tonight. I'm commending you. for what you've done. And saying to you, folks, there's never any time to quit. Never any time to stop. Never any time to let up. Our nation is in deeper trouble tonight than it has ever been in its history. And if we, as God's people, do not grab hold of these things and determine, we're not going to just be status quo. We're not going to just be dragging our tracks. No. We're going to rise up. We're going to build. We're going to do what we ought to do. We're going to do it with drive and with enthusiasm, with dynamics. We're going to let our voice be heard. We're going to sound the trumpet for the Lord, and we're going to keep doing it. Whether the liberals and the devil like it or not, we're going to keep doing it. And so we're talking about, and thankful to God, that He sent you an exceptional pastor who has led in a very, very sound, solid way, and a lot of extraordinary things have been done. Because of the leadership and the followership. And thus an exceptional church has developed out of all of that And I don't think I'm stretching the point one iota. I believe every word that I've just told you. And I think, well, I'm done. But it's what I wanted to tell you tonight. And I believe it lines up right well with First Corinthians 16. Stand up with me, please. As our heads are bowed and eyes are closed for just a moment