Good music. And we praise the Lord it's not snowing. In ten days it's going So you wanna know if it's gonna snow, see if Tom got a haircut or not. Ten days after you get a haircut, it snows. Alright. We'll mark that down. I somebody uh post it on the computer and it threw me for a second there. They had this weather map and it was saying this huge storm uh when the hurricane makes landfall and we're gonna have this big swath down there and I thought What in the world? I didn't hear anything about that. I don't know what they're talking about. Then I got looking at it. It was dated three years ago. It was when Sandy hit. Sandy hit And they posted I guess it's the anniversary coming up for Hurricane Sandy. It scared me for a second there. And uh but uh I'll take this weather any day. Matthew chapter five. I'm a little bit loud here, Dave, you can turn me down. Just a bit. And I want to begin reading in verse number 38. We are working our way through here. This is the fifth illustration that the Lord is giving um uh illustrating the statement he made back in verse number twenty where he's telling his disciples that their righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of who? The Pharisees. Their righteousness has to exceed the righteous Pharisees. As we've been saying over and over again, and he's just repeating it all through here. He's really, really emphasizing this that God wants more, God demands, I should say, more from uh mankind than simply a facade putting on this show of righteousness. He demands genuine righteousness, heart righteousness. And so the Lord's illustrating this. He's worked his way through here. He had talked about murder, their position on murder and what God's is, and then on uh adultery and marriage. And uh then last week was um We looked at the uh swearing, uh taking oaths and that type of thing. Now he he introduces his fifth illustration. Look at verse 38 Ye have heard that it hath been said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. But I say unto you, that ye resist not evil, but whosoever shall smite thee on the right cheek Turn to him the other also. And if any man will sue thee at the law, take aw an and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee, turn not thou away I'm going to break this up into two sections because I want to spend focus a bit of time on verse 40, uh on verse 39 through the end there about um resisting not evil. But I want to look at the first part. So tonight we're just going to set the stage here for what the Lord is addressing and then we'll pick it up in the second part later on. Let's pray first. Father, I ask now that you would bless our study of this portion of your word. I pray that you would teach us what this means and how it applies to our lives. I present my body anew and my will. I yield to you. I ask again tonight, as I always do, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. It would be you speaking And you teaching, and God, that we would be better Christians for this, that we would be more distinctive as children of God in this old sinful world. I pray you'd bless now in Jesus' name. Amen. Anybody here recognize the name Frank Robinson? Frank Robinson. First black uh manager, I believe, a baseball team, a play baseball player. He played for various teams. He was the coach of the Baltimore Orioles back in 1984 for several years there. In 2005, he was voted by all the Major League Baseball players. They voted, and he was voted the worst manager in all of baseball. Then in 2006, all the baseball players voted again, and again they voted Frank Robinson to be the worst manager in all of baseball, according to my sources. And uh one incident took place that kind of explains maybe why they thought this way. Uh he was coaching, um he was managing the uh uh Orioles And uh they were in a game of several innings in, it's according to the record I read, and uh the opposing pitcher hit a the batter, and I mean he hit him solid, he went down in the dirt Well, they got through that inning, that part of the inning. Now the Orioles were up to bat or or were out in the field and the opposing teams up to bat The pitcher got out there, first batter's up, first pitch, he throws that thing down there, and it is a perfect strike. And the guy watches it strike. Frank Robinson, the pitcher's manager on his team, came up out of the dugout absolutely furious. In fact the one record I read about it, he went crazy. He went wild. Furious And he came out and he didn't go to the umpire, he didn't go to the batter, he went straight out to the pitcher on his team and began cussing him and railing on him and just in front of the whole crowd screaming at him, telling him that um they he one of the phrases he kept using over and over again, they knock us down, we knock them down. He said, what are you doing throwing a strike? You should have hit him square and put him in the dirt. And I mean he just got all over this place. And one of the last statements he made was, we've got to give them their own medicine. Now that was his mentality. That was his attitude. You hurt us. We're going to hurt you back. Now I use that incident. To set up what the Lord is addressing here. That is the world's mentality If you hurt me, I'm gonna hurt you back. You knock me in the dirt, I'm gonna knock you in the dirt. And uh this whole idea of getting vengeance back on those that do something that hurt me or uh in one way or another. Now, notice he says here in verse 38. He says, Ye have heard that it hath been said Now remember what we've been pointing out. He is not quoting necessarily Old Testament Scripture. He is referencing Old Testament Scripture, but what he is doing, he is addressing the Pharisees' version. Of what the law said. And what the Pharisees were doing, and I'm a little ahead of myself in my message, my outline, but what the Pharisees were doing Is they were taking the world's attitude, the world mentality, sinful nature's mentality is, you've got to pay Vengeance, you're gonna you've knocked me in the dirt, I'm gonna knock you in the dirt. They were taking that mentality and they were using the law, and this passage is here that we'll look at to justify Their desire for personal vengeance. And um, this is what the Pharisees were teaching Vengeance. And they were using the law to justify their sinful desire for vengeance. That's how the world responds to things. Hollywood has made a lot of money making movies about vengeance. A lot of the big movies are getting m making them pay, getting them back. You kill my wife, I'm gonna go find you and hunt you down Um I remember back in high school I don't remember the story very much other than basically what it was, but the Count of Monte Cristo. Did anybody ever have to read that book back in the day? Back when they used to read books. Uh that was a I think if I remember correctly that whole book was a fella plotting and scheming to get back. You killed my father, you prepare to die, you know? And so uh that whole mentality Now here's my question. The world's mentality, and the Pharisees using the law to implement the world's mentality of vengeance, my question is this. Is that how a disciple of Christ responds to injustice? Do we respond with vengeance? Do we respond With with that mentality. That's what the Lord is addressing. You've heard it have been said. Eye for an eye, you knock my eye out, your eye's going out. You knock my tooth out, I'm knocking your tooth out That's the world's mentality. That's what the Pharisees were saying and teaching, and they were using the law to justify that. The Lord says, but I say unto you Number one, here's my first outline. I have three points to outline, and we're going to take the last point, we're going to make another message out of in a in the future. But tonight I want to first of all notice the duty required by the law. What exactly did the law say About this eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. Well, the Pharisees were basing their teaching on three Old Testament passages, all dealing with the same command. the same uh part of the law. So let's keep our place here. We're going to get back here, but let's go first of all to Exodus chapter number 21. Exodus 21. Three Old Testament passages that the Pharisees took. They came to it, they took, and we'll look a little more in depth how they exactly came about this. But I want to look at what these Passages are actually teaching. What is God saying here? What is the law actually requiring of us? What is the duty required by the law? Alright, Exodus 21 And look with me if you would. We're going to start reading in verse 22 and try and get the whole section here. Exodus 21, verse 22. If men strive, And hurt a woman with child. So here's some guys, they're fighting, and uh they either deliberately or inadvertently they hurt a woman that's expecting. So that her fruit depart from her. What's that mean? The what? The baby died. They lost the baby. These guys hurt her and they lost the baby. And yet no mischief follow, he shall be sure punished, according as the husband, woman's husband will lay upon him. He shall pay as the judges determined. Now notice the last part of that phrase. He shall pay as the what? Judges determined. That's important in understanding what's all going on here. Now look at the next verse. And if any mischief follow, in other words, she's sick and she ends up dying, if any mischief follow, then thou shalt give life for life. Verse 24 Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe Now, before we leave this, it's important to understand who is the one determining what the response shall be? The judges, the judges are determining eye for eye, tooth for tooth, wound for wound, and a whole list here The judges determine that. They go to the judges, they make that determination. Now, if you would come over to Leviticus. Exodus, Leviticus, next book in order. And verse numbers chapter twenty-four, Leviticus twenty-four, and verse number seventeen. So the Pharisees are teaching their teaching off of that one passage we just read there in Exodus. And then they also use Leviticus here, chapter 24, verse number 17. And he that killeth any man shall surely be put to death. And he that killeth a beast shall make it good, beast for beast. And if a man cause a blemish in his neighbor, as he hath done, so shall it be done to him. Breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth As he hath caused a blemish in a man, so shall it be done to him again. And he that killeth a beast, he shall restore it. And he that killeth a man, he shall be put to death. You shall have one matter of law, as well as for the stranger, as for of your own country, for I am the Lord your God Now you have to read a little bit more of the context to pick it up, but his instructions are to the priests and the judges. He is telling them, in administering justice, this is how you're supposed to do it It's important to understand these instructions are given to the appointed rulers, to the judges, to the legitimate authorities. This is how you're supposed to administer justice. Now, one more passage, Deuteronomy chapter nineteen, and verse number sixteen. All basically the same, all dealing with the same subject. It's just a little different approaches, worded perhaps a little differently. Deuteronomy 19 And verse number 16. Alright, notice what it says. If a false witness rise up against any man to testify against him that which is wrong. Then both the men, between whom the controversy is, shall stand before the Lord. Look at this, before the priests and judges, which shall be in those days. And the judges shall make diligent inquisition. And behold, if the witness be a false witness, and hath testified falsely against his brother, Then shall ye do unto him as he had thought to have done unto his brother. Boy, that'd be good for our court system, wouldn't it? That'd thin out a whole lot of frivolous cases. So shalt thou put the evil away from you. And those which remain shall hear and fear and shall henceforth commit no more evil among you. And thine eyes shall not pity, but life shall go for life. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot. Now this passage is a little clearer. It's right directly in there The law was given to for the judges, for the authorities to administer justice among the people. It was to be carried out by the legitimate authorities. So keep that in mind. Now what was this law teaching? What was God requiring? What duty was He requiring of us? This law is not encouraging vengeance. It's not encouraging you, say, oh, somebody knock your tooth out, then you go and make sure their tooth gets knocked out. It's not saying if somebody knocks your eye out, then you go and you make sure you knock their eye out. It's not what it's saying. What it is doing, it's not encouraging vengeance, it's limiting justice. It's restraining vengeance, and it's designed to control man's natural desire to get vengeance. Somebody hits me, our sinful instinct is to do what? Hit them right back. In fact, I suggest to you Our sinful nature not only wants to hit them back, but our sinful nature, we want to hit them back harder than they hit us back. They hurt us, we're going to hurt them more than what they hurt us. This is man's sinful nature. I'm going to make you pay, and I'm going to make you pay more than what you did to me. That's the sinful nature of man. And this law is designed not to encourage man to seek vengeance, not to not to make it uh uh encourage it and nurture that type of thinking. But it's to limit it. Listen, if he knocks your eye out, the very most you can possibly do is knock his eye out. Don't go beyond that. Because man is a sinful nature, a desire to get vengeance and to make it more. Did you ever hear this statement? I don't get mad, I get even. That's that old desire for vengeance coming out. The other statement is, uh shoot first and ask questions later. Brother, I'm mowing him down Do unto others before they do unto you. And that's preemptive vengeance, I guess, is what you would call that. So we have a tendency, mankind, God knows as our sinful nature, that we have a tendency to seek vengeance and not just vengeance, but to uh seek more than what it cost us and how badly it hurt us. That goes all the way back to the beginning of the fall of man. There's an interesting event in Genesis chapter 4. Come back. I'd like for you to see this In Genesis chapter 4, a fellow, and we're not giving the details, and we've got to read into it a little bit here, maybe, or read between the lines, might be the way to say it, but there's a fellow here That somebody did him wrong. We don't know what it was, we don't know who they were necessarily, but uh somebody did this guy wrong. Lamech is his name, Genesis chapter 4 And I want you to notice in verse 23, we pick this up. Lamech, this guy's a bad dude. That's in the Hebrew. And Lamech said unto his wives, plural, so things are deteriorating here pretty rapidly. Lamech said unto his wives, Ada and Zillah. Hear my voice my voice. This is Lamech talking. I mean he's just really pro pro he's really uh uh pontificating here. Hear my voice, ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech. So he's got something to say. I have slain a man to my wounding and a young man to my hurt. In other words, what he's saying here is, somebody wounded me and I killed him. This guy hurt me and I slew him. Now look, you say, well what? Uh look, if Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, and that refers back to God's judgment on Cain when he killed uh Abel, if Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Elamic Shall shall be avenged seventy and sevenfold. You see what he's saying? He's saying, somebody hurts me, I'm not going to be avenged just evenly. I'm going to go over top. You hurt me, you are going to pay far more than you ever did anything to me. That was his whole mentality. Seventy, uh, what did he say? Seventy and sevenfold times vengeance is going to be poured out. This guy hurt me, I killed him. That guy wounded me, I slew him. And he's bragging on it. He's very, very proud of the fact that I take vengeance and it's multiplied to what I get. That was the whole mentality that's the whole mentality of man's sinful nature The law, as we saw in Deuteronomy and Leviticus, and Exodus, the law as God gave it, was not to nurture that type of thinking. That's already coming naturally. It was to restrain it. I put it this way, the law was not a permission for vengeance, but it was given for the administration of justice. The punishment is to fit the cry. If somebody broke your arm, you don't chop their arm off. It's it it fits the crime. It is never to be excessive. And God is instructing the judges. He's instructing the priests and the judges and the scribes here in them. to not go be excessive in their administration of justice. It was to fit the crime. It was not designed to urge men to knock out the eye of somebody that knocked their out. It wasn't to knock out the tooth of somebody that knocked their tooth out. In fact, the law doesn't even encourage that God wasn't saying you should. He wasn't saying you ought to do this. He's just saying if justice is going to be administered in this thing, this is the way you do it. And it was to restrain that spirit of vengeance. It was to avoid excessive retribution on people and keep that thing uh fair and square and not to be over and above. Now here's the important thing about all of this At no point in God's law was it given to individuals to carry out this justice in and of themselves. It was given to the judges. And so when Ken and and Derek or whatever, uh Ken uh uh cut off Derek's ear and got mad And Derek said, and so Derek, they come to Jesus, he cut my ear off and and said, all right, listen, if you're gonna go forward this, the most you can do to him is cut his ear off. You can't cut his head off Alright? And no matter how bad you want to. So that was it. It was simply for judges to administer the justice fairly and not excessively. It was not given to individuals. Can anybody see a problem if individuals could go out there and administer their form of justice On an individual basis. Anybody see a problem with that? They're not going to objectively do it because they're emotional. Ah. They're not gonna be object they're not gonna do it objectively. There's a word for that when individuals are administering justice, it's called what? Anarchy. Well it ends up being anarchy. I think the term is vigilanteism. And they tried that out west and it didn't work. They'd go find some guy and they'd hang them. Before there was no court, there was no no authorities, you just had the right, I think he did it, he's guilty, I'm gonna hang him And so the Lord is avoiding that. That's the whole point of the law. One is it's not for individuals to go out there and just administer justice, this vigilanteism, which ends up being anarchy God had authorities in place, it was all set up, there was a government was in place, and he was giving them the authority to make the decisions and the eye for eye, tooth for tooth, was not to encourage vengeance, it was simply for the administration of justice And so that's very, very important to understand. Judgment was to be, to use the legal terms, was to be equitable. It's to be even, it was to be fair. You don't be excessive in that. So that's the law. So Jesus doesn't say in Matthew, it is written. Or you have read. He says, you have heard it has been said. Now this is what the Pharisees were saying. They were taking these passages that we just read. And they were, this is my second point tonight, they were distorting it. So my first point is this, if you're writing them down, the duty required by the law was for the administrators, the judges, those in authority, legitimate authority, were to judge fairly, equitably, and uh not to be excessive. It's not has nothing to do with vengeance. as not encouraging that at all, did not require that in any way, shape, or form. But when a judgment was made, it was to be equitable. It was to be fair, not excessive. So, what did the Pharisees teach? The distortion that was advanced by the Pharisees. Now we've got to come back to Matthew here And uh he says, You have heard you have heard that it hath been said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. Now he's referring to what the Pharisees taught. There's two uh thoughts about what the Pharisees taught. First of all, they took what was a very positive precept. You cannot go beyond the the wrong that was done You cannot be excessive. It's not vengeance, it's justice, and you cannot be excessive in it. That was the positive statement. They turn uh that was the negative statement. That was the negative statement You cannot go beyond what is fair. It's not just a vengeance, it's justice. Well, they turned around and made that an aggressive thing. Eye for eye, you go after them. They did you wrong, you go after that. That was their twisting of it. The law said, don't go beyond this. The Pharisees said, make sure you do this. They took the law that was addressing justice and turned it into a justification for vengeance. Well God said eye for an eye, so Tom did me wrong, he's paying for it. You go after him. You got an open door, you got a green light, you go after him. That was their whole thing. In fact, the Pharisees had gotten to the point where they were insisting on vengeance. Did you ever hear this? Don't let them get away with that. You guys ever hear that? That's exactly, and they were using that law for that whole thing. Now, question: Should the government let criminals get away with crime? No. God is not saying, and we're going to look at this later because I want to spend more time on it than we could have tonight, but there in verse number 39, notice he says that ye resist not evil Is he saying you shouldn't stop a criminal from coming in your house? Is he saying you shouldn't stop someone from robbing a bank? Is he saying you shouldn't resist Is this somebody doing something wrong? No. We'll have to spend a little time on that. But what the Pharisees were saying was: in the slightest infraction In the slightest little offense, you have a green light from God to go after them. They had completely twisted that around. Something that was to restrain that, something that was to keep that within the the confines of the uh uh uh uh of judges and also not to be excessive they completely turned that around so the first thing they did was they turned a negative precept into a positive aggressive go after it The second thing was, and this is what we touched on, they gave personal application to a law that only had judicial application. In other words, you could be your own judge. They were promoting, as I said, vigilanteism to an extent. Somebody does you wrong, you've got an open door. And what this stuff, what the Pharisees were teaching, it was fostering a mentality of vengeance. Is that somebody does you wrong, you go after them. God is for that. That's okay. In the most insignificant areas of life. Now, look here. We'll look at this a little more in depth. But look at verse 39. What are the issues that are being addressed here? Notice that but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek. I don't know about you, but that does not sound like a life-threatening attack. This guy's not trying to kill them. In other words, you said something to them that offended them and they responded and smacked you. How do you respond? Well, you smack them back. What's gonna happen if suppose I'm giving someone the gospel and they get mad and slap me, and so I slap them back, what's gonna happen? It's gonna escalate And the Lord said the Lord isn't saying here, notice he doesn't say somebody tried stabbing you in the heart, just turn around and let them stab you in the back, too. He's not saying that. He's not saying somebody's trying to kill you, just let them kill you. And as you go down here, and these are fairly insignificant things as far as the things of God are concerned. Look what else he says. And if verse 40, if any man will sue thee at the law, take away thy coat. Ah, let him have thy cloak also. Don't go around. Oh I'm going to counter sue. Oh yeah, well I'm going to counter-counter sue you. And that thing just escalates. Then he goes on, whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile. Now that was an actual thing that took place there. We'll look at that. He says, go with them too. He said, listen, as a Christian, as a child of God, there are some things you don't worry about. They were giving personal application to a law that only had judicial application. These were cases That uh legitimate stuff, and they're applying them to the most mundane, minute little things in life. That uh uh should be just walked away. What they were doing was they were fostering, the Pharisees were fostering a mentality of vengeance. I must make them pay. I must get back at them. I must strike back. And Jesus is addressing that. So that's how they distorted it. Now let me ask you a question. Vengeance. If somebody is determined to get vengeance, who is first and foremost in that whole way of thinking Who are they thinking about the most when they're doubt for vengeance? Their selves. Their selves If somebody does me wrong and I want vengeance, I am serving self. It is all about me getting what I want. It is all about me getting vengeance. And so the Pharisees, and you can see that through all their teaching, it was a self-centered, superficial uh religion they were teaching that was not about the Lord and the things of God and the mind of Christ. It was all about themselves. It was all bad stuff. Don't commit adultery. Well, you can lust all you want, but just don't commit adultery. You can be as angry as you want, but just don't murder them. Somebody hurts you, boy, let her loose. You go after them That was the whole mentality. It was a self-centered, self-exalting mentality. So number one, we have the uh duty that the law, required by the law And that was for the judges, and it was to restrain vengeance. It wasn't to encourage it or advance it. It was equitable justice And then we have the distortion advanced by the Pharisees. Oh, you go after it, it's all about you, and you make them pay. Now we have the demeanor of Jesus' disciples, and this is where we're going to spend a little more time, but I want to introduce a few thoughts. Verse 39 he says, but I say unto you, that was the thinking of the Pharisees. You pay, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. You cut me off, I'll mow you down. Um did you see that in fact it was just in the news just a week or two ago where there was some thing on the highway, some guy cut someone off and the little and he shot a gun into the back of the pickup and a little girl got shot and killed. Do you see that? That's what he's talking about. That was vengeance. You inconvenience me. You made me mad. You cut me off. You're going to pay for that. He's going to kill a guy over a driving infraction. And so the whole law was designed to restrict that and keep that from happening. Pharisees turned that thing on its head and say, oh no, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, you go after it. And rather than seeing as a limitation, they saw it as an encouragement. Now, but then you come to verse 39, but I say unto you The Lord says, wait a minute, you've got to have a whole different demeanor about this, a whole different way of thinking. In fact, I want to suggest to you, and we'll see this as we get into it a little more later, the Lord is saying that as it's the Disciple of Christ, we have a whole different mentality about justice. A whole different way of looking at it than what the world does and what we even This superficial religion does. I say unto you, we look at this from a different perspective. Come back to Matthew, the first part of chapter 5. Let's notice carefully who's he's addressing. He's not talking to the judges. He's not down at the courthouse. He's talking to look at verse one of Matthew five. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. He kind of withdrew from the multitudes. And when he was set, who came to him? His disciples. Who is he preaching this sermon to? His disciples, people who have decided, made the decision to be followers of him. In fact, later on he gives the qualifications for being a disciples. Somebody has taken up their cross, they deny themselves and follow him. That is the people he's addressing. People who claim to be followers of Jesus Christ. People who claim To be different from the world and claim to be saved and children of God and disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, he's addressing them. And he says, I say unto you, that's the way the Pharisees They're taking the world's vengeance and trying to justify it with the law. That's what they do. Let me tell you the way it is. And so he's addressing his disciples. That's important. Disciples of Jesus Christ live by a higher standard than the world does. Disciples of Jesus Christ approach life and approach the issues of life with a different frame of mind than what the world does. Um I still I mentioned this in a message recently, but I love this phrase and they they had it when I was in Bible college, was the motto of the school. What was the phrase of the school, and I love it. It was this, distinctively Christian. And that's what the Lord Jesus Christ is saying in our thinking In our functioning, in our interaction with people, we are to be distinctively Christian. We're different than the world. We don't operate the way the world does. We don't think the way the world does. The world gets consumed with vengeance. We see it in how they behave on the roads, in the movies they make, in the books they write. Vengeance, vengeance, vengeance. I think there was a TV show there on a while ago. That was the name of the TV show was Vengeance. I just thought of that. And but Jesus says, But I say unto you, we live by a different standard. We we think differently than the world does. Value things differently than the world does. He's addressing the heart of the disciples. He's getting to the very core issue: how do you think? What is your frame of mind? The disciple as a disciple of Jesus Christ and a Wednesday night crowd, I assume I'm speaking to folks who would say yes, I'd like to think of I would like to think of myself as a disciple of Jesus Christ, a follower of Jesus Christ. As that We live by a whole different set of values than the world does. We have a different perspective on life. We have different priorities in life. And so the Lord is saying, when he makes that statement, but I say unto you, that's the way they operate, that's the way they justify their vengeance. But let me let me tell you, this is the way it is as a disciple. This is the way it is a disciple. Now, I'm tempted to go on from there, but I'm going to stop there because I want to stop and look, because he gives about three different approaches here. uh on how a Christian addresses some of these issues. And the one that captivates me and that I really want to spend some time on there is verse number uh 39 where he says that ye resist not evil. What exactly does he mean by that? Then he goes on and gives uh several um uh illustrations of what he means when he says that ye resist not evil. Uh smite thee on thy right cheek, turn them the left. He's going to sue you for something. Let him take your coat also. Once you go to Mile, go to. He asks something of you, go ahead and give it to him. Give him more than what he asks for. And it's the exact opposite of what the Pharisees were. The Pharisees said, you take. More than he took from you. Lord says, nah nah, give him more than he even takes. And um but we think differently. We think differently. What we need to do is have our minds Romans twelve, uh That we have our minds what? Anybody know? Renewed. By the renewing of your mind. That old sinful way of thinking He said, no, no, no. You're a disciple. We need that renewed. We need that change. We look at things differently. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you would help us to be distinctive, distinctively Christian. And all our interactions with people and all our dealings in this old sinful world help us not, help us not to have the mind of the world, but to have the mind of Christ. How many tonight would say, preacher, I know I'm saved, I'd like to consider myself a disciple of Christ. And you'd say, you know, I still just see on a regular basis, I see that old way of thinking, that old man's way of thinking just keeps creeping back. And I'll tell you it's ongoing. You say, preacher, pray with me, that God will help me keep my mind renewed, that I see things and function and act according to the mind of Christ and the Spirit of Christ and not of this world. Is there anybody like that, like me? It is ongoing. I am telling you, it is a lifetime challenge to keep that mind of Christ. keep that that uh distinctiveness about our spiritual maturity. And uh the Lord will teach us how. He shows us here. Father, a lot of hands raised, mine was We need you to help us on a daily basis to keep our minds stayed on Christ.