1 Peter chapter 1. I'll let you remain seated as we turn there in 1 Peter chapter 1. And I want to look at an incorruptible salvation that we enjoy today through an incorruptible Savior. 1 Peter chapter 1, I want to begin reading in verse number 1. You remember the setting of this book? This is written to strangers scattered throughout Asia. These are individuals that have come under incredible persecution under the boot and heel of Nero, and Nero's forces have been politicized by unbelieving Jews to persecute these Christians and literally make their life a hell upon earth. And to these scattered believers who have really nothing to look at in life, They're vagabonds. They're homeless. They're hunted. Notice the Spirit of God through Peter lifts their eyes to things that are not corruptible, but things that are in He says Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers scattered throughout Pontius, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. Grace unto you and peace be multiplied. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which, according to his abundant mercy, hath begotten us again unto a lively hope. By the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away reserved in heaven for you, who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, year in heaviness through manifold temptations That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. Whom having not seen ye love, in whom though now ye see him not, yet believing. You rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls. With the Lord's help today, I would like to consider an incorruptible salvation that you and I enjoy. Through an incorruptible Savior whose name is the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you today. For the privilege and honor to be gathered in your house and with your people, to hear from your word, to be ministered to by your Spirit And Lord, we thank you for the honor we have today for each of us that are saved to call you our Father. We ask in the wonderful name of the Lord Jesus Christ, our risen Savior, that you would bless our time. For the one among us, Lord, who does not know for certain that their sin debt has been paid, and they do not know for sure That when they die, heaven is their home. I pray today you would speak to their heart in a very great way, open their eyes not only to who they are. Father, not only to who you are, but Father, help them to see who your Son is, and may their faith today find a resting place in the finished work of Calvary May their faith find a resting place in Him, and may you forgive them for all their sin. For each of us that are saved, Lord, help our focus not to be simply upon this corruptible planet and this corruptible earth But help our eyes to be higher to an incorruptible inheritance, an incorruptible salvation, an incorruptible Savior. Bless this thought for every heart I pray, and I ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. An incorruptible Salvation. By way of introduction, I want you to notice something that we all know, and it's this: science operates on the assumption today. that everything is changing and decaying. It would be referred to as the law of entropy. Things do not get better on their own, they wind down, they decay, they fall apart. In fact, the law of entropy today totally throws down the theory of evolution. Everything's decaying. Everything's corrupting. You and I think about even our own being. You and I are slowly decaying. We're slowly corrupting. We're slowly Fading away. I wrote by way of introduction: what's true of the universe in general is also true of us in particular. As soon as we are born, we begin to die We decay, we decline, we go into corruption as I age, I recognize this law so well This would be a very depressing thought today if we did not have the glorious truth of the unchanging gospel and person of Jesus Christ. Here in 1 Peter chapter 1, the Spirit of God through Peter shows us three great incorruptibles. It's fascinating to me. It's one of the few chapters in your entire Bible, but show us all three of these. And I want you to circle three verses. Verse number four is our first great incorruptible. It's an incorruptible inheritance. Second of all, in verse number 19 We see the second great incorruptible, and that would be the precious blood of Jesus Christ. And then thirdly, in verse number 23, we find the third and final incorruptible. It is the Word of God which liveth And abideth for how long? Forever. Three great incorruptibles that collectively speak to what every believer, every person who's trusted Christ as Savior has They speak to our incorruptible salvation. As we begin the thought, let's recognize what does it mean to be incorruptible? Well, the idea of incorruption is this. It's not liable to corruption or decay. It's something that's imperishable. It's something that's immortal. It's not temporary. It's forever. And something that's incorruptible will never fade. And it will never diminish, and will it will never deteriorate in value. The first great incorruptible we find is the crown of our salvation. Look with me in 1 Peter chapter 1. It's identified here in verse 3 and 4. The Bible says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope By the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to and inheritance, what's the word Say it loudly with me, incorruptible and undefiled and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven You know, the first great incorruptible I refer to as the crown of our salvation. It is an incorruptible inheritance in heaven. Do you know tonight this morning that do you understand that heaven is never going to fade away? Do you understand heaven's never going to deteriorate? You understand that everything in heaven is eternal, it's unchanging, it is not subject to the laws of entropy. It is an incorruptible inheritance. I just remind you, the song says it well, this world is not my home. We're just the passing through. Our treasures are laid up somewhere beyond the blue, and maws cannot corrupt our treasure in heaven Thieves cannot break through and steal our treasure in heaven, amen. It is an incorruptible inheritance And you say, well, how did I, a corruptible mortal, end up with an incorruptible inheritance called heaven? Well, it's noted right here in verse 3. Look with me. He said, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again. You know what that literally means? We've been birthed again. We've been born again. John 3. 3 says, ye must be born again. You cannot see the kingdom of heaven unless you've been born again. And that means born from above. Amen. Not a physical birth, but a spiritual rebirth through the person of Jesus Christ. And notice this birth comes. He says, He hath begotten us again unto a what kind of hope? What's the word there? A lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. If you're taking notes, his abundant mercy, according to verse 3, hath begotten us again. Under what kind of hope? A lively hope. Now, hope is an interesting word. I don't think you and I realize scripturally how powerful the word hope is. You know, we use hope in an interesting way. We use it as a vague wish. You know what I mean? We use it in the sense of simply positive thinking. You know, it's almost when we use the word hope, it's almost like Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz. Oh, I hope that I will, you know, clicking the heels together, I hope this works, I hope this happens, I hope it's not a but scripture doesn't describe hope as a vague wish Hope, when you see it in the Word of God, is an earnest expectation. It's something we're planning on. It's something we are counting on, and it's not this finger-crossed moment, especially for the believer, because our hope. is a lively hope. Amen. Now I'll be the first to admit a lot of people I meet hope to go to heaven one day. Amen? And when I ask them, well, how do you hope to get there? This is often what I hear. Well, I hope to go to heaven because I did this or didn't do that. Or I kept the law. Notice at that very moment, in their answer, they give you the object of their hope. The very object of their hope is them. They are the object of their hope. Do you know for the believer that's not the object of our hope? This earnest expectation we have of going to heaven today does not rest on us. But it rests upon a living Savior, who is the first fruits of those who slept. You see, your hope is only as good as the object of your hope. And for us, the object of our hope is a living Savior. You know, this is what sets our hope apart from all other religions. In a single single statement You know what sets Christianity apart from all the others, from Buddha to Muhammad? What sets Christianity apart? Why? Why is ours so unique, our hope for life after death? Rest upon one single thing, and that's the resurrection of Jesus Christ. You and I need to recognize that All other other religious leaders died. All other religious leaders were buried. All other religious leaders, they saw corruption. But Jesus Christ did not. In fact, Acts chapter 2 says he saw no corruption. He was an incorruptible redeemer. And you and I need to recognize our hope is not dead today as we sing about our risen Savior because the object of our hope is not dead. And you and I need to recognize that our hope is alive because the object of our hope is alive. Go to 1 Corinthians 15 and look at this. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, notice what the Word of God declares. The Spirit of God through Paul to the church at Corinth says this in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. He says in verse 50, he says, now this I say, brethren, 1 Corinthians 15, 50. The flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Notice this, neither doth corruption inherit incorruption. That's a a spiritual impossibility. Corruptible cannot inherit incorruption. Something has to change. Notice, behold, I show you a mystery, we shall not all sleep, which means Die, but we shall all be changed in a moment, in a twinkling of an eye, at the last trump. For the trumpet shall sound, the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed For this corruptible, that would be your and my tabernacle of flesh, must put on incorruption. This mortal must put on immortality. And notice, so when this corruptible shall put on incorruption, this mortal shall put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory O death, where is thy grave sting? O grave, where is thy victory? Well the sting of death is sin And the strength of sin is the law, but thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. We serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today. And I know that he is living, whatever men may say. And that risen Savior. In January of 1980, became the object of my hope for heaven. And let me tell you, my hope is a living hope because the object of my hope is a living Savior. Who was the first fruits of them that slept? Is your hope living today? Does your hope trust in what you're doing? Or is it trusting in what he already did 2,000 years ago? And he rests in the finished work of Calvary and an empty tomb that could not hold our Saviour Christian, with all the variables around us in life today, recognize that through this living hope we enjoy the first great incorruptible, and that's an incorruptible inheritance called heaven It's imperishable. Time will not destroy heaven. It's undefiled. Sin cannot defile it. And thirdly, it's unfailing. It fadeth not away. Go back to 1 Peter before we go to our second great incorruptible. It fadeth not away. And notice these incredible words. If you know Jesus Christ as your Savior, the Bible says This inheritance is reserved in heaven for you. Wow. I have in Jesus Christ a heavenly reservation. Do you? Could you tell me about the day this Savior became your Savior and you became a joint heir with His, with Him, and now everything He owns belongs to you as well. You talk about an inheritance. What an inheritance. And it's undefiled and it's reserved in heaven for every single person who names the name of Christ as their Savior. I wrote this down if time cannot change it, sin cannot defile it. And eternity cannot dim heaven's glory. You can see why Peter in this epistle so could so quickly dismiss the earthly plight and condition of these scattered believers in light of their eternal weight of glory. One old preacher said it this way. Christian, after your long journey through life, your Heavenly Father will welcome you home without one inch of red tape. Without any searching for the reservation, and with an inheritance that will always be new, fresh, and exciting It will never fade. It will never lose its wonder. It is forever incorruptible. The first great incorruption is the crown of our salvation. It's an incorruptible inheritance. But go back to 1 Peter 2, because we see the second great incorruptible. It's found in 1 Peter chapter 1 and look with me in verse number 18 and let and recognize without this second great incorruptible You and I cannot enjoy the first great incorruptible, which is heaven's glories. Look at this in 1 Peter chapter 1. The second great incorruptible is noted here in verse 18. He says, For as much as ye know that ye were not, well, there's an interesting word, redeemed, brought back, paid for. You were not set free with corruptible things. And then he lists them as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers. But here's what you were redeemed by, brought back, and purchased with, but with the precious blood of Christ. As of a lamb without blemish and without spot. Oh, here we find a second great incorruptible that will never fade. It will never deteriorate. It will never lose its value. It's the incorruptible blood of Jesus Christ. You notice here that you're and my salvation, and the forgiveness of our sin was not purchased with something corruptible. Notice you you cannot buy incorruptible things with corruptible things. Whatever you purchase that's incorruptible that of is of inf finite value has to be purchased with something of equal or greater value. This is why the Bible says you cannot buy your salvation Which is eternal, with something that is temporal, which is silver and gold. Amen. Notice you're my salvation in 1 Peter chapter 1 is being viewed not in the light of time But it's being viewed in the light of eternity. And you understand in eternity, gold and silver have virtually no value. Scripture describes them as simply pavement or asphalt in heaven's glories. Amen. Remember the humorous illustration of a man with a wheelbarrow full of gold? Somebody said, What do you do with that? Well I want to get that Up to heaven when I go. And somebody said, Why would you bring a wheelbarrow full of asphalt to a wonderful city like that? You know, gold and silver during time has great value. Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk, with their multiple billions, can purchase almost everything. But there's some things their money cannot buy I wrote this down that money is the universal provider for everything except happiness. Money is the universal passport for everywhere except heaven. You can buy your way across this globe, you can buy your way into hotels, you can Buy your way into ships, you can buy your way into businesses, but you will never with gold and silver buy your way into heaven. If you visited hell this morning, there's not a single person in hell who has not been washed in the blood of the Lamb Amen. And if you visit heaven right now this morning, there's not a single person up there that is there without the blood of Jesus Christ. It's the blood of Jesus Christ that pays for sin It's the cost and price of redemption A couple years ago, one of our daughters, she's the last of the singles, all our children are married. We have twelve grandchildren now. 13th on the way, all ten and under. Gotta be in that reunion. A little like herding cats. And that's when you appreciate the fact you don't have them all 24-7. Your grandparents can wind them up, give them soda, and turn them back to mom and dad, you know. They are God's second chance because as parents we don't always get everything right. And it's great to tweak it a little bit and do some things with the grandkids and show a little more relationship. It isn't quite there because life's not as busy as it was when we raised the kids. I forgot where I was going, but that was a good one. Just pause and think this through, okay? You'll get old one day too. If you're online, just wait it out and go get your cup of coffee That was a good thought. I'll go back with where I know I was. Incorruptible. Cannot purchase, or corruptible cannot purchase incorruptible. It's the precious blood of Christ makes all the difference, amen. We can buy our way into a lot of things, but you'll never buy your way into heaven. Oh, that's what it was. My daughter who's single See, none of you helped me. So none of you were listening anyhow, so For her 30th birthday, she had some debt she still owed to dad and mom. All our kids were out of debt when they finished college. She was nuclear med, so we went halves with her and we paid our half and then picked up some slack. She's now on staff at Hope Children's Home, working that ministry, there being an incredible influence, a rescue home out of Tampa. And I told Deb, I said, you know, Deb, what's on my heart is that debt that that Robin knows, I'd like to pay that off. What do you think? And she said, Oh, I think she would love that for her 30th birthday. So I bought me a little stamper that said paid in red ink. Went ahead and took the accounting books and the ledger of where all the balance was and the payment record that was made over the years. And I went ahead and stamped paid and put the balance to zero. Put that in her birthday card. Said, we love you. The debt is paid. It was interesting as I sent that card out. I actually couldn't wait for the day she would open it. Her birthday was about a week out. Because I knew I'd get a call and I'd hear some joy. And sure enough, the call came in. Is it dad? Are you being serious? I mean, I don't owe a thing. Dad, I don't deserve that. I said, I know, I know who you are I have a nickname for her, it's Denny. But Dinny, I said That's what mercy's all about. And mom and I want to pay the bill. I want to tell you something, but she got a lot of joy seeing that paid. But you cannot understand how much joy I got as I stamped that thing and wrote paid in full and sent it off to her I received as much joy as she did, and I want to tell you something. When a sinner takes a knee and trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, suddenly the blood of Jesus Christ gets put on their account and the sin that they have get put on his account. And I'm going to tell you, there's a lot of joy that came the day I got saved, but there was joy in heaven also, because I believe my Father gets as much joy out of granting forgiveness as you and I get receiving it. If you're here without Jesus Christ, may I remind you? He would much rather forgive your sin than judge it. Because he's a God who delights in mercy. And shame on you if you decide to reject the payment for your sin. You cannot change God. He's eternally holy. He's eternally undefiled. He's eternally separate from sinners And if you do not come to him with the payment for your sin that he provided, then you pay for it yourself, and it'll cost you eternity trying to do that. There's something sweet about paid in full. Have you been paid in full? It'll take the blood of Jesus Christ to do that. You'll have to come to Jesus to get the payment. He's the one who gave it. Go to Exodus with me and look in Exodus chapter 12 before we go to that third incorruptible in Exodus chapter 12. The world's oldest holiday is noted here, its inception in the land of Egypt under the hand of Pharaoh The world's oldest holiday isn't Christmas. The world's oldest holiday isn't Hanukkah. The world's oldest holiday is the Passover. And what a picture of payment. And what a picture of innocent blood that saves and rescues in Exodus chapter 12. Moses and Aaron are being instructed. And look with me in verse 2. They tell the camp of Israel the following In Exodus twelve two, this month shall be unto you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to you Speak ye unto all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth day of this month they shall take to them every man, underline those next two words, a Lamb. Underline those. A lamb. According to the house of their fathers, a lamb for an house. Verse 4. And if the house will be too little for, underline those next two words. The Lamb. The Lamb. Let him and his neighbor next unto his house take it according to the number of souls. Every man according to his eating shall make your count for the lamb. Verse 5: underline those next two words: your lamb. shall be without blemish. A male of the first year, she ye shall take it out from the sheep or from the goats, he shall keep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month, and then the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel. Shall kill it in the evening. Watch now. Verse 7. They shall take of the blood and strike it on the two side posts and on the upper door post of the houses wherein they shall eat it. Why Verse 12, for I will pass through the land of Egypt this night, God says, I will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, and against all the gods of Egypt. I will execute judgment, I am the Lord. And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where ye are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt. Here we see the focus and significance of innocent blood. You say, what pays for somebody's sin? Is it silver and gold? No Is it righteous living? No. Is it church membership? No. God's not looking for your baptism. God's not looking for your church membership. God's not looking for all the good things you did and the bad things you didn't do. He says in Leviticus 17, 11, the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I've given it to you upon the altar. That's sacrifice, for it is the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul. What does God use to balance the books and pay the sin debt of a sinner? He uses innocent blood. That's it. An FYI, you don't have it, because you're a sinner by nature and choice. You can shed all your blood for your own sins. It won't pay for a single one of your sins because your blood is sinful blood. But someone had innocent blood. Amen. His name The Lord Jesus Christ. He's personified in Isaiah 53. The man becomes a lamb led to the slaughter and like a sheep. He's then identified in John 1. 29 by John the Baptist. Behold The Lamb of God, he said, of Jesus Christ, which taketh away the sin of the world. He's crucified in Luke As the Lamb of God slain for sinners, he's glorified in Revelation 5. As a lamb, he's glorified. And he's coming again soon. And let me say this It's the Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, who alone lived the sinless life you could never live. Died the sinless death you could never die. And then rose again to grant eternal life to all who trust in him. The song says it well. Christ our Redeemer died on the cross, died for the sinner, paid all his due. All who believe him are free from the wrath, and he says, I will pass, I will pass over you. When I see the blood, when I see the blood When I see the blood, I will pass, I will pass over you. Oh, the song says it so well God's not looking for your righteousness. God's not looking for your baptism. God's not looking for your good living. God's not looking for your church membership. God is looking for the innocent blood of Jesus Christ. It's the incorruptible blood that pays for corruptible people and sinners like you and me. What can wash away my sin? Jesus What can make me whole again? I be much love Jesus. Oh my Notice in Exodus twelve, there's a lamb. Notice there's the lamb. But the big one is he your lamb He became my lamb in January of 1980. He became Pastor Leatherman's lamb, applied to the door of his heart, that innocent blood by faith. In May of 1979. And if we raised our hands and testified, I believe we have many here today And some viewing in right now that would say, I could tell you about the day that my faith found a resting place not in what I was doing, but what Jesus Christ already did for me When he shed the incorruptible blood for the redemption of my sinful soul. I believe you could tell me about the day the Lamb became your Lamb. We have an incorruptible salvation that brings us an incorruptible inheritance through the incorruptible blood of Jesus Christ. Go back to 1 Peter as we wind these thoughts down. And all of this is given to us by promise through God's incorruptible word. Notice he says in verse 23 of 1 Peter 1, you and I have been born again, not of corruptible seed. But of incorruptible, and now he identifies it by the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. You know, really, when you think about who we have in Jesus Christ, the ultimate thing that tells us That we're saved and who to trust in and how the price of our sin is paid is the Word of God In fact, if you were to take this Bible right now and just throw it away and say you can never use one reference, I would have nothing, really almost nothing, that would tell me That Jesus Christ is the only way to heaven. And that the only way I can have my sins forgiven is by trusting Him as Savior. But you and I don't have the words of a man telling us this. We have the Word of God And Scripture tells us that heaven and earth shall pass away. But God says, my words will not pass away. Do you have God's word on what you believe today? Or do you just have your word? Your opinion? It sounds something like this. Well, I think It sounds something like this. Well, I believe that everybody just has to find their own way. See, it's it's It's your word. Where do you get that from? Well, I just, it's my opinion. That's good. But I want to tell you something about your opinion. That won't last forever. For one day every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess God's opinion, that Jesus Christ is Lord. To the glory of God the Father, of things above the earth, on the earth, and even Satan himself under the earth, with a hiss and a snarl, will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. You know, God's opinion is what matters today. You know, if I was just telling you all this off the top of my head, frankly, my opinion is no better or worse than yours. But I've given you the Word of God today. This is God's mind. This is God's opinion. And everything I've preached, I've got God's word on it. That my salvation is secure in a risen Savior who shed innocent blood for my filthy sin debt. I've got God's word on it, that because Jesus is mine, I have eternal life. That's the word you want. And notice with me, go back to 1 Corinthians 15, as we close this out, recognize the necessity of Jesus Christ today on this resurrection Sunday. Look with me in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. For everything that you would desire to never fade and never go away that would be eternal is found in the package of Jesus Christ. The forgiveness you crave and need, it's found in Jesus Christ. The eternal life you crave and need, it's found in Jesus Christ. The escape from the grave, you crave it, you need that. It's found in Jesus Christ. He's the only one that defeated death. He's the package. He has it all. And notice this, this incredible necessity in 1 Corinthians 15 as we close today. Look at what's said, 1 Corinthians 15 in verse 45. Prior to this triumph of victory over the grave in verse 57, the thanks to God for the victory that Jesus Christ brings in resurrection, look at how he's identified in verse 45. He says, and so it is written, the first man Adam was made a living soul, but the last Adam was made a whoa quickening spirit You know what that word means? Life-giving. Whoever the second Adam was, he was not a mere mortal. He was a life-giving. He was a quickening spirit Well, who is he? Well, notice in verse 47, he's identified, 1 Corinthians 15. The first man is of the earth earthy. We know him as Adam. The second man is who? He's the Lord from heaven. Who was this Jesus Christ? Really, who was he? Some would say he was a great prophet. He was, but he was bigger than that. He was a quickening or life-giving spirit. Some would say he was a great teacher, but he was bad, but he was bigger than that. He's a quickening or life-giving spirit. And notice he's not just the second Adam. He's the last Adam. You know what that tells me this morning as we close? He's God's final choice and answer for forgiveness and life after death. It's Jesus Christ. There's not another one coming. Amen? There's not an alternate route He's not one of many. He's it. He's God's final choice to see you forgiven and to give you a resurrection from the dead and give you heaven as your home. As I was talking to some of you, I connected with some of my sailor and Marine Corps friends. And I know there's always that bat around between the branches, you know. And I won't get into all that, but I do know this, when it's incoming, we're all on the same side. There's no bullet with a branch name on it But I really enjoyed meeting this young man here, and I I won't I won't say your name for two reasons. One, I don't want to embarrass you. Second of all, I forgot it, but it does start with a J Doesn't get better with age, does it? A corruptible. I am so glad I have an incorruptible Savior who's given me an incorruptible heaven and a brand new incorruptible body and a mind. It's going to be great But as we were chatting, I gave that family from Tennessee my story, and he immediately pegged on my flight jacket and said, A6s. I said EA6s. And both of us serve time on flat tops, aircraft carriers. I remember as a Marine one of the unique drills that they would have. There were a lot of them, but one of them was called Rig the Barricade. I could still hear the klaxons go, the alarm sound, Rig the Barricade, Rig the Barricade, and we'd come funneling up out of the bowels of that gray beast And up on top of the deck was a tow truck over on one side. He had two big giant cables with canvas rags between them And he came spinning out with that tow truck, bringing it across the entire flight deck, and then we Marines and sailors would grab those cables facing each other and we'd snap them and snap them and they would stretch those cables tighter and tighter. And and and then it would just spread out, and those rags all there, the canvas, it would spread, stretch, and then they'd stand that thing up about a hundred feet from the end of the fantail It was the barricade. The barricade was for one particular moment. It was for the pilot who was low on fuel. It was for the pilot who didn't have a tail hook. He he he was riddled full of bullets. He came from combat and he didn't have a chance to do a go-around. He couldn't try to tailhook those one of those four wires. He was low on fuel. He had one shot to put this thing down. And all that pilot had to do when that barricade would go up is nothing fancy. He just had to direct his cripple craft to the barricade. And like a giant butterfly net, that thing would catch him and keep him from the depths of the ocean and death. One day, our God raised a spiritual barricade for every man and woman, boy and girl. And it wasn't canvas and cable. was an old rugged cross with his one and only sinless son And he said, This is who I offer to you for forgiveness He lived that life you could never live and died the perfect death you could never die. And he's not just any savior. He's a quickening or life-giving savior. If you'll direct your filthy soul to him. Just direct yourself there. You're low on righteousness. You don't have enough to get all the way to heaven. With your little craft, amen. You're full of holes from wicked decisions, sin, sinner by nature, sinner by choice. You cannot save yourself. You can't save yourself. You can direct Your filthy, sinful self, though, to a Savior who's the last Adam and the quickening or life-giving spirit For every single one of us. If you miss him, if you miss him, you miss life. If you miss Jesus Christ, you understand this? You miss eternal life. You stay forever dead in trespasses and sins, and you'll never be quickened and made alive through Jesus Christ. He is God's answer. For the death inside you, and the decay and the corruption that you are. Amen. This is why 1 John says this. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. And then he adds, these things that are written to you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. There'll come a day you'll die. There'll come a day the grave will meet you Will that moment just be a celebration of your life? Or will it be something bigger? Will it be a celebration of your eternal life? Because you trusted this Jesus Christ with his incorruptible blood Who had no corruption and defeated death, you trusted him to be your savior of all that you have today. I pray in a day of corruption, you have an incorruptible salvation because this incorruptible Savior is yours. Amen. Let's pray. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. His heads are bowed and eyes are closed. We don't need to stand. I want to say this I cannot offer and I cannot give you life. This church cannot make you come alive There's not a single religious ceremony in this world that gives you life. Life comes only one way through a living and risen Savior who saw no corruption. And he offers an incorruptible salvation to sinners just like you and me, through faith in his incorruptible blood. He says in John 11, as heads are bowed and eyes are closed, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. And oh, listen to this question. Jesus Christ Himself asked this: Believest thou this? Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. You say, preacher, I don't know a lot. But I know this, I don't want to go to hell. But I'm not 100% sure I'm going to heaven. And no one's looking around, and I'm not going to call on you, but I want to pray for you. This older guy that is an 18-year-old Marine found eternal life in Jesus Christ, I have a connection with God through him now. I'd like to pray for you. I'm not going to call on you. I'm not going to embarrass you. Everybody's heads are bowed. I'm the only one looking around. You say, preacher, I'm not sure. Heaven is my home. But I'd like you to remember me in prayer. Just look up and catch my eye. Look right back down. Once you catch mine, Lord bless you. I'll pray for you, son. Will there be another say, just pray for me? I'm not going to come to you. I'm not going to embarrass you. I'm not going to call you out. But I'd love to pray for you. Just look up and catch my eye. I can pray for two just as easily as one. Would there be another? Say, preacher, pray for me. I'm just not sure. This incorruptible inheritance and salvation is mine. But I'd like to have you pray for me. Would you trust me? Would there be another safe preacher? Pray for me. Just look up. Just catch my eye. Just catch my eye. Christian, when's the last time? All you have in Jesus Christ Trumped all the struggles you're going through. And you focused on your heavenly inheritance that's reserved for you And it put joy in your heart, knowing heaven was your home and your sins were forgiven. And rather than complaining, you're rejoicing in your Savior. Though the trials of life are there, when's the last time you just said thank you? That's what this day is about as well. Thank you, Lord. I don't have to go to hell. Thank you, Lord, and your son. I've been quickened and made alive, and I'm going to heaven. Thank you for the heaven that's reserved for me. It's undefiled. It'll never fade. Lord, thank you for all my sins being paid for by the incorruptible blood of the Lamb. And thank you, Father, you've given me your word. On all of this, it's so. Your word will never perish. It's forever. Father, we want to say thank you for our salvation today. We want to say thank you for the incorruptible blood of your Son. Lord, how you did for us what we could never do for ourselves. We want to say thank you for that quickening spirit in the person of Jesus Christ. We want to say thank you for that day that our faith found a resting place. And what your son did almost 2,000 years ago. We serve a risen Savior now. And our hope is so alive because your son is so alive. We thank you for resurrection and life in the person of your son. Lord, for the believers here today that are burdened with cares and concerns. There's trials, there's tribulations, there's problems. Lord, I pray that you would lift their eyes above this brief temporary existence. Focus them, Lord, instead on what they have as an eternal inheritance. Father, the purchased incorruptible blood of Jesus Christ that paid for their sins and purchased them. And Lord, your word that never fades away. Lord, lift our eyes from the earthly existence to the heavenly. May you put joy in our hearts that will cause others to consider this Savior whom we have. For the one among us, and maybe others. Didn't look up. How I pray today. And just respond and get some help. May they crumble at Calvary Lord, may they visit the empty tomb in their heart. May they embrace what your son did for them, and may their faith find a resting place in Jesus Christ alone. I pray you'd save them today. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed.