Ecclesiastes chapter three if you would find your Bibles turn to Ecclesiastes chapter three. All right, I got a message today from Mary Gravely. And uh She, of course, is the one who critiques my jokes so thoroughly. So these actually come from her mother. uh Sherry and says Mary has new jokes for you and they are really good. I think she's listening in now. Um So here's the first one. It's a question. What are the strongest days of the week? Anybody know? Saturday and Sunday, because the rest are just weekdays. Alright, here's the second one. Why are cats afraid of trees? They are scared of its bark. She said these are some of the best ones yet. Oh brother Mary, come on, you can do better than that. Alright, I apologize for that. That was Mary Gravely's fault. And we'll try and do better. Alright, Ecclesiastes chapter 3. I want to read verse 9 and 10. And uh but we're only going to look at verse nine. And really what I want to do tonight is I think verse nine is setting up the next few verses. He's kind of introducing uh a few statements he's going to make later on. I'm going to read nine and ten, but we're only only going to look at verse number nine. Ecclesiastes chapter three. He says this, what prophet hath he that worketh in in that wherein he laboreth. Let me read that again. What profit hath he that worketh in therein wherein he laboreth I have seen the travail which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised in it. Then he comes on down there, verse 11, he says, He hath made all things. He has made everything beautiful in his time, and he comes down. But verse number nine, he asks a question, and I think it's a very, very important question. He says this, what prophet hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboreth. What profit hath he? Let's pray. I'll just give some introductory thoughts and then Lord will and in the following message we'll uh try and answer that question maybe. Let's pray together. Father Again, I'm grateful for a good day, Lord. It's been a blessing. I thank you so much for the body of Christ here that's such a privilege to be a part of. And now, Lord, as we finish out another Sunday, they just seem to race by, Father, we pray you'd just stir our hearts and Lord tweak our thinking and our perspective as we go into this workweek. I pray that you would fill each of us that know you as Savior, fill us with your Spirit, that we can be an effective witness this coming week of your salvation and your glory. Pray you'd fill us with the joy of the Lord. Lord, give us purpose and meaning. Help us to understand what our purpose and meaning is here in life so that we can be effective, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Uh I don't know, I think um for me the monitors sound pretty loud, Brother Dane. Um Solomon, as we've been going through here We've made it he's made it very, very clear. Solomon is attempting to do what a lot of people in our world are attempting to do, and that is this. He's trying to live his life independent of God He's trying to live his life, and what's the term we keep coming back to? It's repeated all through the book. What's the term he's trying to live under the sun? Uh he's trying to live life as if there's nothing beyond the here and now, the physical what I can see, feel, taste, touch, smell Nothing beyond this. There's no supernatural. There's no spiritual. Now, he doesn't deny God's existence. He's simply ignoring it. He's simply trying to live independent of it. He's living his life under the sun. And we see that in the world today. Now, here's the question that came up as I was preparing this and working on this. How did he get to this point? You know, Solomon was the wisest man ever. Solomon was div given uh uh supernatural wisdom. This he is the tremendous prophet. God used him to record several books of the Bibles. It's Proverbs Uh a tremendous book, tremendous wisdom, Song of Solomon. And uh how why is he doing this And I think if I could address Solomon and be allowed to ask him one question, my question would be this: Solomon, how did you get to this point? What in the world possessed you? To try and live your life independent of God. You live for years trusting God. You live for years with God's favor on your life and God's blessings on your life. With victory and glory, what in the world possesses you to try and live now without God? Why would you do that? And you know, we don't know the answer to that. The Bible doesn't tell us. Oh, well, one of his wives drew him away from the Lord, so that's a factor, absolutely. But what would possess him to even pursue that? I got thinking, I wonder if I wonder if his daddy's failures aren't a factor in this. No, Solomon was born of a woman that was not really David's wife. And if you look carefully after David's fall with Bathsheba, His family starts falling apart and uh he lost Absalom and a number of events there. And so I got thinking and I wonder if that's a factor. I wonder if David's weakness towards Bathsheba produced in Solomon a weakness towards women which drew him away. I don't know. I'm not saying that's the reason. I'm trying to speculate a little bit Um I got another thing, I thought maybe the prosperity experienced. You know, he had unprecedented riches. He had unprecedented peace in Israel. There never was a period of time where there was such extended peace as there was, I believe, under Solomon. And so he didn't have any wars to fight. He didn't have any needs to be met And sometimes prosperity will hurt a person spiritually more than prover poverty will. Sometimes having all my needs, having no needs is harder on me spiritually than having great needs. And so I don't know the answer to that exactly how he ended up and why he started thinking this way. Nevertheless Here he is living his life under the sun and he has pushed God completely out of his thinking. He's running into two problems. Now we touched on this, I believe, last week. One is, and it's actually all through so far, One problem is he's not getting the results he wants. He's trying to live his life without God, but it's not working out the way he would like for it to. I would like to push he he this is his thinking. I would like to push God out of my thinking, but I would still like to have peace in my heart. I would still like to have purpose in my life. I would still like to have meaning and fulfillment in my life. I just don't want God included in it. And I'll tell you right now, that's impossible. It's impossible. There is no peace. The Bible says there is no rest for the wicked So when I push God out of my life, I am producing a vacuum in my life which produces tremendous vexation of spirit. And Sir Solomon is trying to do the impossible. He's trying to find meaning and purpose, at the same time excluding life. Instead of finding meaning, he's finding vanity. Instead of finding fulfillment, He's finding vexation of spirit. I was watching the news a little bit and a lot of the nonsense going on down in DC and the uh they call they're trying to pass it off as protest. It's simply rioting And anarchy is all it is. Um and uh and then not just D C but nations around the uh cities around the world this has taken place. And I'm looking at it the other day, yesterday or last night, or whenever I was watching some clips of what was going on, and you know, it it just it's unsettling. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You just look at it, it's unsettling That people, grown adults, would behave this way. And as I'm watching it, this term kept coming to my mind: Vexation of Spirit. These people are obviously very, very vexed. And I'll tell you my take on it. I don't think the problem is who the president is or who the vice president is or who any any politician is. The pro their problem is with God. And they and we live in a world, as Randy was implying, we're living a world that is pushing God out more and more and more. And you know what we're seeing in this place? More and more vexation of spirit, more and more frustration, more and more emptiness, more and more depression, more and more misery, more and more anger. And Solomon's finding that same thing, and that's not what he's wanting. That's not the result he's looking for But it's the natural result of living under the sun. And there's another problem Solomon's facing. One is he's not getting results he wants. His life is getting emptier and emptier and emptier. He's getting more and more miserable. He's getting more and more frustrated. The other problem he's facing is he's trying to push God out, but God keeps showing up. And remember we noticed the last several passages, God is sovereign. And Solomon can think he's running his world, and Solomon can think he's calling the shots. But he really isn't. There's a God above the sun who rules in this world. And Solomon is trying to push him out, yet God keeps showing up. And that's what happens in the world. Um God keeps showing up. The more this world tries to push them out, God will raise someone up, and they're going to quote 2 Chronicles 714. Somebody's gonna show up and they're gonna run into a Bible verse, they're gonna run into God's hands somewhere, somehow. I was reading an article this afternoon. I don't know, I can't verify this I was reading an article this afternoon. Some mathematician back in 1979 came up with a mathematical formula, and it's about a half a page long, x equals y over c mc times 4x2R3. Um and all the you know what I'm talking about, these mathematical things. It just goes on, pages, it just goes down, down, down. And his conclusion was mathematics proves there is a God. And it's like wow. So he died. And apparently recently two uh mathematicians, phenomenal mathematicians, I think one was from France, another one from Norway or somewhere They picked up that mathematical equation he came up with and they ran it through these superpowered computers. And you know what their conclusion was? Their conclusion was mathematics tells us there is a God. I don't know how that all worked out, but I'll take it, you know, hey. And the idea was this, that this mathematical equation proves that there is no power higher, that there is a supreme power. I don't know how this works out. But there is a supreme power that is above everything else, and there is no power higher than that power. And the answer is that's God That's God. I don't know how that worked into my message, but uh do-white this is it. God keeps showing up And Solomon's getting a little bit frustrated here. I'm trying to live without you, God. And oh, there's God again. And then there's God again. He sees God's hand here So he's finding out that this world and life is controlled by God a whole lot more than he realized. So a sure way to realize how badly we need God is to try and live without it. It's one sure way. How many people recognize the name Richard Daly? Anybody older folks remember Richard Daly? Mayor Richard Daly. Mayor of where? Chicago. He was notorious for being kind of a thug Really a political thug. He's very, very powerful in some circles. He was very popular. And uh he had, and and this is a little before my time, I think this was back in what the sixties Uh you old folks remember that. Um but uh uh anyway he uh I'm told from what I read about him he had a phenomenal ego. He thought he was the greatest thing uh in the world Well, I came across this story about Richard Daly, and he said one fall, his speechwriter, one of his main speechwriters, demanded a raise. Now, according to this record, this was unheard of that anybody would have the gall to ask Mayor Richard Daly for a raise. But this guy did. He was pretty good. He thought he deserved it. And uh he responds, he says, I'm not going to give you a raise. This is his quote, you're getting paid more than enough already. Listen to this. It should be enough for you that you get to work for a great American hero. Well, the speechwriter eventually gave his notice that he was leaving. Daly was scheduled to speak on Veterans Day to a large group of veterans. And he demanded that this speechwriter write his speech and make it a good one for this big day for all these veterans and all this. And so the speechwriter said, I'll do it. Now according to what I'm reading here, Daly was famous for not reading his speeches ahead of time. He would just wing it. And so he started his speech. He didn't read it ahead of time. This guy wrote it. And uh this person recording this says the speech was passionate and it was engaging. Then Daly got to this point in the speech, and he made this statement. He's talking to veterans, huge crowd of veterans. He says, I have a heart for you, I'm concerned about you. I'm deeply convinced that this country needs to take care of its veterans. I have not forgotten about you Then he then said this. I am proposing a 17-point program at the city, state, and federal level for us to take care of our veterans. They said the crowd was hanging on his every word. They were excited to hear what Daly was going to say. Daly was excited to hear what he was going to say. They said he turned the page and he saw these words. You're on your own now, you great American hero He found out pretty quick that he needed that speechwriter a whole lot more than he thought he did. And my point I'm trying to make is this. The best way to find out how badly you need God Try and live a little while without it. Try and find meaning and purpose in life without God. Trying to find fulfillment and direction in life without God. we come up pretty short and the world, though they don't probably recognize it, we see that in the world all around us. And so, from his perspective, Solomon's perspective, under the sun, he's pushed God out. He asks he asks one question. One question is clearly expressed, but I think there's an implied question here also. So I want us to consider this question, these questions. Number one, look at verse nine. What profit hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboreth? Here's the first question Solomon's asking. What profit is there in life under the sun? If all life consists of is what is under the sun, what value is there in it? What prophet is there in it? Now it's interesting. This is not the first time he's asked this question. It's not the first time he's addressed this issue. Come back to chapter one with me, if you'll remember In verse number 3, he said basically the same thing. Look what he says, verse 1, chapter 1, verse 3. For what profit hath a man of all his labor, which he taketh what? under the sun. This is bugging him. This is eating at him. I think Solomon was a hard worker. We know he was. He didn't squander his time. He worked. He gave several areas he applied himself to very diligently, and he keeps coming up empty. And under the sun, what prophet is there? Look at chapter 2 and verse number 11. He addresses the same issue. Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought. And on the labor that I had labored to do, and behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and there was what? No prophet under the sun. Become to chapter five. Look with me at verse number sixteen. He says, and this also is a sore evil, that in all points as he came, so shall he go. What profit hath he that laboreth? What profit hath he that hath labored for the wind? Man, I've worked my whole life, applied myself, and worked hard, worked hard, and under the sun. What good has it done me? What has it profited me? The word profit in these passages means what advantage or gain How have things been improved in my life because of all this work I've done and all I've invested myself in? Under the sun, God's excluded, spiritual things are not a factor. I've lived for the here and now, I've invested in the here and now. What prophet is there? I think it's interesting, if you would, in chapter 2, notice verse number 13. It comes from the same word, but he uses a different word. It's translated in a different word in chapter 2 and verse 13. He says, Then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly. As far as light excelleth darkness, the word excelleth there comes from the same word that it's translated prophet in these other passages. In other words, wisdom does me a whole lot more good than foolishness does. Just like having a light on in the room is does me a whole lot more good than darkness in the room. And so he's asking this question: what of all that I've invested my life in? I've worked so hard, I've done all of this, and under the sun, how is it better? How am I better for it? Remember what he just remember the lists he just went through in the first eight verses of chapter three? He says there's a time to be born. There's a time to what? Die. And he goes down through this list, and it's like a it's like a list of just this is what life consists of born, die, plant, reap, love, hate, war, peace. And when it's all said and done, what is it produced? What profit is there under the sun? If all that life consists of is birth and death, Planting and reaping, loving and hating, weeping and laughing, war and peace, what do I get out of it? How am I benefited from that? What does that do under the sun? So that's his first question. That one's expressed. I think there's an implied question here. And it's this, what profit hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboreth? The implied question I see here is this. What purpose is there? He says I don't see any benefit. And by the way, that's a legitimate question. What profit is there in life? What purpose is there in life? These are legitimate questions. The atheists. Ask those questions, and what answer do they come up with? There is none. There is none. They're a famous song years ago, and I hate to quote quote these songs, but they express exactly what Solomon's saying here. All we are is dust and wind. There's no purpose, there's no meaning. There's no direction. It's just empty nothingness. Um the very famous atheist that uh he's on TV a lot, he made this statement. He says, the dark, hard truth is There's no purpose for your life or my life. All we are is just cosmic dust. There's nothing more to it. Hey, if that's true, we might as well riot. That's true, we might as well kill our babies in our wombs. Might as well if there is instant inconvenience, all it is is just material. The atheists have no answer to that. They have nothing to offer. Education under the sun Education, they can ask the questions. You know, education can teach us how to make a living, but education can't give us any meaningful living, any meaning in life. This world is good at asking the questions, but they're terrible at coming up with the answers because they push the answer out of the equation. They push God out and they're under the sun. So what purpose is there in life under the sun? As I said, this world's very good at asking why, but has very few answers to the question why The world has very few answers as to the purpose in life. This world can teach us how to make a living. But it cannot give us the meaning of life. So the conclusion is this: here's this question: What purpose is there in life? What profit is there in life under the sun? And the answer is, under the sun there is no purpose. And there is no profit. So we might as well eat, drink, and be merry. Because tomorrow we're going to what? Just die and that's it. Do you agree with me? That is an awfully bleak view of life. No wonder. No wonder mankind is so discouraged. No wonder mankind is grabbing for anything and everything. To try and find purpose. God has created us for a purpose. God has given life meaning. But when we remove that purpose and that meaning, it's a vacuum. And there's nothing there. And Solomon is in a From an odd perspective, making this very, very clear that under the sun there is no purpose and there is no meaning How many people have ever been out to Harrington out that way to the park out there? Harrington Manor Park, the lake. When the boys were small, we used to go fishing out there. Every week we'd go out there, catch catfish and trout and all kinds of stuff When you drive out there, and you all are very familiar with this, but when you drive out there, you find a huge mansion on the left-hand side. Everybody knows who I'm talking about? Huge mansion. Delsignor The great coal miner built that. Now I I can't comment on him personally at all. I've never met him. I know very little, if anything, about him. This was before we showed up. But the way I understand is he spent a lot of money and a lot of time. And a lot of effort building that beautiful mansion. And I've been through it when when Brother Bob was managing that. He took us out for a tour, and um I tried to get him to give it, donate it to the church, but um When that never worked out. But um anyway, gave us a story. The place is phenomenal. You know the tiles in the lobby are from Pakistan, hand painted, sixty thousand dollars something. I mean the place is just amazing, at least it was Here's the ironic thing, you know this. Never got to live a day in it. Never got to live a day in it. Now, that is that not a picture of the world trying to live without God Now I'm not making judgment on him. I can't comment on him, his spiritual I don't I can't comment on that at all. This is what I'm trying to say. Living life under the sun, we invest, we invest, we work, we work, we work. And then they die and go out into a priceless eternity. How empty is that? How horrible is that? Here's what I want to leave us with tonight. Life is not meaningless. Life is not empty. Life is incredibly sacred. God has given to mankind life. And he has given us a purpose and a meaning, living for God's glory, living for God the advancement of the gospel. And then when this old house crumbles, and we go into eternity, we spend eternity with God. There is so much more to life above the sun. That if all we're living for life here under the sun, it's so empty of vain. And it is sacred. It is valuable. Life is precious. And it is more than just 80, 90, 100 years. God has given us eternal life. Let's not take our lives for granted. Let's not squander our lives and trivialize them away. But let's invest our lives in the things of God, in the things that last beyond what's under the sun. Am I making sense? Am I making I quoted this this morning after um who sang the special? Did the ladies? A couple ladies sang this morning, and uh I I quoted this verse. What shall it profit a man? He gave him the whole world. Loses what? His own soul. All he's living for is under the sun. So God's given us something precious. God's given us something very, very valuable. Let's live our lives to the fullest. Let's live our lives for God's glory. Let's say, hey, God created, I was telling the teens this last week God has created each of us individually for a very specific purpose. We have a role in this world. We have a role to play in the things of God in eternity. Don't let this world convince us we're something we're not. Don't let this world convince us that this is it. This is not it. There was so much more. So much more. And um let's live that way. So uh he's gonna answer this in the coming verses. I think he addresses these two questions, so we'll look at them in future messages. But let's pray now. Let's ask the Lord to help us see our lives from heaven's perspective. And understand that we do have a purpose and a meaning in life. Father, I ask that you would stir us. And that our days that go by would not just be empty and meaningless, but we would see your hand How you're leading us and directing us and you're wanting to use us to invest in eternal things, souls of others, and we can serve you and influence a world For the Lord Jesus Christ. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I really want my life, you'd say with me, and I think we'd all would agree feel this way, but you'd say, Preacher, I really want my life to count. And I don't want the lights and the bells under the sun to distract me from the great eternal purpose that God has given my life. And I want to stay focused on him. I need the Lord to help me. Is there anything like that? feel that way, sure. I think we all would. And maybe we need the Lord just to help us. Remind us that on a daily basis. We read our Bibles. Lord show me. Help me to see today there's a planned purpose. There's a role I have in and eternity to uh to play today. Now Father, please bless and help us keep this in mind and keep this right perspective in Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand again