Let's go to the book of First Peter. First Peter. First Peter, and I am going to look at a couple of verses in chapter one. I do want to say thank you for your hospitality. Those of you that are tuned in online, appreciate you tuning in online. I want to do a very special thank you to the church family and your pastor for the meal that was afforded us today as well and the fellowship that went with it. And uh 1 Peter chapter 1. Look with me in verse number 22. 1 Peter 1 and verse 22 says, See, ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit. unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently. Verse 23, being born again, not of corruptible seed. But of incorruptible by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man is the flower of grass, the grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away, but the word of the Lord endureth forever. This is the word by which the gospel is preached unto you. Now notice in chapter two Begins with the word wherefore, and he's referencing that close out in chapter one. In other words, because you've been born again. Look at what he says. Wherefore, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speakings, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word, that ye may grow thereby If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. Sunday morning we looked at an incorruptible salvation that we enjoy in an incorruptible Savior. Last night we considered an unmistakable command in chapter 1 of 1 Peter, which was simply this: be holy, for I am holy. That was an unmistakable command. But tonight I want to look at an irrefutable correlation that we find here in chapter 2, verses 1, 2, and 3. And it's this. Take your pens and just jot it down before I pray. Here's the irrefutable correlation. Spiritual growth, and you could say it this way: your spiritual health is directly tied to your appetite. Your spiritual growth and your spiritual health are both directly tied to your appetite. In other words, you are what you eat. You are what you eat. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you tonight For this great privilege to be gathered on a Monday night in the wonderful name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to worship and fellowship together and lift up that name that is above every name. And Lord, to be challenged through the preaching and teaching of your word as well. Lord, we ask tonight that you would take this message And usually in the hearts of all who are assembled here, and even for those who are tuned in online. Lord, for we the saved, I pray we would recognize this irrefutable correlation That our spiritual growth and our spiritual health is directly tied to our appetite. Help us, Lord, tonight, to have victory in this area. And Lord, I pray tonight that We would not be hearers only, but by your grace help us. Help us, Lord, to be doers of thy word. We ask and pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The irrefutable correlation we find here in chapter two of 1 Peter is this: your spiritual growth and your spiritual health. They're both tied, directly tied to your appetite. In other words, you are what you eat. We're going to see three things tonight. First of all, our condition. Second of all, our conflict. And thirdly Some clear-cut commands from the Lord. First of all, our condition. Recognize here in 1 Peter chapter 2, our condition is a new condition. What is it? He says in verse 2, as newborn babes desire the sincere mouth of the word that ye may grow thereby. You know our condition upon salvation is a new condition. We've been born again. You can write that in your notes It's the new condition that every believer finds the day they get saved, they are born again. They have new life in Jesus Christ And this occurred by the Word of God. You were quickened by the Word of God in chapter 1. Go back to Ephesians 2 with me. We looked at this Sunday morning. I want to just give it to you as a quick tap. But you know, the day you were saved, something very special happened. You were born again. And Ephesians 2 uses a word that I use Sunday morning. Resurrection Sunday, verse number one of Ephesians 2 says this, and you have he, what's the word, quickened, who were dead In trespasses and sins. You say, what exactly happened to me the day I was born again? You were quickened. Your spirit that was once dead is now alive through the quickening spirit, Jesus Christ. And you were dead in trespasses and sins, but in Jesus Christ you're now quickened, in other words, made alive. Through the Lord Jesus Christ. And so our new condition is salvation. We've been born again and we've been quickened in Christ. We've been spiritually made alive. Where once we were dead, now we're alive. Now this new condition, second of all, look at your notes, brings about a new conflict. Go back to 1 Peter chapter 2. And this conflict that we're now in is a new conflict, and it's a result of our new condition. Notice it says actually it's not there. Go to Romans chapter 8. Go to Romans chapter 8. This new conflict is noted specifically in Romans chapter 8. Romans 8 and verse number 5. Our new condition is salvation, but now we have a new conflict now that we're saved. Look at this conflict is noted in Romans 8 and verse number 5. It says, For they that are after the flesh, Do mind the things of the flesh. But they that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. For to be carnally minded is death. But to be spiritually minded is life and peace. Because the carnal mind is enmity, which means is against or is an enemy against God. For it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be so then they that are in the flesh cannot please God. What is our new conflict once we get saved? Well it's this it's a duality of natures now. Now that you and I are saved, there's a conflict between the flesh and the spirit. Write that down. There's a conflict between the flesh and the spirit. There is a conflict between the carnal and the spiritual. You could maybe say it this way. There is now, now that you have new life in Christ, you get this new conflict Which is the old nature fighting against this new nature that you now have, this quickened spirit that's been made alive because of the person of Jesus Christ. Paul notes this conflict. Notice in Romans 7. Just go one chapter earlier, and look at how Paul speaks of this inner conflict that occurs For every believer. In Romans chapter 7, verse 18, Paul says this. Spirit of God through Paul, Romans 7, 18 says, For I know that in me, now notice he knows that is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing. For the will is present with me. He said, I want to do what God wants me to do, but how to perform that which is good I find not. For the good that I would, I do not. But the evil which I would not, that I do. Now if I do that, I would not. It is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. Look at this. I find then a law that when I would do good, evil is present with me, for I delight in the law of God after the inward man. That's the new man. members, the body warring against the law of my mind and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin, which is in my members. Oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Look at the answer. I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then with the mind I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh the law of sin. Here we see the Spirit of God through Paul shows that inner conflict that occurs when somebody gets saved. Do you understand the day you got saved, your ability to sin didn't disintegrate and disappear? Could I get an amen there? In fact, after you got saved, the first time you sinned, you wondered What God was going to do about that. I mean for a moment there you almost wondered, Am I really saved? I can't believe I just said what I just said, because that's what I used to do. when I was lost. Y'all with me? Could I get a w could I get a witness? Amen. Yeah. Let me tell you something about when I was lost. I didn't care the words that came out of my mouth and the thoughts I had and the things I did unless grandma was around. Y'all with me? I was a sinner by nature and a sinner by choice. I was the all-American boy with a hidden life You with me? But I'm going to tell you something. Today I got saved all of a sudden when those words came out of my mouth, all of a sudden that bothered me. When nobody was around but God You say, what was that? Well, that's the new nature, the quickened spirit that's now alive in Christ. And all of a sudden And you almost feel like you are got a split personality because there's part of you that wants to serve God with all your heart, and then there's another part of you that still wants to chase sin. Y'all with me? And there's an inner battle that begins for ultimate domination in the heart of every believer. Paul notes this conflict. I remember hearing the illustration, a Native American chief, a Indian newly saved, describing this conflict. He described it this way. He said, I find two dogs fighting inside of me. A white dog and a black dog. The question was put to him, well, which one wins? And he said, the one I feed the most. Isn't that true? Amen. And so to that end, recognize tonight as we move into this thought, I've laid the groundwork for the commands God has. Go back to 1 Peter chapter 2. Recognize tonight that your spiritual growth and we can say your spiritual health is directly tied to your new appetite And you need to recognize tonight as a believer, you are spiritually what you eat. You're going to feed one of those two dogs, amen? And you are spiritually what you eat. Let's look at the commands here. This is interesting In 1 Peter chapter 2, in light of this, the Lord instructs these new converts how to have spiritual success. And notice what he says, follow along as I read, beginning in verse number 1. Of 1 Peter chapter 2. He says, Wherefore, in other words, because you're now saved, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speakings As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby. Notice verse 3. This is very important. If so be Ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. This is one of those if-then statements. The if is in verse 3. If you've tasted that the Lord is gracious, Then go ahead and do these two things in verses 1 and 2 of 1 Peter. In other words, if you're saved, he's saying, then these are your next two steps you must take. If you want to be spiritually healthy. Notice the first command, the very first step. He says in verse 1, here's the first one. Wherefore Because you've tasted the Lord is gracious and you're safe, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speakings. Let's take that sentence and just make the The verb proper. Lay those things aside. The word I used was, if you've tasted the Lord is gracious, then discard some things. Amen? Discard some things from your life. It's a fascinating thought. I remember as I began to study this out, the idea is laying aside. It would have to discard, to lay aside, would have this idea, taking this, if he let me ask you this question I've never illustrated this before, but if I took this suit code and I say this, I'm going to lay this suit code aside, right? I'm going to take this suit coat and I'm going to lay it aside. Is that laid aside? No. Is that laid aside? How about that? No. Is that Yes. That's been laid aside. It has the picture of cast off. It has the picture of putting off. Y'all with me? Get your pens ready. You find this absolutely consistently all through the New Testament. For those who get saved, there's some things that need to be put aside as their very first step following salvation. Notice, let's look here, 1 Peter 2, verse 1, before we write other references. Watch this. What are you and I to lay aside? What you've got to understand, these are people under incredible persecution These are people living out on the in the mud of the mountainside. Y'all with me? They've been driven from their homes. These are new converts to Christianity that are being hunted and hounded And killed. And in all of that, God says, hey, your next step now that you're saved as a newborn babe, you know what your next step is? You need to set aside some things from the past. You need to cast them off. You need to lay them aside. What? Look at what he says. Number one, he says, lay aside how much malice. All malice. What is malice? It's the desire to get even. These were people that had lost relatives. They had lost their relatives. Watched them probably killed in front of their eyes. And the Lord says, You lay aside that desire to get even. All right? Y'all with me? I'm going to tell you something. I got a message entitled The Root of Bitterness. I don't know if anybody's ever heard that thing. It's one hour and twenty minutes long. It is a game-changing message. Hundreds, if not thousands, of lives have been affected by that message. But I'm going to tell you something. You and I have no clue what a real offense is. Our mambi-pamby little problems that come up are nothing. Imagine watching your child dragged off in the Holocaust and killed in front of your eyes, and God said, You need to let that go and you need to forgive. Now that's an offense. Y'all with me? Well these people are going through real offenses. They, from a human standpoint, have a right for revenge. And the first thing the Spirit of God says is, you set aside all of that desire to get even. Wow. You say, I can't do that. You're right, you can't. Only Christ in you can do that. Amen? Lay aside all malice, the desire to get even, lay aside all guile, which is craftiness and deceitfulness. Lay aside all hypocrisies which are false pretenses and feigning to be something you're not Lay aside all envies, which is to be upset at another's prosperity, their superiority, or even their happiness, and set aside all evil speakings, which is slander gossip and defamation of character. Just listen to this list here, could you just something comes to mind. I'm going to read it. Go ahead and and Set aside, lay aside all that desire and vengeance to get even, deceitfulness, false pretenses, feigning to be what you're not uh getting upset at somebody else's prosperity or happiness and then speaking slanderously or deafly that sounds like social media tonight amen that's what it sounds like And I can tell you right now, if you're a social media nut and junkie and that's that's what you live for, I just tell you right now, you'd do really good to just shut that sucker off and just set it all aside. You say, well, social media is the problem. No, you're the problem. Social media is just percolating up what your problems are. Amen. It just exposes it. Amen. That's exactly what it does. It shows what's really in your heart, because you jump on the bandwagon and get all involved with that junk. Amen? He says, set all that aside. before you head to my word. Isn't that interesting? You lay that aside and discard it before you head to my word Do we find that all through Scripture? Yes, we do. I want to get your pens ready. Here we go. Go to Hebrews 12. Look at what he says here. In Hebrews chapter 12. Hebrews 12, notice with me, he says this in verse number one of Hebrews twelve. He says, Wherefore seeing we also Hebrews twelve and verse one are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. Look at this, let us lay aside every weight. There's that idea, laying it aside, casting it off, and also the sin which does so easily beset us. You say, well, what is a weight? It's something that's not necessarily evil, it's just not necessary. Amen? Let me tell you, when you run a race, you try to get as light as you can. You don't bring the kitchen sink with you. Could I get an amen there? And it shocks me to see what some believers try to serve the Lord carrying around, baggage from the past. Right? Junk and attitudes, bitterness, and they try to serve the Lord. You can't run a good race unless you throw that junk away. That's not necessary for effective service. Amen? But then you also throw away sin that does easily beset you. And we all had our besetting sin. Y'all with me? We all came. My wife said that to me today. I said, you know, it's interesting. I said how we are by nature able to give God so many rooms, but then we always have this one closet. That we tell him he's off limits. Amen? And she said, you know what, hon? Every one of us has that closet. It's something that's not spiritual. Could be an attitude. Could be a habit. You with me? I said, you, hon? She said, oh, I've got them too. We do. People say, well, how much of me should the Lord get? Well, how much of you did he pay for? Amen. Oh, here's a better one. How much of you do you want to go to heaven? Amen? Well, I don't want him to have preeminence over my tongue. Uh uh, tongue's mine. Great, you keep your tongue. Boy, wouldn't that be a place? It could be pretty hard to sing up there when we get up there without a tongue. I think when the rapture happens, there's gonna be some body parts left behind. of Christians that you just didn't want God to have preeminence, amen. Just a thought. Notice it says here Lay aside has that same picture. Go with me. Watch this. Watch this in Romans chapter 13. Watch how the Spirit of God says this. Through Paul to the Roman believers in Romans chapter 13, this idea of discarding first if you want to grow in grace. Look at what Romans 13 says in verse number 12. Go back to verse 11. Romans thirteen eleven says, and that knowing the time that now it is high time to awake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. Look at this in verse twelve. The night is far spent, the day is at hand Let us therefore, look at there's that word, cast off. Amen. Cast off what? The works of darkness, and then in its place, let us put on the armor of light. Amen. Notice that you can't put the armor of light on until you first cast off what was darkness. Amen. And then he goes on in verse 14 says, put ye on. Put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ and make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. Go with me to Ephesians 4. We see it again. Ephesians chapter 4. Look with me in verse number 22 Ephesians 4 and verse number 22 says this. Get your pens ready. He says that ye put off, there it is again, cast aside Lay it aside. Get rid of it. Discard it. Put off what? Concerning the former conversation, the old man. Those are your sinful habits. It's how you operated, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lust, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind and that ye what? Put on the new man. Now watch verse 25. Here's what the old man looks like. Wherefore putting away lying. The old man, the old nature, lied. Amen? Watch this. Speak every man truth with his neighbor, for remembers one of another. Look at this, verse 26. Be ye angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. In other words, set aside anger, the spirit of anger. Amen. Go ahead and cast away, look at verse 28. Let him that stole steal how much more? No more. Cast aside theft. Amen. Notice that. And then in its place, labor working with your hands. Verse 29. Oh, this is a good one. Let no corrupt communication Proceed out of your mouth. You know what corrupt means? It's rotten and it's decayed. It's just rotten. It's not even enjoyable to listen to. Let me tell you something. I've stood there before as people talked and it's just rotten They're just downing somebody. And you get this uncomfortable feeling, don't you? You just feel like, oh, I really need to say something. You know, and because if you don't, then it's like you're agreeing with them. Y'all with me? Could I get an amen to that? Yeah Let me tell you something. You and I should speak in such a way that no one would ever feel uncomfortable and feel like they gotta do this. Shh. Amen. Notice, he says here, look at this, let no corrupt communication proceed forth out of your mouth. But instead, if you're going to speak, do that which is good. It has to be to the use of edifying that may minister grace unto the hearers. Look at verse 31. Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor And evil speaking be put away from you. There it is again with all malice. And in its place, be you kind one to another. Tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you Isn't that interesting? You see this pattern all through the New Testament. He says, before you put me on, before you put my things on, you need to take your things. Off. That's what he's saying. You want to know why some of us struggle, some of you struggle I don't know if it's here, if you're online, but you say Christianity's hard. I struggle. I'm going to tell you why, because you only try to obey half the command. You want to keep all your old habits. You want to keep all those things. And it's like, and you want to somehow put the things on that you can't wear both coats. You can't, your wardrobe will not allow you to have one on and try to put the other one on over it. You can't That's what repentance is all about. It's a completely changed attitude. It's not that we try to do both. It's like, no, I'm getting rid of that, and in its place I'm putting on this Amen. All you see it all through it. Look at another one. Look at this in Colossians chapter 3. He says it again to the Church of Colossae. Colossians chapter 3. Look at what he says in verse number 8. Colossians chapter 3 and verse number 8. He says, but now ye also, Colossians 3, here it is again, put off All these. Isn't that interesting? He says, put off all these and listen to the list, how similar to Peter it is. Anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. Lying, lie not one to another, seeing you put off the old man with his needs, and have put on the new man, which is created. After the knowledge after the image of him that created him. Look at verse 12. Put on therefore, here's what the new man looks like. As the elect of God holy and beloved, the new man has bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind Meekness. The new man is long-suffering. The new man is forbearing. The new man is forgiving. And it's because If ye have a quarrel against any, even as Christ also forgave you, so also do ye. And above all these things, you know what the new man has? It's the glue that holds it all together. Charity. Which is the bond of perfectness. Wow. You want to get frustrated in your Christian growth You want to get frustrated in your Christian walk and your Christian experience? Go ahead and just keep all that old stuff on. Don't ever throw it too far away. So you can come back and visit it and wear it all the time. Y'all with me? Habits? Identity? Anger, wrath, bitterness, vengeance, malice, list them all, filthy communion. Just go ahead and say, you know, make excuses for it. Here's the thing I know, if you don't put off that, you cannot put on The replacement. You can't do it. You have to put off the old junk first before you can put on the new one. Amen? And boy, I see it all the time. You see, there's something about casting it aside. You know what I've learned sometimes? Some people don't want to cast aside that old identity. They want to keep it. For whatever reason, there's something they like about that old life. Sometimes it's an identity thing. I've watched people refuse to forgive because you know what? They always want to be the victim. Because the victim carries all kinds of things. You can leverage people with victimhood. Y'all with me? Let me tell you something. The biggest victim that ever existed wasn't you and wasn't me. It was Jesus Christ. And from the cross of Calvary, he said, Father. Forgive them, for they know not what they do. Amen. Some people like that old sin life. They want to go back and visit it. Y'all with me? They never cast it aside. They never shuck it. They never just say, you know what I'm done. I'm smashing the computer. I'm done with the internet. I'm done. They never do it. They want to come back and Have that option. Y'all with me? One test, I mean you'll never grow until you first cast off, until you first lay aside, until you first put off. And then there's room to put on the new man. Amen? That's a big deal tonight. So discard is the first move and the first command the Spirit of God gives. Look at in 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse number 1 1 Peter 2 and verse 1 he says, Wherefore, because you're saved, you've tasted the Lord His gracious, lay aside all that malice, lay aside all that guile. All those hypocrisies, 1 Peter 2. 1, all those envies, all those evil speakings, and now once you've laid that aside, as newborn babes in its place, desire what The sincere milk of the word, notice this, that ye may grow thereby. Notice he says it's the sincere milk of the word. That's an interesting word. You know what that literally means? The sincere milk of the word. The word sincere means pure. And unmixed. Amen? Pure and unmixed. He says, and I put it this way: discard the drama of the world And desire the milk of the word. All right, isn't that good? Discard the drama of the world. And in its place Desire the sincere milk of the word. I said something yesterday, and I think it bears repeating. It's just kind of tapped my heart right now Spiritual people take big things and they make them smaller. Y'all with me? But unspiritual people will take little things, some offense, and just make them an inferno and make them bigger. Y'all with me? All right? So so here's the thing. Why do they do that? It's the drama of the world. Both Devin and I have noticed this with lost relatives we have. We look at each other after we've spent the day with them in their homes conversing and stuff, and we literally say, why all the drama? I'm going to tell you why. Because this life is all they have. It's all they have. They've got to get all the mileage out of this they can and feel good about who they are by putting down someone else Y'all with me? By taking some little thing, whatever it may be, politics, whatever, and just make this the whole focus, because it's all they've got to live for. Let me tell you, one million years from now, all that drama is it's nothing We got heaven. Amen. There's nothing bigger than that. I don't need the drama of this life. When I have the reality of the next life. Which is unbelievable. It's out of this world. Amen? So I'm going to say it again. You want to grow in grace, the first thing you need to do is discard the drama. of this world and your old nature, and in its place desire the sincere milk Of God's Word. Amen. Now watch this. Go back. We're in go back to Colossians with me and notice something Notice something. Go back to Colossians and look at what's said here in Colossians chapter 3. We just noted in Colossians 3, verse 8 and 9. were to put off anger, wrath, malice, and so forth, and then and then in its place, verse ten, put on the new man, and we saw the listing. Now watch this. Verse number 14, we said, above all these things Colossians 3. 14, put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. Alright? And let the peace of God now Carry on with this. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you're called in one body, and be ye thankful. Now look at verse 16. It begins with a single word. What's the word? The word is let. Right? What does the word let mean? Allow. To allow this to happen. Listen, if you're really saved, this is going to be a natural thing. What is the natural thing? Verse 16, Colossians 3. Let the word of Christ dwell in you. What's the quantity word? What's the word? Say it again. If you're online, say it with us. Richly. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. What does that paint for a picture? You hear the word rich, what do you think of? Think of just a couple verses? No, I don't. If I were to say to you, I'm going to introduce you to a very rich man, who do you think I'm going to introduce you to? The homeless guy in the corner? No. You're thinking when you hear rich, you're thinking maybe not Bezos, maybe not Musk, but you're thinking somebody that has a ton of money They have more than they know what to do with. We would call that a very rich person financially. Amen? He says here, after you've discarded the drama of the world, I want you to then desire the sincere Malcolm my word, and I want that word to dwell in you. Richly. That's a large quantity. Amen. Remember a few years ago I Taught the principles of the sponge. How many of you remember that? Raise your hand. We got some that remembered it, alright? Principle of the sponge. Alright, sponges are interesting things. I'm going to apply this. They're very interesting because sponges operate the same way every time. Alright? Here's the first principle of a sponge. If you want to find out what's really in a sponge, you can't look at it. You have to squeeze it. Then you find out what's really in the sponge. Amen? If I want to find out how spiritual are spiritual are, I can't just look at your tie and your shirt. I can't look at the exteriors. If I want to find how spiritual you are, I have to do this. I have to squeeze you. Amen. And when you get squeezed, what's really inside that sometimes is hidden comes out. Amen. And let me tell you, I said it four years ago, this world is full of sponge squeezers. Amen. First you'll find them out on the roads in traffic. Amen. Woo! Sponge squeezers all over the place out there. You remember that? Remember that moment when we're in the motorhome, we're traveling along, and I'm getting, I remember all six children were with me. And I'd be traveling along and all of a sudden I'd get a little gripey, a little, you know, and you're just kind of upset at somebody out there. And my wife would say, What's the matter? I said, That's a woman driver. That's what I would say Some of you just got your sponge squeezed, just with that. But and and uh so as soon as I would say that, I'm passed I'm passing this person who's in the fast lane Who should be in the slow lane, and I'm in the motor home towing, and I have to pass them in the wrong lane, all my daughters go right up against the window to see who's really driving And all too often they'd go, It's a guy, Dad, it's a guy, you know. Well, the skipper can't go down like that. You know what I mean? So I'd I'd be driving along and say, Yeah, it's a guy driving like a girl. That's what I'd say. Oh yeah. Oh yeah, there went half my love offering. But anyhow, there's sponge squeezers out in traffic. I'm going to tell you this, there's sponge squeezers at your workplace, aren't there? Could I get an amen there? Amen. Let me tell you this. Your spouse can know how to squeeze your sponge, can't they? Don't say amen too loudly, but yes, they can Oh children, oh are they sponge squeezers, amen? And kids, I guarantee you mom and dad can be a sponge squeezer too. Could I could I get a witness there? Teenagers, ha ha you know. I mean, they're all over the place. The first thing you've got to realize about a sponge is this. You want to find out what's really in it, all you have to do is squeeze it. Second thing about a sponge is very profound. They only pick up what they're put in. Isn't that profound? I mean if if I wanted to go pick up something here, I can't put it over there. Amen? But here's the third one, and this is the big one, and it relates to this thought of allowing the Word of God to dwell in you richly. Every sponge has a saturation point. And once it gets saturated, it doesn't matter what you put it in. It's not going to pick anything else up. Amen? Now here's the problem. You and I are that sponge. We're heading to a place called hell, and then the lake of fire, we get saved, and guess what? God cleanses us, purifies us, and then points us to a place called heaven. But we're not there yet. We can stop and park. In things and root to heaven. Amen? And here's what happens. I watch The young people park in social media, movies, electronics, games, all of that, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 hours a week, and then what happens? They come into the house of God They hear a message from the Word of God, and when they leave, they'll say this sometimes. Well, I didn't get anything out of that. How could you? You were dripping full of everything the world had to offer before you even got to hear that. You had no room to pick up God's truth. I watch the men do it. Sporting events, talk radio, uh, you know, just hours and hours, 10, 15, 20, just full, saturated with all kinds of things the world offers You come to the house of God, you hear a message from the Word of God, it doesn't even touch you. You literally have the nerve on the way home and say, Well, that message didn't do much for me. How could it You were dripping full of everything else except God when you came in here. Amen. And ladies, you'll get into that social media, romance books I know us uh one lady went and it's like, oh no, I know. I know American womanhood You'll get into that trying to find the perfect little knight to go running off with because your husband's such a loser, you know what I'm saying? And so you'll just disappear for chapter and chapter and book and book off into never never land You know, for hours and hours and hours and 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 hours a week. You come to the house of God, hear a message from the Word of God, and you say, Well, I didn't get anything out of that. Well, how could you You're dripping full of everything else the world is offering. You've got no room for the things of God. You see, this is why the psalmist said this. Don't need to turn there. I'll quote it. Psalm 1. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seed of the scornful. But his delight is where? It's in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate meditate, marinate. day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Oh, but the ungodly are not so. Where do you park your sponge every week? Is it the Word of God, the things of God? Or is that just the Sunday thing, the church service thing you do? It shouldn't be. You should be saturating yourself richly with God's word. Amen. It works the other way. You get full of the Word of God, you memorize it, you quote it, you read it, you listen to podcasts, you read books about missionaries, you fill yourself with the Word of God, and then when you go out in the world, guess what? The world just doesn't stick to you like it would have. Had you not been richly filled with God's Word. Amen? It works both ways. Sin will keep you from this book. This book will keep you from sin It works both ways. So he says, discard the drama. Get your sponge away from all the carnality and all the drama of this world. And instead take your sponge. And go ahead and park it in the sincere milk of my word and allow that word to dwell in you richly. Wow. So simple. Amen. And yet not easy because of the dual nature and the conflict now that we're saved. Look back here in 1 Peter, I want you to just go back there and I want you to recognize something. Actually go to Hebrews 5. I want you to see something. that oftentimes it won't challenge people on, but I think men in particular want to challenge you on this. In Hebrews 5, look at what's said here In Hebrews chapter 5, notice this, the progression from milk to meat, Hebrews 5 and verse number 12. Hebrews 5 verse 12 says this. This is an interesting thought. This is just a little freebie before we begin to wind things down. Notice what he says in Hebrews 5, verse 12. For when for the time Ye ought to be teachers. Ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. For everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness, for he's a babe, but strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age. Even those who, by reason of use, have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. You know, look up for just a moment. I think sometimes that we forget God wants us to grow. You know what I'm saying? And he wants us to grow beyond just simply the basic truths of the Word of God and always being fed. You with me? He wants men, I'm going to say this, he wants you to grow to a point where you can teach others also. Every man should take that personally. You have not arrived if you're just an usher. I don't believe that for one second. Y'all with me? And yet that's most of the time What the pinnacle for most Christian men are today is I've been an usher faithfully and praise the Lord for that. I'm not diminishing that, but you know you can be an usher and still grow to the point where you can teach others also You can start your own Bible study up in your neighborhood. You can go ahead and take a Sunday school class. Y'all with me? I remember my call into the ministry. Gary Prist, Pastor Prist asked me To to go ahead and consider. Brother Dave, would you consider taking a rest home service? I want you to pray about it. See if you can do it. God puts you on my heart. So I went to pray about it. You know what the Lord said to me? You could do that. All you have to do is think Jesus loves me two or three times and share something. They don't even understand you. It's great practice. Just you can do that. Y'all with me? It's truth. I went to pray about it. That's what the Lord said to me. I came back. He said, I can do that. Six months later he says, Brother David, I want you to pray about something. That's preacher speak for I want you to do something, you know He said, what's that, Pastor? He said, we've got fifth and sixth grade boys. We've got about uh how many have a dozen or so And uh I was praying about who could take the class for the next year, Brother Dave. And God puts you on my heart, so would you be willing to pray about that? See if you could do that. I said, sure, I'll pray about that, preacher. And so I went to pray about it. You know what the Lord said to me? You could do that. Those little punks can't get over on you. Your Marine Corps. These are just little, you know, fifth and sixth grade boys, y'all with me? You know more than they do. And so I stepped up and I said, I can do that. Let me say this. I'm trying to challenge every man here tonight to not be content to just be a receiver. You all with me? That's Dead Sea Christianity, that's what I call it. Got no outlet. Amen? You have no outlet, and you're mineral rich. You will spiritually die in your effectiveness for the Lord. That's why the dead sees dead, by the way. It's not that it doesn't have minerals. That's one of the richest areas in the entire planet. It's not that it doesn't have death, it has great death. Not that it doesn't have a good source feeding in, the Sea of Galilee. It's fantastic. It has no outlet. Every man here, I'm challenging, you ought to say, you know what? I'm going to grow to the point. Where I can go ahead and nurture, love on, and teach others also. Amen? Y'all with me? Okay, it's quiet, but I'm I just I can make your pastor look so sweet and kind when I get done stirring it up, you know what I mean? But really Look at those handouts. It's just just consider I handle those hands. Why do you think I do that? Because I want you to think I'm a cool outliner? No! You know what those outlines are? They're an opportunity for you to reteach it to somebody else. You can just take that thing. I've organized it in such a way. You can just sit down. Ladies, you can do it with other younger young teenage girls and say yo y young with me? I'm just I'm just saying. We have taken it in and taken it in and taken it in. And when's the last time you were the teacher instead of the one being taught? You see in Hebrews, God says you ought to be a teacher. You shouldn't always be the one getting taught. Grow up. That's what he's saying. Amen? Grow up. Now watch this. Go back to the notes because I want to just give you something here. As Christians, our cravings and desires are determined by three things. As Christians, our cravings, our appetites, our desires are determined by three things. Number one, life itself Will determine a craving. What do I mean? I am a farm boy. When a newborn calf, when a calf was birthed, you know the first thing that little turkey did once he got his feet under him? He's looking for mama You know, because he was alive, he had a craving for milk. He had craving for nutrition. Y'all with me? And let me tell you something. Just like a newborn baby. We've got some new and some young ones. They crave milk, man. That's what they want. It's a natural indicator of life. If you say, well, I got saved years ago, but I've never desired the Word of God, I've never craved the Word of God, I would question your spiritual standing. If you're alive, you crave food. Life itself Creates its own desires. Amen? And so if you're saved, you should have a desire for God's word. Not just in church, but even on your own. You should want to be reading this. You should want to be you say, but reading it, oh, it's so hard. You know. Let me let me tell you something. This is not a big book. You can read one hour in the morning and one hour at night at normal speed. And in 30 days you'll have read your whole Bible through cover to cover. First of all, life. Second of all, diet. I found diet oftentimes will determine my desires or cravings. I first of all think of Myself. I remember when I went ahead and got rid of sodas, I began to lose my thirst for sodas, and I actually loved water, and that's what I wanted because I begin to change the habit of what I went to to drink. Amen? I nook at our little dog Mitchie, little nine-pound uh toy Australian shepherd. And there came a day where it she didn't want to eat her dog food. I said, What's your dog's problem, Mom? She said, Well you keep feeding her scraps from the table Amen. And you know what happened? Because her diet had changed. Her desires changed. Why would I want to settle for that when I can have that? is what she was saying. Amen? And you watch it as a believer. If you go ahead and discard that junk from the world, you get yourself immersed in the Word of God You'll start getting even a bigger appetite for God's word, and you have less of a draw for the world. Amen? So your diet determines. And thirdly, I wrote this one down, your exercise Your exercise will determine oftentimes your cravings. Notice it says Verse 14, but strong meat belongeth to them are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised. Timothy says, 1 Timothy 4 7, exercise thyself rather unto godliness. I remember when I began to work out as an evangelist, I started scheduling workout times to work out Man, my my desires changed. Suddenly I wanted salt, where I didn't want that much salt. You all with me? I had a craving for salt because I was exercising I had a desire for water. I loved water when I was exercising. You with me? Cravings. Listen, when you get out there and you start witnessing and talking to people out the Lord You're going to automatically, because of spiritual exercise, be challenged to answer questions. Be challenged to give an answer for the faith and the hope that lies in you. And it causes you to stretch. And let me tell you this: when you teach. No one ever learns more than the teacher. I called my son-in-law here this last week. Their church is without a pastor right now. I called and I said, I hey, Joseph, I heard you preach Sunday, Sunday morning's message. He said, yes, sir. I said, how was it? I was scared to death, he said. I said, well, how'd it go? Brother, uh Mr. S, they all call me Mr. S. That was the word they said. What's right? Just call me Mr. S. That's fine. You got one of my daughters, Mr. S is fine. And so they all called me Mr. S. And while Mr. S. he said, uh, I'll tell you, man, did I study? Oh, hours I studied the Word of God. And it went pretty fast, 24 minutes. I was done. But boy, did I learn a lot. I said, no one learns more than the teacher. You exercise yourself in that area where you must feed someone else, you will grow tremendously. And your your your desires change to you want more after you've tasted that. Amen. So tonight Go back to 1 Peter chapter 2. Let me just read these three verses. I'm going to give you an assignment. Alright? In 1 Peter chapter 2, he said, Wherefore, laying aside all malice, verse 1, and all guile, hypocrisies and envies, and all evil speakings. As newborn babes, desire the sincere mouth of the word that ye may grow thereby, if so be, you have tasted, that the Lord is gracious. You know what are your desires tonight? Where does your sponge park? Have you discarded the drama of the world, and now are you desiring the milk of God's word? Are you parking the sponge in it in such a way that you're more filled with God's word than you are the things of this world? We're my ushers. We have a handout for you tonight because, you know, before you were saved, you only had one menu to order from. But after you got saved, you got two menus now. So gentlemen, go ahead and pass these out because as we close tonight, I'm going to give you an assignment. This is, I drew this up and it's entitled, Welcome to the Restaurant of Life. It's a menu. Just like today, we went out to eat. We had a menu. And off that menu we could order things. Now you don't need to fill this out right now, but I'm going to just quickly tell you the menu. I'm going to just briefly summarize and go through it. And then tonight or tomorrow, I would I would challenge you to fill the menu out, alright? So here's what I wrote. If you want to just look at the front, I'm going to just read it. Those online don't have one. So here's what it is. It says, welcome to the Restaurant of Life menu. Our menu offers not only worldly cuisine, saturated incarnality and fleshly fare. But also available to the indiscriminating palate of the old man, but also a special heart-healthy menu for those customers who are saved, Spiritually health conscious and desire to feed the new man. Thank you for choosing to dine with us today. Enjoy. And notice Romans 8, verse 5, for they that after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh They that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life. And peace. Alright, open it up. You have two menus there. The one on the left is the standard menu. The other one on the right is the Heart Healthy menu. Here is your assignment And this is really, when you say menu, it's really an analysis of where you eat and what you eat. First of all, standard menu. In the next 24 hours, just take I'm not going to collect these. I don't want to see them. This is a chance for you to kind of just analyze where you are spiritually in regards to the discarding and the desiring process that 1 Peter 2 says. Please check all that apply. This is a weekly consumption. Movies. How many standard movies do you watch in one single week? Alright? Average Hollywood movie is going to be 90 minutes. Maybe a hundred minutes or so, but you check how many, at least one a week, at least two a week, at least three or more per week. Put down the total time. If you watch four movies, that would be 360 minutes of Hollywood movies that you watch. Category two, FaceTime, Facebook, social media. Is that a daily thing? Is that every other day? Is that no more than once a week? Put down the total time that you have the social media, FaceTime, Facebook going. If you're watching on Facebook right now, don't count that. You know what I'm talking about here. I'm talking about all the drama of everything else, okay? actually using Facebook's for good reasons right now if you're tuned in don't don't shut it off all right I can still see that one taped duct taped to a music stand two years ago all right But add up your total time. Thirdly, how about video games? How about gaming? Boys are real big on gaming. Some men, some ladies too. But how much time do you do video games and gaming? Daily, every other day, once a week? Put the total time there. What do you spend Just running games. And that would be just even playing free sell on your smartphone. All right. Games and you there's all kinds of games on your smartphone. How much time do you immerse yourself playing games? Take time to do an audit. Take time to go ahead and figure it out Amen. Now we're not talking about work schedule. We're talking about your free time. Not talking about eight hours a day with a boss, you know, doing your work. I'm talking about just that other time. What do you do with that? Where do you invest it? The world or the word. Here's another one. General TV. Let me tell you something I learned. The older you get, the more TV you watch. Now we d we don't have TV we have three TVs in the motorhome, but I don't have an antenna, I don't have a satellite dish. The only thing we do is watch what we want to watch, which would be uh uh you know, Hogan's Heroes. Those are always good. But But I just what I'm saying is I was shocked when I looked at the statistics. Retired people have that TV on a lot, daily and weekly How much is your TV on in your home? You ought to go ahead and monitor that? Is it daily? Is it every other day? How many hours every week is that thing blatting through the through the place and you're just watching general TV? Number four, A B C D E. Number five. How about the radio? Talk radio. Alright? How much of that do you do? You need to add the total time. And then I put this one down, the miscellaneous category, because there's always something that I didn't cover. Could be and I'll say it, reading romance books. You know what I'm saying? Could be going ahead as men and and and reading you know, outdoor life all the time. Y'all y'all with me? Just I don't even know if anybody even reads a newspaper anymore. But anyhow, y'all, add all of this up. I'm not saying, here's what I'm not saying. I'm not saying participate in none of these. But do this as a minimum. Would you add up the total amount of time that you take just participating in all of them in a week? How many hours do you invest In your free time of in these categories. Does that make sense? Just do this. I don't need to know the answer. Just take time to just be honest about where your time goes. Amen? Does it go to all that entertainment? Does it go to all that stuff? If so, how much of it goes there? And then flip and do the other menu and check these that apply. Church attendance. Rarely? Sunday mornings only, Sunday morning, Sunday evening only, almost all services. Just add up the amount of time. You're in the house of God on a weekly basis. You say, well, why is that spiritual? Let me tell you one thing about tonight. We have shut the world out tonight. We have shut the world out tonight. Y'all with me? We don't want the world in here. We're not watching a football game in church tonight. Y'all with me? We are focusing on God's word. We're shutting the world out. We're moving the distractions out so we can just focus on God's word. God's word, because God has chosen by the foolishness of preaching to save them that already believed. Save them from what? Save them from a loss. Save them from harm. Save them from spiritual harm. Y'all with me? Save them from divorce. We can go on and on. The word of God is powerful It's not just what you have when you get saved. It's what you continue in now that you are saved. Amen? So, church, number one, personal Bible reading. Look at what I gave you. Rarely ever. Or daily, at least 15 minutes, or twice daily, or at least a half an hour a day. Write down your total Bible reading. You say, well, I struggle to read. Then get an app on your phone, dramatized audio, and listen to it while you follow along. You'll become a better reader. They'll pronounce all the weird genealogical names for you. When you get to the genealogies, flip the program on. Let them stumble through the names, all right? But you can do this. Personal Bible reading. By the way, let me say this. When you get in the Word of God, people say to me, Well, I, you know, I just I don't understand everything. That's okay. But it's a two-edged sword. You know what? It's not just what you get from it. It's what it keeps you from. You could have been doing something else carnal, but you chose to be here spiritual. Amen? Recognize the value of the redemption of time. By getting in the Word, it keeps you from other things that maybe would not have given you the return God's word could have. Amen. All right, let's put more down. How about this one? Not only church attendance, personal Bible reading, but missionary stories and podcasts. Let me tell you something about missionary stories. That's not just for the high schoolers to read. Every single one of you should be reading a solid missionary story every month. Real living. Real people. And there are some modern ones even, not just the ones that we preach about and oh, there are some people doing it, the Spirit of God is using it in a great way today. Every one of you ought to get the get get uh uh Fox's Book of Martyrs and read that. You know what I'm saying? Get some spiritual podcasts. Deb has a number of places She tunes in to get spiritual input and she's always listening to those things. When we drive, she reads me missionary stories. She reads me books while we're driving. I know one that we read, and I think I mentioned it when I was here last time. called Respectable Sins. I double dare you to read that one She's reading one chapter to me. I remember the first chapter she reads to me was, what was it on, mom? Impatience? Ungodliness. Oh yeah, I thought I knew what ungodliness was. All ungodliness is, is going through a day without thinking about God. Just doing things without thinking about God. That's ungodliness. She's reading that chapter. She gets done. I'll never forget. She gets done. I'm you know, I'm cruising along. Sweat didn't start beating out, but it was like, oh man. And I mean he's given scripture and she gets done. She says, You want to hear another chapter? I said, No. That's enough for now. Maybe tomorrow. Man, there's some good books out there. Missionary stories we just finished reading. She just finished reading not that long ago, the book written by Richard Warmbrett entitled In God's Underground. is 17 years jailed under communist Ceausescu in Romania. It totally changed my spirit and attitude toward politicians. Totally. As you watch that man love those guards and love those people to Jesus Christ and they did stuff to him you can't even repeat and he went ahead and saw him as a soul that needed saved And this was an opportunity to I'm telling you, it changed my spirit and attitude completely about what's going on in America. I began to operate like a missionary instead of just some party hack that believes something should be one way or the other. Y'all with me? I'm just preaching off the cuff here. We're talking shop. Podcasts, books. Ladies, there are some good I just perused that book. I don't know how many of you brought that book on the home for five but anybody buy that book yet? I'm going to say this. I just perused that la this morning. Deb said, hey hun, could you just check this out? I want to just see if this is something we can get for the kids. I I'm fast read. And I begin to spot check, read, spot check. Said, Phew, that's a good book. We just picked up five of them for our kids. Say, W why five? You only you she said, How many you want? We're gonna give X amount of I want one for me because I want to read that. Well you already raised your kids. That's fine. This is a good book. Those principles are good principles. This guy nails it. That's a good book. If you don't have that book, you ought to get that book. And you say, well, I don't have kids anymore. Hey, it's your marriage too. It'll help your marriage. It'll go ahead and help your kids. And you can give them input. Y'all with me? And we're looking at who we can get that book to because it'll help them. And I want to keep one so I can recommend it to pastors as I travel. I said, this book is a good book if you're looking for a good resource for families. Y'all with me Podcasts, books, missionary stories. Here's another one. How much time do you have personally teaching or studying to teach a lesson? Point D. How much time in personal prayer? I will say this: your church likes to pray collectively. I've loved those moments we've had in prayer already, brother. That's a blessing. What about your personal prayer life? How much time do you spend in personal prayer, shutting the world out and talking to the Lord? Add them all up. And see how much time you spend on this side involved in spiritual things, feeding the new man versus the old man. Amen. Follow long as I read, 1 Peter chapter 2, wherefore laying aside all malice and all guile And hypocrisies and envies and all evil speakings. As newborn babes desire the sincere mouth of the word that ye may grow thereby. If so be, ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious The irrefutable correlation is this. Spiritual growth, your spiritual health, they are directly tied. to your appetite. You will be, and you are, what you eat. Amen. Let's bow our hearts before the Lord. Father, we want to thank you tonight for this thought. Even the assignment to follow. And Lord, I pray tonight for your folk here that, Lord, this has awakened in some hearts, just uh Lord, a desire to Make an assessment and take inventory of where they stand with you. Help us, Lord, as your people, in the days in which we live to discard the drama of this world. Lord, in its place, help us to desire the sincere milk and then the meat of your word. Lord, help us, Lord, to grow up and challenge us, Lord, in this area. And Lord, for the struggles that we have, help us to learn to cast off before we put something on in its place. Help us to take these two steps seriously, Lord. And then, Father, we pray for your mercy. We pray for your grace that we can grow. And we ask this in Jesus' name Amen. Music's going to play softly. Let's stand. You slip out if you want to just pray. You want to just commit something to the Lord, you come.