The book of 2 Peter. I'll let you remain seated in 2 Peter, in chapter 3, and we want to begin reading in verse number 3. We've traveled a little bit through the books of 1 and 2 Peter this week. It's been a good time together. And notice here in 2 Peter 3 and verse number 3, the Bible says this, 2 Peter 3. 3. Knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers walking after their own lusts, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation. Notice in verse number eight the response the Lord has to that mocking cry Those who would scoff at the idea that Jesus is coming again soon, notice how the Lord responds in verse 8. But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing. That one day is with the Lord is a thousand years. A thousand years is one day. And the Lord is not slack concerning his promises, some men count slackness. But his long suffering to us were not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Now notice in verse 10 the flagplant statement. In response to the mocking cry, where's this Jesus that's coming again? Notice in verse 10, very clearly he says, but the day of the Lord will come. But the day of the Lord will come. Could I say it this way? Jesus is coming again. He is coming, he is coming, he is coming, he is coming, he is coming again as he promised. The day of the Lord will come. And as we think of that thought tonight, I want you to recognize it is an inevitable conclusion that Jesus is coming again soon. And I want to preach and focus on that space of time that's just before the return of the Lord. I call it the last lap of time. I want to preach a thought tonight launched from that text I've entitled The Last Lap of Time. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you tonight. The privilege to be gathered in the wonderful name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, we thank you for a risen Savior as we saw Sunday morning, and we heard from your word that He is alive. He is risen from the dead, and that sets him apart from all other religious leaders. Thank you, he is a true and a living Savior. We ask in your Son's name tonight that, Lord, you would bless this thought. Not only has he risen from the dead, and Father, not only is he even now seated on your right hand, but Father, he's promised to come again. Lord, I believe with all my heart that coming of your Son is very, very soon. I pray for the one among us who isn't even saved. Pray tonight you cause them concern about their eternity. They come to see their need for your son. They be saved. And then, Lord, for each that are, help us to redeem this short, short time that remains Lord, I pray that in this last lap of time we'd run our race well. And I ask and pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The last lap of time. I think something we need to recognize as American believers And all the busyness of life and all the preoccupation that's in our lives, the number one, you and I are living in the last lap of time. Write that in your notes. The first thing I want to say about this last lap of time. That little bit of space, of time before Jesus Christ returns, I want you to recognize tonight that I believe with all my heart we are living in the last lap And I want to say this, you don't need mystical mathematical formulas. You don't need supernatural visions and stuff to To tell you this, in very clear biblical indicators, you will find the Bible describes what these last days will be like. And we are there. I notice some of the indicators include the following. First of all, we'll not turn to these. There is a technological indicator in place right now In the book of Daniel, chapter 12, verse 4, that would tell you these days are different, that we are living in the last lap of time. Second of all, you'll find a moral and spiritual indicator in place right now in 2 Timothy 3, 20 signs and 20 sins that would be prevalent. Just before the return of Jesus Christ. And that indicator is in place right now that would tell you you're living in the last lap of time. Thirdly, in Ezekiel chapter 11 and chapter 37 and other portions of Ezekiel, you'll find a political and prophetic indicator in place right now. That would tell you you're living in the last lap of time. You know, God has always had a prophetic stopwatch. God's prophetic stopwatch has always been the nation of Israel. In A. D. 70 on the 9th of Av, that nation was destroyed by Titus. She was literally raised and leveled. And the Jewish nations ceased to exist almost nineteen centuries ago. Flung to the heathen nations, the Gentile nations. Thus begin what the Jews call the diaspora. But as you read through your Bible in Ezekiel and Daniel, You read in Revelation and other portions of Scripture, you'll find just before Jesus Christ comes back, that those Jewish people will be regathered again and reformed again as a nation, a single nation, and they'll be prepared to meet Messiah, and they'll be in unbelief. On May 14th, 1948, that nation was rebirthed again after 19 centuries of dispersion. And she came back worshiping the same God, reading the same Bible, speaking the same language to that little piece of real estate the Gentiles called Palestine, but it is the land of Israel, it's Yisrael And she knows according to Zechariah, that's their Old Testament, the Tanakh. That Messiah is going to touch down on the Mount of Olives. Isn't that what Jesus said when he went up? He said he's coming back to same place. The Old Testament says the same thing in Zechariah 12, 13, and 14. The Jews to this day bury their dead on the Mount of Olives so they can be first in resurrection when Messiah comes back. But they don't believe Jesus was their Messiah as a nation. In Zechariah 12, 13 and 14, when Jesus Christ comes back, they're going to say, Where'd you get those wounds? In your hands And he will tell them, at the household of my friends, and in a day that nation will see who he really is. You know, for nineteen centuries that nation was not in existence. For nineteen centuries the Jewish people were not gathered, but on May 14, 1948, they regathered again, rebirthed as a nation. I'm telling you, we are living in the last lap of time. Everything's in place for the return of Messiah and the Jewish people to meet him face to face. But then there's a fourth indicator I find That is in place. It's an economic indicator. It's found in the book of Revelation. Don't turn there. I'm just going to read it to you. Listen to this economic indicator that would tell you these days are different. Revelation 13, verse 16 and 17. And he, the Antichrist, causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond. To receive a mark in their right hand or in their forehead, and that no man might buy or sell save he that had the mark or the name of the beast or the number of his name. Revelation 13 tells us just before Jesus Christ returns to set up his kingdom, there will be a global, cashless society. A one world monetary system that will be cashless. It just is going to be a mark or a number. Let me tell you something. When I was a teenager, and I stood out in front of my little grocery store in small town Minnesota and said something like this. There's going to be a global cashless society soon. They would have mocked me to score it. Credit cards weren't even around back then Software wasn't even a word. You had checks or you had cash, and that was the only way you did business. But I want to tell you, you go to your Walmart over here in Oakland, Maryland, you go ahead and stand out there and say, there'll never be a global cashist society, never gonna happen. You'll be the weirdo because we are there Fox News just three months ago ran a big headline. The Swedes now have an implantable chip put in a little flap of your skin the size of a grain of rice. So you can prove you're vaccinated. And think how much more can go on that little RF chip. Right there, right hand, flap of the skin. It's there. Major news. We are on the cusp of a A global cashless society. And I want to say that is in place right now for centuries. It had never, ever been there. These days are different. Don't you think for one second? Don't you think for one second it's Samo Samo? Even people who are not Christians know something is different about these days. My son Kevin called me in the middle of the pandemic. He lives in Baltimore, he's got five of our grandchildren. And this is what that young man said. He said, Dad, don't get me wrong I've always believed the book of Revelation was going to come to pass. But I could just never see how we could get there. But now as I look around at the global response, I look at all that's going on. Dad, I can see now how we are going to get there. You know what that kid was saying? He was saying what daddy's preaching right now. We are living in the last lap of time. We are right on the cusp of the fulfillment of all time and the ushering of the kingdom and the meeting of the king. Amen? So number one, mark it down. You and I tonight are living in the last slap of time. But this is good news because some of us will be leaving in the last slap of time. Write that one down. Some of us are going to be leaving in the last lap of time. You know what's interesting about the last lap? The last lap's got something no other lap has. It's called the finish line. Amen? It holds the finish line. And what a finish God's people have. Go to 1 Thessalonians with me, 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. If you don't know where that is, just look on with somebody who has a Bible. 1 Thessalonians 4. And look at the finish. You know, Jesus said, when these things begin to come to pass, then look up and lift up your heads, for your redemption draweth nigh. You and I are living in the last lap of time. If you're saved tonight, that's good news because you and I could be leaving in the last lap of time. Look at the exit for those of us that are alive when Jesus Christ returns. 1 Thessalonians 4, verse 13. He says this, but I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep. That would be a Christian that dies. It's not permanent, it's temporary, just like sleep. That you sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with them. For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord, not the word of man, but the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain under the coming of the Lord shall not prevent or precede them which are asleep. Look at verse 16. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Listen to this, wherefore comfort one another. With these words. Here we see what the theologians would call the rapture, the catching up of those who are alive and remain when Jesus Christ returns. And scripture describes that moment and how quickly it'll happen, according to 1 Corinthians 15. It'll happen in the what? Twinkling of an eye. Wow. How fast is that? How fast is the twinkling of an eye? Well, faster than light can bounce off the eyeball. All right, that's what I would call it. Well how how fast is that? Well light travels at, students, you know what it travels at, right? 186,000 miles per second. Woohoo! Wow! You know what that means? That's quicker than the blink of an eye. That's quicker than you can blink your eye. That's how fast the return of Jesus Christ is going to be. In the blink of quicker than the blink of an eye, boom-foom. Everything changes. You ever had a twinkling of an eye experience or moment? You ever had one of those? See, right now your pastor is praying for me. He says, where is he going with this? I remember my first twinkling of an eye moment. I was at probably twelve or thirteen getting ready for a basketball game on Friday night, junior high. And I remember throughout the day my right side had been hurting all day long. And as the day progressed, it just got worse. Till finally I'm suited up, going to play the game, but I can barely even walk, and the coach had me stretched out in the boys' locker room, and I I was immobilized. He called my dad. My dad came, they pushed around a little on my abdomen, and then they figured out I had appendicitis So off to Glenko Memorial Hospital I went. I'll never forget. First time I'd ever been under the knife, first time I'd ever been in major surgery. No idea what to expect. And so they did all the prep, got me all ready. Then the last thing that happened is the little anesthesiologist came to me and said, now David, this is what's going to happen. I've got the little tube in your arm here, and right up there is the anesthetic in that flask And she said, when I pull that pin, she said that anesthetic is going to start coming into your arm, and within seconds, it's going to knock you out. There'll be nothing you can do to stop that. I said, is that right? She said, oh yeah. She said, I'll tell you what we'll do. We'll make a game of this. I said, all right, I'm I'm good with that. She said, when I say go, she said, you start counting out loud from a hundred backwards by ones. And I'll pull that thing when I say go. And before you get to 90, she said, it will knock you out. I said, is that right? She know it will. I said, game on. I mean here, my life is in the balance. I mean, who knows what could happen to me. And this is just a game. That's a teenage boy. That's how we think, you know And so she said, You ready? I said, I'm ready. And she said, on your mark, get set, and she goes, Go. And here I am. One hundred 99, 98, 97, 96, 95, and between 95 and 94, phonk. And I woke up on the other side, 94, 93, I'm dark room, 92. Where in the world am I? Just choo-choo. Just like that. Some of you experienced that, haven't you? Let me tell you, when Jesus Christ comes, that's how quickly. His eternal be. You're here tonight and you're lost. You say, you know what? When I hear somebody give me the ultimate warning, ready to knob, here he comes, and I'll get saved. I'll get right with God. Well, you're not gonna have they're not gonna have time to even do that There'll be no breath to even be drawn back. Just choose you like that as the lightning coming from the east to the west, everything changes, and if you die in your unbelief Having heard the gospel, clearly, my Bible says strong delusion will be sent. You will believe a lie. That movie Zombies, yeah, that's exactly what you'll be, a guaranteed walking dead person. You're here as a believer tonight. You say, man, I got something that's not right. Guys, there's internet sites you're looking at, you shouldn't be looking at. There's attitudes shouldn't be there. There's activities shouldn't be it's conduct unbecoming a Christian Let me tell you something, you're not going to have time to get right. Jesus Christ, it's just that quick, and there you are standing in front of him, ashamed when you should have been standing before him in confidence. Yeah, we're living in the last slap. We're going to be leaving in the last slap if we're saved and alive when Jesus returns. But here's my message tonight. Go to the back of your sheet because this is the focus. Though all of us tonight are living in the last lap, some of us We'll be leaving in the last slap. Absolutely none of us. None of you tonight. Needs to be losing in this last lap of time. Write that down. Absolutely nobody here tonight in the auditorium, tuned in online, needs to be losing in this last lap of time. Let's recognise something. You know it's bad to lose a race. I I'm a runner, that's that's that's my wheelhouse And it was always stinging to lose a race, but it was especially stinging when you'd lose it in the last lap. I mean, you've been doing so well, you were doing so great, and then in the last lap You lost a race. And let me tell you something. As believers, this last lapse, we should not be losing in this last lap of time. That is especially stinging, so close to the Lord's return, to lose. The Galatian believers, Paul said this, he did run well. You were doing so well, what happened? And sometimes I like to take God's people and I say, I I I look, where's the empty seat? Boy, they used to be so faithful. Where are they now? Well Now i there they fell off into sin, or they just decided they weren't going to go to church anymore. And I th I I think, are you kidding me? It's the last lap. There's no other laps after this lap. This is when we should be pouring it on, not when we should be drawing aside. This isn't the lap you want to be losing in. Because you don't get any second chances. It's the last one. No others to follow. Let's recognize. Get your pens out. We're going to move into some thoughts real quick. Get your pens out because you need to recognize the nature of the last lap, and maybe it'll help you run your race like you should All last laps have these characteristics. Even this last lap of time before Jesus comes back. Number one, the last lap I have found by experience is the most exhausting lap. That's when the energy has been spent. That's when you're really tired. This is going to be the exhausting lap. Amen. And look around. It's an exhausting day we live in today, isn't it? Is this flat exhausting? To listen and watch. Second of all, the last lap is the most distracting lap. All the stands light up in the last lap All the voices are screaming from the sidelines at the runners. Y'all with me? It is loud out there. And look at America today. There are a lot of voices screaming, political voices. Moral voices, spiritual voices, I mean, it's a noisy day and it's an exhausting day out there right now in this last lap, but that's the nature of a last lap Thirdly, recognize this. The last lap is the most intense and painful lap. That's the lap that really hurt. Y'all with me? I mean I think when I would run those three miles or I would run that one mile, oh that last lap, man, that's when it was painful. Let me say this. If you're saved. You're a believer. If you think it's going to get easier to serve Jesus in these last days and years before he comes back, you are sadly, sadly mistaken. It is going to cost you more, and it's going to hurt more, because I said it earlier, the days of casual Christianity are over in America. You can try it, but it ain't going to work. You're going to be one side or the other. And this last laugh is a very painful laugh. It's going to cost you. It's going to cost you to keep serving the Lord, and it's going to be painful to serve the Savior And in this last lap, three things we don't want to do. Number one, don't lose your focus. Don't lose your focus. I wrote that in your notes. I'm talking to believers right now, with all the voices screaming and all the distractions. Don't lose your focus in this last lap of time. What's our focus? Look with me in Hebrews 12. It's what you've got written all over your vans, it's what you've got written here in the church house, Hebrews 12. Look at what's said In verse number one of Hebrews 12. Hebrews near the end of your Bible, the book of Hebrews. Number one, Christian, in this last lap of time, don't lose your focus. Hebrews twelve verse one says this Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us. Let us roll in patience the race that is set before us. What is our focus? Verse 2, the first three words, this is your focus, believer, looking unto Jesus Say those three words with me out loud. Looking unto Jesus. That's the focus. In this last lap of time, don't lose your focus. You are to be looking unto Jesus. Notice what he doesn't say. He doesn't say looking under the government. Could I get an amen there? He doesn't say looking onto the news. Could I get an amen there? Do you understand over in China? Believers don't even watch the news in China because they know it's propaganda. So they don't even tune into that stuff And I hear guys say, oh, but I watch a conservative network. Oh, great So now all you do as a believer is stalk through your daily routine angry at everything going on out there. Could I get a witness? Don't tell me I don't know who we are. My mission field is America I have served with the United States Marine Corps. I've worked with the millionaires. I'm a farm boy from Minnesota. There is nobody in here. I don't have some connection, and I know who you are. And as Americans, I'm going to tell you, I know where we live You say, well, I I watch it. Yeah, you just you get all frustrated. One of the best things you'll ever do as a believer is shut your silly news station off Amen. That's one of the best things you'll ever do. It will liberate you, it'll it'll keep you from chewing up time unnecessarily. You'll get to get into the Word of God and actually get your focus where it belongs He doesn't say looking under the news, amen. I remember one time early in the ministry as I would travel before smartphones even showed up. I didn't even know if flip phones were around then But I remember as we traveled, one of my favorite things to still do is read my Bible in the public arena. Dunkin' Donuts, Panera bread. Starbucks, someone yeah, I I eat my breakfast, I read my read my Bible. And I remember I remember Back in the early years before smartphones came, I would buy a USA Today newspaper. 75 cents is all cost those first few years, around 2000, 2001. And you say why why a USA Today? Marine Corps, we like color pictures. All right? So I would buy a USA today and I'd have my Bible and I'd be sitting there sipping coffee, eating my breakfast, reading my Bible, do my devotional, then I'd go over and read the newspaper, catch up what was going on. That was how I would do my morning And one day a guy walks by, never seen him since, never saw him before, had his cup of Joe, he stops and he looks and he kind of snorts. He goes, hmm And then he did this. That's good news, he said, pointing to my Bible, and that's bad news, and pointed to the newspaper, and then just walked off I said, man, he nailed it. That's so true, isn't it? God doesn't say looking unto the news. God says looking unto Jesus. Amen. He doesn't say looking unto talk radio. He says looking unto Jesus. He doesn't say looking unto the markets. Oh, has that been a wild ride the last two years? Some of you have been sucking all kinds of maloks over the last two years watching your 401k and then, ha ha, what a ride. Amen? He doesn't say looking under Facebook. Drama, drama, drama, drama. You know what he says? He says, looking unto Jesus. Now I've got a little test for you. You wake up tomorrow morning, every one of you ought to take this test. It's just a momentary test, and it'll tell you what you're looking on to. It'll tell you what your obsession is. It'll tell you what your focus is. After you get your little cup of coffee, brush your little toofies. Start getting your day going. What's the next thing you reach for? Whatever the next thing you reach for is what you're obsessed about. Is it the TV remote? Is it the smartphone? To find out what's going on? Or is it the Word of God? Whatever you reach for first tomorrow morning is what you're looking unto. That is what you're obsessing about. Amen? Oh yeah. A test works every single time. In this last lap of time, with all the noise going on out there, the Lord says Looking unto Jesus. Amen. He's the author and the Finisher of your faith. He never changes his position in this race of service. He was there when he started. He's there when you finish. And you're to keep your eyes on the prize. And notice as you look unto him, you're going to find out some interesting things. First of all, write this one down. You're going to find out As you look unto Jesus Christ and your heavenly Father in this last lap of time, that your God and your Savior is a sovereign God. Write that down. Your God is a sovereign God. Go back to Daniel with me. I want you to see this verse in Daniel, the book of Daniel, chapter 4. Daniel's probably a little past the middle of your Bible. The Psalms and Proverbs are in the middle of your Bible, then Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel, Daniel. And Daniel chapter 4, I want you to see a verse, a single verse. In Daniel chapter 4 and verse number 17. I want you to recognize as we're turning to Daniel 4, 17, that our God, the true and living God, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, he is a sovereign God. Watch what Daniel says in Daniel 4. 17. He says, this matter is by the decree of the watchers and the demand by the word of the holy ones. Daniel 4:17. To the intent that the living may know. Look up for just a moment. We're living, so whatever is about to be told us, God, the God of this universe, wants you to know. What is it he wants me to know? That the Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men and giveth it to whomsoever he will. And setteth up over it the basist of men If you remember right, a little over a year ago, January, a year and a half, year and a few months ago, January was a pretty intense time in our nation. One president was outgoing, a new president was coming in, being sworn in in January of that year. Right around that time, I was starting the year down in Florida If you live in a motorhome, you'll always be in Florida in January. That's not being unspiritual, that's just being wise. But I have come to realize in open Maryland you can get snow in July. Just glad I wasn't driving in it. Schizophrenic. It's different here. So here I am, January, kicking the year off about the third week of January. And boy, the emotions were screaming high across our nation. And I remember as I started that, it was in Gatorland. It was Gainesville, Florida. There's a church plant there. We go in seven years, growing quickly. And I do what I always do. I always greet people, talk with them. Sunday comes, Sunday goes, Monday night, I'm there early and I'm talking to the folk, mixing it up. And I nestled down in the back corner right back there where two guys were. One was a public school teacher, the other was a business owner. It was very clear where their politics were, for one of them was wearing a Trump shirt. All right? But don't tune me out. You don't know where I'm going with this. Keep me on. Woo. So I'm sitting there talking to these guys, and one of them looks at me after about five minutes and he says You know what, Brother Dave? I said, What's that? He said, God put Donald Trump in the White House. But yeah, yeah, he did. I said, I got one Even better than that, he said, what's that? God put Joe Biden in the White House too. Oh man, their eyes got his biggest saucers I think they were thinking I want a refund of my love offering, man. They got one of them went, boo, how can you how can you possibly say that? And I quoted Daniel 4. 17 to them. I said, Because God says the Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and he gives those kingdoms to whosoever he will, even the basis of men. I said, that's my verse, what's yours, for what you believe. And you pin me back, I'll pin you back. Well got real quiet. Got real quiet. It almost got real quiet. What's really bad is if we're dealing with somebody over fifty, they don't know how to stop that thing from doing that either. That's always fun to watch. Just let that thing ring. Now it's really quiet. Got really quiet. I said, What's your verse? Boy, we talked for five more minutes, and to his credit, this is what he said. You know what, preacher, you're right. I'm wrong. Could I remind you tonight that no president comes to power without our God's permission? Don't go too quiet on me. I can nestle in on this one. I got way more scripture than you do No judge gets put on that bench without our God's permission. No king, potentator, power stays in power one second longer than our God allows. Go ahead and visit heaven tonight. You're not gonna find God pacing heaven, worried about who's gonna win the midterms and Oh boy, what's going to happen in this and sucking down mallocks? No, no, no, no. He got this whole mud ball right where he wants it. We sing the song, don't we? Our God reigns. Our God reigns. Our God reins. Our God reigns. Get your pens out. I'm going to give you a couple of profundities. We shared them in Sunday school, but I think we need to hear them again. You see, because our God does deal in the kingdoms and affairs of men. I tell people all the time, if you're disappointed in the elephant or the donkey, why don't you try following the lamb? Amen. Because in a world of variables and change, our God changes not. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. Listen to this. You need to recognize tonight, because it got a little quiet when I said that. You need to recognize something, that in America, recognize that the kingdom of Christ in America, in that kingdom, Christianity does not need to be appreciated to advance. Number one, Christianity does not need to be appreciated to advance In fact, Christianity has rarely been appreciated in all the centuries that Christianity has been around. Number two, this one will really turn your gears. Do you know tonight as a Christian, we don't need freedom to be fruitful? You don't need freedom to be fruitful. Don't look at me weird. Served under Ronnie Reagan, United States Marine Corps. I love America as much as you do. Don't for one second think I don't You and I got to get bigger than just staring at a nation. We got to stare at a kingdom. And Christianity does not need freedom to be fruitful. If that was true, then you wouldn't have anything going on in China tonight. You'd have nothing going on in Laos and Cambodia and Muslim countries, but there's a lot going on. Just don't hear about it. God has his own agenda. He's not under the thumb of America. Recognize this The kingdom of Christ, as Americans, recognize that we do not need a seat at the table of power to persuade men and women to consider Jesus Christ. Do you know what's one guy described it so well. He's an African American preacher friend of mine in Savannah, Georgia. This is what he said. The left focuses on social activism. You can say amen. That's what happens. The left focuses on social activism. You know what the right focuses on? American nationalism. Neither of those two are biblical Some of you are really chewing now. You know what's biblical? Biblical evangelism. Pressing the gospel into the hearts of men and women, boys and girls, to not make them an American, but to bring them to Christ and put them in the kingdom up there. Now, here's the proof. Don't get me wrong. I'm an and both guy. I want people in power that are righteous. I don't want unrighteous, but I recognize, hey, hey, hey, guess who votes them in? The people. You with me? And if somebody in power gets saved who is a wicked individual and against everything we're for? Guess what? They'll never get re-elected if they live for Jesus Christ. The voting block will primary them and put another person in their place. We're still down to you and me, brothers and sisters, making a difference in our nation with a neighborhood we live in. Here's the proof. If we all picked up right now and went to the Philippines as missionaries. How involved in their politics would you be? As you met with all the Filipinos, would you be telling them how to vote for their next leader? Would you go and be leaning on them about how they need to go ahead and vote for this party, not that party? No. You're not there to get them into a party. You're there to get them into heaven. You with me? In fact, if you talk party too much, you won't get the chance to tell them about Jesus. You'll get them all offended. Amen. So here's my statement. If all I hear coming from your lips in your life is politics, but not Jesus saves and gospel, you're not operating as a missionary in the nation God put you in to be salt and light in this nation right now. That good? And people say to me, Well, least I'm not in that ditch I mean this ditch. It's still a ditch. When I would call dad See Dad, I just put your car in the ditch. Minnesota farm boy overcorrect. He never said, well, which ditch did you hit, son He didn't really care. The car was meant to be on the road, not in a ditch. Nobody's ditch is better than someone else's ditch. It's a ditch. Get back to the narrow way. Get back to preaching Christ. This is how you change a nation. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray, seek my face Turn from their wicked ways. I'll hear from heaven. Forgive their sin and heal their land. Wow. We are the keepers of this country. And listen to this. As God draws everything to a pre-drawn global conclusion, sometimes he gives a nation and a people a leader who's better than they deserve. It's called a space of grace. I believe we had that. But what did we do with it? Sometimes he gives a nation and a people exactly who they do deserve. You haven't figured it out. We are under the judgment of God right now. When you can't define what a woman is, that's the judgment of God. When you have all this chant all this junk, not one thing that Is the judgment of God. Now is the time to get as close to Jesus Christ as you can. Now is the time to get the truth of the gospel out more than ever before Amen. Now's the time not to just be unfaithful, but to triple down. It's the last lap. What do you have to lose by leaving it all on the field? Amen. Don't lose your focus. Our God's a sovereign God. Number two, write this in. Our God is a good and gracious God. Don't forget that. He's a good and gracious God. Spurgeon said it so well. Our God is too good to be unkind. And he's too wise to be mistaken. So when you can't trace his hand, trust his heart. He's the God of the happy ending. Amen? Listen to the ending our God gives to those who say yes to his son. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him Should not perish, but have everlasting life. Oh man, you know what the chapter is for every person who trusts Christ as Savior? It's not happily ever after. It's happily forever after. Amen. Our God is the God of the happy ending. Don't lose your focus, number one. Second of all, I wrote it down, in this last lap of time, don't forsake your, or excuse me, don't leave your first love. Don't leave your first love. Paul said of demons, demons hath forsaken me, having loved what? This present evil world. There's the dilemma Why do believers stop serving the Lord? You know what our problem is? We get impatient for that heaven. And we want another one down here as well. We want two heavens. We want a heaven here, and we'll throw the kitchen sink at it to get it. We will get actively involved in trying to make sure we keep our heaven down here. And oftentimes all that energy takes away from the focus of the heaven that's guaranteed up there. I want to say this, Americans. You don't get two heavens. You're saved. God only gives one. And it's not this earth. It's the world and kingdom to come. Quit making this place your reason for living. Amen? It's not. It's not It it it never it n it just doesn't last. Amen. I've done it, I've tried to do it, I've tried to get the perfect little house and the perfect little deal and have everything the way I want it. So I can be happily ever You know, and then it's like one wire here, one wire there, and the world just leans on and goes, boom, and blows it all up every time Health reports, financial issues, relationship struggles. Y'all with me? I'm sorry, this place is not heaven. Quit trying to make it heaven Live for the one that's really heaven. Amen? So don't lose your focus, but don't leave your first love. I love what years ago D. O. Mooney took his entourage to the gypsies and other preachers who tried to win the gypsies to the Lord. And along the way, a man got saved. Came a notable preacher, his name? Gypsy Smith. Late in life, Gypsy lived to 84 years old. Late in life, a man came and heard him preach for one of the last times. Gypsy very aged, this man very aged. And following the sermon, the man came up to Gypsy, and this is what he said. He said, Gypsy, I heard you early in your ministry. And as you preached about the Lord, it just encouraged my heart. Your passion for the Lord was unbelievable. Your love for the Savior just ignited a passion in my heart. And Gypsy, I came to hear you one more time, and nothing's changed. Gypsy, what's the secret to your passion and love for Jesus Christ? This is what Gypsy said Alfred Smith wrote a song by this title. He said, Sir, I've never lost the wonder of it all. I've never gotten over why he saved me. I've never lost the wonder of it all. Remember when you were newly saved? You read your Bible for a couple hours at a time. You are just in awe that all of your sin Was under the blood of Jesus Christ. You are completely forgiven. You just, you couldn't believe someone could love you like that. You were in awe that hell was no longer your destination, but You get the kingdom, you get heaven. I remember that. But then somewhere along the line, bitterness, hurts, the busyness of life. Just all that goes with it. Jesus just became a little box That got checked. He just became a box that got checked You're no longer in awe of what Jesus did for you. Now I'm going to tell you tonight, as we have the invitation here shortly, the many of what we ought to do is say, Lord, help me. To become enamored again, and to be awestruck by what you did for me. Help me not to lose the wonder of it all. Amen? Don't lose your focus. Don't leave your first love. Don't forsake your faith. It's the last lap. Go to 2 Timothy. I want to close with this. We're living in the last lap. Some of us are going to be leaving in the last lap, but nobody here tonight. Needs to be losing in the last lap of time. 2 Timothy chapter 4. If you're here tonight and you're not saved, the worst thing you could lose in this last lap is your soul. Jesus said, what shall profit a man if he gains the whole world? And then loses his own soul. Your soul is worth more than everything this world has to offer. Look at this in 2 Timothy chapter 4. Timothy or Paul is getting toward the end of his life and in 2 Timothy chapter 4. Look at what he says here. He looks back at his entire Christian life. He knows his departure is very near. He's going to die. He's going to go to be with a Savior forever. And look at how he sums up his entire race that he's run, his entire Christian life in 2 Timothy 4. 7. He says, I have fought a good fight. That's what a soldier says. Sir, mission accomplished. Aye aye, sir. I have finished my course. That's what an athlete, that's what a runner says. I ran it to the tape. I never quit. I ran it all the way to the finish. Then he adds: this: I've kept the faith. That's what a bookkeeper, that's what an accountant, that's what a steward says. I've kept that which was committed unto me. A few years ago, Deb and I had the privilege of going to a Christian college graduation. A young lady who was graduating, we'd met in Germany many years ago. 2005, 2000. Six. Our children went over for a month and sang to the troops and different ministries over there, and I preached for a solid month. And along the way, we met a young lady, her name was Rachel, newly saved. And boy, did she have baggage. She'd come from a broken home and all kinds of tragedy, all kinds of just horrible things that happened. And Rachel, she just She just glommed onto our family. She's the same age as our oldest daughter, Kimberly. And she just glommed onto this family. A dad and mom, six kids, serving the Lord together, something she never had. I called her, and she literally has become an unofficial adopted daughter in our family. I call her Rachel the Rack. In fact, if my phone rang right now and it was Rachel, it would say Rachel the Rec. I would know which Rachel it was I remember she glommed onto us, just took us in as hers, and we just loved on her. Over the years, she's come to every single wedding our children have been a part of. She's flown in to be there. I went ahead and officiated her wedding to Shane, and I was the one that officiated it, and we just got the wonderful news. She just had her second child, little Wyatt David. Named for Dad Summerdorf, as she calls me But I remember she through the VA she got her schooling and four-year degree and college graduation came. She said, Dad, mom, you've got to be there. So we'll be there. Flew in, came to the ceremony. It was a big event. I remember as we sat up in the balcony of that Christian college, I looked down and The front rows, three, four, five, six rows in this giant auditorium, all the graduates were there. You know, they were all there. You could tell they all had the same colored gowns, the same mortar boards, different tassels, but it was the graduates, a couple hundred of them. Two, three hundred graduates. But there was one guy that stood out like a sore thumb. Gray hair Nestled in with all the other graduates wearing the same colors in his it looked like he was about in his mid-50s, maybe even upper fifties. And I I remember in the balcony, I I looked down and I saw that. You could see the gray hair And all the everybody else is in their twenties. And I remember Nudge and Dev says, look at that old coot. He got in the wrong line. What is he doing there? I remember what Well, you know how they do in the ceremonies. They pick the valedictorian, the salutatorian, different uh graduates and notables, you know, and one at a time they'll have them come up and give a speech before they all get their diploma. And of all of them they picked, he was one of them. And as he came up during his moment to give a speech, to share a testimony He said, and he began on it. He said he said, I I imagine that most of you are wondering what I am doing here with a graduating class at my age. I looked at Deb, I said, he nailed it. That's exactly what I'm wondering And this is what he said. I came to the Lord late in life. It probably took longer than most to figure it out that I needed to be saved. So I got saved late in life. And as I look at all my classmates, they have a ton of life ahead of them. I have just a little bit left. And so the question obviously is why would you go ahead and go through a four-year degree and all of that? You just have a little bit of life left. Why would you do that? And this is what he said. I guess for me, it's just all about Finishing well. Finishing well. That's profound Because some of you can identify with what I'm about to say. Because in my Christian life, there's been some laps I wish it could have had a redo. They weren't good laps. What you did just go back and kind of that month redo it. That year redo it. Yo with me, could I get it? But I can't. I can't go back and change what happened. Nor can you But there's one thing every one of us can do tonight. From this moment forward, we can all choose to finish well. Every one of us can. I don't care how young you are, I don't care how old you are, I don't care how bad laps have been running, it doesn't matter. You don't have yesterday. You got now. That's why Jesus said today is the day of salvation. Didn't talk about yesterday. He doesn't talk about tomorrow. You may never get that. We can all choose to finish well. If you're here tonight and you're not saved, you want to finish well In this last lap of time, you get saved. Get on the right team. I'm going to tell you, if you're not on the team Of Jesus Christ, you're on a losing team. Period. You can try to bend that any way you want. You can try to spin it any way you want. But Jesus Christ is the resurrection and the life. If you have the Son, you have life. If you have any other God, you do not have eternal life. It's impossible. I don't care what you feel, don't care what you think. Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, and the life. No man gets to the Father but by Him. He said that. But if you're a Christian tonight. And there's just there's just something that needs jettisoned. There's something that needs made right. Maybe there's been some things in the past just ain't been good. From this moment forward. You can take a knee, cry out to God for mercy and grace, and finish this race well. You get back in the battle. Get back in the race with all your heart. Amen. All of us are living in the last lap of time. These days are different. Some of us will be living in the last lap if we're alive and remain when Jesus comes back. Amen. But none of us tonight should be losing in this last lap of time. There's so little time left By the grace of God, finish well. Whatever that means to you tonight, salvation, service, whatever. You ought to beg God to help you finish well. Amen. Let's bow hearts for the Lord. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Father, thank you, Lord, tonight for this message. Thank you how clearly your scripture shows us that we are living in the last lap of time. So many things in place, Lord, there's not one more thing that needs to be put in place That's missing to require your son to return. Father, everything's there. It's already. Lord, I pray for that one among us. They're not saved. They keep thinking they have tomorrow. They keep thinking they'll get more opportunities down the road, and and maybe they will, Father, but Lord, then again, maybe they won't. Now I recognize tonight, heads are bowed, eyes are closed, Lord, I recognize tonight that individual is thinking about your son and the need to be saved. Now I pray you'd work on their heart. And Lord, as we have this invitation, they just step out and get some help. In this last lap of time, they secure the soul. Rather than lose it. And then, Father, I pray for your people. Lord, we We recognize we've not always run a good race and not every lap and every day and week and month and year has been a what it ought to have been. Lord, how we pray in this last lap of time as time comes to a close. We ask of you, Lord, to give us grace. We humble our hearts before you We know we can't run this in our strength. We need your help. And so we ask you tonight to give us grace and power to finish well. May we, like Paul, one day be able to say, I fought a good fight I finished my course. I've kept the faith. Please, Lord, hear our cry. Lord, I pray you do for us what we can't even do for ourselves. We ask and pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Music's playing softly.