Chapter number one, Jonah One. I have a came across uh thing yesterday, a little article on Halloween and ten reasons why this uh it's a homeschool mother wrote it, ten reasons why she uh does not celebrate Halloween Halloween with her children. And uh I give it to you out now because but I'm afraid you'd read it while the lesson is going on And so if you're interested in it, I have a bunch. I wish I had it about a week or so ago, but um I just came across it yesterday, it was really good, so I uh Uh took it and formatted it, made it available so that uh I could give it out tonight. So we'll have that in just a little bit. Uh we're looking at Jonah. If you remember, we noted the first verse was our first section of our outline of the book where God calls Jonah to go to Nineveh as, in a sense, a missionary, in a very real sense, a missionary, take the word of God uh to a foreign nation. In chapter in chapter one, verse two and three, we have no Jonah's contention And rather than submitting to God's call and surrendering to the Lord and obeying the Lord, Jonah goes the opposite direction. He has a contention with God's call And then beginning in verse number four, we have the Lord's chastisement of Jonah. And God steps in and intervenes And we began looking at this this past week, and uh we noted um let me just briefly get you caught up if you weren't here last week. God stirs up this storm And God is intervening. Now here's the picture. Here's what's taken place. God calls Jonah to go to Nineveh. Jonah takes issue with that. He doesn't want to go to Nineveh. We're not told why. We speculate various reasons But uh Jonah decides he's gonna go the opposite direction, he's gonna go down to Joppa and take his ship over to Tarsus. Um And so he seems to get away with that for a while. Everything seems to work out pretty good. And we noted, if you'll remember, we said in Hebrews chapter 11, the Bible says there's pleasure in sin for a season And that word pleasure there has the idea of success, accomplishment. So sin can accomplish what it's after for a while. And so Jonah, the ticket's there, the boat's there, there's a place for him, everything works out, and he's on his way to Tarsus. But God, in his love for Jonah and his love for the Ninevites, intervenes. And I tell you, it's a good thing when God intervenes And so we have God's chastisement. If you remember, what do we say chastisement was? Chastisement is not making someone pay. What is chastisement? It is Correction, getting them back on track. And so God is intervening in Jonah's fleeing from Nineveh from the presence of the Lord. God intervenes not to make Jonah pay, but to get him back on track and get him going the way God intends for him to do. So God does that in two ways. One is he sends a storm, and that's what we're looking at right now Now I had this last week and I left it back in my office, but um I thought it was interesting. I came across a list of windstorms and storms that God used And so before we read what we're going to look at tonight, I wanted to share these with you. I thought it was pretty interesting For Noah's flood, when God dried up the flood, the Bible says God sent a strong wind, a windstorm to uh dry up the flood. When the plague of locusts came, they were accompanied, they were blown by a strong wind. Uh when the Israelite crossed the Red Sea, it was a strong wind that divided the Red Sea. The quails, uh when God sent the quails, it came on a windstorm Uh after Mount Carmel, uh remember Elijah went out in the wilderness. He got real discouraged. Uh uh Jezebel came after him and he did the smart thing and ran And um I don't know that smart thing. But uh he ran out into the wilderness and God sent a strong storm by. Uh windstorm was involved uh um on uh with Elijah I think it's what I just mentioned. When Elijah was translated and the fiery chariots, there was a windstorm involved with that. When God was speaking with Job, there was a windstorm involved in that. The disciples out on the Sea of Galilee dealt with a windstorm Again, another time on Galilee they start with a windstorm. On the day of Pentecost, there was a sound as of a rushing mighty wind. And then Paul dealt with a storm on his way to Rome. So God uses weather throughout Scripture. This is what got my attention, is how God is in control of weather I've studied this, tried to study it pretty carefully, and I tried to find out how many times Satan uses weather to hinder God's will. Anybody here ever say, boy, the devil sent that storm and just messed up our service? Anybody ever say that or think that? Y'all are very pious and very scriptural here Uh I thought that. Boy the cell. But after I studied my Bible, you know what I found out? Not one time does the devil use weather to hinder God's will. The only time I can find the Bible, now correct me if I'm wrong some other time, but um uh the only time I see in a devil uh see in the Bible where the devil is using weather is when he uh kills uh Job's servants. A storm comes and a place falls on him, but he's only doing that under the permission of God. And so God's in control of the weather. And I thought that was interesting. So God sends this storm And uh we noted first of all the intervention of the Lord. Look at verse 4, verse part. But the Lord sent out The Lord sent out a great wind into the sea. So you had the invent the invent the intervention of the Lord. Then we had the intensity of the storm. And verse number four. We had the intimidation of the sailors. These guys are called mariners. These guys are seasoned sailors. They're very experienced. They're not newbies. These guys know what they're talking about, and they're absolutely scared to death. And then we have the indifference of Jonah in verse number five. Jonah's down in the bottom of the ship, sound asleep, and just completely detached from the situation, uninterested whatsoever. Uh whether it was because he just didn't care whether he lived or died, or maybe he had the idea these guys, I paid them to deal with this I'm not going to worry about it. Whatever it was, he was completely indifferent. Then we have the indignation of the captain in uh verse number six. He comes down, he's absolutely disgusted with Jonah He goes, Oh thou sleeper, and uh basically rebukes him. Now we get to verse number seven. I think that's all we're going to look at tonight because uh I just want to uh work our way through here. But look at verse seven Let's go back to verse 6, get the context. So the shipmaster came to him and said unto him, Jonah, what meanest thou, O sleeper? Arise, call upon thy God, if it be so that God will think upon us that we perish not. Now look at verse 7. And they said everyone to his fellow. This is the sailors speaking among themselves. They said everyone to his fellow, come And let us cast lots, that we may know for whose cause this evil is upon us. So they cast lots, and the lot fell upon who? Jonah. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now you bless our study of your word, particularly this uh short record of Jonah's uh rebellion, his carnality. I pray, God, that we could learn from this. We learn something about you. I pray, Father, that we would learn something about ourselves. And Lord, that we could apply to our lives some principles here, that we could be men and women of faith And that your will for our existence, our purpose for being alive would be accomplished. And so bless now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I call this the investigation by the crew. And so uh uh it's important, I believe, to visualize what's taking place here in this record that we're reading here. This is not just an ordinary storm. We touched on this last week. This is, I call it, as I'm studying this, I've come to the conclusion, this is a supernatural storm. Uh a year ago today, what was going on? Superstorm Sandy. I think San that was all Sandy. But um uh if you would picture Sandy and I don't know, I'm speculating here But I know this, these these sailors had been around for a while. This wasn't their first rodeo, as they say. They've been through it and they are absolutely scared out of their minds And so they're in the midst of superstorm uh whatever it is. It's a supernatural storm. This is something that we're going to see here in a little bit. They recognized this was not normal, this was not natural, this was something beyond. uh what normally happens. And so that's taken place, this unbelievable storm with the high, intense winds and the waves that would be accompanied with that. Remember, the ship is completely empty. What did they just do? Just a few verses before. What were they doing? They're throwing all the wares off. And we noted that's not just the cargo, that is the equipment that is needed to operate the ship. They are so desperate. to just keep that thing afloat. They're forfeiting the ability to navigate once they s if they survive the storm, they're forfeiting that ability just to keep that thing afloat. So try and picture this, visualize this in your mind. Here's this ship out in the midst of the sea. An unbelievable storm is blowing with waves and gale-force winds The ship is completely empty. There's nothing uh that isn't part of the ship that's still on it. Waves crashing over it The ship is about to be broken in pieces. Do you remember back there? Where is it? It says verse number four. Look at the last part of verse four. So that the ship was like to be what? Broken. I mean this this ship is being pushed to its limit. It is about to snap. It is about to fall apart into pieces and um The ship's about to be completely gone. And the guys, the sailors, have been praying to their gods. Remember that? Each man prayed to his own God. And it accomplished nothing. Now put yourself in that with that that frame of mind, put yourself in these sailors' shoes. Never seen a ship, never seen a storm like this before. There's absolutely nothing left of the ship other than what is necessary to stay afloat. The thing is creaking and snapping and groaning any second it's going to fall apart. And they've been praying to their gods, and it's been complete silence from their gods, no effect whatsoever. So what does that tell us? There's nothing more they can do. They are at the end of all possibilities. All options are gone. And so the only thing they can do is they call a conference together. Look at verse number seven. And they said everyone to his fellow. So all the guys, all their word fellow there is translated other places companion. So they get all their people together somehow, whether they're down inside or wherever they're at, they get everybody together And they say uh uh we've got to do something. Anyone have any ideas? We've got to brainstorm here first, fast, because we w I don't know what else to do. There's nothing else we can do Isn't it interesting that when man comes to the end of himself, he starts looking for something bigger than himself? They've done everything they possibly can, and so they get everyone together. What in the world can we possibly do so that to come up with the idea of casting lots In other words, they're looking for something bigger than them to intervene on their behalf and save their life. You know what that's called in the military, in the wartime, they call it foxhole Christianity Well, no time for God, no interest in spiritual things, but boy, when that bullets are flying and you're about to be killed, suddenly Things of the Lord become very important. I've seen that as I mentioned before when I was with hospice. People that had no interest in God, no interest in the Bible, no interest in church, no concern for their spiritual well-being And the doctor says you've got six months or less to live, suddenly they become very interested. Now thank God. And I used to try and communicate to folks sometimes. They would say, Why me? Why now? Why is this I say, listen, God's given you a tremendous opportunity to get things right with him. Some people are killed like that in a car and never have that opportunity. And so here these guys are. They're at their end of themselves and they call this conference together And they come to this conclusion. Now you've got to think this through a little bit, but I'm convinced this is the conclusion they come to. Someone's to blame. See that? Look at the verse again. And they said everyone to his fellow, Come now, let us cast lots that we may know for whose cause this evil is upon us. They realize this is not a just chance storm. This is not some random weather event. This is a supernatural thing taking place in response to something someone has done. Now that's an amazing thing. Someone's to blame for this. God is doing this in response to somebody on this ship. Now, let me be quick to caution us all To not start an investigation every time things are going bad. You follow what I'm saying? Just because you're going through a storm, just because someone's going through a storm does not necessarily mean God is chastening or God is correcting or dealing with somebody because of something they've done wrong. Now it's not wrong to examine ourselves Let me give a little bit of pastoral advice here. If I'm losing my job, if something's gone wrong, and or maybe there's sickness that won't go away or whatever, something uh unpleasant is happening to me, I think one of the first things I should do is get alone with God and say, God, and examine myself and ask the Lord, Lord, search me and try me. Is there something here in my life you're trying to deal with? Is there something you're trying to correct? Now that's a good response for me to examine myself. What does 1 Corinthians 11 say? We quote it often at Lord's Supper. If we would judge ourselves, we would not be what? Judged. And so when something's gone wrong, it's good to start an investigation if the person being investigated is myself. But here's where the caution is. If somebody else is admitted to the hospital or somebody else has lost the job or somebody else has gone through a It is not my place to come and say, all right, God obviously is dealing with something in their life. God obviously, they must have done something wrong. Now I don't sense that a whole lot uh among our people. I know when years gone by I've had folks if somebody was in a hospital and they didn't like that person a little bit, the first thing they'd be saying to me was this, well I know I know why that happened to them My response is, no, you don't. That's between them and God. And so we have to be real careful about this. Not all calamities are the result of sin. Alright, not every storm comes because there's a Jonah in the boat. Sometimes storms come because God wants to teach us. What was the situation with the disciples? The Lord The Lord persuaded them and urged them to get in the ship and send them out on Galilee, knowing the storm was going to come. They were doing what God said, and a storm came So we have to be very, very careful about this investigative mentality when things are going wrong for someone that we immediately begin to think that somehow they must have done something wrong or whatever. Take your Bible if you would, keep your place here, but come to the Gospel of John. We have a classic illustration of this. John chapter nine And sometimes we're awfully good. Uh uh I uh I think if we would hold ourselves to the same standard we hold others sometimes. We'd have revival. And uh look at John chapter 9. Are you there? Look at verse number one. And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was bo which was blind from his birth. Now, consider that. And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin? This man or his parents, that he was born blind Well, several observations here. Number one, what's the assumption the disciples are making? They're assuming somebody sent. They're assuming that his blindness is a result of somebody sinning, or this guy wouldn't be blind. So they're making an unscriptural assumption, an unspiritual assumption. And the second thing is they're making a stupid assumption. How in the world could this guy being born blind be a result of him sinning if he's blind when he's born? How could he have already sinned? Right? And so the Lord corrects them. But Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents. Look at the purpose of this quote-unquote storm. But that the works of God should be made manifest in him. What's the Lord saying here? The Lord's saying that this man has been born blind so that I can show my special grace and my special power in a very unique way in this man's life. And so we need to understand when storms come our way and when things are going very, very wrong, we need to first of all stop and say, All right Lord, search my heart, try me. Is there something that's out of whack? Is there something that isn't right in my life? And let me tell you this from experience. It doesn't take God long to show us if something's wrong Now, I've had to pray and beg and plead God for long periods of time, sometimes to have God answer a prayer, but I've never had to beg and plead and wait on God to find out if something's wrong in my life. It always is dealt with immediately. And um and I know when we take Lord's Supper, I give an invitation and I say something like this, or something in your life the Lord is dealing with I know from experience, I don't know individually personally, but I know from experience that it doesn't take the Holy Spirit long to point out in our individual hearts what is not right and what needs to be addressed. Am I right or wrong? They don't have to beg, oh God, please show me what's wrong with my God please show that doesn't happen that way. We already know. He just touches it, it's there. And so we need to be real, real careful. When I say here that they uh called a conference and they initiated this investigation As to who sinned here, we need to be real, real careful about that. And the next time a storm comes along, let's investigate ourselves. And let's ask the Lord, what is it in my life? And of course I'm using the word storm there as a figure of speech. However, having said all of that In this case, I think they did the right thing. I think this is a unique case, is a time of absolute emergency. They have searched, they have done everything they humanly can. This storm is of supernatural source, and uh the only thing they have to have left to do is to find out what in the world is going on here. And so they call this conference together. The next thing they do, as a result of the conference, they come to the conclusion we should cast lots. Look at a verse there. Come back there if you would. It says, And they said every one to his fellow, come and let us cast lots that we may know whose cause this evil is upon us. And so they're going to cast lots. Now, what is casting lots? They say, oh, it's throwing dice. No, that's not what it is. This is not, some people have tried to use this to justify gambling. They're not gambling with anything. They're trying to determine uh they're trying to uh determine the reality, the truth of a matter here And so they cast lots. The lot is most likely, I got looking at this and it's used very throughout scripture, primarily in the Old Testament where they're casting lots for various different things. Some cases God told them to in Leviticus. But a lot, for the most part, we don't know exactly what it was. A lot of times and when they would cast lots in this time, they would be small stones. And maybe one would be painted black or whatever, one would have a marking. Or maybe they would all have a marking and one wouldn't And they would throw those out there. They'd throw it to each person or hand them out. Do you ever do that with short sticks? Do you ever do it? You have sticks and one short and you all draw uh lots and whoever gets the short stick they've got a Go and clean out the freezer that quit working and the meat's all frozen, it's all rotten in it, and you gotta dig it out or something like that. So we don't know what it was. Whether it was little stones they went around or they had some sticks they found somewhere and who drew sticks. Whatever it was, I appreciate this about the sails. I tell you, the more I studied this The more I respect the sailors and the less I respect Jonah. These guys were pretty decent guys In casting lots, they were not exempting themselves from the possibility that maybe it's me. You follow what I'm saying? Uh Jonah's the foreigner here. Here's he's the Jew coming out of Jerusalem down here. Um he's the odd man out. It would have been maybe natural for them to say, hey, Mr. Oddball over there, Mr. Different, he's the one, he's the reason. This is problem. We never had storms like this until he showed up. Can you see where that might have been a natural response But they don't respond that way. These guys are really pretty decent. They're really pretty fair. And they say, all right, we're just going to cast the lots and we're going to see whose fault it is that this is coming across. And so um uh so uh they uh they allowed for the possibility that it was their own fault. Now Is it appropriate, here's my question, for you and I in 2013, members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, is it appropriate for us to cast lots? Would that be a good way to come to a conclusion or make a decision? No. These are desperate men. Let me put it this way. These are unsaved, desperate men. And God, in his grace and God in his mercy, to accomplish his will, he uses this a less than ideal way of determining the uh to make a decision. You follow what I'm saying? Now here's the question. What is the best way for you and I to make a decision? Well we'll won't cast lots, we'll flip a coin. No. Let me give you some principles for making a decision or determining the will of God that is far better than casting lots. I put this down. Number one, you ought to pray. First thing I need to do, if I've got a decision to make, if I need to determine the will of God, the first thing I need to do is I need to pray. I've been reading and studying James chapter 1, and it says in verse number 5: If any of you lack wisdom, let him what? Ask of God. And uh and so the first thing I do, if I'm in a situation, Lord, I need to determine your will, God, I need to find out uh what my course of action should be, the very first thing And the primary thing and the overruling thing, I need to get on my knees before God and say, God, show me your will. Show me what I should do. Now, sometimes there's situations where we pray and pray and pray, and the answer is not obvious. Along with prayer, there ought to be diligent Bible study. And this is what I need to look for. When I need to make a decision on something, and I don't know the right thing to do, I don't know what God's will is, I need to pray, and then I need to study the Bible, but I need to look for biblical principles. There may not be a direct statement in Scripture addressing the decision I need to make But there are principles in Scripture, examples, principles to go by that would apply to every situation. You and I are going to face Situations, sometimes on a daily basis, that are not directly stated in Scripture. But there are principles in Scripture that enable us to make wise decisions And so, how do we determine God's will? I'm in a situation. Uh-uh, I don't know what the right thing is. It seems like things are going wrong. I need to know from God what to do. I pray. I look for scriptural principles that apply with that. Let me give you a third step. Get counsel from spiritual people. Find someone that's been walking with God successfully a long time. I would recommend finding somebody that's very humble and been, as I said, been walking with God a long time, they have a testimony of godly character and humility and purity and spiritual wisdom. And get some input from them. I have some fellas that I go to as a pastor if I need advice or counsel or something. They're all way older than me. In fact, they're starting to die off now I'm having less and less all the time. Brother Holmster was one of them. I would talk to him and get him to pray with me, get his counsel. Um Bill Barrens was one of them And I have a few others that I go to. It's a good thing to find good counsel. The Bible says by wise counsel we should make decisions. And so pray, look for scriptural principles, look for wise counsel, and then I put this one down, and this is one I've come to over the years just from experience a little bit, is sometimes you just have to act on faith. I had a young man some years ago asked me in a situation and he I'm Bapprayan, studying scripture, all this, yeah, I'm not sure I just not sure what I do. I said, well, I think in that case, if there's nothing clear from Scripture, the counsel doesn't give you a clear direction, praying doesn't give you a clear direction, I said, then sometimes you just have to look at all the factors Look at what you believe is the best thing you should do, and then just step out and say, God, I've sought you, I've looked at the scriptures, I'm not sure, I'm just going to trust you that what I'm doing is right And sometimes just have to step out in faith. So I don't recommend to our church or anybody, I don't think if you're deciding, boy, should I, uh, you know, this is for the younger people uh aren't married, uh should I marry her or not? I'll flip a coin. Heads I do, tails I don't. That's not smart. You gotta seek the Lord. Now in this case, God in his mercy God is very gracious. Um are you two debating getting married or what? And uh God's very merciful. God is very gracious, he sees these guys. And they're at their wit's end. God has a plan. Jonah's there. And so God, in his grace and mercy, he responds to this inferior manner of determining God's will and making the decision. And that leads me to my third point in verse seven is they come to a conclusion. First, they get a council together, they got all the fellow sailors together. They decide we're going to cast lots and find out whose fault this is And then as a result of the lots, they come to a conclusion. Look at verse the last part. And uh so they cast lots, and the lot fell upon voila, Jonah. Well, we knew that from the get-go. Um Jonah. In Numbers chapter 32 and verse 23, very important verse in the Bible. This is one of those verses that is principle verses. It has a great, great principle in it. It says this, be sure your sin will find you out. Numbers 32-23. Be sure your sin will find you out. Now God was addressing the nation of Israel when He made that statement. But that statement has been proven true. That principle that sin when tried to be covered up, sin when tried to be uh uh covered and hidden will eventually be exposed. That principle has been proven over and over and over and over for thousands of years. Now, here's the thing about that principle. God can use any number of means of exposing sin. There's not just one thing. And you can start in Genesis and almost go through Revelation and find scores and scores of different methods that God used To expose sin. I jotted a few of them down. Remember when Samuel under the inspiration of God, by the command of God, told Saul to take uh Agar Agag and kill all the sheep, all the cattle and all the people and everything, and kill Agag. And what did King Saul do? He kept the finest of the flocks and he spared Agac. And Samuel shows up, and what did God use to expose Saul's sin? The bleeding of the sheep. Samuel said, What meaneth this bleeding of the sheep? I guarantee you there's not a thought in a thousand that came to Saul King Saul's mind that those sheep would expose him. God can use any number of things, the least expected of things, to expose man's sin. Remember when Isaac Following his daddy, Abraham's example, went down to Egypt and he lied to Pharaoh and said that Rebekah was his sister and not his wife. And so that was a lie. And he was putting Pharaoh in a position where he would be committing adultery and it would be devastating. Even the unsaved Pharaoh knew that that was wrong. And how did God expose uh Isaac's lie to Pharaoh? Anyone remember? Yeah, the the Bible term was uh uh Isaac was sporting. With Rebecca. That's interesting. He's sporting with her. What are they doing? You know, rubbing noses, Eskimo kissing or something. I don't know. They were doing something that brothers and sisters don't normally do. And lo and behold, he's exposed. Never dreamed. uh in a thousand years that Pharaoh would see that and he would be exposed. Um the military defeat, Achan Achan, knew that's a familiar story. He took the gold and the silver and the Babylonian garments and hid them, and as far as he knew, they got away with it. And lo and behold, they have thirty-six men killed at Ai. And all that is part of God's method of exposing the sin that Isaac that um Acham was trying to cover up. Well then God went through that process there. But it was the defeat at AI that got that initiated the whole thing and started unraveling it. And I guarantee you, never entered Aegan's mind that they would lose that battle, and as a result of that, he would end up being stoned along with his children. And so the point is this. Jonah can run and Jonah can hide. But the principle of Numbers 32-23 will always hold fast. His sin is going to find him out. And it may just be a bunch of unsaved mariners in the middle of a storm throwing a couple rocks out there. And God uses that to expose his sin. I'm telling you, there's a lot of people, there's a lot of people whose lives have been ruined. because they tried to cover their sin and hide their sin, and God in some totally unexpected way blew the lid off of that thing. And uh they're they're they were foiled. So here you have Jonah. Now, it's all because God loves Jonah. God has a plan for his life. And so you have this investigation by the sailors. Then we're going to get on and uh get to the next one there, and we'll work our way down. And then you have the interrogation in verse number eight. And boy, they just lay in the look at verse 8. And they say unto him, Tell us we pray thee, for whose cause is this evil upon us? What is thy occupation? Whence comest thou? What is thy country? What a people art thou And man, they just lay into him. And it all unravels and he has to fess up. And that initiates God's second phase of chastisement. And that's not a storm, it's a gigantic whale. But let's take this away from it. Let's determine God's will. Let's not disobey God and try and hide it. Oh, let me let me end with this. How many folks are there that never sin? None. Nobody never sins. So if we got the sin and we know it's going to be exposed, if we try and hide it, what should we do? Stop it and confess it. Proverbs says, He that covereth his sins shall not prosper. But whoso confesseth and forsaketh. Shall find mercy. And what we need, what Jonah needed, what you and I need as much as anything is God's mercy. And so what we do is we confess it, we forsake it, and we go on. And Jonah, I think at any point here, could have said I was wrong, God I confess it, you guys turn this ship around, take me back, I'm going to Nineveh and could have avoided all this. But he didn't do it. He didn't do it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask Lord you'd help us to keep short accounts with you God help us not to be so foolish that we think we can hide our disobedience. Jonah tried it, it didn't work. And I ask, Lord, you'd help us again to be submissive to your will. To follow your leadership, God give us wisdom and decision making. Help us to pray and look to you and trust you to lead us and direct us in Jesus' name. With our heads bound and eyes closed.