Chapter number one. How many preachers do you know can take a forty-eight verse book and make it last ten and a half years? You know. So but we're having a good time going through here. And uh Jonah chapter one Let me get my place here. I tell you a night when you have several people out, uh it makes me appreciate these preachers that work full-time jobs and then come in and pastor at church and they lead the singing and do the piano and they do everything and boy they work. They work for their uh position. I have tremendous respect for these guys and um appreciate Brother Mark and him his ministry and we miss him when he's not here. Jonah chapter one, what I want to do is begin reading in verse number four. I'm going to read down ver through verse number ten And um we've already looked at a bunch of these, but I want to keep the context, and we're going to zero in on this one little event here, and that's going on. Now we know that we know what's going on in Jonah, right? God called Jonah There was Jonah's call in verse 1 and 2. Verse 3, Jonah had a contention with God's call, and he went the opposite direction. That lasted one verse, and then verse number four, God's chastisement began. That's where we're at in God's chastisement God chastening. Now remember, I know I keep saying this, but what do we mean by chastisement? Is God punishing Jonah No. No, he's not punishing Jonah. God is not making him pay. When God is chastening him, he is doing what? He is correcting him. He is getting him back on track, getting him back in the direction he needs to be going. That is biblical chastisement is correction So it begins in verse number four, but the Lord sent out a great wind. God's chastisement of Jonah consists in two of two elements. The first one is the storm And that's the first element. Jonah does not pass that first test. He doesn't respond properly to the first chastisement. So then God sends the second phase, which is what The whale that swallows him. And that one gets the job done, and we'll look at that. So that's what's going on here. Let's look at verse 4. But the Lord sent out a great wind unto the sea And there was a mighty tempest in the sea, so that the ship was like to be broken, so it's bad. The mariners, then the mariners were afraid And cried every man unto his God, and cast forth the wares that were in the ship into the sea to lighten it of them. Now what do we say about that? This was something like they've never seen before. They're scared to death. There's no human explanation for this storm. This is beyond all natural anything they've ever seen. So they throw everything overboard. Look at verse four second part of verse five. But Jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship and he and he lay and was fast asleep. So the shipmaster came to him and said unto him, What meanest thou, O sleeper? He's kind of disgusted with him. So he's kind of mocking him here. Arise, call upon thy God, if so be that God will think upon us that we perish not. They were convinced they were going to what? Die. They were convinced they were going to perish. And they're saying, listen, we've done everything. You've got to pray at this point. When all else fails Pray. Isn't that the mentality? So um verse number seven, and they said every one to his fellow, Come and let us cast lots that we may know for whose cause this evil is upon us. So they cast lots And a lot fell upon Jonah, then said they unto him, Tell us we pray thee, for whose cause is this evil come upon us What is thine occupation? When and whence comest thou, and what is thy country, and of what people art thou? And he, Jonah, said unto them, I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord the God of heaven, which hath made the sea and the dry land. Then were the men exceedingly afraid, and said unto him, Why hast thou done this? For the men knew that he fled from the presence of the Lord, because he had told them Then they said unto him, What shall we do unto thee, that the sea may be calm for us, unto us? For the sea brought and was tempestuous. All right, let's pray. Father, I pray you'd bless our study here as we look at Jonah and the storm that's hitting him, how he responds. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit I pray we'd be able to take something home from this tonight, Lord, that we could uh incorporate in our lives and and be more effective Christians and that your will be fulfilled in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, here's God chastisement. If you remember we said in verse number four, we had the intervention of the Lord, but the Lord, then we said in verse number four, they had the intensity of the storm. This is something like they'd never seen before. Then we had the intimidation of the sailors. Uh these guys were trained men. They were seasoned sailors. In fact, they're referred to as mariners. And uh that word's used deliberately to express the fact that these were not rookies, they weren't Uh what do you call uh a navy guy, a sailor, h his first year, what's he called? Uh plebs? Is that what they call 'em? Any Navy, anybody? That's before you graduate. What do you call the guys? Then what is it? Uh rookies. Sailors. And so anyway, these guys were not just out of Navy school. They uh they'd been around for a while. And uh Quit talking when I'm preaching. And um and so anyway, uh these guys are uh they are absolutely intimidated. They never seen anything like this before. Then we had the indifference of Jonah. He could care less, he's down to the bottom of the boat sleeping We don't know what his frame of mind was other than he really didn't take much he was not involved. He was completely distap detached from what was going on. And uh either he was so self-absorbed that he didn't even pay any attention to the peril they were in, or he was in some sort of depression state, depressed state, and he's sleeping through this And uh so anyway, he's completely indifferent. Then the captain shows up, he's indignant. Uh yeah, the indignation verse number six, and uh they're he's absolutely disgusted with Jonah that he's not doing anything to help save their lives. Then we got last week we noticed the indiv investigation by the crew. They said we've got to find out what's going on. This is not natural. This is not normal. This is supernatural. There's a reason behind this And so they called this conference together and um they cast lots, remember, and the lot fell on Jonah, and so then they come to the conclusion uh that uh something has to be done, this has to be dealt with. Now we get to verse number eight. and following and we had the interrogation by the sailors. They cast lots, the stone, however they did it. Jonah comes up uh on the uh when they cast out Jonah comes up he's the cause behind this and then the interrogation begins. Notice in verse number eight The interrogation begins with a series of questions. Look at verse 8 again with me. Then they said unto him, Now look at this. Tell us, we pray thee, for whose cause this evil is upon us. Question number one. What is thine occupation? Question number two. Whence comest thou? Question number three. What is thy country? Number four. Of what people art thou? Number five. Then they come down to verse number ten. Why hast thou done this? Question number six. Verse eleven. Then they said unto him, What shall we do unto thee? Question number seven. I mean they are just interrogating Jonah Now keep the context in mind here. This wind is gale-force wind, 120, 150 mile-an-hour winds, I'm guessing. These are 20-foot waves smashing up against this wood boat. The thing is creaking and snapping. Boards are gone. Everything's been thrown off. It is popping around out there like a cork These guys are holding on. No doubt they're screaming over the top of the wings. Maybe sometimes they got down inside, they're holding on, being thrown around, and they want to know what's up. Basically, they want to know two things. They want to know, first of all, whose fault is this? And number two, what do we got to do to make things right? That's the gist. All right, well why is this happening and what do we have to do to make it stop uh is their whole thing. Um and so they they they begin their questioning. Now I made two observations about their questioning. Think about this. First of all, I noted this. Their questioning was fair. When they threw the lots, I mean that by human explanation is just chance, right? I mean they're just throwing them out there. Jonah comes up. They could have, I mean they're sailors, we think of them cold-hearted, blu cold-blooded, uh, you know, they don't care about anybody or anything. If that lot came up on Jonah, they could have done what? You just threw him overboard immediately. Oh, okay, the lot it's his fault, throw him overboard. But they don't do that. They want they're not just going to take the the lot's word for it. That Jonah is guilty. They want to actually determine, and so you gotta hand it to these guys. They're really pretty fair. They didn't just immediately throw him overboard. In fact, as I'm studying this I get the impression that throwing Jonah overboard never even entered their minds. You get to verse number 11, they say, well, what do we got to do to you? And uh he says, I'm getting way ahead of myself here, we'll look at this later on, but uh he says, uh take me up and cast me into the sea, then the water will be calm, the sea will be calm, and I know it's for my sake that this is upon you guys And what did the sailors do? When Jonah says, throw me overboard, what do they do? They did everything they could to avoid doing that. I'm telling you, the more I study this, the more respect I have for the sailors, and the less respect I have for Jonah These guys have a little bit of character to them. There's a little bit of substance to these guys. And so they're trying to figure out, they're doing everything they can to stay alive. They come to the conclusion that Jonah's behind this, but they want to be fair about that. They don't just assume that the lot was correct. They begin, they do an investigation. They find out the facts before they act. I'm telling you, that is a good principle for God's people. I've been around long enough and I've seen it and I I'm tempted to say that independent fundamental Baptists are particularly guilty of this, but I have a sneaking suspicion most denominations struggle with this because I think it's a human characteristic, not a Baptist characteristic, but of jumping to conclusions and finding somebody guilty before we really know all the details about it. Am I right or wrong? We hear something, we immediately assume, oh, that must be true, before we ever know. That is unscriptural. These guys were operating by scriptural principles, whether they knew it or not, which I'd I'd say they didn't know it But they're operating by scriptural principles, they're getting the facts. Jesus said you should never the Bible teaches us we should never condemn someone without the witness of how many people At least two or three. Never condemn someone just on the word of one person. Why does the Lord say we should do that? Because he wants us to have the facts before we come to a conclusion. And that's what these guys are doing. And we need to be very, very careful about condemning people before we really know what happened about that. And by the way, sometimes being fair requires a little bit of effort and a little bit of time. Um these guys, I mean they're scared for the lives. Any moment this ship is going down. But they took the time and they put the effort in to ask some questions, find out exactly what was going on, and make sure their action was according to the truth. And uh that's very, very important for Christians. Man, how many friendships have been destroyed because a Christian just took word for it or something said, and they didn't go and talk to them, go and ask them about it Sometimes people come to me and they say, well, so-and-so this. My answer often is just, well, go ask them. Go talk to them about it. Find out And uh so the the questioning here on the part of these sellers is very fair. And uh they're they're giving Jonah every opportunity in the world. They're just they don't they want to be across the board. And the other interesting thing is They're not leaving themselves out of this. Remember we did that? Casting lots, they immediately put themselves in the possibility that it's might that I'm at fault here. And so they're very fair, but not only was their questioning fair, their questioning was very full. And by that I mean it was thorough. They asked seven legitimate questions. These are not stacked questions, they're not trick questions. They're simply asking him. The first thing they ask him, if you want to break these down and categorize them, the first thing they ask him is: what is your crime? Now look at this questioning real carefully. In verse number 7, they say everyone to his fellow, Come, let us cast lots that we may know for whose cause this evil is upon us. The lot falls upon Jonah. Then they said to Jonah, Tell us, we pray thee, for whose cause is this evil upon us? That's a little redundant, don't you think? They just cast the lots. The lot says that Jonah is the cause, so then they come and say, Jonah, you tell us whose cause is this? Now, again, they were being fair, no doubt, but as I studied this, I found out there's a little there's a little more to that question than maybe you first pick up. I think what they were asking them is this, what have you done? For whose cause? Who have you done something wrong against? That brought this against us. And that's the idea. And the way I come to that conclusion is I was looking these words up and how they're used other places, and it almost gives the idea of who have you done wrong That is making God respond in such a drastic way. For whose cause? For who have you done wrong? What have you done wrong to cause this come upon us? So they're asking, what's your crime? What do you do, man? So the first thing they're going to do is what is a crime? The second question, the second aspect of this is they're asking him, what kind of character are you? What kind of person are you? They don't know anything about him. He's been down down under uh down in the side of the ship for the whole time They'd probably never seen him before. He shows up out of the blue, buys a ticket, he's traveling. We don't know anything about this guy. Look at their second question. We pray that whose causes this evil come upon us? Or you could say, what did you do? That's making this happen. What is thine occupation? They want to know what kind of what do you do? What's your life's work? What are you involved in? Now, what does that tell what is Jonah's occupation? He's a prophet of God. He's a man of God. In every biblical sense of the word, he is a man of God. He is a prophet of God. Now, he's been on that ship for a period of time. He's done business with these guys, and they don't know what his occupation is. As I study this, I came to the conclusion that very question is an indictment on Jonah. It shouldn't have taken him very long to find out this is a man of God. This is a man that speaks for God, that God's Spirit is upon him. And yet Jonah conducted himself in such a way, the last thing they thought of this guy as being anything to do with God. What's your occupation? What do you do? What are you a truck driver? Or what you know, what do you do? What's your occupation? Why is it just saying things that we're out here in the Well that goes back to the idea that storm is so intense that this is something so far beyond anything, they come to the conclusion God must be doing this. But they pray unto their own gods, right? And so they've done they've thrown everything overboard, they've done everything a sailor knows to do, and this thing they've never seen anything, so they're coming to the conclusion that God or a God or some God out there is doing this to us. Because remember they said, pray every man to his own God. So they're looking beyond themselves. This is bigger than us. This is we we don't know how to handle this So therefore, and then the conclusion from that is God is doing this to us for a reason. Let's find out what that reason is. Well they did apparently they did before. Because they're saying every man prayed to his own God. So they're pagans, they believe in some sort of God. How did I do? Did I do all right? Yeah, even the pagans uh they're not atheists, they believe in some sort of God. It may be some weird kind of thing. Remember, look back there At uh verse 5. When the mariners were afraid, I mean they're finally saying, wait a minute, guys, we never see anything like this. And they cried every man to his own God. And so they're looking to quote unquote God Whatever their understanding of them is, to help them. This is something God is doing. And so now their next thing they're trying to figure out is why is God doing this to us? They cast the lots, this guy says, obviously you must have done something wrong. Remember in Acts when Paul was uh shipwrecked on that island, and they build a fire and a serpent comes out and bites uh Uh Paul, what's the first assumption by everybody when that snake bit him? He must be a murderer. Uh the sh the storm didn't kill him, he got on here a snake bit him. So therefore obviously something must be going on here And so it's the same mindset that these guys have. And so they're doing this origin. They say, What kind of guy are you? Uh and I I as I was saying, this is kind of in my mind, this is an indictment of Jonah that they didn't know he was a man of God I don't think it should take now don't misunderstand, I'm going to come back and qualify this statement, but I don't think it should take people several days to figure out, if they're spending time with us, to figure out I'm a Christian It should become obvious. Now that doesn't mean we walk in and say, Everybody, I'm a Christian. No, no, no, we don't do that We don't toot our own horn. But our conduct, the way we talk, the way we conduct ourselves, our our devotion to the Lord, the subject, the things we talk about ought to communicate, hey, this guy has something to do with God. But they didn't pick that up from Jonah at all. And so like I said before, I'm losing the more we study this, the more respect I'm losing for Jonah all the time And so they want to know what's your occupation. Then they want to know what's your origin. Where are you from, man? What are you? That something like this would be happening. We cast lots that says it's your you're the fault behind this. You're the cause of this And so look at the questions they ask. Um uh and uh evil, what is thine occupation? Whence comest thou? Where are you from? What is your country? What nationality are you? What people art thou They wanted to know what in the world the deal is. Now, what was his country? Where was he from? He's from Israel. He was a Jew. Now think about this. What did God tell Abraham, his descendants, the Jews, would be to all the world? They would be a what? To all the world. They would be a witness. They would be a blessing. All nations shall be blessed. Question: Is Jonah being a blessing to these guys? No, he's a threat to their lives. His very presence on their ship is putting their lives at stake. He is the exact opposite of what God intended for his people, the Jews, to be And um these guys say, Where are you from? What in the world? And um he tells them here in a little bit, but um Jonah's disobedience, we're going to see this a little bit later on, and um Jonah acknowledges it later on. Seems like he doesn't care, but he acknowledged it later on. His disobedience is putting their lives in jeopardy. When God's intention was for them to uh for his his uh to obey God and be a blessing to people, be a help to them in their lives, and come to know God and have God's blessings on their lives And the exact opposite is. You know, whenever we get away from the Word of God, whenever we get in living in disobedient lives, rather than being a blessing to people, we become a burden Disobedient Christianity has done far more, has been far greater burden on this world than it has been a blessing. Liberalism and denying scripture and getting away from the things of God has been a blight on this world and has hurt people. How many people have died and gone to hell because they went to a church that did not obey the Bible, did not preach the gospel as God in Tennessee, they thought they were good enough, they thought they just keep the sacraments or whatever, and die and went in hell And God's intention was for the Jews to be a blessing to people, and here he is, I'm a Hebrew, and he's anything but a blessing. And so um they want to know his occupation, they want to know his origin. So they ask him, what's your crime? What's the cause? What'd you do? They ask him, second of all, what kind of person are you? Where are you from? What what do you work? What are you The last thing they want to ask, and they're questioning here in this verse, is they want to know who are your companions? Look at his last phrase. And of what people art thou? You know, you can learn a lot about a person by the people they keep keep company with. I've often said this, and it's true for young people, and it's true for adults. I can tell what kind of person I either am right now or I'm becoming by the people I choose to be with. And they're asking Jonah, and these guys have a little bit of integrity. They're not stupid And they're trying to figure this guy out. The lot, you know, when he cast lots, it brought him up. Why is that? And uh you know what you do something? Whose causes this? What have you done to bring this on us? Uh where are you from? What what's what are you about? Who who are the people you associate with? And so they're going through this and they're interrogating him and trying to figure out exactly what's going on. Jonah is the center of attention on that ship. And they want to find out what the deal is. And here's the thing: Jonah's scheme is unraveling. They're figuring out he was going to keep quiet, no doubt. He's down, he's not going to draw attention. He's fleeing the presence of God. He wants to get down that ship We're God in the world and no one sees him, nobody pays attention to him. He can just get away from his responsibilities as a man of God, a called a missionary called to a mission field. He just wants to be out of the limelight and off the radar. And that is not working. And now everybody in that ship is zeroed in on him. They want to know everything about him they can find out. And he's being exposed. Now, as I got thinking about that, you know, it's one thing, it's one thing to try and Do the will of God for my life, and God has a plan and purpose for all of us. It's one thing to try and fulfill the will of God and maybe stumble as I'm trying to do the will of God. Maybe struggle, make a few mistakes here and there, and whatever. That's one thing. It's another thing to do what Jonah is doing and saying, I want nothing to do with the will of God. I'm getting out of here. I want to get as far away from it as I possibly can. Now, I look at some people in the Bible that God used, and God uses Jodah here in a little bit, we'll see it, but there were some folks in the Bible that they tried to do the will of God and they had some struggles along the way And God worked with them and God would correct them and help them get back up their feet and go. But here's a person that is absolutely bent On not doing his heart is hardened, his neck is stiffened, and even if it means dying, he's not going to do God's will. And boy, that's where you get God dealing so harshly. So the first thing we have under their interrogation is the series of questions. The second thing you have here in verse 9 and the last part of verse 10 is you have Jonah's confession Look what he says there in verse number 9. And he said unto them, Jonah says these guys, I mean, they're just bombarding them with these questions. So he answers their questions. Look what he says: I'm a Hebrew. And I fear the Lord the God of heaven, which hath made the sea and the dry land. Now that's the recorded part of his confession. Come to the last part of verse 10. It says, For the men knew that he fled from the presence of the Lord because he had told them. So apparently Jonah had communicated to them more information than what we have recorded in verse number nine. Because we find out later he told them that he was fleeing from the presence of the Lord. So, in a sense, Jonah's filling his guts here to them He's giving a very detailed confession. He comes clean with the crew, answers their questions. Now I thought this was interesting And you might have some ideas on this. I am a Hebrew and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven. Could have stopped there, but what's he say? Which hath made the sea and the dry land. Where were they at? They're on the sea. Where do they want to be? On the dry land. And what he's saying is, listen guys, I'm telling you, God's in control here. And I put in my notes, in the margin, I put Jonah believed in uh how do I put it? Jonah believed in a Genesis account of creation. See that? I fear the Lord the God of heaven which hath made the sea and the dry land. He didn't say I faith I fear the Lord God of heaven which uh oversaw evolution Uh it was the last thing from his mind. He believed in creation. So he gives him a detailed confession, but this is what I got. The more I read this, the more I came to this conclusion It is not just a detailed confession. He tells it all to him, but it's a defiant. You read that, as I read this, at least in my mind, I hear a defiance behind all of this. Yeah, I'm a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord God of heaven, made heaven and earth, and I'm fleeing from his presence And I can almost, and maybe this is just a bias on my part, but I can almost hear the tone of voice, what are you going to do about it? Nobody's going to change my mind. I know who I am, I know what I'm doing, I know who God is, and I'm going forward with this. And you can throw me over the ship and I'll die Before I do what before I go back to what God wants me to do. There's a defiance here that um That uh I see in the mind of Jonah. Now, I may be just biased, as I said, coming into this because of my conclusions in other places. But Jonah never admits he's wrong. Do you notice that? He never says, yeah, boy, I shouldn't be doing this. He says, this is the way it is, guys. And deal with it is basically the attitude I'm getting from this. So we use I use the term confession. He's confessing, but it is not confession in the biblical sense of confession. Where God responds in forgiveness and mercy. He's not humbly confessing his sin. It's more like he is simply acknowledging his position. Biblical confession, the confession that brings God's forgiveness and God's mercy, is not just simply giving God information. When we confess our sins, it's not us just telling God what we did. Right? God's not what? You know, I confess my sin. God says, you did what? Did any of you here ever have your kids in a moment of honesty and humility come and tell you they did something that you didn't know they did? Anybody here ever have that We did one time. We marked it on our calendars. We celebrate it every year when they come. But uh they come and say, uh Dad, you know, I need to tell you something. Okay. And they tell you what you did, and you're like, what You did what? And y'all looking at me like you're shocked and uh that's God never responds that way When you and I get on our knees, we sin against God, we get our knees and say, God, I've sinned, I've done this. God's not like, whoa. It's not like that at all. God already knew. So what's the purpose of my confession? If I'm confessing and God already knows it, I'm not giving him any information, what am I doing? What's biblical confession? Okay, I'm asking for forgiveness. That's the ultimate goal. But I see, I view biblical confession as this. I get to the point where I view that sin the same way God views it. Before it was Jonah does not see his rebellion and his fleeing from God in the same light that God does. When we confess our sin, it is not just, hey God, you know, uh, I did this. God's like, yeah, I know. So? Well, I just thought you ought to know about it. That's not confession at all. Confession is, God, I see this as sinful as you see it. God, I see this as as wr I I uh God, you see this as wrong, and I agree with you, God, this is very wrong on my part. I want to view my sin the same way God views it. I see my actions, my sinful actions from God's perspective. It's acknowledging the sinfulness of my sin. I'm afraid we got to this point where, and I don't know, the the Catholics have this perfected. Well you just sit in a little confessional and you say, Father, I have sinned. What have you done, my son? Well, I did this, this, this, this, and this and this. Okay, do 25 Hail Marys and put $700 in the offering Okay, thank you, Father. That is not biblical confession. Biblical confession is false. You want to know what biblical confession is? Read Psalm 51. Father, against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. David saw his sin from God's perspective. It wasn't just giving God information. So Jonah's confessing here, sure. But he's not confessing. There's no concern on Jonah's part here expressed concerning the will of God or the well-being of the crew. You don't spit any of that up He's just telling them, hey, this is the way it is, guys. You want to know? All right, here it is. And then last of all, I've got to end with this, is the sailor's confusion. Look at verse 10. Then were the men exceedingly afraid. Boy, they thought they were scared before. They're absolutely over the top I put it this way. They are terrified by his confession. Now suddenly they realize, man, this is for real. Now, here's the question that comes to my mind. He says, I am a Hebrew, I fear the Lord God of heaven. He's distinguishing out the God he's talking about, which happens to be the only true God. Had these sailors heard about the God of Israel Jehovah? Had they heard about what he did in Egypt? To bring them out? Had these guys heard about how they invaded the land and what God Almighty, the God of heaven, had done, then suddenly they find a guy in his ship in their ship That is trying to run away from that God, and that God is after them, and they're thinking we're cooked. This is the most terrifying thing we've ever been. The God of heaven is after us. And say they are absolutely terrified by his fear by his confession. The fear that the storm put in them is nothing compared to the fear that what Jonah just said to them puts in them They realize they are in the hands of a living God. And what does Hebrews say? It is a fearful thing to fall what? Into the hands of a living God. And they're terrified. So I put down they're terrified by his confession, and then I put this down, they're comystified by his confession. Now this is they're confused. They're mystified. Look what it says. Why hast thou done this? I put in the margin of my Bible. Good question. What are you thinking, man? If your God is the God that we heard that He is If he's the God you said that he is, that he created the sea and the land, why in the world What are you thinking? Why would you try and run away from his plan for your life, from his presence? Are you crazy Why would you do this? I put this in my notes. I'm putting myself in the sailors minds as they're questioning it, and he says this and and they're just dumbfounded And uh I I I put this down. How did you ever think that this would be a good idea Do you know that question was asked a number of times through Scripture? Abraham went down to Elimelech, and he told him that his wife was his sister. And Abimelech, I'm sorry, Abimelech, and uh Abimelech says, wow, she's good looking, she's nice, I'll take her to be my wife. She's really Abraham's wife. Abraham lied and half a lie and said she's my sister. And uh so Abimelech there Abimelech has a dream, and God says, I'm going to kill you. You've got another man's wife Bimelek says, I didn't know, I didn't know. He told me he was her he was she was his sister. And so he comes to Abraham and he says to Abraham, why'd you do this to me? You put my life and my kingdom in danger of the judgment of God. Why would you do that to me? That's what the sours are asking. I wonder, and now I'm thinking in missions, as this is really a missions book. I wonder how many people Now I don't know that it plays out this way, but I picture it in my mind. In foreign nations that die without Christ and die and go to hell, and they find out Christians were called of God to go there and that Christian wouldn't go. And I wonder if they don't say, why would you do that? What could possibly have been worth a few years on earth, me spending eternity in hell? What could possibly have been more important than that? Why would you do this? There's other people in the Bible. Joshua says to Achan, remember that story? The gold, the silver, the Babylonish garments, yes, and he puts it through. They lost thirty-six men in battle because Achan disobeyed God And they said to Jacob, they said to uh Achan, Joshua said to Achan, why would you do this? What were you thinking? Man, well good men have died. Our testimony around the nation now is that we can be defeated. And then um uh David was going to remember in Samuel, 2 Samuel, David was going to number the people. And Joab, his right-hand man, says to him, he says, David, why would you want to do this? God told us not to. What are you thinking? Why would you do that? Someone has said the unfaithfulness of a believer does more damage to the cause of the gospel than the most outspoken infidel. And I believe there's an element of truth in that. Almost, it's almost like Jonah didn't even see how serious his actions were. It's like he was blinded to the danger he was putting other people in and the harm, the potential harm that would take place. And he was just blinded to it, as blinded to it. It's amazing to me, and and you know, I hate to say it, but I gotta put myself in the same category as hu all humans But it's amazing how blinded we can become as God's people to how our foolishness and our lack of faith. Can be so damaging to the cause of Christ and to others. Obedience to the Lord is a very, very serious thing. And it's not to be taken lightly. And these guys said, boy, I tell you, I I have more respect. They look at him and they say, why would you do this? Why would you do this? Anybody recognize and I'm not fans of these guys, but I read this in an illustration. Penn and Teller. Anybody ever hear those two guys? Magician new magicians Anybody ever hear those guys? Just perverse. Uh what's the big guy's name? Is that Penn? The big guy? They were interviewing him. He says, I'm an atheist. And somehow they were uh what happened was I think they were doing a public show and some Christian that was holding up a sign, a plan of salvation and was yelling out verses and was doing something trying to be a witness. I don't know it was the most actful way, but the guy was trying. So then afterward they had an interview and you can go on YouTube and see this. And they had an interview and they were asking him about that And he made this statement. This is an avowed atheist, just a perverse man. You know what he said? He said, if what that guy is saying is true about heaven and hell and Jesus the only way. He says, I have far more respect for him than the thousands of people who believe that and won't say a word and do a thing and are satisfied with me dying and going to hell. Now he says, I I don't believe it. He says, I don't think that's the case. But he says, here's one guy that actually believes that is trying to do something. And there's millions out there who say they believe it and won't do a word and are okay with me dying and going to hell. You know what he was saying? Why would you do that? If you believe that's true, why wouldn't you say something? Why won't you do something? Why won't you make the effort? And that's what the sailor said to Jonah. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us. Lord, help us to just take seriously when you lead us and you instruct us. God, you call us to certain things. Help us to consider the price that there is in disobedience. Blessing we can be if we trust you and obey you. How different this story would be if Jonah would have just humbled himself and said, yes, Lord, like Isaiah, I'll go. And how God could use them, we don't even know what it would be. So help us, Lord, to be sensitive. Help us to have faith in you. Help us to trust you. I wonder if there's some here tonight say, preacher. God stirred my heart about a certain area and I don't want to harden my heart against him. And I don't want to be disobedient. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll that I'll trust him, that I'll let him lead me step by step wherever it leads. So that God can be glorified and others can be blessed and my w God's will for my life would be fulfilled. Is there any like that? Maybe it's just some little instinctive thing, but you say, preacher, God's Spirit steal my heart, and I want to trust him I want to be submissive and God bless you, a number of hands around. How about it? Maybe just a personal witness to somebody individually. It may be something in our life that we know is wrong that needs biblical confession and just seeing it the way it is. Whatever it is, God leads us and directs us. We can't harden our heart. We need to be submissive and let him have his way. Father, bless us and help us, we ask, Lord. We don't want to be like Jonah in this respect. God, we want to be tender-hearted and obedient in Jesus' name. Let's stand.