Matthew chapter number seventeen and I stated in the earlier hour that my wife and I uh look forward to coming here And uh I've known Brother Leatherman for several years. I just like being around him. I like people that that make me feel upbeat uh upbeat and uh encouraged and uh Uh clean. Some people you get around when you leave their presence you feel dirty. But uh not Brother Leatherman. Walks with God is just refreshing. And not only that's a great preacher. But uh then you folks. Uh I I I preach to everybody. I preached in the cities and the metropolitan areas and all that. But I've I I I'm I'm at home with country people. And um with grassroots America, you know. And um we love it. And then we love this area around here. Man, I'm telling it's envious. uh guy like me to come in here. You guys get to you live around here so long it doesn't even affect you, but uh but it sure is great to be here. I I wanna I'm gonna preach here in just a minute. I want to give a little background If you were if you were to take a a course of Bible doctrine, whether whether it's an institute course in a local church or in even in a Sunday school class uh or in a Bible college or seminary somewhere, you would study the various major doctrines of the Bible. You don't have to have to worry about you don't have to be afraid of that word doctrine. The neo-angelicals and the modernists and the liberals say doctrine divides. And that's exactly what it does. Uh people come along and say, well, everybody's gonna go to heaven because God is love and and uh uh if he's love, uh if there is a hell he wouldn't send anybody there and all that kind of stuff. But the Bible teaches different. So the Bible divides us, separates us from that kind of false teaching. And basically what Bible doctrines is, is a study of the major themes or major uh teachings of a Bible You would study uh uh doctrine of salvation, uh the doctrine of the second coming, the doctrine of um of the church, ecclesiology. They all and on one of the first things would be theology, the study of God. Now, and you would study not only uh the spirit and and uh Christology the study you would study the doctrine of God proper, referring primarily to God the Father Now as you would study Bible doctrines, you would part of the study uh on on what the Bible says about God, you would study his attributes or those uh those uh uh aspects of his being that make him You would study uh the the love of God. God did not create love, he didn't manufacture love, he is love. Just part of his very being. You would study his eternality The fact that he's always been and he always will be. People say, well, where'd God come from? Well he didn't come from any place. He'd never been any place. He's always been everywhere. I don't understand that. Well, there's a lot of things I'm gonna understand about God. Amen. You would study uh the omniscience of God. I like to throw these 50 cent words in there once in a while, not too often, but just to uh uh just let you know I've been to Bible college In fact I have two I have two doctorates from two different Bible colleges. That makes me a f that makes me a paradox Uh anyway, uh and you'd study about the fact that God knows everything is omniscient. You would study uh his um uh his um um Well a lot of other the one that I want to talk about this morning is is omnipotence. The fact that God has all power. Now if we if we had the time we we we could look in the Bible and in uh Genesis eighteen fourteen the question is asked, is anything too hard for the Lord? In Jeremiah 32, 17, the Bible says, Ah, Lord God, thou hast made the heavens, earth. There is nothing too hard for thee. And that's referring to the omnipotence of God, the fact that God has All power. One of the writers, I think he was one of the CMA writers. It might have been Simpson or I don't think it was Tozer, the other great uh CMA writer. I can't remember his name now Anyway, I think it's one of them said this in one of his books. He said, the real corridors of power are in the spirit world. And there are two pathways, there are two corridors. One headed up by Satan, and the other headed up by Almighty God. And God Almighty is superior in strength and knowledge and power. All the satanic forces. Amen. God has all power. And that truth is reiterated over and over and over again all throughout the Bible. the Old Testament as well as in the New Testament. And you get into the New Testament and you find uh places like in Luke chapter one where the angel comes and is talking to I don't know if it's talking to Mar Mary or Elizabeth, one of the two. But anyway, um Says to Elizabeth, who was Mary's cousin. Mother Jesus was Mary's cousin. And told her that she's going to have a baby. She's up in years, but she's going to have a baby. It's going to be John the Baptist And he makes this statement about that, said for with God all things are possible. And then over in Matthew chapter number nineteen, uh there's a fellow comes to Jesus And has an interview with him and leaves without getting saved. And Jesus says to his disciples, You know, uh a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of God. So the disciples, this rich young Jew, walks away unsaved. And so they so they said to Jesus, now get this question, who then can be saved? That's an important question. Who then can be saved? You know, Jesus said With God, nothing is impossible. Amen. So that means anybody can be saved. Amen. If Christ died for everybody, then the potential is there. Amen. Alright, now Matthew chapter 17. Uh it starts off there, I think, in the first part of the chapter with a camp meeting or a Jubilee meeting going up on top of the mount we call the Mount of Transfiguration Jesus has taken Peter, James, and John. They've gone up there, and uh uh Elijah and Moses have come by from heaven for a visit and they're having a wonderful time up there. In fact, Peter was so impressed he wanted to build some tabernacles, just stay up there. But um Uh and Jesus was glorified. This kind of glory of God uh emanated through his countenance and all of that. While they're up there having that fantastic spiritual experience at the base of that mountain The other disciples uh are gathered there, and a man brings his what the Bible calls a lunatic son, brings his son who's demon-possessed. And uh he's brought uh he's brought his son to the disciples, and the and the and the desire is, and the request is, and the plea is uh uh for for them to cast the demon out of this boy. They they are unable to do so. Now that's important to understand. There's a whole lesson there. Uh they have had power to do that in the past. Some of the trips that he sent them out on. This time they're powerless. Now, this miracle is recorded, I think, in three of the Gospels. If you read all three of the accounts and put the whole story together, here's what you see. A bunch of religious leaders are gathered there, the scribes and the Pharisees, I believe it is, and the townspeople. So the town the the townspeople are there, they're watching. The disciples can't cast that demon out of that boy, and so there is a conversation, probably more of a debate, going on between the religious crowd and the disciples over the exorcism of demons And there's still the the father with the boy who is demon-possessed. Now, about that time, uh, here comes Jesus, Peter, James, and John, back down off the mountain. Notice in uh verse number 14. I've never come to the multitude. There came to him a certain man kneeling down to him and saying, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he's lunatic. Now, I really hate the time to interject this, but every time I read it it kind of makes me think, I raised kids Those few times I kinda wondered if maybe they were lunatics, you know? Heard about little old nine-year-old Johnny, didn't you? I mean this guy was I mean he was a cut up. I mean he just was he just couldn't be satisfied if he wasn't irritating or aggravating somebody and in school it was the teacher. And I mean just day after day after day after day he's disruptive. And she grabbed him and dragged him out in the hallway. And she's standing there shaking him And she said, Johnny, I think the devil's got a hold of you. She said, Yes, ma'am, I think you're right. Well, well The devil did have a hold of this boy. Said he's lunatic Sore vexed, for all times he falleth under the fire and off into the water. And I brought him to thy disciples, they could not cure him. Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, How long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring him hither to me. Jesus rebuked the devil and departed out of him, and the child was cured from that very hour. Then came the disciples, and Jesus departed and said Why could not we cast him out? Remember now they'd had power to do that before. This time they didn't. And the the the lesson one of the lessons right there is you you can't run on yesterday's manna. God may have used you last week, but but you better not try to you better not try to uh so run on the power that you had last week because it's not there. We need fresh today. Amen So anyway, uh just sort of throw that in. Uh and it's and notice what Jesus said in verse twenty. And Jesus said to them, Because of your unbelief, for verily I say unto you, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, uh you shall say unto this mountain Uh remove hence the yon of place and it shall remove, and nothing shall be impossible unto your preacher. Nothing shall be impossible unto your godly grandmother. Oh, that's it. Do you know who the Bible was written to? Written to you. Amen. When you open up the Bible and you begin to read the Bible, God's talking to you. Amen. You see, if this statement uh was just for the disciples and nobody else, he wouldn't have recorded it in the Bible. But he put it in there for you and me. Huh? Now this is the God with whom the Bible uh reiterates over and over again, repeats over and over again that He has all power. Now that God says To you and me, if ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain and move hence yonder place and it shall and nothing shall be impossible unto you That's God talking to and promising certain things to you Howbeit, this kind goeth not out, but by prayer and fasting. Now you've already been involved in that, thank God. Most churches not anymore. And uh but uh so there's a three-fold condition there faith, fasting, and prayer will produce this kind. What kind? The power to cast out demons. The power to be used of God to do supernatural works. In fact anything that's going to be done for God has to be supernatural 'cause God has to do it through us, amen. So I'm just saying to you, hey, listen, God's for you, He's on your side, and He says, Look, if you'll just meet the condition, nothing shall be impossible unto you Now, because of that, I want to make four statements and I want to give a couple illustrations. First of all, because Jesus said nothing shall be impossible unto you, there's no excuse for a doomed soul. Nobody has to die and go to hell. Nobody. The Bible says in Hebrews that Jes that Christ tasted death for every man. And the Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. God Almighty is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Timothy said that God who would have all men to be saved. Oh, oh, deliver us from that teaching uh that says you you do this and you do that, uh and you forfeit uh uh your soul forever. No, no, no, no. As long as there's breath in your body Uh as long as you still got a uh uh a portion of your mind, you can be saved. Nobody Has to die without God. And then secondly, I'd like to say this because Jesus said, Nothing shall be impossible unto you, there's no excuse for a dead church. Churches don't have to die. And by the way, hey, hey, hey, just in case this idea ever crept into your mind, you don't have to go jump on the fence and getting out there in the left field just to try to draw a crowd. You don't you don't have to leave scripture. You don't have to leave the right kind of music. You don't have to leave the right kind of preaching. You don't have to give up your invitations. You don't have to start soft pedaling everything Yeah, you don't have to start dressing down and throwing the praise groups up there that look like some rock band and something like that. You don't have to do that To draw a crowd, what you've got to do is do what the Bible says, and if people find out that Jesus is in the house, they're going to come. Well, how are they going to find out? Well, you're going to go tell them. Amen. Churches do not have to die. Thirdly. Because Jesus said nothing shall be impossible unto you, there's no excuse for a defeated Christian life. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. Amen. Amen. Huh? I'm going to tell you, Almighty God, and this uh and I've been saved since 1966. Next month, uh just uh almost a month from today, September 29th, my wife and I will be celebrating What is uh two thousand and nine minus nineteen sixty-six? What is that? That's a lot. Uh whatever that is, that's how long we've been saved. Four to three years. And there are some things and I I I'm a preacher and all that and had some Bible colleges and a lot of other things. There are some things that still overwhelm me, and one is the fact that God lives in this body. God Almighty lives here Yeah. Huh? Brother, I'm telling you, that's thrilling. That's overwhelming. And of course he does. He doesn't pick up residence in your heart if he's against you. So by virtue of the fact of you repenting and receiving Christ, he's come in there because he loves you and he's in there for a number of reasons. One of us, he just wants to help us. Amen. And so he's with us through every crisis, he's through us through every calamity, he's through us uh with us through every single issue of life. He is there. We can depend upon him To give us strength, to give us wisdom, to give us power, to give us comfort, to give us peace. So no matter what's going on around us, We don't have to get to a place where we I want to preach on discouragement so bad, man. I got a twofold message where I get everybody in the house discouraged. And then show them how to get out of it. I wanted to do it in Sunday school, but I was afraid I already taught it here. So there's no excuse for a defeated Christian life. I really don't have time to throw this illustration in, but since you brought it up. I'm preaching down in uh Winchester, Virginia, and I go there pretty often. And um I'm down a few years ago and on Thursday uh Thursday night of the meeting, so it ran Sunday through Friday, on Thursday some of the men in the church, uh they got a fellow They got a fella that they worked with to come to the services. They really wanted me to meet him. And so uh after the service was over, uh they come up to me and said, hey, our friend's back here. So they had to Well walked me back there, about two thirds of the way back on this section. There he was. And so so uh I got to meet him, was talking to him, seemed like a nice fellow. And he said, You know, I used to be like you I said, how's that? Oh, he said, I used to really be involved in in the ministry. I was over the ten buses. I just love people in the bus ministry. Yeah. And uh and he's telling about that what then charge of the children's work and how wonderful it was to have people saved and reaching families and all that. And I said, What are you doing now? I said, Nothing Said, what in the world happened? I said the preacher ran off with some woman in the church. She just knocked me outside. I said, was it your wife you ran off with? No. No, no. Well I mean something pulled a plug on the guy. And and uh he said I just I said, What I said, where do you go to church? Ah, he said, I don't I don't have church memberships, so I just go every once in a while. I said, no, let me get this right See if I got this. Your preacher, oh he's my best friend. Yeah, I just loved him. Your preacher ran off into sin. Yeah? Yeah yeah. So you quit serving God because of somebody else's sin. Well I wouldn't put it exactly like that. Well I said, well how would you put it? See, you you better come up with something because you gotta go face Christ with this. That's the judgment seat. Huh Hey, I'm going, you know what I used to tell people? I used to tell people, hey, you can sit in church right next to the devil and you can still get something from God. And and the women started getting mad at me. They thought I was talking about their husbands, so I had to quit. I had to I couldn't say that anymore. Uh but the truth is still there. Amen. I don't care what's going on around us. I don't care what's going on around us, we don't have to get discouraged to the point where we throw in the towel. We don't have to get defeated. Why? Because God's a God. And all things are possible with him, and he turned around and said, Because it is, but nothing shall be impossible unto you. So we do not have to get discouraged to the point Where we throw in the towel. Amen. And the worst thing in the world is for us to focus our eyes on people. Hebrews says, looking unto Jesus. Let me tell you something about Jesus. He never gonna run off with somebody else more. Tell you something else. He's never gonna steal anything out of the treasury. Amen. See, you can depend on him, you can trust him. You follow him, he's never gonna let you down. No excuse for a doomed soul. No excuse for a dead church. No excuse for a dead church. Did you get that one? Did I mention that? No excuse for a defeated Christian. And then let me add this one. There's another excuse for a destitute home. I know the world is there and I know all this crazy stuff and the television programs. Everything even clear down the little children aim uh at uh uh uh uh uh uh bapti immersing them in evolution and all that kind I know the world is wicked and getting worse. I know that. And you know years ago in effort of Pennsylvania you know where that's at And and uh my my oldest daughter was married, had a baby, and she's going to have another. Well, when I passed her, I spent a lot of time in the auditorium by myself. Do a lot of walking, a lot of prayer. That's where I do my singing. God loves my singing. I don't say it's good singing, I said he loves it. Because when a Christian sings it's evidence of the Holy Spirit of God's list. Ephesians 5 19, you read that. And uh man I just get in, boy one day I got in there and I got burdened down for my for my kids. Getting married and having babies. How in the world are they going to be able to raise their children for God in this godless society? Amen. Before I realized it, you know, your mind can take off on you, you know. Uh man, I th I'm thinking all kinds of crazy thoughts, you know. And then God reminded me, drain up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he'll not depart from it. Hey, do you know of all the books that are written about marriage and about uh rear rearing children and all that, there's only one with a guarantee? That's right, that's right. Come on. God Almighty, His promises are yay yay. Amen. We gotta we gotta we gotta meet the conditions. That's where we're having trouble today. Well, I want my daughter to be popular. That's the worst thing in the world gonna happen to her. If she's popular with the wrong crowd. You wanna know how to make your kids popular? Teach them what a real friend is and teach them to be a real friend biblically. Huh? It's more important to be a friend than it is to have friends. And if you're the right kind of a friend, you know what you'll do? You'll have the right kind of friends. So let's not get the cart for the horse. Amen. Alright now. So it's no excuse for a a desta a destitute home. We can still raise our kids for God, even in this society. Amen? Amen. I'm preaching I'm preaching at Fairwinds Baptist Church. I've been there several times. The first time I was ever there, it's over just outside of uh Wilmington, Delaware, out of U. S. Highway 40 And uh I went in there uh preached a six six-night meeting, Sunday night through Friday night. I closed up in Philly on Sunday, and uh I got in there and I preached this message During the invitation, a young girl about maybe 40 years old came forward, and uh after the invitation was all over, she came up to me and she told me this story. She said, my our oldest daughter has grown up in this church. She's eighteen years old now. She's she's been in the Sunday school here. She started out in the nursery. I mean she's she's been in this church all her life. She's gone all the way through. This was the third week of March. She said she was to graduate from our Christian high school here in May. Just another couple of months. Said we never had any trouble at all from our daughter. October, this was March, October she ran away. She left a note. She said, I'm tired of the rules, I'm tired of the youth. Group, I'm tired of the school, I'm tired of the church, I'm tired of this family with all the stinking rules and all that kind of stuff. I've made some new friends and I want to go live with them and I want to be like them And uh, so I'm gone, don't try to find me. She said, we've had police, she said, we've done everything trying to find our daughter, and we've never been able To get any kind of a hint of where she's at. But she said, you preached that message on fasting and praying. Trust in God. She said, I got on my knees tonight, and I promised God I was going to fast and pray until my daughter. My daughter comes home. Well now the reason she did that is because I I'd given two illustrations about, or one illustration, read two part, about a friend of mine who was preaching revival in Illinois And uh it was a sun, it was a Sunday night through Sunday morning uh revival, said on the very first night The very first night, a woman come forward among others. Said on the way out, said I was standing back with uh uh shaking hands with the preacher. You know, Baptist preachers are shaker preachers. Did you do you know that? You know what shaker preachers are? You already know. Okay, alright. Do you tell them that? Huh? You know what a shaker preacher is? Well here's what a shaker preacher is. He stands at the entrance and as people comes in, he shakes their hand. Hey, he's shaking them in Come right on him. And then somewhere during that service, he's going to take an offering. You're going to shake him down And then and then he's gonna stand up and preach and he's gonna shake him up. And then During the benediction, he's going to make it to the exit and be back there so that when people leave, he's going to shake he's shaking them out. So he shakes him in, shakes him down, shakes him up, shakes him out. And so that's what this preacher was doing. He's standing back there, uh shaking him out. And this woman come by and told uh him and the evangelist I mean the pastor said, um I want you to pray for my unsaved husband. Get this. Now that's a true story. I'll let you know what I'm not telling the truth. So I promise God tonight that I'm going to fast and pray Until my husband gets saved and she lived. Monday night, same thing On her way out, she said to the evangelist, Dick Seaton. Did you know Dick? He's dead now. Well, he's not, he's in heaven. I hope he is. He is, he is, he is, he is. Believe me, he is. Said the same thing to the evangelist and the pastor. Pray. For my husband. I promise God I'm not going to sleep a wink or eat a bite until my husband. See, she had gone home Sunday night, she can go to bed. She stayed up all night praying for her husband. She got him up on Monday morning, fixed his breakfast, packed his dinner, sent him off to work. She didn't eat and she didn't sleep. She fasted and prayed the whole day. Come back to church on Monday night. Did the same thing on Tuesday. Same thing on Wednesday. Same thing on Thursday. Same thing on Friday. Same thing on S Their name All week long she has not eaten and she has not slept. He said, Sunday morning, here she came with her her husband. He said, I knew he's going to get saved. That woman been fasting and praying since last Sunday night So I knew he was going to get saved. Said I preached, gave the invitation, he pushed his boy out of the way, pushed his wife out of the way, and ran out the church. He said, I couldn't believe it. So as soon as he walked out of that church, she ran for the altar. After the service, she went by the evangelist and the preachers. She said Pray for my husband. I promise God I'm going to continue to fast and pray. I'm not going to sleep a wink nor eat a bite until my husband gets saved He said, I went fifty miles up the road and started a meeting on Sunday night. Preach Sunday night, preach Monday night, said on Tuesday night, we're in the preacher's office, we just had prayer, we're getting ready to head for the platform to start the service and I tell you. rang and it was the pastor of that church where he had been. Said he was so excited, said he was baptized already understanding. Said Brother Dick, isn't it wonderful? He said, what is what's wonderful? Oh, oh, let me tell you what happened. Said that woman Remind yeah, yeah, I know who it is. Uh Sunday night. No sleep, no food. Last night, it's Monday night. Said this morning, which was Tuesday, said she got her husband up, fixed his breakfast, packed his dinner, and sent him off to work. Said come home at 10 o'clock this morning. Said honey, I don't feel right. Will you call that preacher? He said, I'm going over there this afternoon over at 1 o'clock and I led that man to Christ. Well over a week of fast and pray about her and say that's gonna say that's why I had told that story And so that woman said to me up there at Bear Delaware, said, I'm going to fast and pray until my daughter comes home, whom they have not been able to find. That is on Sunday night. On Tuesday night, I'm sitting on a platform that had a big high platform. Church around about 400 or so at a big high platform. They're old, they got a new building now. But that platform is about five foot high. And uh I was just sitting up there, the pastor hadn't come in yet, and uh I'm waiting for that about a forty-voice choir. I'm waiting for the choir to come in and uh start certain people are coming in, uh the organ and piano are playing in and I saw that woman. She came in and she's got two pieces of paper in her hand, and I'm telling you, she's throwing a fit. She's laughing and crying at the same time. Only a woman can do that. I mean she's hugging the you know, the w men and women didn't hug each other. Uh uh men hugged women hugging the women, amen. And uh since she's a hugging the women showing that piece of paper and she just man, I mean she's doing everything but having a holy dance And she looked up there and saw me sitting on the platform. Man, she literally ran down that aisle. Man, snot flying one way, tears flying the other. Waving those two pieces of paper She came down there and she said, look at this, look at this. So I come over at the edge of that platform in a little bit almost got a sick or earsick or whatever. She handed me that letter. She said, My husband and I just come by the post office to pick up our mail on the way to church. She said, We just got through reading this. It was a letter from her daughter I can't quote the letter I didn't get a copy of it. I wish I had of. When something like this, dear mom and dad, I know I'm the last person in the world that you ever wanted to hear from. All that I've done. Ruined the family name. Brought reproach upon the Christian school. On our church. I'm sure my name's hated all those places. I'm sure the preacher hates me. I'm sure mom dad, and rightly so, I'm sure you hate me And she said um she went on to say, I had to have my own way. I had to do and uh and so then she began to describe stuff that she had gotten into and I'm gonna tell you, I mean that girl in just a few minutes' time hit rock. I'm I mean, it's bad. I mean, I mean bad. And then then she said this. But she said, this is the reason I'm writing you the letter. She said, I just want you to know That all of what you have done for me and tried to do for me was not in vain. She said, the deeper I went into sin the more the verses of scripture that I have memorized, some from Bible school, some from the youth group, some from uh church some from the Christian school, said the deeper I went in the sense The more those Bible verses began to come back and flood. She wrote out some of them and said, I got to the point where I was sick of my life. And I I'm not asking you to let me come home. I'm I'm no I'm the last person that you would ever want to to walk. I'm too filthy and dirty to ever come back. Uh home and I know that I know that you probably never want to see me again. I'm not asking that. But here's what I'm asking. I'm asking to please pray for me because I'm leaving this lifestyle. And with God's help, I'm going to go somewhere. And I'm going to do my best to try to live from God. Well, man, by the time I read that letter, I'm crying. And I said, What are you gonna do? She held up another piece of paper, it was the envelope. She said, My daughter put a return address on this envelope and she said, as soon as you get done preaching, my husband and I are gonna go get our daughter, we're gonna bring her home. And they did. I was back in there at church twenty-two months later. The next time I've been back there several times, but uh I was back there twenty-two months later, just there for a Sunday night, just just passing through, and uh Brother Britton uh had me preach and um We're shaking people out. And a lady comes by. I would have called back in those days an elderly lady. What's elderly? Well I don't have any idea now. When I was twenty, I thought forty was old. You know, you get to a place where you can't play basketball with the kids, you know, I mean keep up with them and be honest with you that out of them. Crunch 'em and all that. Certainly you don't play tackle football anymore, you know And then when I was 30, I thought 50 was old. When I was 40, I thought 60 was I'm 66 now. I don't know what old is. So I just call her by the advanced age. So anyway, so this lady at this advanced age later, she came by, she shook my hand, she said, You don't know me, but I I I know you, I remember you I said, how's that? Oh, she said, you was here a couple years ago. And uh she said, one night you preached on the importance of fasting and praying, especially for unsaved husbands. She said, I didn't tell anybody, but she said I went forward that night, and I promised God that I was going to fast and pray on a regular basis. For my unsaved husband. He said, we've been trying to get him saved for years. Said, not too long after that, on a regular schedule, I'm fasting praying. Said, my husband went to the hospital. So I called the preacher and said, Preacher, would you try one more time? And she said, the preacher went up there and led my husband to Christ. He got out of the hospital, came and got baptized And was faithful in church for a few months and then he went to heaven. Well she stood there, tears running down her cheeks, and she said, My husband's in heaven. On the human side, all this. My husband's in heaven Because you taught me the importance of fasting and praying. And she left. So some more people come by, and here come another lady advanced. She said, uh I thought I was in the twilight zone. She said almost the same thing that the other woman did. She said, You don't remember me, or she said, You don't know me, but she said, I remember you. She said you was here a couple years ago I said, yeah, that's right. She said, you preach one night on the importance of fasting and praying for the unsaved. I said, yeah. She said, I didn't tell anybody, but she said I went forward and I got all my needs, and I promised God that I was going to fast and pray on a regular basis for my unsaved husband to get to Saved. And she stepped back and she said, here he is. There he was. Saved, baptized, going to church. Why? Because hey, hey, hey! Because Jesus said nothing shall be impossible unto you. That's why. Years go by. At least three years, maybe four years later. We had started the Bible college. It was a night school for about nine years. Very uh uh Exton. So uh brother Shin Brother Schindler was having his first sword counter. That was back when Curtis was alive. And um I won't mention the other guy, but uh had um uh had uh had a sword conference. Well on Tuesday morning of the sword conference. Do you have morning sessions on Tuesday morning? Okay, well that's what we did too. Anyway, uh so uh he had uh the the guy from Georgia and also Dr. Uh Kurt Sudson uh and they preached and then he and then he had me preach right before we went to right before we broke for lunch. So So I preached my preacher's message like this. It's a little different. When you're preaching to preachers or preaching to humans, you know, there's a there's a little bit of difference. So I are one. I are one. Whatever we are, I am. I don't know. Anyway, so so uh we went through it, and so so we go out on the foyer to go downstairs and fellowship hall and One of our students was there. Uh now our college was nice night s school, but we encouraged some of them if they could to take the day off to come and and this guy didn't John Cooper and he was from that church Let's just talk about it. He's standing out in the foyer weeping like a baby. I mean bawling. Few country people know what bawlin is. I mean there's crying and there's bawling, you know. He is bawling. Honestly I'm not trying to be gross, but he's got tears of snot running down his face. I mean he is just bawling. And he said, preacher, preacher, preacher. I didn't tell you, I didn't tell you. I said, John, why didn't you tell me? Said I was there that night. I lost my church. I was there that night. You settled out a little bit. He said, I didn't tell anybody, but I'm on four that night. And I promised God that's going to fast and pray for my unsaved mother. When Cindy and I his wife said when we got saved and left the family church. Now if you're in Philadelphia, you know what the family church is. But uh anyway, uh said we uh we left the family. So when we left the family, George said, my mother was living. Said when I tried to explain to her, trying to give her the gospel, she was just livid and cursed. And I tried a couple of times, said one time she grabbed my Bible, ripped pages out of it, and threw the Bible across the room and said, don't you ever bring that book in my don't you ever mention the name Jesus around me He said I had a burden for my mother, couldn't talk to her about the Lord anymore. So he said, I was there that night and I didn't tell anybody, but I promised God I'm gonna fast and pray. Said a few months went by and said, uh my mother went to the hospital and she's gonna die. She's got a terminal illness. I forget what the disease was. Said uh said she was just gonna die just within uh a few weeks, few days probably Said I I I I took a day off work, said I fasted the whole morning, fasted and prayed. Said I went up to the hospital at Wilmington, Delaware, about two o'clock knowing that none of the family would be there, and it would be the best chance for me to talk to my mother. Said I got up there. Said I stepped into her room. She's in there by herself. Nobody else there. I said, mother, yes, sir. You're going to die soon. Yes, son, I know that. He said, I stand here as a son speaking to his dying mother. What is it that you want to say? Well, he said, Ever since Cindy and I left the family church, you've never, you've never let me explain to you why. And the only request that I have from my dying mother. Will you give me 15 minutes just to explain to you why we left the family church? And old Coop looked at me and he started crying again. He said, Preacher, she didn't give me a 15 minutes. She gave me a 30 And in that 30 minutes I led my dying mother to Christ. Just a few days, she left. She didn't go to hell, she went to heaven because somebody taught me the importance of faith and fasting and praying A few years went by. I'm preaching this service, I'm preaching this sermon in Habit of Grace, Maryland. Now there are some other occasions, believe it or not, or some other occasions I'm gonna give you this one last one. There are some others that are i almost identical situations. So anyway, uh it was one of those churches with once down home boys. And uh they they would have their services and then then four or five of those guys get up there with their mandolins and their guitars and they just sit around just picking grin. You know, and they did it for an hour or so after the service. And so they're out there planning a woman come to me. She said, uh, you know, she said, I was there that night. And she said, I didn't tell anybody, but I went forward. And I promised God that I was going to fast and pray for my unseen. Dave's husband. He's behind me playing a bass no he's playing flat top, uh non-electric uh round hole guitar. And he's playing and he looked up and he said, Here I am I got saved. Now I've said all that. I'm not trying to impress you with anything except one thing. I want you to know something Jesus is on your side. He's for you. And he has all of the power of eternity. And he said, I channel that power right into your life And if you're willing to meet the conditions, nothing is beyond the realm of possibility. Nothing. Is being nothing shall be impossible unto you. So I ask you this you have a need You here in this building not saved? There's no reason. Jesus is all. Well, I'm not ready. Hey, hey, you're as ready as you're ever going to be. You don't do the saving. You don't have to get things out of your life in order to be able to get to the point where he can save you. He saves you and me just like we are. Huh? Well I've sinned too. You can't sin too much. The whole sin death's paid. All you gotta do is accept Huh? Are you struggling, Christian, with your life? Uh and you feel as if you don't have to. Bring those Dr. Sidler used to say if you have a legitimate need, you're a child of God, you have a legitimate right to bring that need and lay it out the altar and ask God to help you. Now what you have to know look, now we're gonna have an invitation here in a minute. And So let let's just suppose that you come up here and you get down on your knees and you've got a real burden and you're praying and asking God uh for help. What do you think he's gonna tell you to shut up And go back down your seat and sit down? No! No! No! He says, come unto me! Come unto me. Come on. Cast your care upon him, for he careth for you. Whatever the burden, whatever the wayward child, whatever it is, unsafe, I don't care what it is. Jesus said, Nothing shall be impossible unto you. Faith, fasting, praying. Let's bow for prayer. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many folk here uh this morning could say by the upraised hand, brother preacher? I may not always be everything I should be as a Christian, but there's one thing I know beyond any shadow of a doubt. I know I'm saved I have received Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. And though I don't deserve it when I die or when Jesus comes. I know that I'm going to heaven. Heaven's going to be my eternal hope. That's your testimony today, and you're saved. You know you are. Would you just hold up your hand, please? That's wonderful. Amen. You can put your hands down. I wonder if there's somebody here this morning you'd say, by the upraised hand, Brother Preacher, I'm not saved. But I want to be. I'm not on my way to heaven, but I sure want to. I don't want to die without God. I know the Bible is true, and I know saved people go to heaven, lost people go to hell. And I don't want to die and go to hell. And I need to be saved. And I'd like for you to pray for me that I'll be saved before it's too late. Is there anybody like that here? That's the condition of your heart. You're concerned about it. Would you just slip up your hand? Let me pray for you. Preacher, I need to be saved. God bless you. Anyone else? Just slip up your hand. I'm not going to embarrass you. I'm going to come to you, but I do want to pray for you Anyone else? Preacher, pray for me. Not only do I not want to live without God, I don't want to die without God. And go out into eternity lost forever. Please pray for me. Anyone else? Now, Christian, I'm going to roll up the questions into one Do you have something heavy on your heart? Maybe a wavered child, maybe a lost relative, maybe some burdens and problems in your own life. Uh and there's a myriad of different things it could be. Is there some are there some Christians in there you'd say, preacher, I have some great need. I need God's help. Pray for me. Anybody like that? Could you just slip up your hand? Please pray for me All right. God bless you. You can put your hands down now. Now you don't have to raise your hand on this, but I'm going to ask you this question. Are you willing to do what God leads you to do on your side? Your part. If you are, Jesus said, Nothing shall be impossible unto you. Lord help us now. These few brief moments of soul searching. We pray, Holy Spirit of God, you'd do your office work in each one of our hearts. I pray for this precious soul that raised their hand. I pray that they'd come and get saved even this very day. And the many, many Christians have burdens on their heart. I pray that they'll come and cast their care upon you. you and they'll get on their knees if they're able to or sit down on the pew and pray and humble their hearts asking you to help them. Now I pray that you will. And I pray that there'd be that many, many people walk out of this room today with spiritual victory in their lives. Heads are bowed. Let's stand together. Now, if you raise your hand that you're not saved, if you'd like to know how to be saved. Just as soon as you're able to stand, just open your eyes, slip out and come meet the man of God, the pastor down here, and he'll have somebody take the Bible, show you from the Bible how you can be saved You say, well, I don't know how to be. Hey, this is the get and saved place. We'll show you how. Amen. You're a Christian, you need to come and pray about issues that are upon your heart. You just remember the promise Jesus said. Nothing shall be impossible unto you. You should have that income. There's no doubt God is dealing with our hearts as a church. It's not a coincidence. Fasting, praying, it's brought up again. I believe the Lord's directing at least some of us in this matter.