1 Peter chapter 1. 1 Peter chapter 1, and I want to begin reading in verse number 13. 1 Peter 1 and verse number 13. The Spirit of God through Peter says this: Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Verse 14, as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance. But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. Because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. This morning we looked at an incorruptible salvation that's found in an incorruptible Savior. But tonight I want to look at an unmistakable command to God's people. An unmistakable command. Be ye holy, God says, for I am holy. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you tonight that you are a holy Father. That you're a merciful Father, that you're a loving Father. We thank you, Lord, tonight, that you're a God of truth and not error and lies. We thank you that you're sovereign. We're grateful, Lord, that you change not. You are the same yesterday, today, and forever. And as we come to you tonight, we recognize our access is only because of your Son. The Lord Jesus Christ and His blood and His resurrection. We come to you in Jesus' name and we ask your blessing on our time. Fathers, your people as we consider this unmistakable command. I pray, Lord, tonight you'd have our hearts prepared to do something with the message. Help us not to be hearers only Deceiving ourselves, but by your grace, help us to be doers of thy word. May we be holy people. Who belong to a Holy Father, and we ask and pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Be holy, God says, for I am holy. You know, as I begin by way of introduction, I like to ask the question of every one of us, what are you willing to tolerate? And what are you willing to terminate spiritually in your life? It's shocking to see today what's going around in our world. What is being tolerated today and all kinds of moral uh decadence. And somebody once said wisely that The final sin of a decaying culture is the sin of tolerance. Tolerating things that should never be tolerated by a people. But it's shocking to me tonight to see what God's people oftentimes are willing to tolerate spiritually in their heart In their home and even in the house of God, and what they're unwilling to terminate spiritually that ought to be done away with. A classic example we find, if you could go to 1 Corinthians chapter 5, you see a classic example, a church, the church at Corinth And look at what they tolerated within their ranks, within their church, that should have never been tolerated. They were unwilling to get rid of it. In 1 Corinthians 5, the Bible says in verse 1, it is reported commonly. That there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not so much is named among the Gentiles. What is this sexual immorality? That one should have his father's wife And ye are puffed up, and have not rather mourned that he that hath done this deed might be taken away. From among you. Verse 13, I judge this, he says, Therefore put away from among yourselves that wicked Person. Here we see the Church of Corinth was, by way of example, tolerating sin that should never have been tolerated. Let me just say this: when you and I deal with sin, recognize that public sin needs to be confessed publicly. And private sin needs to be confessed privately. You always deal with the common report. If somebody who's a member of this church is shacked up and living in sin, the only way they can ultimately get right with God and one another is to not only confess it this way, but also confess it this way. Does that make sense? You have to give people the opportunity to hear and sense and see forgiveness from others who they've wounded as well as God. Amen. When I was here a couple of years ago, I reminded you that we all too often with our own sin life And lack of holy living, we love to sin in detail, but confess wholesale. You know what I'm saying? Boy, the sin life can be a very detailed life, can't it? You think about the individual that goes to internet size that he shouldn't go to and how meticulous he is in covering his tracks and how meticulous he is in fulfilling his desires. And let me tell you, that is a very meticulous sin that was done in very great detail. And when it comes time for forgiveness, I just don't think it's good enough to just say, well, Lord, forgive me. Boy, you ought to walk it through and just name every aspect of that, every sense of that. When you and I sin in detail, we should learn to confess that sin in detail as well. But we're living in a day-to-day where things are being tolerated within our own hearts, oftentimes within our own homes, that should never be tolerated. Notice this unmistakable command to be holy is reconfirmed. Go back to 1 Peter and look with me in 2 Peter in chapter 3. It's reconfirmed by Peter again. In 2 Peter chapter 3, he says this in verse 11. He says, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what is that? This world and all the elements and everything Notice he says, what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation? And then he adds this word, and godliness. Here we see, and you might want to write it in, holiness and godliness are essentially one and the same. I've defined holiness for you and godliness for you, but literally it means this. It means God likeness. Amen? Do you understand tonight that when somebody references godliness, it simply means God-likeness? Amen? It means to have the character of God Now this is too high for some of us, so go to First Timothy with me as we move into this thought tonight, and look with me in First Timothy chapter three and verse number sixteen. Do you know God has called us unto a holiness? Be ye holy, he says, for I am holy. And holiness and godliness are practically synonymous. One focuses on an attitude, the other an activity, but godliness would have the idea to to be like God. It's Godlikeness. That's what godliness is. But being too high, notice how the Lord brings this down to us in 1 Timothy chapter 3. And look at what he says here in verse number 16. In first Timothy three, verse sixteen, he says this, and without controversy, great is the mystery of what Godliness or godlikeness, here it comes. God was manifest in the flesh, justified in the spirit. seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, and received up into glory. Who is 1 Timothy 3 verse 16 talking about? Who was the one who was preached to the Gentiles and God manifest? Who was this? Who's in 1 Timothy 3? Who? Jesus Christ. You know, it's as if God recognizes to be like him is such a far stretch, he brings himself down to you and me in the form of a man. And thus I would say this: to be godly is to be like Jesus Christ. Amen? That's not a bad mantra. I remember hearing that all the time. What would Jesus do? You know, tonight, that's not a bad question to ask When you're going through traffic and somebody cuts you off, what would Jesus do? Amen? When you're with your spouse and you uh you're sensing that you're getting the spirit of anger towards your spouse, well, what would Jesus do? Amen? Y'all with me? You go ahead and you hit your finger with the hammer while you're nailing something on the building program? Well, what would Jesus do? You know, that's not a wrong mantra to have. See, godliness is God likeness to be like God And God became flesh and dwelt among us. So to be godly is to be like Jesus Christ. What would Jesus do? Go to Hebrews with me and watch this as we just lay a foundation before we really move into the thought. You see, there's an unmistakable command we find, and that is to be holy, because God is holy. Look with me in Hebrews. Look at a description of your Savior and my Savior in Hebrews chapter Notice what he says. Hebrews 7 and verse number 26. Jesus Christ described here says this in Hebrews 7, verse 26. It says, wherefore, he says, for such an high priest became us. Who is what? Holy, harmless, undefiled. Separate from sinners and made higher than the heavens. Write that in. You look at a description of Jesus Christ in Hebrews 7, you see He's He's number one holy Second of all, he's harmless. Thirdly, he's undefiled. He's not tainted by this world. He's separate from sinners, and he's made higher than the heavens. I think of that word harmless, and I think oftentimes that's not what you and I are, now that we're saved, oftentimes we're not that harmless. My wife has this fond little thing she does for all of our daughter-in-laws and son-in-law, she ascribes to them the following. She likens them to a certain breed of dog. Our little Laura Lynn, who married our son Kevin. I said, who's Laura Lynn, hon? She says She says, Hans, she is our golden retriever. She's just a happy little thing, and all she wants to do is please. You know what I'm saying? She said she's a golden retriever. And she began to go through our children, began to go through our our daughter-in-law. Is y'all with me? That's yeah, you sit around our table for conversation, all right And then I made the mistake, big mistake. I said, well how would you describe me if you were gonna Oh she said you're somewhere between a labrador and a pit bull I didn't know if that was a compliment or not. I really didn't know. If somebody were to describe you in those kind of terms, If they were a scribe to use something like that, how would they describe you? Do you know the Lord Jesus Christ, one of the words used to describe him? He was harmless. Isn't that interesting? He didn't pick fights. He took s he took big things and made them smaller. Let me tell you something I've learned a long time ago. Spiritual people take big things and make them smaller. Unspiritual people take little things and make them bigger. Amen. If you were to compare yourself to Jesus Christ right now, he's described as holy, harmless, undefiled. separate from sinners and higher than the heavens. Would you even be close to that description? Because remember, holiness and godliness being synonyms, godliness is Godlieness to be like God. And Jesus Christ is God in the flesh. Could somebody say, you live and act like Jesus Christ? Would you even Be close to his description. Go back to 1 Peter and watch these commands, four little commands. If you want to turn your handout over, you and I need to recognize There's a very unmistakable command that God gives every one of us who are saved, and that command is to be holy because our newfound Father is also holy. Look at the four commands here. You might want to just look at I'm going to read these verses and I'm just going to quickly sum them up and then go through them one at a time. As it comes to this thought of being godly And being holy, the four commands we find in these few verses. He says, Wherefore, verse thirteen, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, Be holy, for I am holy. Holy. Notice the four commands. The first command is gird up. The second command is look up. The third command is grow up. And the fourth command is to step up. to our calling. Look at the first command, verse 13. He says this. Wherefore gird up the loins. Wherefore, gird up the loins and be of your mind. Gird up. What an interesting thought. You know the last thing a Roman soldier would do before he ran into the battle as he's preparing to join the fray? He had a big leather belt. And every loose object that was there, he would tuck in and give that belt one final cinch to hold everything in place so there was nothing loose or dangling that would trip him up. This is the picture. To gird up as this idea, tighten up what? The loins of your mind. Write that down. You and I, if we want to be holy, the very first thing we have to do in this unholy day we live in, we have to gird up the loins of our mind. We have to tighten up our mind. Amen? We have to tighten up our mind. Philippians 4. 8 says this, finally, brethren What certain things are true? What certain things are honest? What certain things are just? What certain things are pure? What certain things are lovely? What sort of things are of good report if Sir be any virtue and if there be any praise. Well then let that mind think on those things. The Spirit of God through Paul to the church of Corinth says, you bring every thought Into captivity to the obedience of Jesus Christ. I wrote it down, write it down. This is so true. Do you know that loose thinking Always leads to loose living every single time. This command to be holy, as our Father is holy, begins with the command to gird up. the loins of our mind. Get your thought life under control and under the dominion of Jesus Christ. Amen? Number two, he then says this, wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, look at this now, and hope to the end. For the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. First he says, gird up the loins of your mind. But then, second of all, he says, look up Get the proper focus. Notice, look up to the end of all of this, to the return of Jesus Christ. Look heavenward, not earthward. Let me say this: true Christianity Godly Christianity focuses on the future. Amen. Write that down. Godly people focus on on the future. You know what our future is? Jesus is coming again. Our future very much includes the return of our Savior and our confrontation with him one day to answer and hopefully hear, well done. thou good and faithful servant. Do you know godly Christianity looks to the future? That future rendezvous with Jesus Christ. Let me tell you, ungodly Christians and the world simply look to the present. All they do is live for now. That's their focus Godly Christians and true Christians will look to the future, and carnal Christians look to the present. Godly Christians have a heavenly focus. Could I get an amen? That's what we're doing. We're always, we get up in the morning and you know whose smile we want? We want his smile. We start that day looking for his smile that day. Y'all with me? Godly Christians have a heavenly focus. Ungodly carnal Christians and lost people have an earthly focus. Amen. He says, don't just gird up the loins of your mind. He says, now look up. Amen. Boy, listen to these verses if you have your your pen very quickly. As believers, you want to be godly, you want to live a holy life You need to have a future and heavenly focus, not a temporary present earthly focus. Listen to this. When you got saved, guess what happened? Galatians 1 tells us in verse 3 and 4 that you were delivered from what? This present evil world. Notice that? You've been delivered from the present. You now have a future, amen. He says in Proverbs 17, 24, a fool's eyes are where? In the ends of this earth. They're not looking heavenward, they're in the earth. He tells us in 2 Corinthians 4. 18, while we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. He tells us in Colossians 1, if ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. Seek those things which are above, and set your affection on things above, not on things of this earth. Recognize if you want to be holy and you want to be godly You cannot go through your Christian life with an earthly temporary focus. You must look up and get a heavenly focus and a focus on the future, not now. Amen? You have to do this And don't marginalize this thought. You and I should live so much with a focus on the future. Jesus is coming again. We're going to meet our Savior. Amen. We're going to heaven. We're not of this earth. We're just passing through. That literally governs everything we do in our present actions and attitudes. Classic example when I think of this would be when you and I, uh you think about the date you proposed. I remember the day I proposed to my wife. And those of you that are married, you remember Proposition Day? You remember that? I didn't do any big flourish down on one knee. We were just sitting on a hill in Astoria, Oregon. We were just talking, I'd come down from the mission field, been out of the Marine Corps for about a year, and I just looked at her and I said, Hey, you know Would you like to marry me? And she said, yes, on one condition. I'll never forget that. It was like time went, bam I said, what's the condition? She said that Jesse has to come with us. Now Jesse was not a person. Jesse was her dog. All right. A what kind of dog was a golden retriever, okay, happy little Jesse, all right? And I thought, wow Well, I can do that. I thought it was going to be okay. Yes. No problem. Sold. Done deal. Amen. You remember Proposition David? Go back in time. For some of you it was longer ago For some of you it wasn't as long ago. You know, the instant the proposal was made and the yes was given, you with me? Everything Both of us did was done with that future wedding day in mind. Amen. I remember as as a husband to be, I remember thinking of that future wedding day, and after she said yes, all of a sudden I realized, man, I've got to get a home I've got to get some finances lined out. I've got to be sure I've got a good job. And everything I did after the proposition was accepted was done with that that wedding day in mind. Everything I did, it was purposeful. I'm gonna do this. Why? Because I'm getting married and I need to be ready. Amen? I'm gonna get this lined out. I've got to get a better job than I got. Why? Well, because I'm getting married. I gotta be able to support her. You know what I'm saying? Everything I did From that moment forward was done with that future wedding date in mind. And then on the ladies' end, every lady has a hope chest. Amen. You hear the proposal, you accept it, and what's the what starts happening? You start getting that hope chest ready for the wedding day. Amen. And let me tell you something. Nothing went in that hope chest That was frivolous. It all had purpose. Could I get an amen? I mean it only had so much room. You couldn't just throw the kitchen sink in there Man, it had purpose. You have certain things, and that hope chest began to get filled, and you begin to put things in there. Why? It was all based on that future wedding date And everything that went in there was with purpose and plan. I want to say every one of us has a hope chest. It's called our heart. Amen. And there's a future wedding day coming, the coronation of our King. And everything that goes in our heart should be going in our heart with that future date in mind. If it has no relevance for that day, it shouldn't go in our heart. If it's going to get in the way of that rendezvous with our Savior, it shouldn't go in our heart. There's only so much room. You can't put everything in your heart. You pick and choose what goes there. And isn't that what the Spirit of God said to every one of us in 1 John 3:3? He said, every person that has this hope, what hope? This hope of the return of Jesus Christ and the rendezvous with the Savior purifieth himself even as he is pure What's been going in the whole chest of your heart, Christian? Gentlemen, what's been filling your heart? What's there? As you think of the rendezvous with your Savior, what's been going in the hope chest of your heart? He says, gird up the loins of your mind. You get control of that, because loose thinking leads to loose living every time. But then you look up and remember who you're heading to. You're heading to a rendezvous with a Holy Father and His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And you and I should let that frame everything we do right now. That should affect everything we do, everything we say, everywhere we go, that ought to affect our heart right now, that future date that's set and reserved for us. He says, gird up. He says look up. But then thirdly, and by the way, look at the notes. I want you to read this. Staying clean today. Has a lot to say about what you're planning to do tomorrow. Amen Young people, staying clean today has a lot to say about what you are planning to do tomorrow. God says, be ye holy, for I am holy. Gird up, look up, and then thirdly, go back to 1 Peter, grow up. Grow up. Notice this challenge he gives us here concerning the command to be holy. Look at what he says in verse 13. He says, Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. And look at what he says in verse 14. As obedient children. Not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, be ye holy. For I am holy. Notice here we see the challenge to grow up. Notice he says, as what kind of children? What's he say? What kind of children? Obedient children. You know what that tells me? Because that word is in there, it means that doesn't necessarily mean you'll be an obedient child. How many of you have children How many of you have children? Amen? All right? They're your child by an act of your will. It's irreversible. There's times you wish you could stuff them back and send them back whence they came. You can't. They're yours. But let me just tell you something about children Just because they're your children doesn't necessarily mean they're an obedient child. Amen. Could I get an amen there? Yeah, see, some of you will say, well, I don't know why they're so disobedient. Let me remind you, the apple never falls far from the tree. Okay? And I'm going to tell you, there's times my children, I look at them and said, where did you get that from? And it's like, oh, that was a dumb question. That's what I did when I was that age. You know what I'm saying? You know tonight that God wants us to grow up? We're children, and children are expected to grow. Obedience is an expectation in the father's household He says here, grow up. Obedience is to be expected. Notice, look at this. Don't miss this. Verse 14, as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves Now that you're saved, according to the former lusts in your ignorance. Do you know what obedient children do? Those of us that are saved, you know what we do toward our Heavenly Father? We don't fashion ourselves according to the former loss in our ignorance. You say, what does that mean? Do you know you need to, as a believer, fight against the undertow of this world? You need to recognize this world has values and attitudes. You need to recognize you learned sins before you were saved, and now that you're saved, you need to fight against the undertow of the past and the undertow of sin and the undertow of this world that is trying to make you look like them, act like them, live like them. think like them and be them. It's an automatic undertow. You say, what is the undertow? It's former lusts It's the sinful desires you learned when you were lost, and that the world offers uncontrolled appetites. It includes forbidden activities. It includes sensual impulses. It includes selfish motivations that focus on self-fulfillment, self-promotion, and self-justification. It's the mold and pattern the world wants to put in you in. And you and I, to be an obedient child, must fight against those former lusts that we did in our ignorance. You may not have known better back then, but you're saved now, and you know better now. We don't need more workshops. We don't need pep rallies. We don't need fancy little things. I want to tell you, all we need is to be obedient children. We need to obey dad. We need to listen to his voice, take a knee, drop the reins, and let him have his way in our life, which is Christ-likeness. Yeah. Notice obedience is to be expected. This world has a gravitational pull. And let me say this: holiness is intentional. It's never accidental. Did you know that? You don't live a holy life by accident. You have the purpose to be obedient. You have to purpose to turn from the fleshly lust. You have to purpose to break the sinful habits. You with me? Holiness is not accidental. In a believer's life, holiness is intentional. There's a man by the name of Robert Murray McShane. A number of books are out there. Brother, you've read them, an amazing individual, born in born in Edinburgh, Scotland. in 1813, saved at the age of 23, and died six years later at the age of 29 of typhus. At his funeral, over 7,000 attended this young man's funeral. Over 7,000 he'd defected with his pursuit and life for Jesus Christ. This is what he wrote during his earthly ministry. Preoccupied with the Word of God and the grace of God, he wrote these words. He said, Christian, remember. You are God's sword and God's instrument. A chosen vessel to bear his name. In great measure, according to the purity of the instrument, will be its success. It is not great talents that God blesses, so much as great likeness to Jesus Christ. A holy Christian is an awesome weapon in the hand of God. Six short years was all he lived for Jesus Christ, but his books and his writing and his life affected Hundreds of thousands to this day. It was not his talents. It was his holy living for his Savior. Gird up, look up, step up, or grow up. Obedience is to be expected. It is our calling. But then finally, I want you to recognize this. Go back to 1 Peter and watch this. As we look at this. This unmistakable command to be holy as God is holy today. Notice the final one is a it's really a challenge to step up. Notice what's said here in verse 15, he said, But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner. of conversation, because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. This is an interesting portion and challenge here because I see that you and I are called to step up. And get serious about our calling in Jesus Christ. You know what's interesting to me when you say, what's your calling, brother? Boy, everybody thinks it has to do with being a missionary. Oh, I'm called to be a pastor. I'm called to be a preacher. I'm called to be an assistant pastor. I'm called to be an evangelist. But do you understand that every single one of you that's saved tonight, you have a calling from God. To be holy. It is a calling God has given you as much as He has given me. Amen He's called us to be holy. It's not just for pastors. You and I are to demonstrate this preoccupation for a holy God. Look in First Thessalonians 4 with me, and it comes right out, and look at what he says here in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, and look with me in verse number 7. First Thessalonians 4, 7 Says this First Thessalonians four seven for God Hath not called us unto uncleanness. But what has he called us to? He's called us unto say the word out loud with me. Holiness. He's called us on to say it again. Holiness. Say it again. Holiness. You know tonight, sir, if you're saved, God's called you unto holiness. You know tonight, sis, bro, if you're saved, God's called you both. To holiness. Amen. If you're saved, God has called you to holiness. Sister, brother, if you're saved, God has a calling on your life. He's beckoning and calling and wanting you to become holy, just like Him. You with me? If you're saved, God has called you unto holy holiness. He hasn't called you on cleanness. He hasn't called you to fornication. He hasn't called you to wickedness. He's called you unto holiness. It It's a universal calling for every man and woman Every boy and girl that names the name of Jesus Christ, you have been called unto holiness. It's a universal call. You and I need to step up to this call that God has for your life and for my life. And notice this call unto holiness is very interesting. First of all, your calling tonight as a believer to holiness is comprehensive It's comprehensive. Look at what he says in 1 Peter chapter 1. He says, But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of comprehension, of conversation. You know this call to holiness? It's comprehensive. That means it encompasses every bit of your life You don't just have Sunday language and then Monday language. Y'all with me? You don't just have Sunday habits and then Monday habits. Y'all with me? You don't just have public habits and then different private Habits that are wicked. Y'all with me? This calling unto holiness, number one, is comprehensive. It governs all manner of your living as a believer. Yeah, it's comprehensive. Justin the Martyr in the second century, a Christian apologist, wrote to the Roman Emperor of that day. In his writing, he offered two things to the emperor to validate the claims of Christianity. Number one, he gave the defense for the validity of Christianity by Scripture. He says Christianity is valid because of what the Word of God says about who Jesus Christ is. He offered that to the heathen Roman emperor of his day. As proof that Christianity was real. The scriptures. But you know what else he offered up? He offered and challenged the emperor to examine the lives of Christians and observe their purity. Yeah, he did. He says if you don't believe the scriptures Then look at the lives of these people. There's no other way to explain why they live so pure and live so holy and live so loving other than Jesus Christ in them, the hope of glory. Could you imagine if we did that today? You pick your most godless politician out there. And there's a pile of them, but you just pick them. They don't care about God. They don't care one rip about what he thinks. And you're going to offer them the proofs of validation that they should consider Christ to be their Savior. And on that offering plate you give that politician two things. One, here's the scripture. But number two, look at the lives of those who name the name of Christ. Their pureness, their holiness, and their love should validate who they believe is who you need to believe. The changed lives should validate. If you were the one that was put forward to the politician today To be challenged to consider the claims of Christianity. Would your life validate the Son of God? Would your purity show them he's pure? Would your love show them he's a loving sin? You with me? Or would your life invalidate the very claim you make? See, holiness is a calling, and this calling is comprehensive. It should affect every area of our life, public, private, personal. In all manner of conversation. But second of all, it's not only comprehensive, but second of all, it's not contemporary. Look at what he says here. He says in 1 Peter 1, he says in verse 15, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. And then he adds this, because it is written. You know, holiness isn't a new thing. Holiness has been around since God has been around. Because God is holy. It's not contemporary. Leviticus records the word holy more than any other book in the Bible, and this quote in verse number 16 is from the book of Leviticus, Leviticus 11, 44. He repeats the core command, be ye holy, for God is holy You know holy has the idea of being pure, but even bigger than that. You know what the word holy has the idea of being different? We say it every time we have a wedding. We call it holy matrimony. What does that mean? It's different relationship than just being a friend Y'all with me? This is a special relationship. This is a high relationship. This is separate from all other relationships. The word holy means not just pure, but it means separate. And let me say today pure is and separate is different than the rest of the world today. And you and I should be. We should be different than the world. We should be more like Jesus Christ. Holiness and the call that you have on your life to be holy, it is first of all comprehensive. Second of all, it's not contemporary. It's been around a long time. But thirdly, write this down. I actually wrote it down for you. This call to holiness is not created. It's not necessarily as much something you create as much as it is someone to whom you conform. Amen. I'd like to say it this way, holiness is a contact event. Amen Romans 8 and verse 29, if you want to just jot that verse down, says you and I have been predestinated to be conformed to the image of Jesus Christ. You look at that word conform, it occurs one other time in Scripture, and it talks about be not conformed to the image of this world. Romans 12 You know what conform means? It simply means to be pressed into a mold. Now here this week you're going to be doing some concrete pouring out there. You know what you're going to do before you pour the concrete? You're going to put up some form and material. Amen? You're going to go ahead and set the parameters. You're going to put the form material in there. And then what you're going to do is you're going to pour the concrete into that form. And that form will hold that in place until it sets. And then once the form is removed, the concrete has taken the form of the mold it was poured into Christian, you only have two choices for molds in this world. One is this world, and this world has a mold. They have a mold of attitudes they want you to buy into. They have activities they want you to do because that's their activities. Y'all with me? They have associations. The world has associations in that mold that they want to press you into to be like them. Y'all with me? But I'm going to tell you something God has a mold for you too. It's the person of Jesus Christ, and you're to be conformed to that image of Christ by the transforming of your mind. You pick the mold, but this I know, whichever one you spend more time with, is who you're going to start acting like. All you do is spend time in the world. All you do is read the world's books, go to the world's things. Read the get on the electronics the world offers. Just all you do is immerse yourself with carnal worldly things, then you will be nothing. If you're saved, you'll be nothing but a carnal worldly Christian poured into the mold of this world. And let me tell you something, in time you will set. But if you're saved, God says, I've got a better mold than this world. He's my son, the Lord Jesus Christ, and I don't want you to be like that world. That's what I saved you from. this present evil world. I saved you to a kingdom that's coming, and I separated you to spend time with my son. Amen. I love the enemies of the Lord, as they saw the boldness of the disciples, that though they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled and took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. You want to become godly, you're going to have to spend time with the one who's God manifests in the flesh. His name is Jesus Christ. Amen? And you have a calling to be like him, not like this world. You have a calling to think like him, not like this world. You have a calling to act like him, not act like this world. You have a calling to associate with things he associates with. Not what the world associates with. And you and I need to take our calling seriously. We've not been called to uncleanness. We've been called unto holiness. It's comprehensive. It's comprehensive and it is not contemporary. This has been God's call for God's people since time immemorial. But you cannot coerce and make this happen This is a result of spending time with someone who is God. His name is Jesus Christ. You as I think of this thought, you and I in Roman or 1 Peter 1 are called to act like our Father. You know what's interesting, as I close the thought out, this unmistakable command, isn't it interesting that you and I are not called to be like each other? Isn't that interesting? Nowhere in there do we have a calling to be like the pastor. Nowhere do I have a calling to be like Brother Matt. Nowhere, brother, do you have a calling to be like me? That benchmark's way too low. The benchmark has to be an unchangeable one. Higher than us. God says, Be ye holy, for I am holy. God says I don't want you to be like each other. I want you to be like me. Amen. You know, as I close, there's a quote made by a very famous man, Mahatma Gandhi. And every time I read it, it kind of rattles me and makes me think. He said this. I would be a Christian. If it wouldn't be for Christians. He said, You have the most amazing Savior But none of you live like him. I know husbands and wives, they have the most amazing Savior. They don't live like him. Proud, fossil, always at each other's throats. All they do is manifest works of the flesh, no fruit of the spirit. I know believers, they have the most amazing Savior. They can run around and give out tracts and do all that, but man, if you get into their personal life. They don't act like one wit like Jesus Christ when they're out of the limelight and home alone. We do have a wonderful Savior. Amen. Who came to save you from your sin, not leave you in it Who calls you not to uncleanness and unrighteousness, but to holiness, who literally is God manifest in the flesh, And says, as much as God did, I want you to be just like me. Why not? Why wouldn't you want to be like Jesus Christ? What are you ashamed of him? What embarrasses you about him? That would say, I don't want to be like him. I can't think of a better person to be like than Jesus Christ. I can tell you this, the closer I get to Christ, the closer I get. to my wife, the closer I get to ministry, the closer I get to souls. All these requests I heard have a burden for souls. You get close to Jesus, you'll get a burden for souls. Amen. You get close to Jesus Christ. He's holy, harmless, undefiled soul He's humble. He's a meek and gentle. You'll have more fruit of the Spirit and less works of the flesh. You say, well, I need to get close to it. No, get close to Jesus Christ. You get closer you get to him, the closer you'll get to each other. The benchmark isn't us. Comparing ourselves among ourselves, we're not wives. The benchmark always has been. God. So read with me again as I close this message out. This unmistakable command in 1 Peter chapter 1. To God's people, he says this, wherefore, verse 13, gird up the loins of your mind Be sober and hope to the end for the grace that has been brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance. But as he which hath called you is holy, so be holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, Be holy, for I am holy. Apply this thought to your attitudes. Apply this thought to your activities. Apply this thought to your associations. And yield to this high Calling of your Heavenly Father to be holy. Be ye holy For he is holy. Amen. Let's bow our hearts before the Lord. Father, we thank you tonight for this thought, this challenging thought. And Lord, we recognize tonight that We participated in so many lusts, in our ignorance, in our lost years. And we recognize you called us out of those, Lord. They were in our ignorance, but now we are not ignorant. We know who you are, we know what you expect, and so tonight, we bow our hearts before you, we ask you would forgive us for unholy attitudes. Unholy activities. Unholy associations. Unholy words and unholy thoughts. We pray tonight that we would gird up the loins of our mind. Help us, Lord, not to have loose thinking, but to be sober and serious-minded, to think on those things that are lovely and true and honest and just and pure, virtuous and praiseworthy. I pray for the one out there struggling, Lord, with even their thought life, that Father, you would grant to them victory, and those thoughts will be brought into captivity to the obedience of Jesus Christ. And then, Lord, I pray. We as your people would look up. Help us not to live for now. Help us not to live for this world. But Father, help us to live for the future and the kingdom that's coming. Help us to be careful what we put into the hope chest of our heart as we prepare for that day. And then Lord help us to grow up, to not just be your children and satisfied there, but help us to desire to be obedient children. Help us to realize tonight, Lord, that holiness is not accidental. It's intentional. And then, Lord, help us to step up to your high calling in our life to be holy as you are holy, Father. Help us to realize this is a comprehensive calling to every one of your children. And Lord, I pray tonight as we close this thought out that we would not be the reason someone would reject our Savior. But instead, when they see our life, holiness, love, mercy, all of those things that are your son. As we take a knee and yield and humble and ask you to change us, Lord, into the image of your Son. Help us, Lord, to humble ourselves and pray Help us to seek your face and turn from our wicked ways. We pray for your grace, your desire to do that. As we do that, as we crumble at Calvary, and Lord, as we crumble before your Son. Lord, may we rise up purposing to be poured into the mold of your Son, not the mold of this world. Give us the victory in this area. Help us to be holy as you are holy. We ask and pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.