Second Corinthians chapter 6. I want to read just the first part of verse number 14, the first phrase there, and then down in verse number 17, the first phrase. He makes a statement in verse 14 And then he elaborates on that statement on the second part of verse 14, 15, and 16. And then verse 17 he says, wherefore, because of the statement in verse 14, Wherefore, then he makes the statement in verse 17. So look look with me if you would, verse 14. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. There's his statement Then he elaborates on that for the next couple verses. Then verse 17 he says, Wherefore, because we're not to be unequally yoked with unbelievers, wherefore Come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing. Now I want to speak this morning on this unequal yoke that he mentions there in verse number 14. An unequal yoke. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak our hearts and teach us. Father in heaven Lord, it's so good to be in your house and to be together with your people. We thank you for the Word of God. We thank you for the Church of God, the people of God, and for the Holy Spirit. And I ask now that you would take this passage, Lord, that in my mind, in a lot of ways, is neglected and distorted. And I pray you teach us the importance of this truth and this practice in our Christian lives. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would teach us our hearts and minds This truth here would not be me, Lord, or my opinion, but it would be your Spirit of God teaching and speaking to our hearts and leading us and directing us. So I yield my will to you, Lord. I just want your will to be accomplished in my life. I pray I present my body anew. Pray you'd fill me with your spirit and you would speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. I don't know how you feel about it, but as far as I'm concerned, this whole Bible is a very precious book. As far as I'm concerned, I have uh I got adding up the other day trying to just guesstimate in my mind how many books I have in my library. I am confident I have well over a thousand, maybe upwards to two thousand books in my library, uh maybe not quite that many But I tell you, not one of those books measures up to the old King James Bible. Not one of those books measures up to the Bible. If you would, keep your place here, and I'd like you to come back to Psalm 119 And just a few things about the Bible that make it so precious. Psalms 119, just about the middle of your Bible. If you open up right in the middle, you should be in Psalms. Psalms 119 is the longest chapter in the Bible. And notice with me, Wood, verse number 11 of Psalms 119. Notice what the Bible says. And this would be a good verse to underscore. Now we think of young people in this because it mentions the young man, but it's true for all of us. a principle here, a promise here. Psalms 119, and look with me if you would at verse 11. Thy word. That's the Bible Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. You know what this old book will do? If we memorize this book, we try to memorize one verse every month. I think you ought to memorize at least That many. Scripture memory ought to be a regular part of Christian life. And this Bible, that verse tells me, that passage right there tells me, if I'm struggling with sin If I'm battling with sin, and all of us as believers are, if I hide this word in my heart, uh that it will help me, it will protect me from sin. How many people would love to live a life with no sin in it at all? Wouldn't that be amazing? One day we'll get to heaven, that'll be real. But until then we battle sin, until then we struggle with an old sinful nature that wants to say and think and do things that are contrary to the will of God, that are contrary to the holiness of God. And I tell you, that old book right there, if I hide its words in my heart, my Bible says it'll protect me against Against sin. It will help me. I've got all these books. Not one of those books carries that promise. Not one of those history books, science books, none of the commentaries, none of the biographies I read, but the Bible carries that promise. This old book is a precious book. And look with me, if you would, at verse number 50 of Psalms 119. Verse 50, he says this: This is my comfort in my affliction. Anyone here ever go through a hard time? Anybody here ever have a broken heart? Anybody here ever in a situation I don't even know what to do? Sometimes we get in a situation we don't even know what is right and what is wrong I don't even know what to do. Look what this verse says here, Psalm 119, verse 50. This is my comfort in my affliction For thy word hath quickened me. That word quickened means giving me life, giving me hope, giving me encouragement, giving me strength. It's brought life to my soul when I was struggling and difficult. I'm telling you, there's no book like this old Bible. That's what I'm trying to say. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 86 of Psalms 119. Psalms 119 is the Bible verse, a Bible chapter of the Bible. Every verse in it references the Word of God in one form or another. Look at verse 86. Says this: all thy commandments are faithful. They persecute me wrongfully. Help thou me. This verse tells me that God's word is faithful. I can count on it. I can come to this book and uh, hey, look, let me put it this way. If God said it, that settles it. Do you ever see that little bumper sticker? God said it. I believe it. That settles it. Anybody ever see that? That's fine. I'm alright with that. But I'd modify that if I was in the bumper sticker business I'd change that. I'd put it this way. God said it, that settles it, I better believe it. That's the way I would word it So this whole book is faithful. It's faithful. I can count on its promises. Look at verse 105 with me, if you would. Psalms 119, 105. Now, this is a little more familiar verse for a lot of us. Many of us have memorized this at some point, maybe growing up in church. Psalms 119, 105, the Bible says, Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. Now, what's that suggesting? That means God's word, that's telling us that God's word will give us what? Direction. God's word will give us direction. It's a light unto my feet. Now I don't know how you are. Now I'm not scared of the dart. I ain't scared of no dart. But I'll tell you one thing I hate is getting up in the middle of the night and it's pitch black. Can I get a witness? I don't know where the s end of the bed is. I don't know where the dresser is. I gotta get up maybe in the middle of the night and go to the restroom or whatever And uh uh I'm stumbling around. My wife, when we got married, she'd have that that bedroom would be pitch black. And I tell ya, I'd be cussing and man and throwing stuff Walking into things in the middle I want a little light there so I can see where I'm going. Can I get a witness? And uh, but uh I tell you, you know what that old book right there is? That's a light and a dark world That's a light to show me, watch out, give me some leadership and direction and help me and guide me in light through this old world. Hey, stop and look at folks in the world that don't follow the Bible. Look what their lives are like. Uh this whole world, they don't know if they're male or female, they don't know if they're coming or going up or down, they don't know what's going on. You know what I think? Start reading the Bible might answer some of those questions for them Might give a little clarity, might give a little direction. And so this old book, Holy Bible, Book Divine. Precious treasure, thou art mine. Mine to tell me whence I came, mine to teach me what I am Mine to chide me when I rove, mine to show a Savior's love. Mine thou art to guide and to guard, mine to punish or reward Mine to comfort me in my distress. Suffering in this wilderness. Mine to show by living faith we can triumph over death Mine to tell of joys to come and the rebels sinners do. O thou holy book divine, precious treasure thou art mine. This old book is a precious, precious book Thursday I got word or uh early Thursday morning I got word that our dear brother brother Charlie Ross went on to on home to heaven. Bless his heart, how many people remember Brother Ross? What a blessing. And uh he'd be in here praising the Lord and shouting. I referenced him last Sunday, I think, in the message. And he is just the happiest, most happy go-lucky. had both legs amputated, a Vietnam War veteran, just been through it, the happiest man you will ever meet. And uh Thursday morning The gates of heaven opened up and welcomed home, old brother Charlie Ross. We got talking about that. Can you imagine what he's been experiencing the last three days I can see him uh you think you think he shouted a lot down here, brother. Brother, he's having a time up there now. And I can see him, you know, he wasn't that tall to begin with. I can see him running up and down those old golden streets there, praising the Lord. I'm so glad when I went down and visited with Mrs. Ross and Matt and the family were there, Keith and all of them were there. I'm so glad I could open up a black book. Had the promises of God, the Word of God. Now I was be able to read with them. Absent from the body, present with the Lord. And to give them precious promises of God. That Brother Charlie's alright. He's all right. What a book. I said all that to say this. The Bible is a very precious book, but let me say this. I'm afraid the Bible is a very neglected book. The neglected book. You say, what do you mean by that? I mean in many of our churches, the Bible's neglected. Now I hate to say this, but it's true. There's churches all around, even in our community, I venture to say. This morning they had church, quote-unquote, church service, but that bold book's never been opened one time. Churches never even open the Bible. Never reference at all. Tell stories. Give self help concepts But they never open the old book and preach it. It's old book's neglected in a lot of churches. And some of the churches that do have a Bible, they'll twist its meaning, they'll twist its teaching, they'll water down the gospel They'll water down the fact that we're all sinners. They won't reference the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ that was shed on the cross that can cleanse us from sin. They'll use all kinds of versions that take words out and add words in and twist the word of God. The Bible's a neglected book in many of our churches. The Bible's a neglected book in many of our homes. You know, there was a day when Christi there was a day when Christians read the Bible together as a family in the home. There was a day when they had what we call the old family altar. Mom and dad gathered the kids around some point during the day, often in the evenings before he go to bed. Gather the kids around, husband and wife, mom and dad, the kids, and gather around and say, all right, we're going to read the Bible. They'd read scripture and pray. Sometimes sing a hymn together I'm saying uh I I I I don't know and I don't mean to meddle in your home and your business, but I venture to say uh that's being neglected in a lot of our Christian homes anymore. And by the way We blame society, we look at society and we're so appalled by society. Can I suggest a lot of that comes back to the Christian home And our failure to have the Word of God to be the authority in our homes and to be the guidebook in our homes and to be a light in our homes. I just want to throw this challenge out. I want to challenge everyone, regardless. Maybe it's just mom and dad in the home anymore. There ought to be a time of Bible, family altar, Bible reading and prayer. This old book, so precious, so precious. It's the Word of God. There's nothing else in the world like this book, but it's so neglected in our churches. I tell you, God have mercy on a preacher that don't preach that book. God have mercy on a church that doesn't hold to the authority of the Word of God. It's a neglected book in churches, it's a neglected book in our homes. Hey, it's a neglected book in our own personal lives. My, how many times the Bible, maybe we go to church, come home, set the Bible down on the counter, coffee table, or the end table, and there's where it sets till next Sunday morning. I'm telling you, that old book ought to be a guideline every day. It ought to be like a meal that we feed on and read that thing and meditate on that thing and memorize that thing. And we I think we do pretty good in our church. Now I I'm a little biased maybe, but I think we do sometimes on Sunday nights um Uh I get how many folks brought your Bible on Sunday nights? Anybody here been here when we do that? How many people and people get their Bible say, get it up, wave it around, and they wave it around And say, how many people read your Bible at least one day this week? People hold it up and wave it. How many people read it every day? People hold it up. Some people bring it down. And um that's that's fine. I think, this is my personal opinion, I think we do pretty good percentage-wise, the number of people that read their Bibles every day. And here's a guy, a guy said Guy said, I read my Bible every day. The preacher, if I don't, he's gonna make me wave it up around you. Read your Bible every day. I said, Well, at least he's reading it, amen That book is a precious book. Precious. It's the most valuable thing that you and I possess. I guarantee it. It's a neglected book. I don't think we appreciate how precious that thing really is. I don't think do you know, do you know as believers we're going to stand before Jesus Christ? We're going to be judged by the that book right there. That's the standard of our judgment. We better find out what it says. The neglected book. Now the Bible is full of doctrines. Now that scares some people off, that term doctrine. In fact, you'll hear churches say, we don't preach doctrine at our church, we just preach Jesus. Well, that's impossible because doctrine is the teaching about Jesus. How do you know what Jesus is if you don't have doctrine? You follow me? Everybody understand The Bible is full of doctrines. It's full of teachings. The Bible tells me who God is. The Bible tells me what God's name is: Jehovah. The Bible tells me who His Son is, Jesus. The Bible tells me the doctrine of the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of God that indwells within us, that moves throughout our land, convicts, and brings people to Christ. Bible teaches me about heaven, what it's like, how to get there. Bible teaches, warns me about hell, the doctrine of hell. how awful it is and how important it is that I know I'm saved and my sins are forgiven. I don't die and end up in hell. The Bible teaches all that. It's doctrine. The Bible teaches me about Jesus Christ, his virgin birth. The doctrine of the atonement of Christ, the incarnation of Christ, teaches me about Jesus' death, burial, and resurrection. I'm telling you, that Bible is an important book. It's a precious book. It's neglected. But that thing's full of tremendous and vital information. About what life is, what our purpose in life is, and where we came from, and where we're going, and why we're here. All these great questions are answered in this old book right here. It's full of doctrine. There's one doctrine, and this is what I've been leading up to. There's one doctrine in the Bible that I believe, what I refer to as the most neglected doctrine in Scripture. You're not going to hear a whole lot of preaching on what we're going to preach about this morning. You're not going to hear a whole lot of teaching about this unequal yoke of believers and unbelievers. It's a neglected doctrine. Now, if you would, let's look at our passage here. Come back to 2 Corinthians 6 with me if you would. And I want us to notice three things in this passage here. And I'm going to try and get right to the point here this morning. We're having chili bowl after the service this morning. Ladies have prepared chili back there. And I tell you, I don't want to preach long when there's food waiting. Amen. So I'll probably just disregard that statement by the time it's done. Look at verse 14, the first part of verse number 14. Notice what it says. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Well, I want to encourage you to underscore that verse in your that statement in your Bible. That's an important teaching. That's an important doctrine. Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. First thing I notice here is a clear command of God. This is not a suggestion Well, I suggest that you not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. It's not a suggestion. It's not Paul giving advice There's several places in the Bible where God will say, where Paul will say, this is my advice. It's not Paul giving his advice. It's not Paul's opinion. Well, my opinion is you ought not to be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. It's not a suggestion, it's not advice, it's not an opinion. This is a command of God To the people of God. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. How many folks here would consider yourself a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ? Say amen. Amen. I'd consider myself a disciple, not certainly fall short of what a disciple would be, but I'd like to consider myself a disciple of Jesus Christ. A follower, one committed to Jesus Christ. This here is not a suggestion for you and I. This is not somebody's opinion about what a Christian ought to or ought not to do. It's not somebody giving advice. It is God instructing you and I. It is God clearly commanding you and I that we are not to be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Now let's break this down a little bit. Notice he says be ye not. What he means by that is make sure this does not happen. In fact, one of the definitions included in the definition and the translation of the word is forbid Forbid this from happening. You know, there are some things in the Christian, there are some things that just not ought not to be part of the Christian life. You understand that, right? It's not anything goes. He says, listen, you trust in Christ as Savior. You claim to be my disciple. Then you cannot allow This to take place. You cannot allow this to be true in your life. Be ye not forbid this from happening. Now what is it? Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. How many people here understand what a yoke is? I mean, not in the egg, not for breakfast this morning. When he says, be not unequally yoked, he's not talking about the egg from the chicken. This is a farming term. Farming term. A yoke is a piece of, generally it was a piece of wood, a uh a s a small board or whatever, a beam type thing, and it usually had two loops around it And what the yoke would do is they'd place it over the neck of one oxen and another oxen and yoke those two oxen together. To yoke them up to pull a plow or a wagon or usually some heavy-duty type stuff where it would be a little more than one oxen could handle, so they'd yoke two together, and uh it would enable them to be more productive. You could get more done with two oxen pulling that plow. You could cover more ground, get a better cut in the dirt, and uh make better progress. If you had two, then one. One might struggle Uh it would be uh it was easier for the farmer, the husbandman, or whoever's running it, it would be easier them for handle the two if they were yoked together than if they were both just kind of tied up themselves, separately pulling the wagon. You yoke them together, you can control them. How many people understand that? And so it was a very beneficial thing. It was a very productive thing. It was very helpful. It was designed so the two oxen, or maybe there'd be two mules, they could work together in unison. It would increase their power. There's a thing called synergy. Synergy is when you take the strength of one oxen and you pair it up with another oxen and the total uh uh strength of the two together is more than the separate strength added together. Anybody uh somebody explain what I'm talking about. I lost myself there somewhere In other words, for sake of illustration, let's say one oxen could pull 1,500 pounds. Now I don't even know how that fits in reality, but let's just say he can pull 1,500 pounds. You have another oxen of equal strength, and he can pull 1500 pounds, it looks like this oxen pulling fifteen hundred, this one pulling fifteen hundred, the two together would be what? 3,000. But that's not the case. You take one can pull 1,500, another can pull 1,500, you yoke them together, and the and the and the poundage they can pull maybe 4,000. It's called synergy. It increases the individual's ability when the two are yoked together, working together. By the way, that's true in the spiritual realm. You get one Christian trying to be a witness, and they can be an effective witness. But brother, you get two Christians together, their witness is multiplied. The church is multiplied. And so a yoke is a very, very important tool. A yoke is a very, very important tool in being productive, in accomplishing what the farmer wants to accomplish. It maintains better control. They work in unison. It increases power and productivity. So that's what the yoke is. So what happens when you have an unequal yoke? In other words, what happens when you put in one side of the yoke, you put a very large, maybe a tall oxen? And on the other side of the yoke, you put a small, weaker oxen. And they're not equal. You're going to have problems. The stronger one, the uh the the taller, bigger, stronger one, he's going to pull off, and it's gonna tend to pull off to his side. He's gonna overpower the one on the on the right side And so when they would pair these oxen up, they would try to get of oxen that were very similar in size and strength and ability. Maybe one is very uh has been more domesticated. Maybe one oxen is more trained and more uh more uh um uh not pliable, but uh does what the master wants them to do, more Workable. What what's the nut that's not the word I'm looking for? Huh? Cooperative. Docile. I don't know. I didn't study much, so I'm trying to get you all to help me out here. You got one that's more cooperative, docile, whatever you guys said, he's that. Maybe the other one's more stubborn. He wants to do his own thing, and he's not trained, and he's not submissive. For the leadership of the farmer. Anybody see a problem? You pair those two up? You got an unequal yoke. One's pushing and pulling, trying to do his own thing, the other's just working right along. Man, it's it's going to hinder the work. An unequal yoke. Even worse, and I think this is what he's getting to, is you take maybe an oxen and you yoke it up with a mule. Now, an oxen and a mule, I'm not a farmer, I'm not a cattleman. But I know enough to know this: an oxen's not the same as a mule. They're different. They're different in temperaments. They're different in their characteristics. They're different in their perspectives. I guess an oxen has a perspective on things. But their characteristics, their natures are very, very different. An oxen is designed to primarily to work and the pool and bear burden. A mule, they carry things a little bit. How many people ever heard this? A mule is stubborn. Ever hear that? Any of you fellas ever say to your wife, you're as stubborn as a mule? Anybody ever? Don't do it. Listen, I'm telling you, don't say that. I was out talking to our good friend. He's listening in this morning, Brother Phil Sherman. What a dear friend. I love that man dearly. Why's so sweet. And uh he raised mules. How many people know Phil Sherman? He's blind. He attended here years ago, just faithful. And he he raised, he bred and raised mules What a what an occupation. That's what he did. He's very good at it. One day we were out there visiting and I said something. We were talking about the mule out there. And I said, those old mules sure are stubborn Boy, he corrected me quickly. He said, they are not stubborn. I said, what planet are you from? Mules are stubborn. He says, they're not stubborn. He said, they're cautious. They're cautious. They're going to be very, very careful. They're not going to do something until they're sure it's it's safe and okay to do. Maybe has a point there. I still think this other person I was thinking of, they're stubborn as a mule. They're not cautious, they're just stubborn. Now uh you take that mule and you pair that mule up with an oxen, and you're going to have some trouble. You're gonna have hard time. And you know what's going to happen? I don't know. I got reading about this a little bit. They say that that old mule will get frustrated with that oxen And it won't be long till he's all sudden boom, boom, kicking that thing. Then no, next thing you know, they are just at it and nothing's being accomplished. Things are being torn up. And it just does not work. In fact, you go back to Deuteronomy, and God forbade the nation of Israel from yoking up mules and oxen. God said, don't do it. Don't do it. Now, Paul, under the inspiration of God, is using that to illustrate and point out this command of God that you and I, as believers, are not to yoke up With unbelievers, with unsaved. Now I thought what does he mean by unbelievers? Now you would think an unbeliever is somebody that what? Doesn't believe. And I looked it up, and lo and behold, it simply means somebody who doesn't believe in Christ Doesn't believe this old book. Hasn't trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. Is someone without faith in Christ? Now the one definition was a little stronger. It had suggested this that he's referring to folks here who have rejected Jesus Christ as Savior. Here's somebody that says, I don't believe Christ. I don't believe in the Bible. I don't believe in Jesus dying for our sins and God and all that. I reject all of it. And he's telling us here very clearly that a believer is not to yoke up with an unbeliever. That is an unequal yoke. Have two different perspectives, have two different values, have two different purposes for living, two different priorities in life Two different uh views of the world and and what is right and wrong, morals and standards. He says, Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Christians, believers, disciples of Christ are to avoid any kind of partnership or alliances with unbelievers. That's what the Bible teaches. You say, Brother Leatherman, that's your opinion. It is not my opinion. That's what that verse says. It's a command of God. You say that's your advice? No, it's not my advice. My advice is do what God commands. That would be my advice. It's a command of God. No alliances, no yoking up, no partnerships with unbelievers. Now, how would that play out? You say, well, what in what ways would that take place? Well, the first way and the one that most preachers, when they do preach on this, apply it, uh they talk about marriage And a a believer ought not to yoke up in a marriage covenant with an unbeliever. And uh that would that I agree with that, and that would be my advice. We have young people, unmarried people here I would say you ought not to marry an unbeliever. I wish somebody'd help me here a little bit. You ought not to marry an unbeliever You say, well, I'll date them and get them saved. That's risky, I'll tell you right now. Here's my advice. I don't think you ought to date somebody you wouldn't marry In the condition they're in at that time. Evangelistic dating has not been very fruitful. Now it's the there's some exceptions. There's a there's occasions where folks uh were able to pull that off. So uh the application of that command there and He's usually first thing it applies to is marriage. You ought not to marry an unbeliever. Somebody doesn't share your faith in Christ, doesn't share your confidence and faith in the Word of God. You ought not to marry an unbeliever But it doesn't say that. It's not just about marriage. That's not what it is. It's a principle. It's a command across the board. And uh you could think and come and just evaluate how would this apply in many areas. I think it would apply to business uh endeavors. Now, I'm not suggesting that a believer shouldn't work for an unbeliever or a believer shouldn't hire unbelievers. You can. That's not what I don't think that's the application here. But I'm saying going on a joint endeavor with someone. Pairing up in a business with a believer and an unbeliever. You've got to have two different values. You're going to have two different purposes. I know a lot of, and I'm not suggesting this, the individual has to decide this But I've known over the years a lot of businessmen that tithe off of their business finances. Their business tithes. Not them per just them personally, but their business did. Now that's fine, that's the individual decide But I tell you, you might be hard pressed, line up with an unsaved guy and have him agree with that. See what I'm saying? Maybe certain standards or principles of Scripture say we're going to follow this, we're going to do what the Bible says. This guy says, well, if we do that, we're going to lose out here, we're going to lose out there. And you're going to have problems It's going to hinder your witness. And so he says, Be ye not, don't let this happen, forbid this From being unequally yoked up with unbelievers. And whatever arrangement that may be, I would say it would certainly include entertainment My identification with unbelievers. And so the first thing I notice here is this clear command that we are not to be yoked up together with an unbeliever. With an unbeliever. Then next thing I notice here in verse 14 down through verse 16 is he presents a series of questions. First, we have a clear command. Then he gives this series of questions. And what he's doing here is he's using these questions, and the answers to the questions are very obvious. He's not asking these questions to get to figure out what the answer is. He knows what the answer is. He wants them to see. He's asking these questions and the obvious answers to emphasize the importance of this command. And to emphasize that there is, get this, there is a fundamental difference between a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ and an unbeliever. There is a profound fundamental difference between a child of God and an unsaved man or woman of this world The fundamental difference. Notice what he says here. He uses some key words. I circled them in my Bible. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. There's the command. Very clear. Now notice, listen, look at these questions. For what? What's the next word? Fellowship has righteousness with unrighteousness. Now the obvious answer to that question is what? There's none. That which is right and that which is not right, that which is right and that which is wrong, that which is good and that which is bad, they have no fellowship with each other. The word fellowship there means partnership or participation in one with another. Doing right and doing wrong Do not have fellowship with one another. They're separate. Hey, we live in a world that is mixing up what is righteous and what is not righteous. This where I've been saying this for years now. This old world has perfected the ability to make that which is right look so wrong. And that which is wrong looks so right. I'm telling you, you and I are living in a society that is increasingly more and more viewing us as enemies of the people. Because we hold to this whole book, and the teachings and morals and standards and principles of God's word in this whole world are viewed as unrighteous. And the wickedness and perversion and twisting of this old world is righteous and good and to be celebrated. Am I right or wrong? The Bible says here, he's asking this question, what fellowship has righteousness with unrighteousness? What partnership, what agreement do they have together? And the answer is there's none Doing right has nothing, no fellowship with doing wrong. And by the way, churches that are bringing the world's values, uh, Ken Lake said, one of these days, preacher, you're going to fall off that step there. His prophecy almost came true. I tell you, churches that are bringing the morals and values of this world into the body of Christ are making a grave mistake. Making a grave mistake. Paul is asking these questions and their obvious answer to illustrate and point out the fact there's a fundamental difference between the people of God and the people of this world. The child of God The child of the devil, which is what the unsaved are. What fellowshipeth righteousness with unrighteousness? None! Look at the next one. What communion? What communion hath light with darkness? And the answer is what? None. Light and darkness don't mix. Uh the word communion there means close intimate relationship. And there's none Light of God's word and the darkness of this world, there's no communion, there's no intimate relationship, they're separate, they're as different as day and night, as light and dark. That's the point Then notice what he says. He said, What concord has Christ with Belial? I need to explain that word Belial there. That is just another name for who? Satan, the devil. It is a biblical name for the devil. Let me ask you a question. Let's give the definition here. Look at this what he says. And what concord. The word concord means this. Now get this. This is interesting. The word concord means means symphony. It comes from the same word we get our name our word symphony from. It means to operate in harmony. Working together to produce something beautiful, a symphony. Now here's this question: What concord What harmony, what symphony does Christ have with the devil? That's blasphemous to even think that there would be. Amen or not? Christ and the devil are as opposite as anything in existence. There's no symphony, there's no harmony between Christ and the devil. Whatever Jesus is for, the devil is against. Whatever Jesus values, the devil disvalues. Whatever Jesus praises, the devil curses. They are as opposite as night and day. And he asks this question. He says, listen, don't be unequally yoked with an unbeliever. It's a command. Don't do it. Don't let that happen. What fellowship, what concord has Christ with Malay? None. He's illustrating the fact that there's a fundamental difference between the people of God and the people of this world. Look, he goes on. Verse 15, or what part had he that believeth with an infidel? Now the word part there means to have or share something in common. And the word infidel simply comes from the same word as unbeliever, back up at the top of verse 14. Be not unequally yoked together with an unbeliever, that same word as infidel. So what uh what what uh uh what part? What does a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ have in common with someone who's rejected the Lord Jesus Christ? There's none whatsoever. He goes on. Verse 16: And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? Idols are false gods. Idols are the figment of man's imagination. Over in India, they have multiple gods. They're polytheistic, many, many gods. No, of a God of everything you can imagine. You know what those gods are? They're figments of their imagination. They do not exist. And he says, What's the word he uses? What agreement does Christ have With a false God, an idol that doesn't even exist, is a figment, a perverted figment of man's imagination. What do they have in agreement? And there's none There's none. I want to remind you there is only one true God. He is Jehovah. He consists of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit Three distinct personalities, yet one God. You say, explain that creature, I can't explain it. I can't explain God. But I know that's what that old book teaches. Let me just a little aside here. Every time I think I got figured out, I've realized how dumb I really am. God transcends anything you or I can possibly comprehend. Now we can have a relationship though with him. He walks with me and talks with me And he chose me, I am his own. But brother, he is so far beyond my ability to comprehend. What agreement Does this omnipotent, all-knowing, all-powerful, creative God, what agreement does that have with some piddly, uh minuscule imag of man's imagination. None whatsoever. And he's asking these questions, and some are, in my mind, are kind of ridiculous questions even asked. But he's trying to make a point. They don't have any agreement. They don't have any concord. They don't have any part one with another. And neither does the believer with the unbeliever. That's the whole point. There's a fundamental difference. Would you agree with me? There's a fundamental difference between the true God and man's false gods. Absolutely. There's a fundamental difference between light and darkness. Amen or not? Yes. And he says, don't be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. And then he gives this series of questions. I want to challenge you, study the book of Acts. And if you'll study the book of Acts, you're going to notice that the believers in the book of Acts and the unsaved world in the book of Acts were fundamentally different. They had different values. What those New Testament disciples valued and what the unsaved world valued were two completely different things. The priorities in the heart and mind and life of a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ are fundamentally different than the priorities of an unsaved world. Our values, what we hold dear, what is important to us, what is precious to us It's fundamentally different than what this old world would hold dear and hold precious. Priorities, perspectives. How many people here see things differently after you got saved than you did before you got saved? Good heavens. It's like light and dark. Before I got saved, I didn't have any time for church. Good grief. That was for old weird people. In some places that fits the bill. But um Ah, church, the Bible? What are you nuts? I tell you, I got saved May 7, 1979. I'll tell you about it sometime. I got saved that night. Suddenly that old book that meant nothing to me suddenly became the most precious possession that I owned. Something in my heart and soul drove me to church. I didn't have anybody beating me over the head, calling me up Saturday night. Now you need to be in church. You need to be in church. Now I do that for folks trying to encourage them. But brother, God got a hold of me. Nobody need to twist my arm to go to church. You'd have stopped me. You'd have stand before me to keep me away. I tell you, one thing's encouraged me through this past chaotic, bizarre year we just went through. To see people coming out the church, even when the whole world's telling them, no, no, no, no, no. Something inside driving, something inside pushing. I gotta and if I can't be there, I'm gonna get in through the through the computer. I'm going to somehow be a part of the body of Christ. I'm saying this. There's a fundamental difference between a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ and this unsaved world. Our values, our priorities, our principles we live by, our perspectives, our goals in life. By the way, our enjoyments Oh, the things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. You know what? After I got saved, that old stuff that I thought was so fun, I looked at it and I thought, that's the stupidest thing in the world. I'll probably get in trouble in this one. But I'll tell you uh Before I got saved, uh I didn't I didn't like this is stupid, I don't even know why I'm saying it, but before I got saved, I didn't I didn't like dancing too much. But I tell you, when we got drunk, brother, that changed everything. I just I looked back in my mind, I thought, what a moron I was. And after I got saved, started growing a little bit. And uh you know it took uh a little while and and I look, I see folks dancing, I thought that is the s weirdest thing I've ever seen in my life. Just gyrating around mmm mm-hmm mm-mm. So what in the world? It's like some parasite got in their brain and mmm Now if you like dancing, brother, you that's between you and God. But to me it's the weirdest thing ever happened. Can somebody help me? I feel very lonely up here right now But the things that were so fun before, oh, it was so, man, I got a whole different set of enjoyment But now my my entertainment is so different what it was before. Can I get a witness? And Paul is asking these series of questions. going to great length, asking some questions that are ridiculously obvious what the answer is, and he's trying to point out You and I, as disciples of Christ, are not the same. In our very nature, we're not the same as this unsaved world. We're different In the every sense of the word. So number one, there's a clear command, be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Then he gives a series of questions to try and emphasize the importance of it and illustrate the distinction. And last of all, I end with this. I notice a practical conclusion. A practical conclusion. Therefore, verse 17 he says, wherefore, because of that command and this obvious truth, wherefore, I circled those next two words. Come out from among them and be ye separate. Be ye separate. Because there are no common or shared values between a disciple of Christ And the men of the world, we are to come out. That word come out means to remove yourself quickly. The word separate means, one of the definitions means to draw a line on the ground. To put a boundary, put a perimeter. I'm separating myself. I am not crossing that line. To yoke up But the unbeliever, with the unbeliever. It's taught all through scripture, all through scripture. Let me just quickly give you some verses. Listen to these verses here. I copy them down. 1 Thessalonians 1. 9, it says, For they themselves show us what manner of entering in we had unto you, how ye turn to God from idols. So we're the child of God. We're not going to be involved in idolatry anymore. Turn front to the true God from idols. Listen to Psalms Chapter 1, verse 1 and 2 Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night. He says, you don't walk with them, you don't sit with them, you don't stand with them. Then he says in Proverbs 22 and verse 24: Make no friendship with an angry man, and with a furious man thou shalt not go. You need to separate from that type of person. Listen to 3 John verse 11. Behold, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good. It's a separation. So don't follow that. 2 Thessalonians 3 verse 6. Now we command you, brethren, in the name of Jesus Christ, that you withdraw yourself from every brother that walketh disorderly. He's talking about a Christian that's not living for God. You keep your distance from that guy. They're walking disorderly. 2 Thessalonians 3, verse 14 and 15. If any man obey not our word by this epistle, note that man, and had no company with them. Romans 16, 7. I beseech you, brother, mark them which cause divisions and avoid them First Corinthians 5 11. But now I've written unto you not to keep company with a man that is called a brother, be a fornicator, or covetous, idolatry. He goes on the list. Drunkard, extortioner. 1 Timothy 6 5, perverse disputings of men, corrupt minds, destitute of truth. From such withdraw thyself. Amos 3. 3, can two walk together except they be agreed? Ephesians 5. 11, have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness. He's saying because a believer is fundamentally different than an unbeliever, because the child of God is fundamentally different than a child of this world, because the people of God are different than the people of this world Put a line down. Mark it down. You keep your distance. Now, before I close, I need to point something out. Separation from unbelievers and from these people is not isolation from them. There's a difference. Not being isolating ourselves from going up in some mountain to make a commune. We're not interacting with anybody in the world. We're isolating ourselves. Now that doesn't work That's not what he's teaching. In fact, we're told to go into all the world and preach the gospel, but we're not to be of the world. Isolate separation from that he's teaching here is not isolation. Take your Bible real quickly. Everybody doing alright? You realized how close I was to being done, you'd be happy. John chapter 17, look with me at verse 14. This is Jesus praying for disciples. His disciples there, but also the ones that would believe on him in the future. That's you and I. And notice this prayer that Jesus makes in John chapter 17 and look at verse 14. Now, this is Jesus, God the Son, speaking to God the Father. I have given them, these the disciples, I have given them thy word. That's our Bible. And the world has hated them. Because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Now look at this. I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world. But that thou shouldest what? Keep them from the evil that's in the world. Not saying take them out, not saying isolate them. We work and we walk through our shoulders and we and uh we're in this world. But there needs to be some there needs to be some hedge. There needs to be some distance, so to speak, between us and this old simple world, or we'll become just like it. And we're fundamentally different. It's oil and water, it doesn't mix They are not of the world, verse 16, even as I am not of the world, sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. So, separation is not isolation. I'm not saying if you work for an unsaved guy or you're I'm not saying go home and quit. That's not what God's saying. Quit your job. Don't work for anybody Christian. Don't talk to anybody that's not a Christian. It's not what He's saying. He's saying don't yoke up. Don't invest together. Don't tie yourselves in together where you're codependent on each other. Because you have two completely different things. Now, here's what I end with. Our separation from the world, and that's what this is teaching. That's the most neglected doctrine in Scripture: that we are to be separate from this world, distinct from this world. Now, here's my caution. We must not, as a church or as individuals, focus so much on being separate from the world. That's not our primary focus in being separate from the world. Our primary focus is to be separated to Christ. You follow me? I'm going to commit myself to Christ. I'm separated from Christ. I'm yoked up with Christ. That's my focus. And here's what I found: the more I'm yoked up with Christ, the farther I'll be from the world. Would you agree with me that evil men and seducers are waxing worse and worse? Anyone agree our country is worse off now than it was 50 years ago? Worse off now than it was 50 days ago. This whole world is shifting. This whole world is increasing, is waxing worse and worse and worse. And if all I'm worried about is staying separated from this world, guess what's going to happen? That separation's going to drift along with the world, right? Somehow Christians got the idea that if the world did it 50 years ago, then it's okay for Christians to do today. Wait a minute. If it was wrong 50 years ago, it's still wrong today. And all that tells me is we're just drifting along with the world. We're just removed a little bit from that. We're separated from the world, but we're drifting right along with them. But if I focus on Christ, and I'm separated under him, and I'm committed to the Lord Jesus Christ and His Word As this world drifts, I'm getting closer to, let me ask you this question. Does Jesus change? Is he drifting? No, same yesterday, today, and forever. If I'm committed to the Lord Jesus Christ and I'm dedicated, I'm separated unto Christ as this world drifts, what's going to happen between me and this world? We're going to get farther and farther apart. We're going to be less and less like this old world. Now, I've had a lot of people say this to me in the last recent years, and I've said it myself. I feel less and less at home in this old world. I feel like a, I feel, what is it, a third thumb? What's the word? I feel like an oddbull. I feel uh I feel like I don't fit in. Can I get a witness? Somebody said you are an eyeball preacher. I know Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Anybody recognize the name Patty Hearst? Some of the older folks do. Patty Hearst was kidnapped by the um uh Symbionese Liberation Army. Her daddy was a newspaper owner out of Berkeley, California, multi-multimillionaire, billionaire. She was kidnapped from her apartment on February 4, 1974. They kidnapped her and they demanded from her father that he give millions of dollars to certain people. She was held captive for quite a while. And there was a bank robbed. There was a bank robbery in San Francisco. This was at first they thought it was unrelated. Patty Hearst was kidnapped, being held by the Seminese Liberation Army, wanting her dad to give money. Several months later, there's this bank robbery in San Francisco, and on the videotapes, guess who was performing the robbery? Patty Hearst. The girl that they had kidnapped, threatening her life, here she's cooperating with them and robbing a bank on their behalf. They arrested her, and lo and behold, she had become sympathetic to the ones that were out to destroy her. And they used her, and it's called the Stockholm Syndrome, where the victim becomes sympathetic and loyal to the one Perpetrating the crime. You follow? She spent years in jail. She was an innocent victim, kidnapped But she became like our captors. Can I suggest this? That's what happens when Christians yoke up with unbelievers. Next thing we know, we're sharing their values. Next thing we know, we're seeing things from their perspective. And they're using the, and the children of this world and of the devil will use the children of God to accomplish their purpose. And Paul says you stay away from that. You stay away from that. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to not yoke up unequally with unbelievers. Help us, Lord, as a church and as individuals, to separate from the sinfulness and the values and the wickedness of this old world And be separated unto you, in love with you, and committed to you and your word and your truth. Not let this world use us. I wonder, with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how we would say, preacher, I need to stop and evaluate My separation from this world. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need to look at this a little bit closely. And I don't know how to apply this, and you do, and I I just want to be faithful to God's word. I just want to be submissive to his commands. We're very, very careful as a church what we involve ourselves in, who we support, what we tie in with. We don't want to be unequally yoked. Maybe there's some decisions need to be made. Maybe there's some changes need to be made. Maybe there's some DVDs and websites need to be destroyed. I don't know But we need to come out for the Lord. We need to come out for the Lord. If there's somebody here, you've never trusted Christ as Savior, you've never been born again by faith in Christ, I tell you, you're in the darkness Christ says, come unto me, come unto me. I'll not cast you out. I'll forgive your sin. I'll give you a new life, a new nature, I'll give you eternal life Forgive your sin, take you to heaven. Is there any here say, preacher, I need to be saved? I need to be born again in the family of God I need that. Any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. Anybody at all? Maybe online, you're not saved. We invite you to contact us. We want to show you how to be saved. We can't save you, but we can introduce you to Christ and He can Father in heaven, bless our invitation now, I ask. Have your way in Jesus' name, Amen