But uh but we're gonna be in John chapter twenty. I hope you're uh hope you're there. This is a uh passage that is, I think They can be seen from a different point of view depending on who you uh uh who you're listening to, who you're talking to, um what you're thinking before you go into the passage. Um John it says when he sees the uh the napkin uh folded up, it says that that's what he believed. Now this is John's gospel. So John, who calls himself the disciple whom Jesus loved, this is John's gospel. So he says the moment that he saw that napkin fold up, that's when he believed. He didn't know the, it says he didn't know the scriptures that uh said that he would rise again from the dead, but that's when he believed. Peter, we don't have Peter's account, not personally, from his account where he said where it talks about when Peter believed that Christ was risen from the dead But there's a misnomer that when the stone was rolled away that they're like, Oh yeah, that means that Jesus rose again. That's not what they thought. They thought someone stole his body. You see Mary Magdalene comes running, she's she's going down to the sepulchre and she's mourning. And she goes down and she runs down to the and she she sees the sepulchre and the sepulchre is open. Now listen, I don't know uh Um, I'm not a weird person, uh, so I don't hang out in graveyards. But um and if you do hang out in graveyards, unless you work at one, you're a weirdo. Um, especially teenagers. Um but uh but if you hang out in graveyards um or you're walking, sometimes they're a nice place to walk. I remember this one time when uh me and Chris had first moved uh here. We uh we ordered a pizza and uh it wasn't ready yet So we in it was pouring rain. Was it pouring rain when we started? Or did it start in the middle? We're like, well, we're down by pizza. So we're like, well we ordered pizza. It's not it's not raining right now, so let's go for a walk. We've never been to this town. We've been here for like two weeks and we're like, let's go walk around. So we walk around and we walk through the graveyard 'cause it's like right there and it's really the prettiest part of that area of Oakland. It's uh you know it's The sheets or the cemetery. So we walk around the cemetery waiting for a pizza and then it starts pouring rain and then we're wet in the cemetery. And I realized that if I saw a uh a sepulchre or a uh a uh one of the graves just kind of like open. The casket's just kind of open and like no one's around. You look down and there's no one there. I mean, I get a little freaked out. Um, that's because we watch too many zombie movies, that's why. But um But in in uh but that's not how uh uh Mary Magdalene handled it. She said someone stole his body. Now honestly, if you see a grave open, you either think, A, that they had to um exhume the body or be there are zombies everywhere. And uh if you look around there's no zombies, most likely. Uh someone had to exhume the body. Although I d I think they take the casket. I don't know how that works. Don't ask me, I'm not a professional cemetery person. Whatever you call them, a cemetery. Um anyways, but uh but you see a grave open you think, well someone took the body. Why? Because bodies just don't get up and walk away. And so Mary Magdalene goes down to Jesus' uh sepulchre, she sees it open, she's like, Well that's weird, and she runs out, she's like, Peter, John, the the the tomb's tomb uh the stone is rolled away, the body is gone Someone took Christ's body. So they run down there and check it out. And uh And now I'm gonna take you to where Mary Magdalene is, because we know where she was. But well where she is at this moment is not in a place but in a point of my a a uh her perspective. You see, Mary Magdalene, uh, if you don't know her story, she had at one point seven demons living inside of her Seven demons. Now you can take that any way you want. Obviously, modern theologians who don't believe in such things take that as perhaps an illness, uh, maybe a mental illness. But if we're going to take the Bible at face value, that means that she had seven demons living inside of her. Meaning that each one was fighting for control of her. Before she met Christ. Some uh some scholars uh like to like to say that Mary Magdalene was a prostitute. There's no actual biblical evidence for this. Uh so I don't choose to believe so. But but to get seven demons living inside of you, you had to have done something. You had to have been something. You had to have either invited them in or lived a lifestyle that would be Atrocious enough to have them inside of you. I'm not here to talk about demons today, but I will say that demons that uh or or as devils as the Bible calls them is probably a much a better a better term for them. Devils do exist. And while they're not in forms and uh and they're not in uh they're not how we think of them in movies or in television or things like that They do exist and the problem and the thing about them is that makes them so brilliant is today they work differently than they did um two thousand years ago because today humans are theoretically smarter And so for them to work, they must make people believe they're not real. Because as the old saying goes, the greatest trick the devil ever pulled was telling the world they didn't exist. But that's beside the point. Mary Magdalene had a past, we don't know much about it, uh other than the fact that she had seven devils at one point living inside of her. But Mary Magdalene had spent the past year, maybe the past couple years, following around or following teachings of a man named Jesus Christ. He was her savior. He'd saved her from he'd saved her from uh demonic possession. He'd saved her from her former lifestyle, and now she was a she was a Sold-out disciple, not obviously one of the twelve apostles, but she was a follower of Christ, and she had her savior, and her Savior was now dead. I'm giving you Mary Magdalene's perspective here. Her Savior was now dead, and his body was taken. You see, with her Savior dead, this was a time of mourning. All joy had gone out of uh uh out of the world at this point. Imagine for a second that you you and again I I can't even imagine what it would take, but you got you had concrete evidence. That Christ was never God at all. Now You might say, well that wouldn't really affect me that much. Then and then I say this with all due respect, then your Christianity is dead. If if if tomorrow you actually found the truth that Christ did not exist, that Christ was not God, that Christ died and never rose from the grip dead rose from the dead, and your day does not change tomorrow. Then there's something wrong with your Christianity. Because that is a Destructive truth if it were the truth. That would be a destructive idea, a destructive thought. You see, because Jesus Christ was Mary Magdalene's wife, and with her Savior dead, her joy was gone. Oh many of us uh and listen I I um I don't pretend to know what this is like and I ne and I hopefully never will. I have two sons, I like them both, they're both fine. Um One one's fatter than the other. Um he's literally a ball of fat. And the other one doesn't eat anything, so so like he's he's like rice crispies and and See anything else? Pancakes. Um and yet he's still and yet he's still he's still not he's he's obviously not withered away to nothing. But I'm pretty sure the other one's trying to catch up to him. Uh he had a uh the little one who's a little ball of fat, as I said. He uh he wants to eat everything all the time. He tried to steal a French fry the other day. We were sitting on the couch and I had a french fries and he was sitting there and we were talking and he's in Chris's arms and out of nowhere he goes and just like bites the French fries. We like you know we had to take it away from him and uh And so I'm pretty sure he's gonna be like his daddy's gonna be fat, and that's okay. 'Cause I like him. Um but he but he's but he's pretty cute I never lost a child, but right now I would like to say that my that my family, that my wife and my children are my world, and if I lost either of them, that would destroy me. Now I'm not saying that God's grace could not help me recover. I wouldn't say that because God's grace is is beyond measure and beyond power. But I will say this, that I could not live tomorrow the exact same way I live today if I'd lost my wife and children. There'd obviously be a point of mourning. Some of you have lost child children. Some of you have lost parents, some of you have lost um um uh spouses and you understand that there that that death and even even as little as I understand it I have known plenty of people who died. I talked to um I was talking to someone this week and uh I was talking to one of my friends and uh Um, and it was over something it I'm not gonna talk about, but said he was like, Well, he's like, uh we were just talking about our former bosses and I was like, you know All of my former bosses are dead. And he was like, What? I was like, yeah. I was like, they they've all died now. And one had breast cancer and I loved her to death. Uh well, literally. Um and um No, I loved her until she died is what I said. You guys don't take that very well. But uh no, but she was a great friend of mine. And uh her name was uh her name was Pat, and Pat was a was a feisty person. She was She was like five foot nothing. I don't know how tall she was. But she was not very big. And uh and she had breast cancer since I known her. And she'd beaten it and then uh and then it came back and uh and uh she passed away last year and uh she was a really good friend of mine And uh and even and then when I found out she uh passed away my best friend told me, um, because he worked with her son, you you get this little hole in your heart and it just It just doesn't go away. And you guys know what death is. If you know that, that's kinda how it is. It's did I break down crying over her? No, because I knew it was kinda coming. I remember my uh my grandpa passing away. And uh my grandpa was a uh um I I I loved my grandpa, he was a very flawed man, uh but I loved him and when I remember him passing away And I remember, and it was very sudden. He had no medical issues. It was just very sudden. And I remember that left a hole in my heart. Even back to the time when I was a kid, when I was uh real young, my sister's best friend passed away from leukemia. And I and I do remember um staying up late for night uh night after night, begging God to bring her back from the dead as a as a ten year old boy. And I remember that. And even back to when I was in uh when I was in at five years old I remember my uh my the per the kid uh the girl that sat next to me, her name was Paige, she uh she uh got hit by a car um on her way walking out to the bus. and uh the person went around the bus and just hit and held her hit her, struck her dead. And I remember her uh to this day and it and and again, that was a long time ago. Just say I'm I'm I honest honest to goodness, and I know this might make me sound like a mean person, I'm over all of them. In the fact that They don't ruin my life every day because I think about them. They don't they don't tell me however those holes never never truly heal. And that's okay. And I'm sure many of you go through the same thing, or maybe I'm just weird. Like I said, my wife and my child my children are my life. Um I love them more than I can say. Um Even if they're really expensive. Um I love them more than I can say. And if I lost them tomorrow, my life would never be the same. And if often tomorrow, the day after, and the day after, the day after, would be nothing but grief. And I remember Mary Magdalene was a disciple of Christ. Christ was her life. Now let me just take a quick uh quick uh sidestop and say that Christ should be our life. But literally she followed him everywhere, she listened to him. Every word he spoke, she listened, she memorized. She wanted to be close to him, she wanted to know him because he was her savior. And I say that not just in salvation as we know it, but literally, he saved her from her life. And some of you might know what that's like, and to find out that it was all a lie, that they were able to take him and that he and he wasn't the son of God because they were able to kill him was Devastating to her. And she loved him. And she loved him more than she could say. So when she came to the tomb, she was in a period of mourning because she had a dead Savior. But you know not only did her religion cease to have joy. But with her Savior dead, she might have even pined for the past. Instead of living in the present She tried to keep herself happy with memories from the past. Some of us do this There's this wonderful, evil thing called nostalgia. And you say, why is it wonderful? Well, it's wonderful because nostalgia makes you remember things that makes you smile. But it's evil because things were never as good as you remember. In fact, they were probably terrible. But you remember them as being good. Because that's what nostalgia does. It's almost like a grass is always greener on the other side with your own life. Because when you get down and when you lose something, you remember things being better than they were because it makes you feel better. And therefore it's wonderful, but it's also something that is a lie. Because um I I again I'm I'm only twenty-six years old. My youth group thinks I'm over forty. Um When we came, if you guys don't know this, this is silly. When we came to uh the church, um they thought Krista was nineteen years old and I was thirty seven. Which in my book makes me a pervert. But um and uh and I I was shocked and offended and And I'm okay with it. Because they're funny. Um, but uh but I love teenagers, they're they're my they're my favorites, uh, because they're here. And uh but uh I remember coming and and uh and you know we remember I remember when uh Miss uh when uh Krista and I were uh first married. And we're like, ah, that was wonderful, wasn't it? It was like, yes, that was wonderful. And that's how we think sometimes. And then if I actually think. Like, oh my goodness. Yeah, I was working midnight and going to college at the same time when we were first married. And we were had zero money, period. And and it was and it was not terrible obviously. Because we were very happy But there's a lot more stress than we remember. And what's great about life and what's great about I think God is that God lets you remember things but doesn't really let you remember how stressful you were. So you can be like, yeah, it's a pretty good life. But there's such a thing as dwelling on the past that's bad You see, and honestly, dwelling on the past, and this is just gonna be me being uh being blunt, dwelling on the past is how um is how adultery happens. Because you think things were better back then, they're not good now, so I'm going to do something about it. And maybe it's not the only way it happens, but that's one of the ways. Dwelling on the past is how is how uh if we live in the past, if we live in a time that is not now, how we become dead, how we how we spend all of our time thinking about something else. Dwelling on the past is the and this is actually kind of silly, but dwelling on the past is the reason that every movie comes out now is actually a remake of a remake of a movie. These people like to dwell in the past because things were better then, is what they think. When her Savior dead, she was uh her religion seems to be joyous. She pines for the past, but also with her savior dead, then this was the only life that was worth living for now People say, Pastor Grant, and they don't say this, but but I say it to myself sometimes. So Pastor Grant, do you trust atheists? My answer is, eh, I guess so. I trust Hades as much as anyone, except in a life or death situation. Especially not a life or death situation. Here's why. You see, because I have my my wonderful little teenagers here. And I think, and and as a Christian, I think someone is going to just um let me pick one one of you. Um Skyler, they point at you. So Skylar's standing there and I find out oh he's gonna die because because he's gonna get shot or something. Ridiculous like that, right? Sky no one can shoot Skylar. I mean they give him shots. That's obvious. But um the diabetic joke. Never mind. Anyways, but um but Skylar's gonna get shot. Now I can sit there in my mind and say, man, should I save this kid by jumping in front of the bullet and dying, or should I not Now again, it's kind of a tough decision. Not because it's use Cow, because I don't want to die. But let me tell you something, if I'm an atheist and I don't believe there's a life after this, there's no way I'm jumping in front of that bullet. Same a different scenario. If I'm on a raft with Skylar and uh and we're in the and we're in the Pacific and I don't know what happened, and he went down in a plane. Don't go on plane rides with me. We're down down the plane, we've got a little bit of food left, it's not going to last us long enough. And on an atheist, or I'm a Christian, then maybe we try to survive together. If I'm an atheist, I'm drowning that little kid because I'm going to survive. If this is the only life I got. No, no, and you guys say that's horrible. No, it's not. If this is the only life I got, if there's no death, if there's no heaven, there's no hell, there's no God to pray to, and I have to survive somehow because this is all I have, guess what? That's what most people do And even people who say they believe in God, that's sometimes what they do. Alright? Now, I know you're now you all think, wow, Pastor Anthony is a terrible person. My point here is not to make you think that I'm a terrible person, but my point is to make you think that was Mary Magdalene's savior dead? This was her only life worth living for because everything he told her was a lie If he was dead, if he was gone, if there was no resurrection, if there was if he was not the Son of God, then she might as well do what she wants on this earth It's a dangerous attitude. It's a dangerous attitude to think that this is the only life we have. You know, the reason that you're in church today is because you believe. That this is not the only life you have. Hope. The reason most of the time that we do and listen, not the only reason, because some of us are naturally good people, I don't know who you are, but some of you are naturally nice. Um but the reason we do nice things sometimes is sometimes just because it is not the only life that we have Sometimes the reason we sacrifice ourselves, sacrifice our money, sacrifice our time, is sometimes sure to be nice, but sometimes it's just because This is the only life, dude. Or we don't think this is the only life we have. But if this is the only life we have, we might as well go, fulfill our lusts, get money, and just and just be happy. You know, as Christians, we don't believe that we're not going to be able to do that. By the way, with her Savior dead, there was no cause to pray, no reason to pray. Who was she going to pray to? With our Savior dead. Because obviously the God that he spoke of, the Father He spoke of, let him die. And he was the perfect Son of God. With her savior dead, there's no reason no uh reason to pray. With her savior dead, she lived in fear of the demons in the past. Some of us have sins in our past, some of us have things in our past that we are ashamed of, that we hate, that we hated about our former selves. You have sins, you have you have ideas, you have thoughts, that when you think about your former life, it's the opposite of nostalg nostalgia. You regret things And and remember then those things can come back in her mind. Now those demons that she had in her life, literal devils that actually in um came inside and dwelt inside of her. Now that though now that Christ was dead, what was to stop them from coming back? I'm giving you her point of view If Christ was not the Son of God, if Christ was not the Savior, if Christ could not forgive her sins, if Christ was now dead, what was the stop from those things that used to rule her life coming back and taking back over? Some of us in here have gotten away from horrendous sin. And Mary Magdalene was like that And she didn't want to be who she was before. As I said, I'm going to be quick. But with her Savior dead, Her sins remained. You remember that thing that you said that Jesus said He forgave you for? Mary Magdalene did But he was dead now. And there's things that he said he forgave her for. In her mind Maybe that he didn't have that power to forgive her. Maybe he didn't have that power to keep those sins away. Maybe everything was a lie, and she'd fall back into those sins, and she was as guilty now as she was then, no matter what. Maybe. But with her Savior dead, she thought so. So I've read this scripture. In verse eleven we find it says this. But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping. And as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the sepulchre, and saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and the other at the feet Where the body of Jesus had lain. And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I not know and I know not where they have laid him. Up until this point, Mary Magdalene's Savior is dead. This is a two point sermon. Point two. But Christ did rise. You see, with her dead, with Christ dead, she had no joy in her religion. She pined for the past because it was so much better back then. She thought this life might be the only thing worth living for if her savior was dead. She thought that there was no there was no cause to pray. She thought that the demons that were in her past The stories, the horrors that were in her past would come back upon her. And she thought that her sins were no longer forgiven because in her mind Christ was dead, but Christ was risen In John chapter 20 and verse 14 it says, And when she had thus said, she turned herself back and saw Jesus standing and knew not that it was Jesus. You see, this is where some of us are sometimes. In fact, this is where we are all the time. When we think that Jesus is dead, when we think Christ's power has gone out of this world, when we think something is wrong and nothing is going right. And Christ has abandoned us, he's usually standing right there. And we just don't know it's him. You see, here's the thing. Humans are dumb. People are dumb. Let's just be honest. Teenagers are really dumb. But people are dumb. Right, guys? I mean, be honest. Used pastors are the worst, right? No, but but but people are dumb. And you and the reason we're dumb is because we just don't learn from things. You see, because one minute, God will do something. God will use a trial in your life to actually solve a problem and you're like, wow, that was incredible. I thought it was gonna be this way, and I thought this was gonna be terrible, but it was actually wonderful. One uh thing I can think of is my parents moved out to Colorado. Barons moved out to Colorado. Um the the pastor that uh they were a part of uh before they moved out um thought it was a mistake. They thought it was a mistake, but they had to but my dad had to uh get a job. Um and he got a job out there. So their plan was to move to Colorado and their plan was to move back as soon as they could to Michigan because that's where they uh that's where they That's where their church home was. That's where they um fell in love with. That's where they were going to live. So they moved to Colorado with the intent of moving back as soon as they could. So they actually got a house and put it on the market within a year so they could move back. It turns out that that thing that was told that was that was almost a that we thought you know was a terrible th ordeal was the best thing that happened to my family because they were able to take Um they were and my family moved to a church of twenty. Now there were six of us, so we were twenty of that six, which means that we moved to a family a church of twelve. No, sorry, fourteen. I've been hanging out with teenagers too much. Um When we moved to a church of 14 and we were we were a third of the congregation. Now, my parents ended up uh taking over the youth group. Um and and that youth group grew. By the time they were gone, by the time they had left the youth department, the youth department was about thirty, and then uh the church itself was about at 180. So uh so it was almost at 200 and that's when we left, that was nine years later. That was probably the best thing that's ever happened to my dad spiritually My dad was always um always is still is a uh a giving man um because he was able to give financially um But but he wasn't real deep spiritually, and that allowed him to gain a deepness that he probably never would have somewhere else. Because he had to be. He had to be deep. Because he was the only one there. Um so because and so he he had to study and he had to learn how to teach. And my dad to this day loves teaching. He loves teaching. He teaches everywhere he goes. I know he's I uh he's uh he's the s he's the substitute Sunday school teacher at his church right now. He just teaches in random classes all the time. And I have a story that I'm not going to say out loud, but come see me. It's hilarious. Um and awkward. It's totally awkward. Um but it's cool. So the things that sometimes we think are awful Oh my point is humans are dumb because the things we think are awful turn out to be excellent. And then we go through something else awful and we think, oh no, this is not gonna turn out to be excellent. This is gonna be awful, we're all gonna die. Hey case in point, listen, I am I and I'm just gonna be blunt honest, but it this is my opinion, it's on my sleeve. I'm not thrilled with this election in any way. I am I'm not at all. In fact my wife come I come home and I complain to my wife about it every single day. Usually the same complaints. Sometimes I rotate. Tuesdays I complain about this. Thursdays are complaining about that. But I come home and I complain to her and uh and I take two different sides of everything because that's about how I try to um work. That way I can uh get a full grasp of the conversation. But I'm angry about everything always. That's what That's that's me. I'm just I'm just like, uh stupid, blah blah blah. And I'll complain about this candidate, then I'll complain about that candidate, then I'll complain third can third party candidates just for fun. And um And she's a complaint. And every four years, you guys gotta realize this. Every four years, and we might be right one day, but I think probably for the past Half century? We said if this person gets in, we're all gonna die Babies will be born with no heads. Like I mean like instead of just random stuff like this, like, oh everything's gonna be awful. The the economy will never recover. And yet, you know what, half those times, terrible candidates have gotten in. And half the time the candidate we voted for just turned out to be terrible. That's a completely uh separate conversation because for the past, you know, that's just how we were act. Everything is terrible and it's never going to be okay Listen, I think you should vote this election, but I'm gonna be honest. Who we elect as president while it matters does not control where this country goes. God does. And every four years we lose complete fa and not and not you guys. I'm not saying you guys, maybe just me. Everywhere is that you have complete faith in God and I and I act like a deist to where God doesn't exist. Like nope, it's all gonna be terrible because if this person gets in, we're all gonna die. This person gets in. We're all gonna die. And so we're all gonna be poor and die. That's what's gonna happen. And and and and they're like, Well what about God? And I'm like, No, God's not in this equation and that's the stupidest thing anyone's ever said. Listen, I'm again I'm not thrilled. I'm not happy. I'm not thinking it's going to be good. But one candidate does not change one president does not change the direction of this country. God changes the direction of this country. And just case in point from a historical p standpoint, and I'll be done very quickly, this last election or last uh we've had two elections and I'm not thrilled with the presidential candidate we've Picked. Uh both times. But um last two elections we've had, the last two I've voted in, so I'm an ultimate loser. Um if you guys want me want to win, just don't let me vote for your candidate. That's how I feel. Um because I would lose. Uh but But Obama's our president and we think, you know what, he came in with a bad economy. He has awful policies. And again, if you disagree, that's okay. Just don't listen But he has awful policies that don't that don't inspire growth. We should have tanked our economy should have tanked way worse than it did for much longer. The reason it didn't is because we had an incredible oil and gas boom. An incredible one. Now we won't really see that ever because because how negative effects the car how negative the economy went, mixed with how positive the oil and gas boom was, turned out to be like meh But it could have been much worse. God created that oil. God created that gas and the technology to get there was God inspired in my mind. Like God was like, hey, alright, alright, I'm gonna help these guys out. The fact is, guys When we think something is awful and terrible, we tend to dwell on that awful, terrible fact and not and forget that God is there, right next to us the whole time. I just said I I don't you vote for who you want to vote for this election. I'm the vote for who I want to vote for, and none of these teams are gonna vote because none of them are my team. But Don't forget that we're voting for a president of a nation and the president, you know, has only this much power compared to the God of the universe. But this is not a political sermon, so we'll move on. You see, Christ was right there the whole time. In verse fifteen it says, Jesus said then her woman, Why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou? She supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, Sir, if thou hast borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. And Jesus saith unto her, Mary, and she turned herself and saith unto him Raboni, which is the same master. And she knew it was him. Here's the sermon, real quick Christ rose from the dead, right? You see, before mention Mary had a good reason to think he was dead and didn't risen. First of all He she saw him die. Second of all, he his body was gone. She died. Ah, he he didn't come back to life. He was dead. And she acted uh in and how she acted was she acted she acted joylessness, she had no joy in her life, she pined for the past She was uh she thought this life might be the only thing worth living for. She uh she had no cause to pray anymore. And her she lived in fear of the demons in her past And she thought that her sins weren't forgiven, and that's how she acted because she thought Christ was dead. The problem is that we know Christ is alive, right? Right. Actually, when I do this with teens, well, I make them say rights, right? So the problem is that we know that Christ was alive, right? Good job. Wait, but sorry again. You guys were you guys are better than teenagers, but it wasn't great. Alright. If we had a black church it would be way better. Like yeah. Yeah, right. It's not better that you guys are so Inspire your inner, you know, I don't know, whatever. But uh so the problem is, is that Christ is alive, right? See that was great. I'm so proud of you guys. So why do we act like he's dead? So so and this is the end of the sermon. I told you I'd be short and I I'm keeping this promise as long as I can get through this. Where's our joy? How many nights a week do you come home? Or or or do you do you c or do are Or does someone come home and you say, you know what, today it was a terrible day. This is terrible. That's terrible. This person's terrible. I have complaints about this. I and I told you I come home and this is this happens to me sometimes especially politically because It bugs me. And I have a laundry list of complaints. So it's like, all right, complain about this, check it off. Complain about this, check it off. Complain about this? Not yet. Okay, let's complain about this then. Right, that's how I work. And that's our life sometimes. We have a risen Savior who is in control of this world. My question is: where is our joy? We know who wins in the end. We know this life is temporary. We know we can just get through this life and we and we can live for God and um And and that we're and if we're saved obviously, then we'll go on to a new life. But the problem is if we don't i if we're why aren't we focused on that? Where's our joy? Our Savior is risen Then why do we focus on the past? Isaiah uh forty-three, Isaiah forty-three. Go ahead and turn there because I like this verse, and I want you to be able to read it. Isaiah forty-three Isaiah put it listen, why do we Why are we why are we pine for the past? Like I said, the past wasn't as great as we thought it did. Me and Chris were talking about um about living in different generations. I'm really grateful I live in this generation. And and just it because you know what? I because I don't have smallpox, that's why. Alright, so but like there's so many good reasons. You know, I I'm grateful not to live in the eighteen hundreds because Forty is over the hill at this point and in the in the night eighteen hundreds forty was the hill. Alright Like I and I love this generation because of toilet paper. And I love this generation because listen we have so many nice things now. Alright, and if you think we don't listen, I wait, you want to hear something cool? I I love Nintendo, I love classic Nintendo games. You can now buy a Nintendo this big, I'm serious, and you unplug it in your control. Anyways, you unplug it into your TV, and it's like 40 Nintendo games, Super Nintendo games. You just plug it in and play it. Versus having and the and you guys don't remember this because you're young. But versus the Did anyone do that? All right, good. So some of you know I'm talking about. We live in a great generation with opportunity. We talk about this in Sunday school. I love this. If you were born in in like 1900 or 1890 and lived a full 75 or 80 years You got to see from the first time we had cars to the first time we had planes to the first time we went to the moon. What is that? That's cool. And we talk about even these kids can maybe kind of understand that in 2007 was the first iPhone and we were all like, oh, look at that. You can just you can just like touch the screen. Oh And now if your kid doesn't have a touch screen on any of his toys, you're like Well, you don't live in America, most likely. Actually, so um and even then more kid mo more people have cell phones in this world than Well then honestly I've heard about the gospel. Isaiah 43 says this in verse number 18 remember ye not the former things Neither consider things of old. In verse 19, behold, I will do a new thing. Now it shall spring forth. Shall ye not know it? That I will even make a way in the wilderness and revers and rivers in the desert. The fact is what the principle here is that God's saying, listen, don't think about the past. Let me show you what I'm doing now Because God is still working. Listen, I love preachers. I have a lot of preacher friends. I in fact half my friends um are preachers more than half probably are preachers. The fact is is that I I don't Hearing about D. L. Moody, John R. Rice, and Billy Sunday is fine. I like stories, I like history. But that should not be the only stories we got. You know what's a story? Is when is when you lead a child of Christ. You know the story is when and we say, listen, I got this coming up, I think I can witness this guy, I'm witnessing him tomorrow. And focusing on the things of now instead of things in the past Christ is alive, so so why do we lose our joy? Why do we only focus on the past? Why do we only focus on this life? Romans twelve one talks about Um presenting himself a living sacrifice. If this was the only life and again, maybe maybe I offended someone, I greatly apologize for my comments about Skylar and me and him on a boat. But the fact is, guys If this isn't the only life we got, then we shouldn't live for it because this is a this is kind of a sad, pathetic life. We send we spend a third of it sleeping. Right? And it's only so long, and we have diseases and sick days, and we and we have and we have trials, and you know, this is like the worst life to live for ever. How about we live for a life that's eternal? I mean there's no reason to present yourself a living sacrifice, no reason to sacrifice to yourself to anything if this is the only life we got. But if this is only, you know, yay big in the scope of eternity, and actually, I guess Technically, there is no bigness because it's eternity, so it just keeps getting smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller. And this and we eventually don't even really remember this life, then why live for it and not live for eternity Then why not sacrifice ourselves for God now? But some of us act like Christ is dead. Some of us act like Christ is not alive. Some of us act like Christ didn't raise from the dead, so we live for only this life, so we have no joy. So we uh so we so we pine for the past. And if our Savior is dead, then why do we still fear our demons? For God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. That's 2 Timothy 1:7. It also says in Romans 8:31, What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? We should not fear anything if we are Christians. If we have a risen Savior, fear should not come into the equation Yes, things happened in our past. Yes, things uh things used to control us. Yes, things used to bother us. But the fact is we have a God that is bigger than all of it And Christ is risen. And lastly, if Christ is risen, then why do we continue in sin and we continue to act like we're not forgiven for sin? Do you know the best reason to sin is because you sinned before. And you say, what does that even mean? It means this. You know, and and and okay, teenagers, you're my again, you're my favorites because you're I always talk to you guys. Um but teenagers And I'm going to be very, very, uh, very classy about this. But if you keep yourself until marriage, or if you keep if you keep uh pure The entire time before you get married? It's a lot easier to do it. However, if you messed up once, do you know how much easier? How much because you've already ruined your streak. Let me and this is honest. Because you've already ruined your streak, how much easier is just do it again and again and again and again? You know, if you've never taken a sip of alcohol, think about this. If you've never taken a sip, then part of what's keeping you maybe from not drinking is that you don't want to break your record. It's true. Listen, I was not uh living for God when I was in college, but I never t but I never drank. So I decided not to drink to see how long I could keep the record. I still can't kept it by the way. Although what am I am I stinking what were you talking about when I l used to work at a hotel with my boss? One of my one of my uh what is it, uh co workers left me a box of chocolates and I ate them. And they turn out all the liquor candies. And I was like, man, it tastes like there's window cleaner in here. And I was like, by the way, alcohol tastes like window cleaner. If you guys never drink window cleaner. I was I was like man that's so weird and because I'm fat I was like I'm scared you don't want that it's delicious but like what My teeth will be all spotless, birds won't run into them. Things like that, so like or they will run into them. Something like that. I don't know. Winnex. But um the fact is, guys, um that is keeping me from alcohol. Just I mean, maybe not just as much, but Today, but back then it was just as much as anything else. The biggest reason to sin is that we've sinned before. But here's the thing. You've asked Christ to forgive your sins. Those sins, this is incredible, are gone. You have a clean slate. Really you don't have a reason to sin. There's no record to be brought Listen if you Some of you in here are as are as clean as me when it comes to alcohol and not because you never tried it, but because Christ forgave it. You can guys, we we and we act like this towards other people where we don't forgive things for things that they've done, even though they got God's forgiven them, and apparently we're better than God in that aspect. But the fact is, guys, we And I meant that facetiously. We're not better than God. But we act like it. We don't forgive ourselves for a lot of things. We think, well I did this, so I might as well do that. I did this before, so I might as well do that. I'm already dirty, I'm already stained, I might as well do that, and that is a lie from the devil because Christ is risen. And I'm done. But if Christ is risen, why do we have no joy? Why is our focus on our past and not on our present? Why is our focus on this life and not the next life? Why aren't we praying? We have a risen Savior, we should be praying. Why do we still fear our past and our demons in our past? And why would we continue in sin if our sin is forgiven? Let's pray. Dear Lord, just thank you so much, God, for everything you've done. Lord, I just ask that you just uh Bless us, Lord, and we thank you for your magnificent power in rising, God. In dying for our sins in rising. And Lord, I just ask that you would just uh Bless us as we have this invitation time. Lord, if anyone's being spoken to, Lord, I pray that they would uh get it right, Lord, that we would each live like you're risen in your name. Amen. If you please stand. I might invite you to come as uh as Jennifer Plays.