Turn to Second Kings chap Second Kings chapter six While you're turning there, what happens if a person falls in love with a chef? Anybody know what happens when you fall in love with a chef? You get buttered up. What happens when you fall in love with a chauffeur? You get taken for a ride. Uh what happens if you fall in love with a gambler? He cheats on you. What happens when you fall in love with a telephone operator? He gives you a phone-e-line. Get it, phone e-line. What happens when you fall in love with a trash collector? He dumps you. A clockmaker, he two times. You fall in love with a pastry cook, he deserts you. You fall in love with a shoe salesman, he walks all over you, fall in love with an elevator operator, he lets you down. You fall in love with an artist, man. He gives you the brush. Um you fall when you fall in love with a jogger, he gives you the runaround. You fall in love with a preacher, you have an angel Hey, Revelation. The preacher's called the angel of the Lord. Revelation. Alright. Somebody. Yeah, I'm sure it is. She's always up in the air harping about something. Second Kings chapter six and verse thirteen. The Bible says, and he said, Go and spy where he is, that I may send and fetch him. And it was told him, saying, Behold, he's in Dolphin. Therefore sent he thither horses and chariots and a great host, and they came by night and compassed the city about. And when the servant of the man of God was risen early and gone forth, behold, a host compassed the city, both with horses and chariots. And his servant said unto him, Alas, my master, how shall we do? And he, Elisha, answered, Fear not, for they that be with us are more than they that be with them. And Elisha prayed and said, Lord, I pray thee, open his eyes that he may see. And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw and behold. The mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha, an unseen host Let's pray, ask the Lord speaker of hearts. Father, I'm grateful for the Word of God. Lord, it's been a good service. It's been a real joy. Hear the testimonies and the singing. It's been such a blessing. Now Lord, we ask you to speak our hearts from your word. God, I want to be a faithful preacher tonight, so I yield myself to you. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. God, please use your word in this hour in Jesus' name. Amen. If you've been saved for any length of time, you've been in preaching very long, I think you'll know what I'm talking about. Have you ever experienced, I'm sure all of us, no doubt, have experienced some time when the preacher is preaching, he's faithful to the word, he's preaching the word of God, and it seems like He has gotten inside your head and he knows what you're thinking. It seems like he's preaching and it's like, what was he following me around this week? How many people will give me a witness? You know what I'm talking about? It's like, man He's preaching by he he he's preaching about what's what's in my life. Now that doesn't always happen every service. Now maybe for some folks it does. But it happens occasionally, and it's almost like God, and in reality, what's happening is the Holy Spirit of God Who knows what's inside our head and knows what our conversation has been, knows what our week was. The Holy Spirit knows those things And the Holy Spirit takes the Word of God and applies it to our hearts and lives in light of The things we've been doing, the things we've been saying, what's going on in our inner life. You follow what I'm saying? It's not that the preacher knows anything. Uh it's not that the it's amazing to me, and Brother Williams, I'm sure, can testify to this. You you stand afterward and people come up and they say, Boy, you know, the Lord really spoke to my heart about this, and you think, I wasn't even preaching on that You know? And so it's the Holy Spirit of God taking the Word of God and applying it to our hearts as individuals in ways that the preacher can't do that. And he applies it to our hearts because he knows what our need is. Now, a classic example of that was when David was covering up his sin with Bathsheba, and remember Nathan approached him? You remember the story? And Nathan told David a parable about a poor man that had one little sheep and a rich man and had a ton of sheep, and he took the poor man's little sheep and killed that and ate that for the traveler that was come by, and uh and spared his own. And you know, David missed it completely. Do you remember the story? What how did David respond to that little story that Nathan told? He got mad. He says, we need to kill that guy. This is unbelievable. He completely missed the fact That Nathan was preaching to him until Nathan, and the Bible doesn't say he pointed his finger, but preachers like to say that. He pointed his finger and said, Thou art the man. And immediately all that self-righteous anger and all that hypocritical anger melded into severe conviction. And the Spirit of God took the message that was being delivered, applied it to his heart. Now God knows the secrets of our heart. God knows the secrets of our lives. And He will use His word to address those issues. A Christian's responsibility. Now, I I almost, when I was preparing this, I almost put a pastor's responsibility, and that is true. But I'm going to expand it to include all of us as believers. How many folks here tonight? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. So this includes all of us. Our responsibility is very similar to Elisha's. Now, I think most of us have been on this enough. We know what the situation here is with Elijah. We're working our way through this. And of course, Syria's trying to invade Israel. Elisha is foiling Their plan by revealing their strategies to the king of Israel. He's heading them off at the past, so to speak. He's there when they set up these top secret things And Elisha is revealing to Israel, warning them of the fact that there's eminent danger. Now that is very much the Christians' responsibility in the world. It's what track month is about. It's what our weekly soul winning is about. It's very much what our radio station is about. We're putting the gospel in the newspaper. Uh anybody catch that this week? We put the gospel in the newspaper. We're trying to get people to read the gospel and be saved. And I guess that would count as a tract in the newspaper, so I think there's like 8,000 go out. So that was 8,000 tracks I gave out this week. I forgot to include that. But um That's part of all of this is to warn the world, just as Elisha warned the Israelites of the danger of the king of Israel, that the Syrian army is coming. You've got to watch out. Our responsibility is to warn the world. Now we need to pray that the Spirit of God uses the word of God to open the hearts and the people see that, right? Just giving the gospel track out if the Spirit of God doesn't use it It's not going to be as effective. So we've got to pray as we give these tracts out. The Spirit of God opens our hearts and they see that. And so, here we are. We're uh now have said all that to try and set the stage. Now here we are with Elisha. He has been, as I said, foiling the Syrian army's plans, revealing their top secret strategies for their military. They find out, of course, the King of Syria Ben Hadad thought that there was a spy, and we've already looked at that. They said, No, it's Elisha. So he says, Alright, we got to get that guy. Now, if you'll notice there, and I think we touched on this before, but if you notice in verse thirteen, he Uh uh the king of Syria said, Go and spy where he is, that I may send and what? Fetch him. He doesn't say that I may send and kill him. The king of Assyria wants to get Elijah for himself. I think he's trying to get him to become a double agent. and become work for Syria and to reveal them the secrets of the king of Israel's heart. So nevertheless, he comes down, he Elisha is in Dothan And he encompasses the city with chariots and soldiers and horses and their surroundings. The city itself is unaware of their danger. It happens at night. They're sound asleep. They have no idea what's going on. And they're facing imminent danger. Now we don't know to what length the king of Syria would have gone to get Elisha. I would assume, knowing their history He would have had no qualms with slaughtering the whole city to get Elisha. He would have had no qualms with killing their women and their children and just everybody. To get to Elisha. And so the city was in grave danger, but they didn't realize that. Then the morning they wake up They get about their business, they look out, and outside the city, everywhere they look, there was chariots. The entire Syrian army has encompassed this city. And look at their response in verse number. 15. And when the servant of the man of God was risen early and gone forth, and I'm certain there were many others in the city that were up. Behold, a host compassed the city both with horses and chariots. And his servants said unto him, Alas, my master, how shall we do? I would imagine there was a lot of people in the city saying that same thing. What in the world are we going to do? How do we get out of this? Uh how are we going to escape this? We're doomed. What in the world can we possibly do to escape this situation? I want to suggest to you, that has been, throughout man's history, that has been a very frequent question. People saying, how am I going to get out of this? People, whether it's actions, the results of their own actions and don't own decisions. And look at their life circled, encompassed with the consequences of decisions they made, and they cry out, How can I get out of this mess I've made? What what solution is there? What escape? There's no escape round. People, maybe because of actions of others. Have found themselves in situations. And I said, how do I get out of this? This was this was done. I see no escape. Now I certainly would never ask you to respond publicly this But I wonder in our own hearts responding before the Lord, how many of us have ever been in a situation where we said something like this, what am I going to do? How am I going to get out of this? How do I get out of this mess? There's no escape. I don't see any hope. What's the solution? How shall we do? I want us to notice, just by way of a short outline here, notice the paralyzing fear of the city. Verse 15, I just read it, and I think Elisha's servant is expressing the concern of the entire city when he said, How shall we do? What in the world are we going to do? How in the world are we going to get out of this? Yesterday, as far as the city was concerned, everything seemed safe In fact, Elisha, for the weeks leading up to this, had been spoiling the strategies, the movements of the Syrian army, and boy, it would look like things were winding down. It looked like they weren't even going to have to go to war. Elisha, God using Elisha had averted war, we're safe, we're not going to have to fight, we people aren't going to be killed. That's the way everything looked yesterday. Now today they're surrounded. What are we going to do? Elisha was spoiling the Syrian maneuvers. probably was not even going to be a war, and now today they don't see how they're going to live through the end of the day. Isn't that often the way our trials come? Yesterday everything seemed fine. Today I see no hope. They come in like a flood. The sorrows come in so suddenly and so unexpectedly and so overwhelmingly. And the only thing we can say is like this servant to Elisha, how shall we do? What in the world am I going to do? My loved one is gone. What am I going to do? I lost my job. I've got house payments, mortgages. What am I going to do? My spouse left me. What am I going to do? My child has turned away from the things of God and invested my heart and life into her or him. And now they've gone away. What am I going to do? How what's the solution to this problem? How do I solve this? So we find this paralyzing fear. And listen, we live in a world where people are paralyzed by fear. It's why the liquor rate sales are so high. It's why so many escape fantasy and entertainment escape things are so popular. People are dealing with things, they're scared to death of it What am I going to do? What am I going to do? Second thing I notice here, not just the paralyzing fear of the city, and we've all no doubt we've all been there at one point or another. Maybe I'm talking to some folks here there right now. Second thing I notice is the condescending love of God. Put yourself in the shoes of this little servant of Elijah. Well, I don't know if he was little, this servant of Elijah. The people in the city, the mothers with their babies, the fear in their eyes, they look out the edge of the city. The young people, teenagers looking out, what's going to happen? They're going to come in here, they're going to kill us all. Uh the grand the senior citizens, the fear, no way to defend myself. That's the situation they're finding themselves in. But God does two amazing things here. Look with me if you would at verse 16 again. And he, Elisha, answered, Fear not, for they that be with us are more than they that be with them. God reassures the people of Dothan. He reassures them with his, I put it this way, with his unfailing word. God gives the people of Dotham his word that he is with them and that it's going to be okay. Now, it's interesting, and we're not going to take the time, but we could go through the Bible and find where God has restated basically the same thing over and over and over and over. God is continually reassuring his people, hey, I am with you. I am greater than any obstacle you can ever face in life. You do not need to be afraid of this overwhelming situation you found yourself in. I am with you, and I am greater than this situation you're afraid of. Now that is the exact same thing he told Moses. Moses says, God says, I want you to go down to Egypt. Moses, how in the world can I confront the Pharaoh of Egypt? How in the world can I do that? God says, I'll be with you. My ability is far greater, my power is far greater than Pharaoh, you do not need to be afraid of Pharaoh, you do not need to be away afraid of his soothsayers Greater is he that is with you, Moses, than the situation you'll ever face in Egypt. So God continually reassures these people. He did the same thing for Joshua. Moses dies off the scene forty years later, Joshua is thrust into the leadership position, and you know what I found to be true? The greatest leaders are often those who don't seek it. Joshua is thrust into the leadership position and he's scared to death. And if you read the first several chapters, first couple chapters of Joshua. You know what God is saying to him over and over and over and over? He's saying, Be not dismayed, don't be afraid. Be strong and of good courage. I am with you in this endeavor I am greater the whole and remember the captain of the hosts appears to Joshua. And God was telling Joshua, Joshua I am greater than those giants in the land of Canaan on the other side of the river. are greater than any Canaanite army you'll ever have to face. I'm with you in this. My power is greater than any problem you'll ever face. You go through the entire Bible, you have Josh, you have Moses, you have Joshua. I like the story of Gideon. Huh? Gideon they always talk about Gideon being afraid, and I wish we had time to go and look at this. Uh maybe I'll preach a sermon on it sometime, but they always talk about people talk about Gideon being a coward I don't see Gideon being a coward. He was out there threshing the wheat behind the uh behind the um uh wine pr the wine presses when everyone else was shaking in their boots hiding back there. Alright, we gotta w read that to get that. But he wasn't a coward. And so God says, I'm gonna send you out there and I'm gonna use you to deliver Israel from the Philistines. Was it the Philistines? From the enemy. I was going to ask Doc, but he don't know either. So from the enemy, the Canaanites, whoever they were, the Midianites, the Midianites You know what God tells Gideon? He says, Don't you be afraid, I'm with you. You don't need 10,000 soldiers, you get 300, because greater am I with you than anything you'll ever face. Listen, we don't have to be the biggest church in Maryland or the eastern seaboard to do damage to the kingdom of Satan. No matter what our size is, we may only have 300, we may only have 30, but greater is he that's with us Than he that's within. Amen. Gates of hell. Elisha, God is saying through Elisha to the city of Dothan. Jesus told the church in Matthew, he says, the gates of hell, I'll build my church, the gates of hell shall not stand against it. He says, greater, I'm with you. Greater is he that's with you than any opposition the church will ever face God says, My power, my forces, my hosts are more powerful and greater than any opposition you'll ever get from the devil, from any opposition you'll ever get from the world. Don't you be afraid And so, God reassures the servant to Elisha and through Elisha the entire city with his unfailing word. I like this statement. For the Christian, the greatest antidote for fear is the promises of God's Word. Isn't that good? Somebody say that's good. I thought it was good. That's good. Let me try that again. For the Christian I don't know. It sent like this morning. You know what I felt like? I felt like a dentist in this in the door with a drill and all the patients out there staring at me I told my wife, I said it felt like that. But anyway, let me let's try this again. For the Christian, the greatest antidote for fear is the promises of God's word. That's good stuff. I'm facing a situation that seems overwhelming. I'm saying facing a situation. I see no way out of it. I see no hope. How shall I do? You know what I do? I go to God's Word and I find some promises. And I claim those promises, and I say, God's word cannot fail. And I claim those promises. By the way, oh what's Psalm 56, 3? What time I am afraid I will trust in thee. That's a good verse, not just for little children. But for you and I, as we face the issues of life. You know what he's saying? When I get in a situation where I'm encompassed, it's overwhelming. I see no way out. I'm going to take God at his word. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to find God's promises for me. And I'm going to hold on to them. By the way, verse number sixteen is all they should have needed. Right? God says, fear not. For they that are with us are more than they that be with them. That should have settled all their fear. They should have at that point said Praise the Lord. God is with us. His forces are greater than their forces. We're going to be okay. Right? God's word should be all that we need, right? Come on now. God's word is should we all we we shouldn't have to hey what is it if I give an assurance to my wife And I say, listen, Kathy, I'm going to give you ten bucks tomorrow. That's your allowance for the week. I give I give her ten bucks every week, whether she needs it or not. But um I I give her ten bucks. And uh I said I promised her I'm going to give her ten bucks and she goes, I want you to write that down and prove to me you're going to give it. What would you say? You'd say, What? My word's not good enough? I wasn't asking that for an answer. But it's it's an insult to your integrity Hey, bear with me now. I'm not trying to be unkind. But we have an element in Christianity around the world today that says God's word's not good enough. I need to have some vision. I I need to have a dream to tell me what to get my wife. I'm just teasing I'm just teasing Andy. Um Well, I I've got to have some extra biblical revelation. Listen, God said it, that ought to what? Settle it. That's all they should have needed. But God is very gracious. And God goes another step for the people in Dothan. Not only does he reassure them, this is the condescending love of God for his people, not only does he reassure them with his unfailing word, he reestates his promises to be with them and take care of them But he reassures them with, I put it this way, an unusual display of grace. Look at the next verse. And Elisha prayed and said, Lord, I pray thee, open his eyes that he may see. Now I get the impression here that Elisha was fully aware of this Host encompass him, this unseen host. Do you see that? Elisha wasn't asking this for himself. He was praying, Lord, show my servant and the people of Dotham, show them. What reality is. And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man and he saw And behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots and fire round about Elisha. I put in the margin of my Bible, spiritual warfare. Now, we could spend a long time studying this. This is fascinating. But sometimes in our weakness, God often shows us special grace. Sometimes when our faith is weak, remember the fellow that showed up with Jesus with the sick son, and the Lord said, If you believe, and he said, I believe, help thou mine. What? Unbelief. I've related to that prayer many times. How shall I do? Hey, I'm with you. Don't be afraid. Greater is I'm with you, and greater is he that's with you than he that's with them. But Lord, I'm still scared. And God is very merciful and very gracious. And and I had some scripture, but for sake of time, we're not going to go there. Psalms Psalms 78 and Psalms 103, the Bible says this. I'm putting it in my own words. God remembers that we're but flesh. He remembers that we're just dust. He remembers our frame. And you know, even though we have God's word, and that ought to be enough Sometimes God goes the extra mile and shows us special grace to reassure us and encourage us that everything's going to be alright. And that's what he does here. He says, He opens their eyes. Praise God. He adapts himself to our weaknesses, and he helps us. I like what Charles Spurgeon said. He said it's not the strength of your faith, but it is the fact of your faith that makes the difference. And he used an illustration, Spurgeon did years ago. He used an illustration, he said there was they were going to span a huge canyon. And they were needed to build, put beans across there to build this bridge. Now this was back before steam engines and all of that. And he said what they did was they took an arrow with just a thread and they shot it across the canyon All that was was a thread. They need to build a bridge. How can a thread build a bridge? But to that thread they tied a rope. And then pulled the thread and the rope back. And to the rope they tied a chain. And they pulled the chain across. And to the chain they attached a beam. And they pulled the beam across. All it took was the thread to make contact. Listen, sometimes our faith was so overwhelming and we see no way out. God gives us a verse His promises, I'm with you. Greater is he that's in you than he that's in the world. You say, Lord, I believe that, but I'm scared. God says, if your faith is just as a thread, I'll be gracious. And I'll step in and I'll still help you. And so God gave an unusual display of grace here, and he does something you find very few, if any, other places in the Bible. He opens their eye. And gives them a glimpse into the spirit world. And what just a few moments before appeared to be empty sky. I don't know how it happened. Maybe it was just kind of like the physical disolved. And suddenly he looks around and he is surrounded by the armies of God. They were there the whole time. Just as real as the Syrian armies. But they were in another dimension. And God opened his eyes and he could see into the spiritual world, and he saw realities that he never knew were there. Now, again, this is a fascinating story. We could preach on this for hours. But the fact of the matter is, you and I are in a spiritual warfare between heaven and hell. It is just as real as the war going on in Afghanistan. Just as real as the war we fought in Iraq. Just as real as World War I, World War II, Korean War, Vietnam War, and any other war you want to name. Just as real But it is in a different dimension than what you and I live in. It is in the spiritual realm. And the sad fact is this. I wanted to say most, I'm going to say many, Christians never see beyond the physical. And live as if this world and what we see and touch and feel, that that is all there is, when in reality, there is so much more to reality. Than simply what we see and feel. We are involved in a, we live in a physical slash spiritual world. Sadly, most Christians never see beyond the physical. If we would see things as God declares them to be. We would never be afraid. Let me say that again. If we would see things, not as they appear physically to us, but as God declares them to be We would never be afraid. I like Hebrews 13, 5. I will never leave thee. Nor forsake thee. I like what he tells us in 1 John. Greater is he that is in you than he with it is in the world. Now we can't see Christ. We can't touch him But he has promised us in his word that he is with us. I can't see the Holy Spirit. Hey, I'll be very honest with you, I can't feel the Holy Spirit. But God has promised the Spirit of God, Almighty God, is within me. And that is as sure as if I could see it. I've often thought this and mentioned this over the years. If we could somehow pull back the physical world. And be able to see through some sort of portal or some sort of window into the spiritual world. Those of us that have it, our hair would stand on end. We would be amazed at what all that's going on around us. You say, Brother Letterman, you're creeping me out In fact the matter is the Bible teaches, I think, all around right now, there is spiritual beings, spiritual warfare going on. Now don't go out here and get creepy, all right? It's not little hobgoblins and all that all around. But there is a spiritual warfare. And God has assured us, he said, Brother Lethman, you don't know the mess I'm in You don't know my situation. You're right, I don't, but I know the God that is greater than your situation. My Bible tells me, uh gives us some great, great promises. And to be honest with you, we don't have to pull that portal back. We've got some great promises right there. We just need to take God at His Word. And plug on, don't be afraid, trust God and go forward. Occasionally, I trust you read your Bible every day. We push that hard here. I believe it's very, very important. Occasionally. How many folks here you ever read your Bibles and you read it and it was like, great. Alright, you know what I'm talking about? It was just, alright, yeah, I read my Bible. Wonderful. That's good stuff. Amen Anybody know what I'm talking about? But you ever have been times when you read your Bible and it was like, wow. And God's taking that and he's saying, I want you to know this is for real. And he's taking that, and it's like he's showing special grace. And I give testimony this week. This was last week. And we've got some situations we deal with, and you know, it's like, God, this is beyond me I was reading down through my Bible, and verses I've read literally scores of times, but all of a sudden they came alive. And you know it was like it was like God was pulling back the spiritual window and he was saying, Leatherman, he he calls me that sometimes I said it's doctor. Be careful But it was like God was saying, Hey, look around you. I'm in charge. Everything's going to be fine. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to trust you. Help us, Lord, to walk with you. Take your promises at face value. Lord, we need to see you do some great things, Lord. We get ourselves in such a mess. Lord, sometimes others get us in a mess. And it seems like there's no way out. Help us, Lord, just to trust you. Help us to remember that you're for real. Your promises are true. And we can trust you and go on. With our heads bound and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need that special grace from God tonight. I need that special assurance. I believe the Bible, I believe God's word, but I just need God to give me some special assurance that it's going to be alright. I can go forward. God's in charge. I'm glad he's patient with us, aren't you? He could say, Listen, I've given you my word. Why are you doubting it? But sometimes he steps down, just shows that special grace and reassures. How many would say, Preacher, pray with me? I really need that. I need God to help me. Give me special grace that everything's going to be alright. Is there anything like that by the uplifting hand? There's nothing to be ashamed of for that We need it. It's saying, Lord, I believe. Just help my unbelief, Lord. I believe you were, but I'm scared. God, just reassure me. And God will do it. I'm convinced of it. We'll look to Him, trust Him, wait on Him. God will give us what we need. I'm sure of it. God bless our imitation.