Church family. Good to see you this evening. You know I love this and let me tell you what I'm talking about. I come into the church and y I'm here a little early and then eventually I take my seat about five minutes till And uh and then when I come up here I get to see everybody that came in after I came in. And uh it's just a blessing to see you guys coming out in spite of the weather and to see you coming out to hear the word of God. And I just want to say appreciate your faithfulness. Certainly know your pastor would say the same thing, but better than that, you're not here for me, you're not here for him. You're really here for the Lord. Amen. And uh so I know the Lord is uh certainly glad that you're here. And uh I think he has something to share with all of us uh if we'll listen. Amen. So real quickly before go any further, I think the ushers probably did their job, but we'll make sure. How many of you need a handout real quickly If you need a handout, just slip your hand up. The ushers are coming up. If you need an ink pen, let them know as well. My wife has some ink pens, so if you need an ink pen, I don't know how we'll figure that one out. The raised hand means at least the handout All right. 1 Peter chapter 3 is where we'll be tonight. 1 Peter chapter 3. And I do, I would remind you too, don't miss tomorrow night. Very unique message. Very powerful message. This thought that I have tomorrow night is directly meant for American believers. You're saved and you're an American. And particularly if you're a member of this church, you need to be here tomorrow night, for I'm going to address through the final message in this series How to operate in the days in which we live and everything that's going on around us. So don't miss tomorrow night. It will challenge your heart. It will probably change your focus and help you tremendously, and it'll help you to be a victorious Christian in the midst of all that's going on. in America t today. And so tomorrow night, very, very specifically, I'm focusing on American believers and how to operate in the days in which we live. 1 Peter chapter 3, look with me in verse number 14, 1 Peter chapter 3 Verse number fourteen, the Bible says, But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye. And be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear, having a good conscience, that whereas they speak evil of you as of evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation. in Christ. Verse 17, for it is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well-doing than for evil doing. Sunday morning we saw an incorruptible salvation, 1 Peter chapter 1. Sunday night, we considered an unmistakable command out of 1 Peter chapter 1 as well. Then last night we looked at an irrefutable correlation. I want to just remind you that irrefutable correlation last night was this: your spiritual growth and your spiritual health are directly tied to your appetite. In other words, we just summed it up as we began last night, you are what you eat. I hope last night's message challenged you to consider how how spiritually mature you are and how spiritually healthy you are. And I hope today that was percolating on your heart. I know it was on mine. You say, well you're the preacher. Hey, I'm telling you, the preacher gets more out of the message than any listener. We get it many times over. And it percolated on my heart and directed me even more into the Word of God today. But tonight I want to go ahead and I want to preach on an unavoidable consequence of life. And that unavoidable consequence is suffering. I want to look at what 1 Peter have to say about suffering. And we're going to look at three things: the reasons for suffering Our responses to suffering and the benefits and rewards that come from suffering. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you tonight for the honor we have to be in your house and once again with your people. And Lord, as we set this time aside, we pray, Father, that you would bless now the preaching, the teaching, and the hearing of your word. Lord, for every heart that's here, help us to set aside the cares and concerns, some of the burdens of the day. And Lord, as we sit at your feet, may your word challenge our hearts. We look across the suffering world tonight We recognize suffering is a part of this life. I pray tonight you'd use this message, not just tonight, but Lord, for years to come in the heart of every single hearer that's here tonight and tuned in online. Help us to respond properly, Lord, when the trials and the suffering come. We ask and pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The unavoidable consequence in this life is suffering. You know, at least twelve times the word sufferer. Suffering is recorded in 1 and 2 Peter. One would say, well, what is suffering? I wrote the definition down. Suffering defined is this: to undergo pain. Inconvenience or loss. To bear what is disagreeable or distressing. Amen. I'm going to read it again. Suffering is to undergo pain. When you suffer, you're undergoing inconvenience or loss, and you're bearing what is disagreeable or distressing. You need to recognize tonight as we begin this thought, That in America, most people spend a lifetime avoiding suffering. Amen? That is the goal. Yet in this life, could I say this suffering Generally speaking, is unavoidable, and for the most part, it is unenjoyable. So let's look at what the Bible has to say about suffering tonight. This little worksheet I gave you, by the way, I said to a number of you tonight, you're going to tuck this into the little fly leaf of your Bible? And I will guarantee you you will reference this in the weeks and the months and the years to come. For this little outline will help you understand Everything there is the Bible has to say about suffering. First of all, what are the reasons for suffering In other words, why does suffering even have to come? Suffering comes for various reasons. I found four in Scripture. Number one, write this in: there is a suffering Associated with living in sin. Write that down. You'll find, according to the Word of God, there is a suffering that is associated with living in sin. Do you know tonight that choices have consequences? Amen. Good choices will give you good consequences. Bad choices will bring bad consequences, and sometimes the result of bad choices, which is living in sin, will bring the consequence of suffering You find this all through Scripture. I just listed a few. We're not going to turn there. Achan in Joshua 7 and verse 1 and verse 25. He sinned against the Lord, and the entire camp of Israel suffered because of Achan's sin, but Achan suffered more. He, his family, his children all died because he made a poor choice and he sinned against the Lord. I find in 1 Corinthians 11, the Lord's Supper is being taken of the church of Corinth. And they said, some of you uh are sick and some of you are even dying. Why? Because you took the Lord's Supper uh lightly. You didn't esteem it to be what it is. You you took it what's the word? I can't remember the word Flippantly, the Bible uses another word, but that's what it means. You took it what? Unworthily, which means flippantly. And because of that sin, some church members were sick and some even died. You find a thief on the cross in Luke 23, verse 44, or verse 41, says to the other thief, Quit railing against him, for we receive the due reward of our deeds. Amen Do you know that thief was paying for his crimes and his sins, and he had his life cut short. There is a suffering associated with living in sin. All right? Number one. Number two You'll find that, according to the Bible, there's a suffering associated with simply the circumstances of life. Write that one down. There is a suffering that's associated with simply the circumstances of life. Go back to Genesis. We can see this in Genesis chapter 3. We'll just read a couple verses. In Genesis chapter 3. There are four reasons that suffering comes in any person's life. One of the first reasons is because of sin, but second of all, simply the circumstances of life. Notice in Genesis chapter 3, Adam has sinned. God is now handing out the general penalty for everybody in life. Listen to what he says in Genesis 3. 16. Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception. In sorrow thou shalt bring forth children. Thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee. And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it, cursed is the ground for thy sake. In sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life. Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee, and thou shalt eat the herb of the field in the sweat of thy face. Shalt thou eat bread till thou return unto the ground. You know there's a suffering in this life simply associated With the circumstances of life. We call it the sin curse. Amen? And it doesn't matter if you're lost or saved. This is something that applies to everybody. because of the fallen nature of mankind and the curse upon this planet for disobedience. Amen? Number three, write this one down. There is a suffering associated with Satan, you'll find in Scripture. There is a suffering associated with Satan. Job chapter 2, verse 7. You don't need to turn there, I'll quote it. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord, Scripture says, and smote Job with sword. boils. You know, there's a suffering sometimes. It's a direct result of the association of Satan dealing in this earth and in people's lives. Paul said it Paul had beseeched the Lord for the thorn to be removed, the thorn of f in his flesh, and it was a messenger of who Satan sent to buffer him. Amen. And you you know, a lot of times we get the idea, well, you know, um I'm doing just fine. I'm I'm I'm saved. Let me tell you something. The day you get saved Man, the devil may have lost the battle for your soul, but he's going for your testimony now. Amen. And you need to understand Who God loves, Satan hates. Amen. When God chooses a people, Satan does too. That's why he hates the Jew, and that's why he hates believers. Amen. So don't think for a second he doesn't have some some supernatural powers of darkness going ahead and putting you through things and causing problems. He does, I think we give him more credit than he's worth. I think we're the biggest problem, but nonetheless he still is involved. Amen? So there is a suffering associated with Satan. And finally, there is a suffering associated, this is the good one. With living for the Savior. Write that down. We find in Scripture there is a suffering, there is pain, there's inconvenience, there's loss That's associated with living for the Savior. Go to Acts 5 and watch this. In Acts chapter 5, verse number 40. The apostles have been preaching Christ. And notice here in Acts chapter 5, look with me in verse number 40. Watch this. It says this after Gamaliel and everybody's talking about how to deal with the disciples. Notice in verse 40, and to him they agreed, and when they had called the apostles Acts 5 and verse 40, look at this, and beaten them, they commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus and let Them go. What caused this? Verse 29, Peter and the other apostles answered, said, we ought to obey God rather than men. Amen. You know, there is a suffering. That is associated with living for the Savior. In fact, Scripture says, Yea, all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall what? Suffer persecution. Amen? So there's a suffering that is associated with living for Jesus Christ. Let's go to the second point. What should be our responses, or what should be your response to suffering and trials? I want you to listen to what I'm about to read to you just quickly. I noted something interesting because we don't think about this often, but listen to this. Jonah had a trial, right? Jonah had a trial. He went to Wales Seminary. Alright? Jonah had a trial. You say, why? Because he had disobeyed God. Amen. But listen to this: Paul had trials. Remember when he got shipwrecked? Because others disobeyed God. He said, don't sail. There's going to be a great loss. God has shown me. The angel of the Lord told me, don't do this. And the skipper of the ship went and went anywhere. And Paul suffered trials and suffered because someone else disobeyed God. Amen. Listen to this one. The disciples had trials Because they obeyed God. You see, each trial required a different response. And when suffering comes and trials come in your life, when something disagreeable shows up, something painful, something that causes you to suffer a loss You have to first of all determine the source and the reason for that trial. You have to identify the why Or you will not respond properly. Amen? You have to do that. Let's look at these There are four responses that I find you and I should have toward trials, and we need to go ahead and first of all identify The cause for the suffering and each one of those reasons for suffering brings a different response according to the Word of God. Here's the first one. If the suffering is due to sin If the suffering is due to sin, how should you respond? Repent. That's the response. If your suffering is due to sin, And poor choices, God wants you to repent. Go to James. Watch this. Go to James. I want to just give you a verse here. James chapter 5. This is a very classic uh illustration. This is interesting how the Spirit of God words this. James chapter 5. And notice what's said in verse number 14. Now James is all the way back by 1st and 2 Peter. And notice here in this very first one, your response to trial and suffering has to be determined by identifying the cause of the trial and the suffering. If the suffering is due to sin, God wants you to repent. Look at what said here in James 5 and verse 14. It says, Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. Look at this. And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up. And if he hath committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Look at verse 16. Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Notice here, somebody is sick. And the instruction is: if there's somebody sick, that leadership goes ahead and prays. And I've actually done this with a pastor who trained me in the ministry. We've actually I mean we have, I'll just be honest. We've had the olive oil and we anointed, we prayed over them. Let me tell you something. I believe in faith healing. I have no time for faith healers Alright, y'all with me? They're quacks. They're not the real deal. I'm just gonna I could go all into theological, I got versus galore. Those Benny Bahans and all that junk out there, I'm telling you, they're quacks. They don't even believe what they tell you. I mean they tell you send them 20 so you can get a hundred. If they really believe that, they send you the twenty so they could get the hundred All right, so hmm. Anyhow, there's just a lot more I could say. But I believe in faith healing. I've watched God heal people of cancer. I've seen that in response to the prayers of God's people. Amen. God gets glory that way, not some person. Notice here, somebody's sick. Church comes to pray for them. And look at how the Spirit of God ties that in. If there's sin Right? They confess they'll be raised up. That tells me some sickness within even the ranks of our churches is not just the circumstances of life. It's sin in someone's life. Now, as I travel, many times I'll come into a church, a pastor says, Hey, I want to visit, haven't done this for a couple of years because of COVID, but I want to visit, make a hospital visit. Would you like to come along? I said, sure. And I'll come and we'll meet somebody in the hospital. And then usually, because I'm the visitor, the pastor said, preacher, would you like to pray? That's kind of how it goes. And so I do. But I pray wisely. My prayer always begins this way, Lord, I don't know this person and why they're here. But Father, if they're living in sin And there's a sin in their life that you put your finger on, and that's why they're sick. I pray first of all they would confess that sin and repent. And Lord, I'd ask you to heal them. And I'll begin there. Amen. You know, all too often somebody says, pray for me, I'm sick. Well, how do you want me to pray for you? Well, I want to be healed. Well, maybe you need to repent before that happens. Amen. Now don't look around, oh, somebody's sick. They must be a sinner. Well, we're all sinners. That box got checked a long time ago. All right? But you know what I'm saying? I uh you you understand where I'm coming from If the suffering you're going through is because of sin Repent. Amen. Number one. You say, well, how do I know? Would you ask God? He'll be very faithful to show you. Amen. He'll show you. He'll bring it to your mind's eye if it is. Number two, write this one down. If your trial or your suffering is due to the circumstances of life, resolve. Resolve, write that down. Resolve to stay faithful. Amen? Just purpose and resolve to stay faithful to the Lord. Go to Hebrews 4. You say, I just don't have the strength to do it. Well, let me turn you toward the one who does in Hebrews 4. Look at what said here in verse 14. You say, I'm just going through a tough time, preacher. I I'm struggling. There's been trials. Uh there's been some sickness and I don't know what the Lord's trying to tell me. And I've prayed and I've asked him to show me if there's any sin. To the best of my knowledge, there's no specific thing he's put his finger on. What should I do? Then resolve to stay faithful. You say, I just don't have the strength. I don't think I can do this. Watch this in Hebrews 4. 14. It says this. Seeing then that we have a great high priest that has passed into the heavens. Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession, for we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Notice what I wrote. I wrote this down. I have this great high priest to you. Amen. His name is Jesus Christ. Notice he's a God who can be touched. What an approachable Savior. Amen. And because you have him and he's approachable and touchable, look at what the next words are in verse 16. Let us therefore come. Amen. Let's come boldly unto that throne of grace for two things that we may obtain mercy, number one, and then second of all, find grace to help in our time of need. What is grace? It's not just the eraser. Grace is God's divine enablement It's God's power, desire, and ability to do his will. That's what grace is. And it's available every day for the believer if we'd come to him and ask. Amen? You say, Man, I'm struggling, man, I've been beat down. I'm emotional tatters. As far as I know, there's no sin. Oh, I need help. Where should I go? Go to the Lord. Crumble at Calvary, crumble before your Savior, and cry out to Him for the strength you don't have. That's what grace is all about. Amen? So if the suffering is due to simply the circumstances of life, resolve to stay faithful and come to the Lord and ask for strength. Number three, if the suffering is due to Satan. What do you think you should do? Starts with an R. Resist. Resist the devil. Look at the order. Look at me in 1 Peter chapter 5. Go there with me. If you're suffering in your trial, what you're going through right now is due to Satan, and trust me, I've seen it. I've been in cities, I've been to New Orleans, I've been to the Indian reservations up in Alaska The wet ones where booze is predominant. I've worked with the uh on reservations in Canada. I'm going to tell you there's a supernatural darkness. That's there when you step. You can feel the powers of darkness. And they're very real in some of these places. When that occurs, the Lord doesn't want you to fold. He wants you to resist the devil, but notice where your strength comes from in verse number 6 of 1 Peter 5. He says this: humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Be sober, be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour, whom resist steadfast in the faith. Knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brother that are brethren that are in the world. Look in James chapter 4, just the Book prior to this in James 4. And look at how James just says the same thing. He packages this in James 4. He says this in verse number 6. James 4, 6 says, But he giveth more grace. James 4, 6, but he giveth more grace, wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud. But giveth grace unto the humble. Here's the order, verse 7. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Then resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Amen. You know, I'll be quite honest with you. Newly saved, six months old in the Lord, I had my first man that I was dealing with, uh demon-possessed man in the military, first confrontation with demons Credible. And I found something out about the powers of darkness. They really aren't that afraid of me. Y'all with me? They're really not. You know who they really hate and are afraid of? My Savior and my Heavenly Father. This is why the Lord says you submit yourself to God first, then resist the devil. And he will flee from you. You submit yourself to the Lord, you put yourself under his watch care. And he's kind of right there behind you, you know, and when you go ahead and go boo to the devil, it's really that the Lord behind you that chases him off. Amen? You've got to submit yourself to the Lord first. Then you resist the devil, and he'll flee from you. Amen? So if your suffering is due to Satan, resist. And then finally, if your suffering is due To your stand for the Savior. You ready for this? Rejoice. Rejoice. Amen? Go back to Acts 5 and look at how they. . This is exactly what happened in Acts 5. In Acts chapter 5 and verse 29, Peter and the other apostles, they answered the Pharisees and said, we ought to obey God rather than man. Then men, and they beat them. And notice in verse 40, Acts 5, and to him they agreed, and when they had called the apostles and beaten them, they commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus and let them go. And look at the apostles' response in verse 41. And they departed from the presence of the council, doing what? Rejoicing. Rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name, and daily in the temple, notice this, and in every house, they cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. Amen. The beating didn't stop them, but they rejoiced that they were found worthy to suffer for the name of Jesus Christ. I want you to recognize something. I wrote it in the notes, and this is really important Because often I have noticed there is very little suffering for our Savior Almost every area of life we suffer in, almost without fail, is for everything else except the Savior. Watch how the Spirit of God does this. In 1 Peter, go there with me. In chapter 4, look at what he says here before we go to our final point. In 1 Peter chapter 4, you see the unavoidable consequence is suffering But whether you're lost or saved, you're going to undergo suffering. But there's only one suffering that seems to be higher above than all others, and that's suffering for the name of Jesus Christ. In 1 Peter 4, look at what it said in verse 14. Says, if ye be reproached for the name of Christ, well happy are ye, for the Spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you On their party is evil spoken of, but on your party is glorified. Look at verse 15. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief Or as an evildoer. Or as a busybody in other men's matters. Isn't that interesting how a busybody is put right up there with murderers, you know? Notice what he says, yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on this behalf. For the time has come, the judgment must begin. At the house of God. Stop and think this last week of some of the trials and suffering you went through. Just Some of the losses you had, some of the pain that you endured, some of the disagreeable things that were in your life How many of those things were actually as a direct result of your stand for Jesus Christ? You start thinking about it, you know what you'll find out? Most of them were simply the circumstances of life, the sin curse. You know what I'm saying? Some were because of poor choices you made. Y'all with me? And you're you're paying a price for poor choices. You know? Probably not a lot has been satanic. You know, we like to think that we're a big threat to the kingdom of darkness, but between you and me, I think I got demon 924 down the line applied to me. He's been You know, we're not that big a threat. Let me just remind you, we're not as spiritual as we think we are. Amen. I'm being serious. It's not just something I'm saying. But how much suffering and trials and pain did you actually go through this week simply for your stand for Jesus Christ? You know, a lot of times I'm I'm sad, I'm ashamed to say. I I think there's very little suffering and pain in my life. Because of I stand for Jesus Christ. So here's the dilemma. Here's what I've found. Something you and I need to be careful of is that we don't adopt the typical American philosophy when it comes to suffering for the Savior, and it's this. We want Jesus to suffer for us. We don't want to be expected to suffer for him. You with me? American Christianity loves the idea that Jesus suffered for them But don't ask me to suffer for him. We're living in a day of convenient Christianity. We're living in a day, I still remember, you think I was talking to Pastor about the other day. Remember when David numbered the people? And God cursed him for doing that? Why do you think God cursed him for doing that? I'll tell you why. Because his soldiers and his people were his security. It'd be like you and I sitting down adding up our bank accounts All right, you got it? We're adding up to see how secure we are, what our retirement's looking like. You know, you know, we're we're adding up the accounts to see how secure that's what David did. David added up his security account called his soldiers God says they're not your security. I'm your security. And he said, you got three choices for that sin you just committed, going ahead and trading me for your people as security. And he said, I'll fall into your hands, God, three days. Send the pestilence. You remember what happened? Man, the pestilence fell. Halfway into that day or two into that deal, the word went out, David! The angel of the Lord's pause at Aruna's threshing floor. By the way, that was probably Temple Mount in Jerusalem today. You get up there and make a sacrifice, you know, you'll just sacrifice, you'll stop this thing. And so David goes up and Aruna meets the king. You read about this in the books of the kings, and he offers David everything for free. He offers him the oxen. He offers him the instruments to sacrifice. He said, the piece of land here, don't buy it. I'll give it to you. The whole shebang, David. Now you stop and think David lost, was it 70 some thousand or a hundred and seventy? I don't know, it was a huge number. He just had a huge loss to his security. And you'd think that'd be the perfect time to say, oh man, I need something free I just went through a big loss. You know what David said to Aruna? Nay. But I will surely buy it of thee at a price. For I will not sacrifice to my God of that which cost me nothing. You know what he was saying? I don't want to worship God sacrificially. I don't want to worship God conveniently. I want to worship my God sacrificially. Amen. Let me tell you, as these days go on, you're going to start having to pay a price to stand for Jesus Christ. It's going to cost you something more and more. The days of casual Christianity are over in America. Amen. And so just a thought, how much suffering do we actually endure for our Savior? Go to Philippians 1, look with me. Philippians 1, and I'm going to go to the final point. Notice you and I actually have a calling from God to suffer for the Savior. We've been sheltered by that many ways in America. But notice what said in Philippians chapter 1 And verse number 29. You ought to circle this first because it just ties that little thought together. Philippians 1. 29 says, For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but But also to suffer for his sake. Amen. You know, brothers and sisters, praise the Lord. We believed on him. Amen. But let's go and enter into even a higher realm. Let's decide no matter what comes our way, we're going to put a flag in the ground and be willing to suffer for him as well. Amen. You'll enter into a sweet fellowship with your Savior if you walk away from convenient Christianity and move towards sacrificial Christianity. Amen. All right. So the reasons for suffering, our responses to suffering, but flip the page because I think we have sometimes a very warped idea about the value of suffering. You know, suffering oftentimes is seen as negative, but I want to say there are many benefits that come with suffering. That come with the trials you and I go through. What are the rewards of suffering when we respond properly? Write this down. Number one. The very first reward that suffering brings, when you respond properly, is here's the first benefit. It brings glory to God. When you respond properly to the trial, it will bring glory to God. Look in Philippians chapter 2. We're right there. Philippians chapter 2. Look with me in verse number 14. Philippians 2. 14 says this, do how many things without murmurings and disputings? All. That includes everything, doesn't it? Just to remind you, God doesn't inhabit the grumbling of his people. Amen. He inhabits the praises of his people. Says, do all things without murmurings and disputings. Why? That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world. You know the first benefit that suffering brings? If you'll respond properly to it, it brings glory To God. Amen? It brings glory to God. Benefit number two, write this one down. The second benefit that suffering brings, that trials bring if you respond properly to them, is this: it draws you closer to God. It draws you closer to God. I put a verse there and I'm just going to quote it. But listen to what the psalmist said in Psalm 119, verse 67. He says, Before I was afflicted, I went astray. Isn't that interesting? He said, before I was afflicted, I went astray You know, he seemed to indicate that when the trial came, it got him back to the right focus with the Lord. You ever been so sick you're confess confessing sins you didn't even do? You ever you ever had that flu or I mean some of you caught COVID, didn't you? Some of you got COVID. I mean, I I from what I heard, I if I got it, I didn't know it, but But when you got it, I mean I heard it it some people it thumped pretty hard, didn't it? Amen. I don't know about you, but if I ever get motion sick If I'm on a fishing vessel or something and I get motion sick, I am confessing stuff I've never even done. It's so miserable. Y'all with me? Could I get a witness there? And when I get sick, I just start saying, Lord, fine Okay, I give up. You know what I'm saying? Let me tell you something. When you get afflicted, it moves you back from the straying path. It should I found there's when I when I get sick and when suffering comes, I notice first of all, I pray more Not less. Could I get an amen? I I find that I begin to pray even more earnestly to the Lord when I'm sick. Number two, I realize when I get sick, I I start looking upward. I start getting more of a focus on the Lord. Number three, I get weary of the world. All the great plans I had. You know what I'm saying? All the things I wanted to see and do. Oh, I could care less Oh Lord, I'm so miserable. I don't care about all that. Just take me home to heaven. I can get the new body. You know what I'm saying? Y'all with me? How many have you heard somebody on their deathbed say, you know what, I'm tired of the fight. I want to go home. You know, sickness and trials are just a precursor of that moment right there. As the body breaks down, the plans go wrong. Misery sets in and pain. Heaven starts looking sweeter. Amen. This miserable temporary existence doesn't look as sweet. As it did before we got sick or went through a trial. Amen? You'll pray more. You'll focus on the Lord. You'll desire heaven. You'll confess sin. And you know what I also noticed? I began to desire to live for others, not just me It's strange. I begin to think of others that maybe went through sickness like that. Or maybe someone who will. And I begin to think about others, not just me. Amen. So the second thing trials and suffering will do that's positive, if you respond to it properly, those trials and suffering will draw you closer to God Amen. That's good. That's good. Thirdly, they'll build your character also. Trials build character. Trials build character. The struggle of life builds character. I said that so often, my children have gotten sick of hearing it. They would say, why dad? How come this, I said, hey, suck it up. The struggle of life builds character. I said it over and over and over again, and it's true. We will fight at all costs to avoid suffering, and often we miss the crucible of character. Look around today. America's losing her character. Because America's looking for free lunch. Everybody's a victim. Nobody wants any pain. And it's up to you to take the pain away from me. I want a pain-free existence. It's not going to happen. And in the process of pursuing that All the character drains out of people. Young men I want to tell you something. You look at those six flag razors in the Iwo Jima Memorial. First they were thought to be five Marines and a Navy Corpsman. They weren't. They were actually six Marines. Two were misnamed. They've since then corrected the record. You know who the old man was that ran hurt on those guys? He was the old man. 23-year-old Sergeant Mike Strank. He died 30 days later, holed by it, hit by one of our own destroyer shells. You say, how could a 23-year-old kid Twenty-three-year-old kid be running that show and be in charge of the boys, the kids under him. Hey, he grew up fast because of the struggle he went through in the midst of war. Most of our 23-year-olds are playing video games now. You know what I'm saying? And it's not always their fault. Sometimes it's just parenting is where the problem is. But the struggle of life builds character. Now we don't often put ourselves in that willingly. You with me? I fussed at my dad being raised on a farm, having to drive tractors from the age of six, and you know I would say to him all the time, Dad, why do we have to have these beef cattle? You know what his response was? Don't complain. You could have a dairy herd. That was his response, you know? That didn't do a lot for me You know, but I mean that's the you know and dad was that was who dad was a lost dad. But he just knew boys needed character, and hard work never killed anybody, he'd always say And I'd start complaining, said, hey, when the going gets tough, the tough keep going. That was Dad's. Oh, Dad, great. You know, great. But I'll tell you, when I stepped into Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego 18-year-old kid, 1979, I flourished. Because I had already been there all my life in dad's home. And I excelled. So young men don't get upset when there's a struggle. Builds character. Amen. Young ladies, there's some struggles. Sometimes you don't order them up. But it'll build character if you respond properly. Amen. The cop-out is to just get bitter and blame everybody else. That's a cop-out. You'll miss the character God wants you to get. Amen? And dad and mom, I'll just say it for free. It's not my notes. Learn to go ahead. With the screws down on the kids sometimes. I'm not talking about mean. I'm not talking about being wicked. I'm not talking about being unbiblical. I'm talking about just challenging them to grow And don't always scramble around being a helicopter parent having to solve every little thing that comes in their life. How else are they going to learn how to grow up and become an adult? Amen. Jeez, I'm all over the map. But anyhow, one of the benefits of suffering, trials, and pain is it builds character. Watch this. Before I go to that final little point, 2 Corinthians chapter 12, look at how Paul recognized this. In 2 Corinthians chapter 12, he says this in verse number 8, 2 Corinthians 12 and verse 8. He says he says this, he says, go back to verse 7, 2 Corinthians 12, 7 says, unless they should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was Given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest they should be exalted above measure. And look at he prays to God in verse 8, 2 Corinthians 12, three times for this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. And look at how the Lord responded. He said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in your weakness. That's the inference there. Most gladly, therefore, Paul says, Well, I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Look at his take. Therefore, I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake, for when I'm weak. Then am I strong. Isn't that powerful? Man, I can't imagine American believers say, Oh I want distresses. I want persecutions. I want trials as I serve the Lord. Give them to me. Give them to me. Because I need God's power, not just mine I can't imagine the average American believer praying for that, but that's exactly what Paul recognized. It's almost like he said, Lord. Bring it on. Get me to the end of me so I can have your strength, not simply mine. Amen? Wow. That's amazing. So finally, I want you to recognize the fourth reward of suffering, the fourth benefit is this. It allows you to be a blessing to others. You understand tonight that when you respond to trials properly, that that allows you to be a blessing to others? You react to the trial, you're not a blessing. You're a problem now. Amen? You know the difference between a reaction and a response, don't you? Right? One's negative and the other is positive. You go to the doctor and he gives you a shot and you break out all over with spots all over. And he goes, oh, you're reacting To the medication I gave you. Come here, I'm going to give you another shot. He gives you a different shot. All the boils go away, all the problems go away, and you feel better. Ah, you're responding well. to the medication. A reaction is negative, a response is positive. When you and I respond to the trial properly, We respond like the Lord would respond. We become a blessing to others. Amen? Three ways. Number one, first of all, by way of example We become an example of how you ought to respond, and we need that. Amen. Number two, we become a blessing to others through empathy. We can identify what they're going through when we go through it. I'll never forget a few years ago I was up in Connecticut and a pastor he announced me just before I preached, and he said, You know what I love about Brother Summersorf? He has six children, and all six are serving the Lord. That was the public announcement. What he didn't know is one of our six is not serving the Lord. So now I'm coming forward to preach, and the pastor has just, you know, said Dave Summardor, Brother Somerdor batted a thousand with his kids. And I didn't bat a thousand. And yet I can't correct the pastor in his pulpit. And so as kindly as I could, I said, preacher, I appreciate that introduction, but there's something you don't know, and I need you to read you into it. We have six children, but one of those six is not serving the Lord. I'll never forget what happened after that service. I'll never forget it. Two parents came up to me. They said, Wow. I can't believe you said that publicly. I said, Well, it was the truth. And I wasn't going to go own something that that was above my pay grade. That wasn't for me to grab and act like he was right, you know. They said, you know, we got a wayward child Would you pray with us? Y'all with me? I'm going to tell you something I learned. Yeah, I'd like to have all six serving the Lord. They all six, they all six crewed with dad on the same ship. All six heard every message dad's ever preached. All six sang the songs. All six had the same dad and mom. But one of the six says, nah, I want to do it my way. I want to tell you something. I love the battery thousand, but you know what one thing it's done for me? It's humbled me. I don't know if if I if I met a parent that had a wayward child if I'd be as merciful to that person if I had all six of my kids serving the Lord. Y'all with me? I I'd like to hope I would, but I I don't know. I That heart's so deceitful and desperately wicked. I maybe would look down my nose and in my heart think, well, what'd you do wrong? Y'all with me? It has given me an empathy. For every parent out there that's got a kid that used to stand in church with them and sing, used to go out on visitation. Used to go ahead and tell daddy what a great guy he was and mama how so proud of him and used to go ahead and talk about the same Jesus we talk about. And now no no you bring them up and they'll hang up on you. You start giving them scripture and they're gonna tell you, no, no, no, knock it off. Y'all with me There's no perfect parents. But I also know this there was a most perfect father, and he still lost both of his kids. God lost Adam and Eve, and he didn't do one thing wrong. It still comes to the heart of the kid if they want to serve Jesus or not. Amen Y'all with me? You say, well, I got some horrible parents. That doesn't give you the excuse to be horrible either. Amen. When your mother and father forsake you, then the Lord can take you up. Amen? Most people, most people, we got parents, they got flaws. That's why God points you to a heavenly father with no flaws. And you learn to love flawed parents through an unflawed father and Savior. Amen. I'll tell you what, though, the trial and the pain that Deb and I have gone through One of them kids of ours, it's given me empathy toward every other parent that's going through that tonight. And then finally Allows us to be a blessing to others by way of encouragement. It's almost example of the same thing. We become an encouragement when we respond properly. Oh suffering's greatest benefits, you gotta fill this one in. I don't know if you figured it out The greatest benefit that ever came from suffering is a perfect salvation through a suffering Savior. Write that down. Isn't that amazing? A perfect salvation Complete, 100% paid for, came through a suffering Savior. Scripture tells us that in Acts 17, 30, Christ must needs have suffered. That was God's plan, was the suffering and the butchering of his son. Look in 1 Peter as we wind these thoughts down in chapter 3. In 1 Peter 3, where we started, notice what said this. It said here in verse 18. 1 Peter 3, 18, the Bible says this, for Christ also hath once suffered for sins. The just for the unjust. Why? Why did Jesus Christ have to suffer like that? Why did He have to go through all that pain and all that torment for one reason? He was put to death in the flesh that he might bring us to God. That's why. Amen? That he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened. By the Spirit. You know, tonight, first of all, don't be so quick to discard trials and suffering. And just say, oh, that's of the devil. Not necessarily. They serve great purpose. They have great benefits if you respond properly. I wrote this one down. This is something I may have said two years ago, but I want to say it tonight because a lot of times there's suffering that has come along from the past, people that have hurt us. Here's the little statement. Never allow something that happened to you ever become greater than what Jesus did for you. Isn't that good? Never allow something that happened to you. And bad things do happen. I'm on the board of directors of Hope Children's Home. I see the kids all the time. Didn't do a thing wrong. Some bad parents did some bad things. Y'all with me? And I remind them, don't you ever allow something that happened to you ever become bigger or greater than what Jesus Christ did for you. He suffered more than any man could ever suffer for one purpose that he might bring you to God. Wow. And God saw the travail of his soul and was satisfied. Amen? Let's go look at one verse together and leave you with this. It's a very familiar verse as we think of suffering. Go back to Romans chapter 8, verse number 28. Romans chapter 8, and verse number 28. Oh, there's a lot of reasons for suffering. There's a number of responses to suffering, but there's benefits that suffering gives. And look at what's said here in Romans chapter 8 and verse number 28. The Bible says this, and we know that how many things work together for good? What's the word used there? All. Well, would that include the bad things? That's included in all. Would that include the trials that come in my life? That's included in all. Would that be pain that's inflicted upon me, sometimes not even deserving that? Yeah, that's included in all He says, and we know that all things work together for good. Notice the key, though, to them that love God. You know, tonight, if you don't love God, all the bad things are as an excuse for you to rail against God and tell him how messed up he is. Amen. That's true. I watched lost people do. They live their whole life without God. He's the universal, invisible God. He's never in their life, they never talk about him. One big bad thing comes in, and all of a sudden, there he is to take a shot at. The God who they never even lived for or acknowledged now is all of a sudden visible, so they can hang it on him and say what a bad God he is. That's not fair. Amen. All things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. No, suffering has a silver lining. It brings great, great benefits if you respond to it. I think of Shane Lewis, good friend of mine. He passed away about a year and a half ago, about a year ago. Preached the Sunday before he died. 49 years old. Just a great preacher. Love the Lord. His kids are all serving the Lord today. You know his final words were to his family as they gathered? As he died that premature death for cancer? He said, We will not get angry with God. Those were his words. I think of Billy Cunning, a good friend of Deb's, who encouraged her to be the writer of the books she's writing now. And Billy was an incredible athlete, same age as us, died at the age of fifty-two, fifty-three I remember she had gotten multiple sclerosis MS and it slowly just wound her down and ground her down. Four children in her life. And in those late years, Billy Where once she was kind of marginal with the Lord and really kind of all about Billy, all of a sudden, man, she just blossomed, and that suffering turned her into one of the most gracious, sweet women I've ever met in that final years of life, lying there in an emaciated form, we would go to visit her in Idaho. Roy, her husband, would come and we'd go to say hi to her. Then she'd have to be moved from one side to the other. It took him 20 minutes to just roll her 90 degrees because of the pain that she was racked by. She asked to be moved to a different care facility because there were more people to witness there, to witness to there. It wasn't as good as the one she was in, but she knew there were more people there than the one she was in, and so she wanted to get over there so she could. Give the truth to those people. Tell them how to be saved. Still have the picture of Deb and I just a few months before she died. Each of us on each side of Billy's bed smiling. Roy popping the picture with my camera. At her funeral her kid said this. He said, Mom could have gotten angry. She could have started to get all upset at God for allowing this into her life. But we watched her get sweeter as her life slowly ebbed away over the last five or six years. And because of that, every one of us are serving the Lord today. Ron Hamilton going to college, wanted to be a preacher, gets cancer in both eyes, loses one. Well, how easy it would have been to rail against God. He was going to serve the Lord. I mean, why would you let that happen to me? But all things work together for good to them who love God. For out of that tragedy came an incredible triumph. The ministry patched a pirate. And that tens of thousands, if not millions, of adults and children to this day Have been affected by the music of Ron Hamilton. All things work together for good The tragedies and the pain and the suffering, all have purpose to the child of God who's walking with the Lord. Amen. Hymn More Love to Thee, written by Elizabeth Prentiss, who almost her entire life was bedridden. She wrote the book, Stepping Heavenward. It is an incredible woman's book to read, ladies. If you've never read it, it's an unbelievable book. And it was a it was a book written out of a tragedy of continual pain and sorrow and suffering. In a single year, she buried two of her children, a two-year-old and a three-year-old, within months of each other. She wrote, My life has almost been a continual tragedy of suffering and trials. She says, much of my experience of life has cost me a great price. And I wished to use it for strengthening and comforting other souls. And at her funeral, her most well-known hymn, More Love to Thee, was sung. Suffering has a silver lining. Of course, the ultimate one is our Savior bringing us to salvation. And saving us. And so as we close tonight, I want to ask you this. Are you suffering for yourself? Are you suffering for your sin? Are the trials you're going through now simply because of the circumstances of life, or could you say Some of my suffering is for the Savior, and it is for the Saints, present and future. If you're suffering tonight, you need to identify the source, first of all. Then you need to respond properly. And then realize you are called to suffer for your Savior. And above all else, recognize all things work together for good. To them Who love God, and who are the called according to His purpose. Amen? Suffering, the unavoidable consequence of life. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you tonight for this message. And Lord, we think of life and all of its trials, disappointments. All of the pain that goes with this life and Lord, even the sin curse itself, the deteriorating process. That begins the day we're born. Lord, I proganize that for every one of us you would use this thought beyond tonight. And Lord, as we go out into life, as we go on through life, Lord, when a trial, when suffering comes in our life, we would pause for a moment. And we would ask you the purpose for your allowance of that into our life. And Father, if there's sin in our life, may you quickly reveal it to us and may we quickly discard it, repent, and get right with you. Lord, if it's simply the circumstances of life, Lord help us not to lose the song. You want to hear us sing. The midst of all the trials, help our song for you not to be silenced. Then Lord help us to recognize that we can be an encouragement to others. For truly others will come this path. They'll come this way as well. And Lord help that trial and that suffering and that loss to cause us to have empathy for others that would go through the same thing. Father, we do pause to say thank you for a suffering Savior who went through all the torment, all the separation from you, all the physical, emotional, and spiritual pain. To bring us to you. Thank you for a suffering Savior who satisfied your demands for sin'ayment. And Lord is your people tonight So trials come, they surely will help us to be found suffering for you and for your son. Help us, Lord, to be willing to worship and serve you sacrificially, not just conveniently. Lord, help us to recognize all things do work together for good. Those who love you, those who are the called according to your purpose. We ask and pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand tonight. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Music's just going to play softly. You slip out. You slip out. Maybe there's a trial in your life. Maybe you need to pause and just ask God why. Not in an accusatory way. Just say, Lord, why am I going through this? What's the purpose? What's your purpose tonight? How many people I know Go through a trial. Could be a divorce. Could be a great loss. They're lost in the trial Gets them to the end of themselves and they turn to Jesus Christ and get saved. I have seen that innumerable times. Unbelievable amount of times. And could it be the trial, even though it was self-inflicted? Even though it's a poor choice on your part? Could it be God uses that thing to push you to Jesus Christ so you can be saved? So you can get right with God. I believe with all my heart he allows that. I've met too many people saved because of a horrible trial they went through Grab a hymn though tonight. Some are still praying. You're welcome to come. You're welcome to come. And let's turn to page 196. A song written by Ron Hamilton. He's all dementia out now. I got to meet him four or five years ago. Only time I've ever met him. I said, would you be okay with me getting a picture with You and Sissy Seagull? He said, oh absolutely. I said, my kids love your stuff. I'll be quite honest with you, Brother Ron. My wife and I love it too Now Sissy was handling him, she was his handler. He started he was getting feeble at the time. Isn't that how life goes, huh? We're all going back to dust one day. This place isn't heaven It's not heaven. He's all dementia out, but I'm going to tell you his legacy still goes. Listen to the song of a man who responded to trials. 196, 196, I'll sing with you, brother. God never moves without purpose or plan. When trying a servant and molding a man Give thanks to the Lord, though your testing seems long, his darkness he gives us. Oh rejoice in the Lord. He makes no mistake. He knows with the end of each path. That I take for when I am trying and purified I shall come forth. Let's go down the third verse. Now I can see testing comes from above. God strengthens. His children and purges in love, my father knows best, and I trust it is careful through purge. Or fruit I will bear. Sing it out, sing it out. Oh, rejoice in the Lord. He makes no mistake. He know it of each path that I take, for when I am tried and pure. I shall come forth as cool. All of God's people said. You say, preacher, I didn't really need that message tonight. Don't worry. You will. May you listen to the voice of God when the trials come and respond properly. Amen. For they Surely, surely will come. Amen. Pastor, you dismiss us as you see fit. Amen.