Okay, let me ask you to turn this morning to uh second Corinthians chapter eight. Second Corinthians chapter eight. While you're doing that, uh yeah, I'm just gonna do that right now. If I could have some of the fellows grab the commitment cards And if you come right to the front and start from the front toward the back and that way you can look folks in the eyes and Make sure they uh get one. Every person needs to have one of the commitment cards in hand. We'll be receiving these at the end of the service this morning. And give you an opportunity to make your commitment for Faith Promise Missions Giving for the coming year through Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. God has certainly privileged you to become a part of this congregation, and part of that responsibility is to be involved in reaching the world. uh through the church that God has given you. So make sure you have one. Hold on to that. I know many of you have been praying. And we'll receive those this morning at the end of the service and again tonight after the service this evening. So uh if you're not ready today, be ready tonight. And uh when God uh impresses you, you be ready to make your commitment. We have been looking At 2 Corinthians chapter 8, and different principles that are given to us in this portion of Scripture that's used to instruct us, to inform us, and to encourage us in the matter of faith promise giving. And most of the services we have started in this section of Scripture. This morning I want us to get into chapter 9. Once you get into chapter 9, Paul begins to encourage this church to uh gather the offering that they promised to give and have it ready when Titus comes to receive it. So he can put it with that which is uh collected from the other churches and they delivered to the saints there at Jerusalem and uh and the n uh needs that they have. As he begins to uh speak to them, he brings out uh an important thought. He talks about the fact that they don't want to be embarrassed when uh Titus comes, so they need to gather it. And then he he spends a number of verses uh talking about the encouragement that this church has been to others because of the commitment they made. And then he tells them, Now, uh you don't want to mess that up. You don't you wanna you want this time to be used uh not only to do what God has told you to do, but You need to uh let God use this to provoke others to do the same thing. And that's what happens. That's what our testimony is all about. When God uh is able to have his way in our lives, he's not only able to uh do what he desires in and through us. But he's able to build a testimony that is an influence and an encouragement to other believers. And we ought to be sensitive to that. All of us have a uh a circle of people that God uh has come in our direction, gives us a kindred spirit with and we're able to influence them uh for godly uh purposes. But then he comes down to a section, he makes a statement And this is what I want us to look at today. Verse 6. After he says all that to the church at Corinth, then he says in verse 6, but this I say. He which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly, and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully Now he gives them a not just a principle of giving, but a law that God has put into effect. An unchangeable law. But we need to keep in mind that this is within the context of faith promise giving That's what these chapters are about. That's what this section of Scripture is about. Then he says, after he tells them that, look at what he says in verse 7. Every man, according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give, not grudgingly or of necessity. For God loveth a cheerful giver. Now he just simply says: Hey, every one of you needs to have the right attitude about giving That's what he's simply saying there. You need to have the right attitude about giving. Now I'll tell you what will help us to have the right attitude about giving. When we come to a place that we really believe verse six is true, that what you sow, you are going to reap. Now let me ask you this morning, do you really believe that? We say we believe the Bible. Bless God, we don't we believe the King James Bible is the Word of God and we believe it's completely the Word of God until we get to a place that bothers us. Huh? Now I want you to think about this morning. Do you really believe that you're going to reap what you sow? Now, if we do, it's going to change our lives. If we really believe that, then we're not going to be sowing without considering the afterwards of it. What's going to happen as a result of me doing what I'm getting ready to do? But I want you to keep in mind that he brings out this particular law in the matter of giving. And today, this is an important thing to consider as we look at our responsibility of this matter of world evangelism. So let's pray, and then we're going to look at this. Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you for your presence as we meet this morning. And Holy Spirit, we just want to ask you to open this up to us today. Uh I'm sure there's a lot of us in this room that that just make decisions and time and time again, and we don't really consider the truth of this law. Like we should. I pray that you would help us this morning to be reminded of the seriousness of it, but also the blessing of it. To realize we can choose to sow that which will bring your blessings on our lives, your activity in our lives In a positive way, a good way. And I pray that you would not let our minds wander today. Don't let us Get away from what you want to do. But I pray that you would do some special things this morning. That this would be maybe a time that you're able to change some lives. Draw us to commitments that would make a real difference in our testimonies, our influence in the lives of others I pray that might be some decisions made by some fathers that would change some families. some mothers that would change some children. I mean that you would cause some decision to be made in families that would change this church. I pray that you would use this portion of Scripture today to make a difference in our lives. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Now let me ask you to turn a few pages over to Galatians chapter 6, and we're going to look at the law given. In Galatians chapter 6, very familiar, verses 7 and 8, simply says, Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall reap of the flesh, uh shall of the flesh reap corruption. But he that soweth to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting Now I want us to think about this law, this law of sowing and reaping. It is so important because uh You know, we we sort of think of God sometimes as as just watching us and keeping his eye on us and and ready to to get a hold of us and take care of us if we don't do right or punish us, you know, and sometimes we think of God as uh just sort of, you know, he's got that uh hammer in his hand and we make a mistake or do something wrong, he just plunks us on the head. Uh you know, i really if that were true, we'd all be not heads, wouldn't we? Uh we we uh because God would be busy trying to to pluck us all. But uh you know when we when we realize the truth of this law We come to a place that we realize that that God doesn't operate that way. We live in a uh age of grace, and uh that's a wonderful thing. But we also live in a day when the s the law of sowing and reaping is in effect, which means this in essence. Now think about this It simply means that that God does not really choose, if we could say it this way, God does really does not really choose The judgment that comes in our lives, often we choose it. God does not choose the direction of our lives. Often we choose it. Because you see, with the law of sowing and reaping, the decisions you and I make determine the type of life we are able to live later. Now we say it here this morning, and we say we believe the Word of God. And if we do, then we must include the law of sowing and wreathing. And we must sit here and agree with the Word of God today that what we sow, we will reap. Now, if we believe that and understand that, it should cause us to become more aware of the seriousness of every decision we make. Everything we watch, every word we speak, everything we listen to. Right? Because when we make the choice to do something, to listen to something, to watch something, to consider something in our minds and dwell on it. Then we're choosing to sow a seed that we're going to reap. And so we're deciding this is what I want in my life later. I am choosing to do this knowing that down the road, this is what's going to come back. If I'm going to lie, then I have to be willing to reap the results. If I'm going to cheat, then I have to be willing to reap the resul If I'm going to be a uh a gossip, I'm going to have to l to be willing to reap. I saw a sign, my wife was in a antique shop the other day and I saw this sign says now said I do not repeat gossip so listen closely. So you know if we If we're going to if we're going to decide to watch what is satisfying to the flesh and not satisfying to God, then we have to realize I am choosing What's going what I'm going to read later. Hey, this is a natural law. And so you and I need to understand I I choose the life, the type of life I'm going to have later. I choose, uh I choose whether it's going to be a good life or it's going to be a difficult life. I choose if I'm going to enjoy things or maybe I'm not going to enjoy it. By the life I live now. Now let's just take a look at this and break it down and look at the seriousness of it of it. Notice, first of all, it simply says, be not deceived Be not deceived. The word deceived there has the thought of to roam or to go astray. You know, often you and I think of of being deceived as maybe uh a state of mind. Uh, you know, a thought, you know, I don't want uh something to come into my mind that would get me to think against. No, it's it's an action It's a decision we make to move away from God. It's a decision we make to do something that is not pleasing to God. And God says to us. Now notice, he does not say, it's not saying here to the individual. Now we know that we're not supposed to teach false doctrine. We know We're not supposed to give bad advice. We know we're not supposed to lead people away from God, but he's not talking about the person that does the deceiving here. He's saying to you and to me Don't you be deceived. You are responsible for what you hear. You are responsible for what you react to. You are responsible for what you do, so don't get yourself in trouble and then start blaming the one that led you away. Be not deceived. He's making us responsible. He's telling us you have to watch. You've got to be aware. Now, there are people on every side of us trying to mislead us. Maybe they're not doing it purposely, but they're doing it because they think they know best. And many cases they have no awareness of God, they have no respect for God, they consider themselves an authority for life, and much of the time when you look at their look at their lives, it's nothing but a mess. They don't know how to live their own lives, but they want to tell everyone else how to live theirs. And God says, you have a responsibility. Don't you be deceived. I I was thinking, I've uh I've preached in churches, I've been in places where uh pastors asked me to come and and to teach faith promise and start faith promise programs And I've had pastors say this to me. The pastor before me was against faith, promise, missions giving. Now think about that. You know, being against giving demissions in that way Uh hey, listen, what uh that person did was had a congregation that they led in that direction. And uh we have a responsibility to not let someone deceive us in that way. But we've got to watch because we deceive our own selves. We think we know best sometimes. And God's very clear in making us understand when he says, hey, don't lean to your own understanding. What he's really saying is you don't know near as much as you think you do. You don't know the direction to go. I have given you direction to help you with that. Let me show you an example. Hold your place there in Galatians 5 and turn back with me to John chapter 13. This is a I think this is a good example of what he's saying, and uh how we are to be aware of uh uh of listening to God. John chapter thirteen, of course, Jesus is at the point of just getting ready to go to Calvary. He's uh He has been teaching the apostles and Discipling them and preparing them for this time, and it's in the last hours. He's meeting with them in those last hours And in verse 1 of John 13 it says, Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew That his hour was come, that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own, which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. And supper being ended, the devil having put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon Summon, to betray him, Jesus knew that Simon was going to betray him. As a matter of fact, look down in verse eleven, it says, For he knew who should betray him. Therefore he said, Ye are not all clean. Then in verse 3, Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God and went to God. And time after time, you see, Jesus knew his hour was come. Jesus knew who was going to betray him. Jesus knew that the Father put all things in his hand. Christ knew it. Verse 4, he rises from supper and said, and laid aside his garments, and took a towel and girded himself. After that he poureth water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. Then cometh he to Simon Peter. And Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now. But thou shalt know hereafter. I think that's a good picture of us. Here's Christ trying to work in our life, knowing everything. And you and I act like we know something. When really we have no idea What God's trying to do. We have no idea what really is taking place. And God comes to us and He says, Listen, you just do what I say today. You just walk with me today. You do what I want you to do right now. You make the commitment you want uh you need to make at this point and then After this, you'll know what it's all about. And that's the thing we need to realize. Hey, we don't know what God is doing All we know is to listen and let him tell us the decision he wants us to make. And then when he puts it all together, he'll let us look back and see what he's doing. So we need to make sure we're not deceived. June and I learned a great lesson in this area years ago. We uh I was in management and manufacturing before we were in ministry and and I was transferred to New England with the company that I worked with They bought three plants up in uh Massachusetts and Vermont area and and I was transferred up there to assist in the changing over of the product. Two hours. And we got up there. We'd we'd been saved for a short time, but we had not grown in the Lord that much. And we got up there and started looking for a church. We visited the First Baptist Church there in Williamstown, Massachusetts, and and uh and this was uh hey this was in uh nineteen sixty five or well earlier now, sixty-four. So it was uh quite a while ago And uh and we went to that church and after the service that morning the pastor had uh the visitors and new folks and a little fellowship time and We sat there, had some refreshment, and uh listened to some ladies ask him questions, and he explained away the miracles of the Bible. Explained away the flood, explained away the the dividing of the Red Sea and the children of Israel going across in dry land. And it was amazing just to sit him sit there and listen to him explain how the Bible didn't mean what it really said. And we knew that was not the place for us. But then one day June was listening to the radio and we c we couldn't find the church. And she was listening to the radio and And she heard this preacher and boy, he sounded good and and so uh we decided to visit the church. It was up in Bennington, Vermont, over the mountain, and we we went and it was a It was a bunch of nice people there. About five or six families had traveled up from Texas with this pastor and his wife to start this church in Bennington, Vermont. Now we had no idea what the church was all about, but they were nice people and the messages sounded good, and we attended a number of months. And then after a number of months, a an elder came up from Texas And they visited our home. And they sat down with us and began to explain. They started something like this. Now, we know what you've been taught in the Baptist Church, but You need to realize in order to go to heaven, you have to be baptized in the Church of Christ. We were attending the Church of Christ. We didn't know what it was. But I'll tell you we knew enough that day that we were to cut ties. And so we asked them at that moment if they would please leave, and we never went back to that church. Hey, that's what he's saying here. You are responsible not to be deceived. You must come to a place that you understand you are responsible. And then he makes this statement. Look at verse 6, uh verse 7 again. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Now that that word mocked there has the thought of to to ridicule It really has this thought to thumb your nose up at. You ever heard that phrase? You know, something's something you don't like or something you should not associate with, just thumb your nose at it. And that's the very thought there. And what it's saying is, God is not going to let anyone just thumb their nose at him. He's not going to permit us to do what we choose to do ourselves when it's contrary to what he wants and just get away with it. In other words, what he's saying there, it is foolish for us to think that we can outwit God. Huh? It's foolish for us to think that we can outwit God. God says, you cannot do this and get away with it, and we determine, hey, I'm going to do it because I think I can get away with it. He said, now you're making a big mistake because God's not going to be mocked. You're not going to do what you want and get away with it. Now I want you to think about it. If we really believe, this force of scripture, if we really believe what he's saying is true here, then we decide. Because when we decide that we're going to do what we're want, what we want to do, we're saying, God, I know you said this, but I know better than you do. About this situation. Because there's not any of us sitting here this morning that are going to sow to our flesh we're going to do something contrary to what God wants, knowing that we're going to get punished for it. Right? We're not going to do something knowing that we're going to suffer, and maybe our family's going to suffer simply because we Go a direction we want to go. We're not going to make that. So what we're saying is, I can do it and I can get away with it. It doesn't matter what God says And what we're really saying is, I don't believe it. Amen? Oh me? I don't believe it. When we choose to do what we want, when it's contrary to what God wants, then we're really saying, I really don't believe. What the Word of God says. And when we are furnished with the seed of the Word of God, then we become responsible to sow it properly. We become responsible to live what it says. And that's what we're dealing with today. That's what the faith promise thing is all about. Hey, we know that the Bible has commanded us to get the gospel to the world. We know that God's plan is to do it through missionaries whom He has called. And he has assigned to specific places, and that he leads those missionaries to our churches for us to partner with. That is God's plan. And when we say as individuals, I don't have to do it, I will not do it, what we're saying is, I do not believe that I will reap what I sow. Huh? And so we've got to come to a place that we uh that we uh question ourselves Is the whole Bible true? I was in the Philippines years ago when I pastored, and I had been invited over to uh preached to uh uh in field conferences in the Philippines and in Japan where all the BIMI missionaries came together and And we just had a time of preaching and fellowship and and I I preached in the Philippines and while I was there I was invited To speak in a Bible school in Manila where they had about a a hundred preachers training for the ministry. And so I went in and And God just led me to preach on giving. So I just went right down the line on giving. And when I finished that chapel service, the leaders came to me and they were upset. They were irate. I thought I'd said something wrong. I said, what in the world did I say wrong? They said, you had no right to tell these men they need to give. They can't afford to give. And I'm going to tell you something. They were deceiving those men. They were not teaching them the whole Bible And those men had a responsibility to listen to the word of God and not those leaders teaching them contrary to the scriptures. Now let me ask you, as you sit here today, do you really believe that the decisions you make determine later life? If it does, then we'll examine our decisions more closely. Right? Hallelujah what he says. Be not deceived, God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. But he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting. Now, the simple thought is, what you scatter is going to come back. In other words, the life you scatter is going to come back. And you must realize that what you scatter, if you scatter to the flesh, then you are going to reap corruption. Now what you and I have to decide is do we want a life of corruption? Is that what we want? Oh well, ah, these are not really that important things, and I can do this and I can get away with it. He said, No, you can't. You will not outwit me, because if you sow to your flesh, then you're going to reap corruption. But he said, now you have a choice. If you want a good life, life everlasting, then you sow to the Spirit. In other words, you listen to the Spirit of God as He speaks to you You do what he says. Now that life everlasting there, that's not talking about eternal life. That's talking about the quality of life that you and I have as a Christian. That's what the thought is there. It's talking about having a good life with God. Having God involved in our lives in a way of enjoying Him. And when he comes to this matter of faith promise in 2 Corinthians chapter 9, he uses this law and he simply says, hey. If you want to reap, if you want to sow to God's provision, if you want to sow to God taking care of you, then you need to realize there is this law of sowing and reaping. And we can talk about uh all we want to about uh the provision and And sowing because we want to get certain things. We can you can think about that all you want to, but the the Bible is very clear If we want to enjoy God's provision and God's blessing, then we have to sow to God's will. That's the simple truth of it. Amen? Our church in Clinton is on Piscataway Road. It's uh It's uh if you if you come to the traffic light, the main traffic light in Clinton, uh there are four All four directions are different streets. If you turn off a scataway, it goes toward our r uh church about a mile. And as you head down there, uh when you come to our church, right before you come to our church, there's a house, and then before that house there's a pine thicket, maybe Uh 40 yards wide. And before that pine thicket, there's a house that sits back from the road, maybe 200 yards. I've lived there 37 years. I've traveled that road 37 years. That house has been there 37 years. It has a driveway right down the middle of the field on both sides and then they have their yard cut as you get close, but they they keep the whole thing Cut nice all summer. And for 37 years it's been there, it's looked nice. Except for one year. One year they plowed all of that up. I mean, from the road right back to the house, almost to the house. They plowed it up, worked it, and planted it. And man, when they did that, it just aroused my interest. What are they doing? They've never done this before. I couldn't wait till whatever they planted came up. I wanted to see what in the world they were doing You know what came up? Corn. But it was the most unusual thing. They had planted And there would be a clump of corn stalks when it started coming up, maybe 15 or 20 stalks. And then it would go about 20 feet, and there would be nothing And then there would be another clump, 15 or 20 stalks. And then it would go 20 feet, nothing, another clump of stalks. All over that field, that's what it looked like. Now we know what happened. Their planter got plugged, right? It got plugged and then it would just dump a bunch, boom, and then nothing, and then boom. And it was the awful mess. They just plowed it up, put it under, and they never did it again. But when I looked at that, I thought, you know, that's like a lot of Christians' lives. Huh? We just get all plugged up when we're planning our life. Doing what we want and nothing happens and then boom. And live our lives in many cases just look like a mess. And it's all because we didn't plant right. We didn't plant according to the word of God. Now there's a natural law. It says what you sow, you're going to reap. And so today, as you and I think about our involvement in world evangelism, we need to realize A. It's not according to my understanding. It's according to the word of God. I can't look At my situation and say, okay, I can and cannot do this. That's not my responsibility. My responsibility is to listen to the Spirit of God. My responsibility is to understand he has equipped me. And he has equipped me to be involved. Enriching people in the world. Now, my responsibility is to find out what part I need to play. Amen. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. Let me ask you some questions as we prepare for an invitation this morning. Just uh personally ask you, bow your heads Close your eyes and think with me. How many folks this morning would say, Preacher, I'm glad I can listen to that message and know If I died today, I would go to heaven. I have trusted Christ as my Savior. I know I have been born again by the Spirit of God, and I can take you to the Bible and show you how I know How I am 100% sure that I would go to heaven if I died today. If you can give testimony to that, would you slip your hand up all over the building? God bless you. What a sign. Thank you. Now a few people did not raise your hands. It's a very private time. But let me ask you, is there someone here that would say, Preacher, I could not raise my hand? I don't know that I would go to heaven if I died today, but I know this I want to go to heaven. I want. I do not want to spend eternity in hell separated from God. Preacher, would you pray for me that God would help me to get this thing settled in my life? Would you let me just pray for you this morning? Would you slip your hand up and in doing so say, Preacher, would you pray for me? I'm not sure. But I would love to have that settled in my life. I don't want to sow in that direction. Anyone else? God bless you, ma'am. I appreciate that. Anyone else before we pray? Preacher, would you pray with me and pray for me? Anyone else? Okay. In just a moment, we're going to have an invitation. And I'd like to invite you, just slip out of your place and come. Someone will take the Bible and show you how you can get that settled today. No one's going to embarrass you, and no one's going to place you before people. It's just a matter of you getting settled that you know that you're ready to go to heaven. But you've got to take that step. That's your souling. You come when the invitation starts in a moment. Now let me give you a third question. How many folks would say, preacher, I'm saved? I know that. That's all settled. But God has dealt with me. He's spoken to my heart. And I know I need to do business with God. Would you pray with me and pray for me that God would have his way in my life, that this law would be very evident to me day by day? Would you pray that God would help me to apply this to my life? Would you slip your hand up all over the building? God bless you. Yes. Yes. Yes. Why don't you step out of your place this morning? Get alone with God and say, God, that's what I want. Don't let me mess up anything because I think I can outwit you. Help me. Let's stand to our feet as we pray. Father, we thank you for speaking to our hearts. Thank you for the clearness of your word. And thank you, Holy Spirit, for the way you move and apply it to hearts and lives as we're open. And I pray for these that have raised their hands God bless as folks come. May this be a time that you're pleased with our response to you. Bless this invitation. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed, the pants is going to play. Why don't you slip out of your place and come? As God has spoken to your heart, why don't you come? Right now.