Acts seventeen and verse number six. And when they found them not, they drew Jason and certain brethren unto the rulers of the city. Crying. Now look at this statement. This is what they're saying. This is what they're accusing the Christians of doing. These that have turned the world upside down. are come hither also. That's their accusation against the Christians. They have turned the world upside down I want to preach this morning on an upside-down world. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the opportunity to be in the house of God today. You've blessed us so much. We thank you for salvation in Christ, the new life you've given us, an eternal home in heaven, the presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives. Lord, we have so much to be grateful for. And I pray now as we look into your word for the next few moments that you would help us push aside out of our minds all distractions and the cares of this life our schedules and all else that would distract us from what you have for us. I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my, I present my body anew and I yield my will again this hour. And ask that you would fill me and speak through me. Lord, I before you and all the world I acknowledge I have nothing in and of myself of any spiritual, eternal value. So it has to come from you and your word. That's why I plead with you, Lord, to fill me and speak through me. Open our hearts and minds that we could be the Christians that you've saved us to be. And Lord, by chance, if there's someone here this morning, That is unsaved, maybe religious, but lost. God, I ask that your Holy Spirit bring great conviction. You'd turn them, draw them to yourself, they'd be saved. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Acts chapter 15 through chapter 18 is the inspired record of Paul's second missionary journey. He had started out from Antioch in chapter 13 on their first missionary journey. He went out with Barnabas, and they were very successful. They saw many, many souls saved. Churches were established, regions that had never heard the gospel, never impacted with the gospel, they were able to impact and plant churches in there. It was a very successful trip. They came back, they reported to the church at Antioch uh their uh how God had used them and what God had done through their endeavors. And then in chapter of number 15, as I just said, they went out again on their second missionary journey. Barnabas and Paul had a bit of a uh dispute, a little bit of a falling out, I guess you could say And it got a pretty severe. The contention, the Bible says, the contention between them was so great that they actually went their separate ways. And it's always a grief to hear that when God's people uh allow contention to come in and division to come in. Uh nevertheless, it's been a part of it since the beginning And so that's what took place. Now Paul is out on his second missionary journey. This time he is with uh uh uh Silas. And uh again, they're having a very successful uh journey. This trip, they're starting churches, they got into some very key cities in this region of the world Philippi, we're familiar with that from the book of Philippians, the city of Thessalonica, two great books in the Bible, penned by Paul. inspired by God to the church that they established in Thessalonica, uh church in Corinth they established. We're studying the book of First Corinthians in Sunday school. uh and uh the church that Paul established there. And then of course the great church in Ephesus. And we read about the book of Ephesians that Paul wrote to that church. So their second missionary journey was very, very effective They're getting into regions of the world. They're getting into key cities that have no witness. There is nobody other than Paul and Silas, and perhaps some entourage they have with them, nobody in these cities are declaring the Lord Jesus Christ. Nobody in these cities are preaching the gospel So they are in open territory. This is a there are no churches. When they show up in the city, there are no churches. And um And so God's doing a great work through this. And the way these people learned of Christ was simply through a man, Paul, and his partner Silas, and as I said, perhaps a few others traveling along with them. But the way these people learned of Christ, found any hope of salvation, was because one man and his partners were willing to yield themselves to the Lord Jesus Christ, answer his call to go to the mission field And they went out and took the gospel. And it's through their witness, their commitment to Christ, their preaching the gospel that these churches are established and souls are being saved. I want to suggest just real quickly right up front here, our world still needs Paul and Silas's. Our world still needs people who are willing to commit themselves and dedicate themselves, their lives, to taking the gospel to cities and regions where they have never heard of the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, Brother Lemon, this is 2017. Surely by now, everybody, every community, everybody in the whole world knows the gospel. I hate to say this, but there are millions and millions, perhaps billions of people that know nothing of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the need is great. Well two weeks ago we had our Bible time rally And uh Thursday night of the rally we always have what we call destination unknown. We take the teenagers, the day teens, the night teens, we take them, we take them out somewhere, they don't know where we're going, play football and and uh have a good meal, and we preach to them. And uh for the last several years I've always asked the evangelists, I said, at the end of the night, we have a big bonfire or whatever, we have testimonies and things. I said, if you'll just give me a few moments, I want to leave a challenge with our young people. And I've been doing this now for about five, six years. And what I try to do is I challenge these young people, if they would seek the Lord and be willing to give their entire lives. To taking the gospel to a nation or a city or a region of the world that has never heard the gospel, to give their lives to uh uh their entire lives to reach people With a message of salvation that will never hear it if they do not go. And that is the challenge to our churches today. We've adopted Kazakhstan as our missions nation. And I'm telling you, we thank God for two missionaries we have over there since we've adopted. Uh we've been able to see two missionaries there. Brother Adam, when we first supported him, uh brother Doah, I should say, when we first supported him, then they were had to come off the field for medical reasons. But there's two there now, brother Phillips. And Brother Michael Adams are over there. And I thank God for it. But my point I'm trying to get to is this. There are 17 million people in that country. 17 million. And we have two missionaries. I'm telling you, the need is as great today to have young people and older folks, anybody willing to go and give their lives to take the gospel around the world, that need is as great today as it has ever been. And so Paul, this is a record here of Paul's second missionary journey. And they're going to regions of the world in great cities that have no witness, no churches, no hope apart from the message they're bringing. In Acts chapter 17, what Brother Mark read here a few moments ago, these first nine verses, is uh is a record of an event that took place there in the city of Thessalonica. There's a bit of an uprising. There is a pushback, so to speak, of Paul and Silas showing up and preaching the gospel. And I want to, just by way of introduction, I want to uh uh make a few observations. The first one I notice here is this. I notice Paul's custom. If you would, look with me at verse number two and the first part. It says this. And Paul, well verse one, they show up Didn't Paul didn't Mark do a good job reading the names of those cities? I was impressed. I mean he read them all I have no idea whether he pronounced them right or not, but it sure sounded good. So they go to these cities here, and there was a synagogue of the Jews in verse 2. And Paul, and this statement caught my attention, as his manner was. And Paul, as his manner was. Now, what do you think the Bible means when it says as his manner was? That would be what? Yeah, the way he did it. His custom is what the word I'm using. His how many people recognize this? His MO Right, method of operation, is that correct? Uh I mean that's that this is the way he did it. And Paul, there were some things about Paul, you just knew this is what he's gonna do. No matter what the circumstances, no matter what the situation, Paul had a custom. He had a manner. He had an MO He was going to do certain things. So I looked here and I noticed his manner, his mode of operation was first of all to begin in large cities If you study the book of Acts very carefully, they would always target large populations, densely populated areas. They would target that. And then from there they would spread out into the more rural areas. I think that is very good strategy A very strategic thought on Paul's part, and I believe God leading him to get where the most people are, get the gospel to where the most people are, and then from there it would spread out into the less populated areas. Our cities in the United States of America desperately need the gospel of Jesus Christ. And uh we're of course a very rural area out here, and rural areas need the gospel also But I'm very much concerned that the cities of our nation are being abandoned by the independent fundamental gospel preaching uh churches and evangelists and missionaries of our day And so Paul's custom was to go, he'd go to very populated areas first. He'd go where he could reach the most people in the limited amount of time he had. And he was very effective in that. Another aspect of his custom or his MO was that he would begin with the Jews. To the Jews first. Did you catch that there? It says at the end of verse 1, there was a synagogue of the Jews. His matter was to go in unto them. Those in the synagogue. Now that's a biblical mandate to the Jew first, and also to the Greeks. These are God's people. And so Paul, I believe, under the leadership of the Lord, and that the direction of God would go into a city, he'd find some Jews there, some synagogues, Jewish places of worship. And he would approach them. Why would he begin with them? One, they're God's people. And two, they believe the Bible. He would not have to establish the authority of scriptures with these folks. He had somebody who already had that established and he could reason with them out of the scriptures. And so he would begin with the Jews. He would begin with those that had a little bit of an understanding of what he was saying. And then from there he would go out to the Gentiles who knew nothing of Jehovah, who knew nothing of a Messiah, who knew nothing of God Almighty as uh presented to us as the true living God And so Paul's custom was he would go to the most densely populated areas, he would find some folks who at least had a basic understanding of what message he was bringing. And he would begin with that. But here's the thing about his custom was it was always to preach the gospel. Paul's goal, and we touched on this last week, Paul's goal in every one of these cities was not to amass a great following, was not to raise up great offerings, but it was to get people saved Get people to trust Jesus Christ as their Savior so they could be saved from sin and from hell. And so the first thing I notice here is Paul's custom. Reach as many people as he possibly could using God's methods to get people to the Savior. The second thing I noticed by way of introduction is Paul's courage. Look again at verse number two. And Paul, as his manner was, Went in unto them. Now I may be stretching this a little bit, but I want to set suggest it took a uh a little bit of, excuse the crude language, guts. Let me put it this way. It took some intestinal fortitude. That's a little more tooth. Forget that. It took guts For Paul to show up into the city and uh in this case a hostile environment and to go into the people and say, hey, I got a message from God. Let me tell you about the Lord Jesus Christ. One thing I've studied Paul and studying over the years, the life of Paul. One thing you cannot say about Paul, you cannot say Paul was timid. I mean, Paul was bold. Paul was courageous. He reminds me, Paul reminds me of a seasoned fireman. Who are houses on fire and there are people trapped in there. And he's not standing back saying, oh, how are we going to get them? Oh, what are we going to do? Oh. But I picture in my mind, the mental picture I have as Paul is the seasoned fireman. There's people trapped in there. He knows exactly what to do. He knows exactly how to get them out there, and he barges right in there grabs them and drags them out and save their life. That's the way I view Paul. Very bold, very confident with the gospel And he'll step into a strange city and a strange synagogue, and he'll stand up and let me proclaim to you the Lord Jesus Christ, the Messiah that God has promised for all these years. And so I see here, as I look at the Paul in this case and throughout the scriptures, I see great courage about Paul, nothing timid about him. Now here's the thing. Fear is a great hindrance to the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now I want to be very, very careful because I'm as guilty of this as anybody, but sometimes we will shy away from telling someone of Christ. We will shy away of sharing the desperately needing gospel of Jesus Christ someone because we're a little bit timid. Right or wrong? What do we think? Oh, what will they think of me? How will they react? I don't know, they might get mad at me. They might say some hateful things to me. They might reject me. Uh and there's a real you know, it's part of life, that's it. And uh and a lot of us but Paul uh in his mind, I see it this way, in his mind These people are in sin. They're dying. They're on their way to hell. If somebody doesn't get the gospel to them, they're going to die and go to hell. And I will not be afraid. I will not be timid. I'll approach them And I'm telling you, we need a little bit of that in our day and age, yes or no? I like the way the Christians prayed in Acts, I believe it's chapter 4. They said, Lord, grant unto thy servants that with all boldness We may speak the Word of God as we ought to. I tell you, fear is a very, very powerful hindrance to evangelism and getting the gospel to other people, we must overcome our fear. I'd venture to say, how many folks here, you're saved, you know it. Say amen. I venture to say every one of us that just said amen, that no we're saved, we know somebody that desperately needs the gospel. Am I right or wrong? And fear will be a huge factor in keeping us from sharing the message of Christ with them. Fear is rooted in pride. It's all about me. What will they think about me? How will they treat me? How will they react to me? And what we need to do is die to self, get pride out of the way, overcome that fear, look to the Lord, seek the filling of his Holy Spirit. and share the message of Christ very tactfully, compassionately, but very boldly, sharing the gospel with others. We desperately need that. Paul had that. We need it in our schools with the young people. I thank God, but we have some young people in our church that are very bold in their witness in schools. And they're sharing Christ with others. We have men and women out in the workplace that are very bold to share the gospel tactfully, very wisely, but sharing the gospel with other people. And so we're grateful for that. But fear, by the way, sometimes fear will not just keep a person from sharing the gospel with others, but sometimes fear will keep a person from trusting Christ. Fear, what will my friends say? If I get saved, if I really accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, God changes my life and He saves me. What will my friends think of me? Oh, what will the guys at work say if I get saved? What will my family say if I trust the Lord, if I become a Christian? Fear is a powerful uh hindrance to not just sharing the gospel, but sometimes people getting saved in the first place. I want to say this. There is not a person on planet Earth that is worth going to hell for. Say, oh my friends, they won't be my friends if I get saved. Listen, your friends are not worth going to hell for. Amen or not Say, oh, what will my family say? As much as we love our family and thank God for them, they are not worth going to hell for. And by the way, if you get saved, you may be the one that opens the door to bring salvation throughout that family. And the others come to Christ. So Paul's courage here, he's very bold. Nothing timid about him in coming in here and sharing the gospel with others. Another observation I make here real quickly is Paul's commission. Look at verse number two, the last part. It says, In three Sabbath days He reasoned with them out of the scriptures. Alright? What's he reasoning with them? What's he uh going through and trying to convince them and he's he's uh presenting his arguments and presenting his case and trying to persuade them to trust. Christ, notice, opening and alleging that Christ must needs have suffered and risen again from the dead, and that this Jesus whom I preach unto you is Christ What's he preaching to them? What's he reasoning with them? It's the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ died for your sins, according to Scriptures. He was buried, and he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. His commission is to take the gospel of Jesus Christ into all the world. And that's what he's doing. That's what it's all about. Now, I preached on this last week, and I just want to reiterate it here. The purpose for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church's existence is to get the gospel to everybody around the world. That's why we exist. Why do you keep saying that, preacher? Because that's why we exist. It's our purpose. Should we help people? Yes. There are other things we do and say, yes, but our purpose, our goal, our underlying reason for our existence is to get the message of Christ out to all the world. And so Paul's commission here is to give the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. By the way, I thought it was interesting. He reasoned with them out of the scriptures. out of the scriptures. We do not give the world our version of the gospel. We do not give the world our version of Christianity And by the way, there are all kinds of versions of Christianity out there. There are all kinds of versions of the gospel out there But there is only one genuine way to be saved, and that is the Bible way to be saved. Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me I had a lady, uh I assume it was a lady, because it was very negative and critical of me. So uh no I'm I I didn't mean that totally. But I got this letter from a person, I should say. And um, oh, you folks out there at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, you think you're the only ones going to heaven. You think you're the only ones getting saved. I mean it just went on and on how we're the only ones, we think we're the only ones right, we think we're the only ones that are saved, we think we're The only ones going to heaven She was absolutely 100% wrong. And I knew f figured out somehow, I don't remember, but I figured out who the pastor was, went and talked to him about it, and he says, listen, we don't think that our church doesn't believe that. I don't preach that. I said, we're not the only ones going to heaven. We're not the only ones saved, but there's only one way to get to heaven. There's only one way to be saved. And that's through the Lord Jesus Christ. That's through the Lord Jesus Christ. So Paul's commission was to give the gospel, but the scriptural version of the gospel, not Man's version of the gospel. Then I notice here, as I'm coming down through here, I notice Paul's conversions. Look at verse number four. And some of them believed. How about that? Paul and Silas show up in the city, and uh he goes into the synagogue. We don't know what the size is, we assume it's a pretty good-sized synagogue. He gets uh an audience together. He begins reasoning out of the Old Testament scriptures, showing them uh that Christ needs to suffer. And that he would rise again from the dead, and that Jesus Christ is Jesus is the Christ that the Old Testament scriptures spoke of and prophesied of. Jesus Christ has fulfilled all of these Prophecies that the Messiah, that God promised would come. He's the Christ, He's the Messiah, He's the Savior, and He's reasoning with them and He's convincing them, and lo and behold, some people get saved. Some people believe. And look, read on there. Notice what it says. And some of them believed and consorted with Paul and Silas. And of the devout Greeks, all right, it's outside the synagogue now. These are not Jews, and of the devout Greeks a great multitude, and of the chief women, not a few. And so Paul is giving the gospel out. He's reasoning out of scriptures. He's showing them from the Bible that Jesus is the Messiah. He's the Christ. He's the Savior. And lo and behold, some of the Jews believe. And the Greeks are getting in on this. And a whole multitude of them accept Christ as Savior. Their lives are transformed. Some of the leading women in the city hear this, they get saved. Paul has conversions. Listen, we give the gospel out, it's a fact. Not everybody's going to get saved. We give out gospel tracts. We visit people. We go out every Thursday. We try to get out Saturday. Sometimes during the week I try to get out and knock on doors. We go out and visit, we take mission trips, we give out the scrap scriptures, and it didn't take me long in my Christian service to find out not everybody's going to get saved. However, some will. Some will. And when we know and we are convinced that if I give the gospel out, maybe not everybody's going to get saved, but some people will That keeps us going. That keeps us going. That keeps us going. So Paul had some conversions. Not everybody that you witness to is going to get saved, but I'm telling you, if you stay at it, some will And by the way, those that do get saved, not all of them are going to get baptized, but some will. And of those that do get baptized, not of them, all of them are going to go on and live for God. But some will. And of those that go on and be faithful to God, not all of them are going to go off to the mission field or surrender to go into the serve the Lord in ministry of some capacity, but some will And so if we are faithfully in giving out the Word of God, if we are faithful in sharing the gospel with people, we may not see the biggest numbers. Not everybody's going to get saved But I am convinced in the power of the gospel that we give it out faithfully, God will save some souls. He always comes. He goes, When's your first snow going to be? I said, I have no idea. Well, I don't want to come down when it snows. I said, well why don't you come uh we were talking the other month ago, I said, why don't you come down in September? No, it might snow then. Well, it might, but I doubt it. And Dad comes down, he says, Man, every time I come down, there's like there's new faces. And other people come, I come to church here and an evangelist come through. We come through here and we see new faces, new people in the church. And listen, it's not It's not some great preacher, it's not some great programs. I think we have wonderful programs, and I kinda like your preacher a little bit. In a humble way. But um That's not what saves souls. That's not what changes lives. It's the gospel. It's the power of the Word of God. I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. And I believe if you and I, as individual Christians, faithfully give out the Word of God, give out the gospel to folks around us, our community, anywhere and everywhere we can Not everybody's going to get saved, but I'm telling you if we stay at it some will. And by the way, sometimes those conversions we never know about them We never know about it. I use this often, but uh Sean Lundy down in Brazil. What a powerful illustration of the effectiveness of the gospel. Somebody left a gospel track on his windshield wiper, I think he was at Walmart or somewhere. Went on, they went on their way. Sean gets it. He reads it, sticks in his pocket. A week or so later he goes through, reads it carefully. He trusts Christ as his Savior, goes to the church there. in uh s in uh Oklahoma City, uh goes and and tells them he's gotten saved. They counsel him, give him assurance he gets baptized. Today he's in Brazil as a missionary, been there for 30 years Here's the thing, I'm convinced the guy that put that track on his windshield has no idea to this day the impact that track had on Sean's life. What I'm trying to say is this, the gospel is powerful. And we give it out, we give it out, we give it out. We may not see the direct results But some people will get saved. So Paul has conversions in this heathen city, in this uh Jewish synagogues, and some believe, and many, a great multitude of the Jews turned to Christ, and of the Greeks, I should say, turn to Grace, and of the of the uh chief women, not a few. And then I notice uh uh uh Paul's conflict Now here we go, verse 5. But the Jews which believed not, moved with what? Envy. I believe a lot of the unrest in our society today is nothing more than envy. Envy. Wanting what other people have. Discontent with what God has done. They're moved with envy, took unto themselves, I love the wording here, certain lewd fellows, fellows of the baser sort. Anybody find that amusing, this the way that sort of lewd fellows of the baser sort. Sounds like your clientele, Tom. And uh a little bit. I'm sorry Lewd fellas of the baser sort. So they they get these rabble rousers and these guys that uh and gather a company and set all the city on an uproar. Now who is it that's setting the city on an uproar? The lewd basers of the lewd fellers of the basers sort, right? Gather company and they set the whole city on an uproar. And assaulted the house of Jason and sought to bring out bring them out to the people. And they found them not. Paul's not there in Silas. And they drew Jason and certain of the brethren, these are people that got saved, to the rulers of the city. These that have turned the world upside down. Wait a minute. Who's the one that stirred up everything? Was it Paul and Silas and Jason? No, it was those lewd fellers. Basically, they're the ones that stirred everything up. They got the whole city in an uproar. And then they come up and say, these guys did it. These guys did it. They turned the world upside down. I'm telling you, this has been a common accusation throughout history. Something goes bad, and they blame the Christians. They blame the Christians. God told Cain and Abel to bring a sacrifice. Abel did exactly the way God said. He brought the blood sacrifice. Cain took it upon himself to bring the fruit of the ground. The harvest, the wheat or whatever it was, he got his crops and vegetables. He says, I'm not killing any sheep. It's a bloody mess. I'm not killing any lambs. I'm going to do this my way. And God had respect for Abel's sacrifice, but he rejected Cain's. And Cain got it in his head that it was Abel's fault. And he killed Abel. That has been the precedent all through history. It's God's people's fault. It's the people of God. They're the ones. Our world would be wonderful if it wasn't for the people of God in it. Ahab is uh uh is approached by Elijah. Ahab, the most the one of, if not the most wicked king of Israel. Did I ever mention I don't like Ahab? Every time I preach about him, I say that. You know why I say that? Because I don't like him He was nasty. He was a coward, weak, cowardly, nasty, yucky person. And he's approached by Ahab, and he's and he's he he is has a he is corrupting the people of God. And they are in a disaster as a mess. And he's approached by the great prophet of God, Elijah. And what does he say? Thou that troublest Israel. All our problems in our country are because of you, Ahab. You keep Preaching against what we're doing. You keep saying what we're doing is sin. You keep preaching against the wickedness and ungodliness of our country. If it wasn't for you, we'd be fine, we'd be happy, everything would be fine Blame the people of God. Blame the messenger. Blame the people of God. I like Elijah's response. He goes, oh no. It's not me troubling Israel. You are troubling Israel because you will not obey God. I'll tell you, the troubles in the United States of America are not because of scriptural living scriptural preaching, scriptural principles, it's because America is abandoning the things of God. They can blame Christians, they can blame the Word of God, they can blame Christianity all they want In June 12, oh, by the way, they accused Jesus, the Son of God. He's causing sedition. He's blaspheming God. Listen, the last thing the world Jesus ever did was blaspheme God. He is God for Pete's sake. He didn't cause sedition. He says, listen, render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar. He says, My kingdom's not of this world. He told Pilate, I'm not a threat. To you or your kingdom, your authority? This isn't my kingdom. And yet they accused him of sedition. On June 12th, 2016, a little over a year ago. A young Muslim man walked into a sodomite bar in Orlando, Florida, and he gunned down 49 people, wounded 58 others. He killed 49, wounded 58 others. And almost immediately, almost immediately, in the social media and some of the media, the news media outlets out there, almost immediately They started saying it's Christians' fault. It's Christians. If they wouldn't preach against this lifestyle, if they wouldn't Condemn this this this uh the sin of sodomy. If they wouldn't preach against that, then this fellow would never have done that. And there was a large uprising blaming Christians For a Muslim fellow that went in and shot down sodomites. What I'm trying to say is this. What took place here with Jason When they said these people are turned the world upside down, has been happening throughout history up until this day. They've turned the world upside down. They've turned the world upside down. My response is this. If people being saved from sin is turning the world upside down, then the world needs to be turned upside down. If people being saved from hell through the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, if if if people believe in Christ and having their souls saved from eternity in hell, if that's turning the world upside down, then The world needs to be turned upside down. If churches being established in cities around the world is what is turning the world upside down then the world needs to be turned upside down. If drunkards becoming sober is turning the world upside down, then this world needs to be turned upside down. If liars becoming honest, if fornicators becoming pure, if adulterers become faithful, if thieves become honest, then homes and marriages are restored And hateful people become loving. If that is what's turning the world upside down, then the world needs to be turned upside down. Spell has come in here preaching Christ. People are getting saved. Their lives are being changed. Drunkers are becoming sober. Marriages are becoming happy and pure, and fornicators are becoming faithful and righteous and pure. These guys are turning the world upside down. Well, then that means the world needs to be turned upside down. Am I right or wrong? Our world needs to be turned upside down with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We need an upside-down world. The world needs to be turned upside down in its view of sin. This world has a backwards view of what sin is. World says I'm okay, you're okay. Live and let live. Hey, you do your thing, I'll do my thing. Oh, just everybody do what's right in their own eyes. It's pretty much the mentality of the world, right or wrong. You hardly hear anybody. You hardly hear any pulpits anymore preaching against sin. Especially not in any specific way. And God have mercy on the person that does name sin, the wrath of this world falls down on them. This world has an upside down view of what sin is. Sin is no longer sinful. It's an alternative lifestyle. It's in a it's getting it's not adultery, it's emotionally involved. It's not stealing, it's not laziness, it's just my entitlement I'm telling you, sin is just as sinful in 2017 as it ever as when Moses stood on the Mount Sinai and God gave the Ten Commandments. And this world needs the message that sin is a grievous, wicked thing in the eyes of God. Man is basically good, the world says. Oh, I'm not perfect, but I'm not that bad. When I was in Bible college down in Chattanooga I got a job at uh working at a hospital, and most of y'all know that situation and all the little things I say about it. I work in the surgery department of the hospital, and I'll put away all my little antics. And I did cleaning. I I was I'd clean up the operating rooms after work. Work from three to eleven. Uh five days six five days a week. When I got in there, I was introduced and they showed me around a little bit and starting to get to know some people. And one of the OR technicians, he's the guy when the doctor says scalpel, he went scalpel. He says clamps, he'd give clamps. So he was the technician, OR technician. He was, he made it very, very clear, and it was very obvious. That he was a sodomite. He told me right up front, he knew I was from temple, he knew what I was, everybody did. And he came up and says, Listen, I want you to know this is what I am. I said, Well, I kind of figured that out. And we worked together for a number of years. I worked in that department for about four years. And uh actually to be honest with you, he was a nice guy. I liked the Rodney's name. He's a nice guy, and we'd banter back and forth a little bit, but I'd witness to him. Always try and share the gospel with him every chance I could. One day and and i it was you know after four or five o'clock the surgery's pretty much finished up for the day and a lot of it was just sitting around waiting for emergencies to come in so I'd get studying the different things. I was preparing a message And my message was from Jeremiah 17, 9. The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. So I'm back in the back room there and uh the operating table, I got all my books and notes and Bibles spread out on the operating table and got oxygen. No, not really. Help me prepare, you know. And um anyway, old Rodney sticks his head in. Dennis, what are you what are you doing? I'm preparing a message. What are you preaching on? Really? Yeah. Said, well, and preach to him the fact that our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. He immediately took offense. And we've gotten this big Debate. Argument. And he's and this was his this was his argument. He's saying, there's no inner world that mankind is that bad. We're not desperately, we're not perfect. He says we can put people on the moon. He says we can do brain surgery. And they had just done a big Surgery, it was all through the hospital, big brain surgery in one of the rooms. There was big deal. We do brain surgery. We do heart transplant. He went down this list of technology and accomplishments that man has. He says, we are not that bad. I said, Rodney, you're missing the point. The advancement of technology has nothing to do with the immorality That saturates mankind. And I said, Rodney, you and I, in and of ourselves, in our own natural state, are wicked. And as sinful as possible, we have nothing good in ourselves. We are fallen creatures under the judgment of God. And he says, that is not true. He rejected it completely. I'm suggesting you this world needs to be turned upside down in its understanding of sin. Nobody will ever get saved until they realize how sinful they really are. God doesn't save good people. God doesn't save righteous people. God saves sinners People who see themselves as vile and wretched and ungodly before a holy God, without hope of salvation, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. And until our pulpits and until our Christians start sharing with this world and pointing out to this world how sinful we really are. Nothing's going to change in this world. Nothing's going to turn around. The world needs to be turned upside down in its view of sin. Take your Bible with me real quick Turn over to Romans, not far away. Romans chapter 1. Listen to what the Bible says about mankind. You say, oh, we're really great. We're something. Look at Romans chapter 1 and verse number 20. For the invisible, I'll get started, catch up when you get there. Romans 1. 20. For the invisible things of him, God, from the creation of the world are clearly seen. Being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so they are without excuse. Now look at this. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God Neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. They said, Oh yeah, uh there's God, sure, but uh uh the uh uh uh I'll tell you how it is about God. And they just come up with their own ideas about God. And it's amazing to me, even within Christianity, even within folks that claim to be saved And they come and try and tell me how things are about God. It's as far away from Scripture as possible. Now read on. He says they got this distorted view of God. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools And change the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like the corruptible man, to birds and four-footed beasts and creeping things. Wherefore, God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own hearts to dishonor their own bodies between themselves. Who changed the truth of God into a lie and worshiped and served the creature more than the Creator who is blessed forever. For this cause, God gave him up to vile affections, and he goes down through here and addresses almost unspeakable sins. Come down to verse number 28. Even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which are not convenient. Now he describes mankind Filled with unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, full of envy, murder, debate, deceit, malignity, whispers Backfighters, haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents, without understanding, covenant breakers, without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful. Who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them. That's God's description of mankind. It is not a pretty picture. It is a picture of a mankind that has fallen in sin. And apart from the Lord Jesus Christ has no hope. Say, preacher, I came to church today hoping you'd make me feel good. You make me feel like a sinner. You know what we are? We're sinners. See how does this help people? Several years ago, two thousand let's see, I wrote the date down here, two thousand fourteen. Now is in the fall. That summer and the fall going into 2014, I had started having fizzy spells. And a couple times at Sunday night after church I'd lay in bed and the whole thing was just spinning around. And I wasn't didn't know what was going on. I didn't give it much thought, just kind of pushed brushed it off. There was a couple times that fall I was up on the platform, and it's almost always Sunday nights. Several times I was on the platform here where I got so dizzy I almost collapsed. I had to catch myself two or three times. Then it started happening throughout the week. And I became concerned. My wife was sure I was going to die any minute. So I she convinced me to go to the doctor. And so we went to the doctor. I said, I don't know what this is, probably nothing. Um, but my wife made me come here. And he goes, well, let's do some work. And at first he thought I was having little mini strokes in the back of my brain. And um they They ruled that out. They did some blood work of the things. He said, I found out why you're doing it. He says, now some of y'all got things that are far worse than this, so I don't I don't mean to diminish anybody else's condition, but for me, this scared me to death. He said you're pre-diabetic. Your sugar levels are very high. And we think that that's what's causing the dizziness. I'm telling you what, that turned my world upside down. That scared me to death. I did not want to become diabetic. And so I immediately committed myself to lose weight. I mean people remember that time I lost a ton of weight there, about forty forty-some pounds. You know one of the best things in the world was for me, was for that doctor to turn my world upside down. You follow what I'm trying to say? He showed me something was wrong. He showed me something was out of whack in my body physically and it needed to be addressed. And I'll tell you, when we take our Bibles and we show people, lost people from the Bible that they are sinners That spiritually they're out of whack and under the judgment of God. What we want to do is turn their world upside down so that they'll respond to that and come to Christ and trust them as Savior. The world needs to be turned upside down in its understanding of sin. As long as the world doesn't view itself as it really is as sinners, they're not going to turn to Christ, they're not going to find salvation, they're not going to be born again, they're not going to have a home in heaven. And so we need to turn the world upside down concerning its understanding of sin. The world's got that out of whack. On January 1st, 1979, I began reading my Bible. My life was a mess. I've told you this story a million times. The more I studied my Bible, the more I realized how sinful I was. For five months, my understanding of who and what I was became clearer and clearer and clearer. I was a sinful uh uh ungodly wicked man be f standing before a holy God. I desperately needed a Savior. So we need to turn the world, my world was turned upside down when I realized how sinful I really was, and that I needed a Savior. I mean and with this, the world's view of the Savior needs to be turned upside down. 1 John 1, verse 6 through 12, the Bible says that he came into his own. His own received them not. They comprehended him not. The world doesn't understand who and what Jesus is. They might have some facts about him, but they don't really grasp. The world views Jesus Christ as a great teacher. Oh, yeah, he's great. Sermon on the mound, great teaching. The Golden Rule. What a great teaching. Jesus is a great teacher. Jesus is a great teacher, but that's not what he is. It's more that. The world views Jesus Christ as a religious leader. He started the Christian movement. He's more than a religious leader, he's more than a great teacher. Oh yeah, Jesus is my butt country and Western singers. Yeah, Jesus and me in my pickup truck If you ask me to do it again, I'm not going to be able to do that. Just a good old buddy, old Jesus. Listen, Jesus is not a just a good old, he's not a good old buddy. He's not simply a good teacher or a religious leader. Oh, Jesus, that old man upstairs. I tell you, nothing gets under my skin more than people referring to Almighty God as the old man upstairs. Jesus is King of kings and Lord of Lords. He is the sinless, holy, Son of Almighty God I'd like for you to go one more verse with me if you would. Turn to Philippians chapter number two. For I got saved, Jesus Christ meant nothing to me. Jesus Christ was simply a swear word. Jesus Christ was somebody that religious nuts were captivated with. Jesus Christ lived long ago and far away. The last person in the world I was interested in. But I tell you what, when my world was turned upside down, realized how sinful I really am, how I was under the wrath of Almighty God, suddenly Jesus Christ. took on some significance. You follow what I'm trying to say? Suddenly, he became my only hope of salvation And by the way, if you're here this morning and you don't know for sure you're saved, you may be religious as anybody in this room. But if you've not been born again, if you've not trusted Christ, Jesus Christ is your only hope of salvation. Jesus Christ is your only hope of escaping hell. He's your only hope of having any decent life as far as God and eternity is concerned. Jesus Christ went from simply being a swear word to some religious nut. Suddenly he became, I desperately needed him to save me. My world was turned upside down in my understanding of the Savior. I learned that He was the creator of the whole universe. I learned that He is King of all kings. And Jesus is Lord of all Lords. And there is no God beside him. Jesus. Look at Philippians chapter 2. I want to begin reading in verse number 5. Philippians, let me get there. And verse Philippians two and verse number five. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who be in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of man. And being found in fashion as man as a man, he humbled himself And became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Jesus Christ died on that cross for your sins and mine. He paid the punishment for our ungodliness. Wherefore, verse 9, God hath highly exalted him. This is the Jesus we're talking about. And given him a name which is above every name. Listen to this That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, things in heaven and things in earth and things under earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. I came across a quote not long ago. Atheism is a temporary condition. Right? We were um who was with me? We were just with last week. Was that you, Dale? Uh Thursday night. We were out visiting. And uh we went up and a guy's sitting on the porch, he's got his his beer We're talking. He was very nice and we gave him some stuff and some literature and I said and gave him a tract. I said, this tract tells you how you know for sure when you die your sins are forgiven you're on your way to heaven. Oh thank you. I said um Do you ever think about that? No, I'm not too interested in that. I said, well can if you got a minute, can I show you from the Bible? I'm an atheist. So Dale had a illustration he was going to give him, got a guy he worked with, and I mean he shut us down. We left there, our hearts were heavy. And told Dale, I said, Well, at least we got a gospel track. You have no idea how God might use that. Just the few words we said, how God might bring great conviction on that young man. The fact of the matter is that young man, his atheism is a temporary condition. Because there's a day coming when he and everyone else that has ever existed He's going to bow before Jesus Christ and acknowledge him for who he really is, King of kings and Lord of Lords and God Almighty God Almighty. This world needs to see that. Needs to be turned upside down in its understanding of who Jesus Christ is. Our community needs to see. Our community needs what Paul and Silas did years ago. Needs to be turned upside down with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Going out door to door. Every home in Garrett County and surrounding areas. Listen, I am convinced That every home in Garrett County and surrounding areas ought to have a Christian approach that door and share the message of Jesus Christ to lost sinners who desperately need him as Savior. God forbid that one door, one home, would be neglected by Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church in getting the gospel out. Every city in the United States of America ought to have red-hot preaching pulpits and churches and soul-winning churches, going through those cities, pointing people to the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen or not? Every nation in the world ought to be filled with soul-winning Bible-believing preachers and soul-winners. Turn this world upside down so they can find salvation in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you challenge us and help us. Help me I need revival in my heart, Lord, to being a soul winner and sharing the gospel with others. I pray you'd revive our church. Give us a new vision. Turn this world upside down as Paul and Silas and others did. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many preachers, how many folks here tonight would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved? I know I am. God saved me. You'd say, preacher, pray with me. I'd be more effective, more urgent, a little more bold in my witness and sharing the gospel with others Maybe you share my concern that not one home in this entire area is overlooked with the gospel, but every home has opportunity. To hear the gospel. Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray with me. I need God to revive my heart as far as far as soul winning and witnessing this thing. God bless you, hands all around. You say, preacher, you've kind of been harping this lately. Yes, I know. Maybe it's because I need it in my heart. Maybe our church needs to be stirred again. To be very, very aggressive, very bold in turning this world upside down with the gospel. How many folks this morning say, preacher, I know someone that's not saved? I don't want to be judgmental, but I know they're lost. And they need Christ. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me to be wise and compassionate, but bold. And sharing Christ with them. Anybody like this? I know somebody specifically that needs Christ. I need to be a witness to them. God bless you. Pray. That's what they did in Acts. Pray. Lord, grant to thy servants with all boldness. We speak the word of God as we ought. And God will help us. He surely will. He surely will. There's someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven, going to hell. So I really need to get that settled. You'd say, preacher, pray with me, that God will help me settle that, that I can know. But Jesus Christ is my Savior. I'm forgiving me. I have a home in heaven. Any like that, preacher, pray for me. I don't need that settled in my heart and life. I need God to help me. How about it? Father in heaven, blessing our invitation, I ask. Stir our hearts. Revive us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jenny's playing the invitation song now.