John chapter 1, and uh Pastor Matt read down through this passage. I want us to notice, get us started for the message, verse number 40. If you would look with me at verse number 40, it says, And one of the two, these two disciples of John the Baptist, who heard Jesus, heard John speak, and they followed Jesus And it says, one of those two which heard John speak followed him, one of the two which heard John speak followed him was Andrew. Simon Peter's brother, Andrew. And I want to try and preach this morning on this fella named Andrew. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts and help us. Father in heaven, we bow before you again this Sunday morning, this new day of a new week And God, we've assembled together here in your name. And God, we've come to praise you, to worship you, to serve you as a body of believers, as a church. And I ask, Father, that your presence would be here in this service. I think you've all I've already sensed it. Lord, we know you're here, you're everywhere. But I pray you'd make your presence known, be make it very, very evident in our hearts. I pray that the songs we've heard, the music, has already been stirring our hearts to worship you and serve you, trust you. And Lord, now as we come to the preaching. I yield myself to you as the preacher. I present my body anew to you, and I yield my heart and my mind. That you would guide my thinking, my words, my preaching, that it would be exactly in line with your word, exactly what you'd have me say. I ask for the filling of your spirit. And God, I pray you'd challenge us in our faith, our walk with you. Lord, confront us with your word where we need to be confronted. God encourage those that are downhearted. I pray you'd strengthen those of us whose faith may be a struggling. And God, I ask you, convict. Where we need conviction, maybe sin has crept in. Lord, maybe some need salvation. Father, whatever the need is, I pray with all my heart that your Holy Spirit would take your word, apply it to our hearts and lives, that we could trust you, live for you, serve you, as you intend for us to. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Uh I try to very hard in every message and in Sunday school lessons and all of that. I try I have three objectives. In every message I preach, conscious objectives I try and accomplish, one is I want to teach and preach the Bible as it is. In other words, I want to be faithful in my teaching and preaching to the Word of God. I don't want to teach or preach anything that is contrary to God's Word. You with me? So we want to teach this. We want my one of my objectives is to teach and preach the Bible in such a way that we learn something. We get something from the Word of God. Maybe I learned something about the Bible. Maybe I'll learn something through the message. We can learn something about God, who he is, and what he's like. What he expects from us, how he interacts with us, something I can learn about my Creator, my God. I want that in our messages. Something maybe something I learned about myself. What I am, who I am, what I'm like, what I need, what God thinks about me. I want to learn something about this world I live in Why it's here, my interaction with society. All this is given to us in the Word of God. And again, one of my prime my primary objective is to be true in teaching and preaching the Bible You with me? So that's my desire. That's my intention, every message. Second objective is to apply what the Bible teaches to our lives. So, in other words, we don't just walk out of here and say, oh, well, that's some interesting information. I got this, I learned this about the Bible, but I want to know What does what the Bible teaches about God, I want to know how does that apply to my life? How should that affect my daily living? How should that affect the way I think and the way I see things? And how does it affect my values? What is important to me and what is not important? And so I want to teach and preach the Bible. I want to be true to the teachings of Scripture. The Bible term for that is doctrine, what the Bible teaches. And then I want to know how does it apply to our lives? I ask the Lord to help me. Lord in the preaching, help me to present in a way that we can apply it to our lives. Your Holy Spirit can apply it to our lives. And then there's a third objective, and that is this. I want to preach in such a way, with God's help and the Lord doing it, but preach in such a way that we respond to that message. In other words, we don't just learn some facts and we understand how it applies in the life and then walk away and not do anything with it. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? I want, whether it's me preaching or someone else, but in the preaching of the Word of God, I want to learn something. I want to see how that apply to my life. And then I want to decide, okay, this is what I'm going to do with it. I'm going to make this adjustment. I'm going to maybe stop worrying about this and start trusting. I'm going to make this alteration. I'm going to start treating somebody or people differently. I wanted to apply it to my life. And that's where very much the invitation comes in when we give invitations is so that I've learned something, I see how this applies in life, and then I respond, say, Lord, I'm going to trust you. I agree with you. And this is, I want you to help me make these adjustments. So every message, that's our objective. That's what we're asking the Lord to do. Now, this morning, I want us to look. I'm going to try and preach on this fellow, Andrew. We don't know a whole lot about Andrew in Scripture. We're not given much information. He's mentioned 13 times. And again, there's not a whole lot we're told about him. There are some things we do know about this fellow named Andrew. One thing we know, he was a fisherman by trade. In fact, that's repeated numerous times. He was a fisherman. He was a fisherman. In fact, his whole family was involved in the fishing business. Now my impression as I looked at him and uh the family and their their fishing business, I get the impression they were fairly successful. I don't think they were second-rate fishermen. I think Andrew and his family were very, very good at this business, at the business they had. It was probably passed on down to him From his father and to his father, from his grandfather. Um we're not told that, but that's the way it appears to me So one thing we know about Andrew, he was a fisherman. That means he probably was a hard-working man. Would you agree with that Uh he's working with ships and nets and you know this is this is um commercial fishermen. This isn't this isn't uh um uh hobby fishing. It's not uh what's the word I want Um it it's commercial fishing, it's not pastime, it's not it's what recreational fishing. There we go I didn't hardly get time to study. I can't I gotta need you to help me. But um it's not recreational fishing, this is commercial fishing. That tells me it's probably a very, very hard worker. Is hard worker Um tells me something else, the fact that he was a fisherman, his family's fisherman, he's a hard worker, probably calloused hands, muscles, uh, but he was probably very stinky Right? Would you agree? Fishermen. Now they didn't have indoor plumbing, you know, they didn't have showers, they didn't have deodorant, they didn't have stuff like that. They would clean. I don't think he was dirty, but generally Fish are stinky, right? So I don't know. That's just leathermanism there. But anyway, he was a fisherman. Number two, something else we know about Andrew, he was a brother of Peter Notice verse 40, it says, one of the two which heard John speak followed him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. Probably, now we all know this for a fact, but folks that are smarter than me, that are Bible scholars, they suggest that Andrew was probably the older of the two. When they're mentioned, a lot of times Andrew, particularly here, is mentioned first. And so we don't know for certain, but we suspect that Andrew was probably older than Peter. Now, here's the thing about his brother Peter. We know quite a bit about Peter. You read through the Gospels, and Peter is showing up over and over and over. And most of the time, whenever the Bible records something about Peter, Peter is talking. He's opening his mouth. He's saying stuff. And so we pick up a pretty fair picture of what Peter was like as a person. He was bold. He wasn't afraid to speak up. He was brash. Sometimes a little belligerent. He had the audacity on a number of occasions, now this boggles my mind, but on a number of occasions Peter had the audacity to rebuke the Lord Jesus Christ How many people agree with me? That's probably not the best thing to do. I mean, considering in fact Jesus is God, He's omniscient, He knows everything, He's perfect in every way, and this fisherman's going to rebuke the Lord and tell him how it is. Probably not the smartest thing in the world to do. Peter was very impulsive. You definitely get a clear impression that Peter would often speak before he thought. He'd say things. Has anybody here ever been guilty of that? putting the tongue in gear, uh putting the tongue in motion before the brain is in gear. Peter was that way. He was always front and center. And something's going on Peter's right up there. He's in the middle of it. He's in the front of it. He's telling his opinion. He's just there. Now, for those faults, maybe we would say, actually God used those in years later, when Peter is empowered by the Holy Spirit And he becomes a great man of God, and he's used of God in tremendous ways. Now, I said all that to say this about Andrew. Andrew was the polar opposite That's the impression we get from Peter. Peter's front and center always there. Andrew is usually behind the scenes. Andrew is um very seldom do you find him speaking up, a few occasions. Uh when he does say something, when he does speak, there's generally truth in what he's saying. Whereas Peter would just say stuff. Andrew thought things through, my impression is he thought things through. He was reserved He was deliberate. And again, he was behind the scenes. He was like a second man. He's there doing stuff and not getting all the attention. So one, he's a fisherman by trade, his family was. He's a brother to Peter, who's very outspoken, but Andrew is uh more uh quiet and more reserved. One other thing we know about Andrew is he penned no books of the Bible. We don't have any book in the New Testament named after Andrew. We do Peter, we have two. But none by Andrew. In fact, we have no recorded sermons by Andrew in Scripture. Did he preach? I think eventually he did. We'll look at a little bit of what history tells us about him after the Bible was completed, after his later life. So he no doubt preach sermons, but we don't have any recorded in Scripture. He's not given to us as a preacher, a great preacher, a great spokesman He was obviously a tremendous witness. We'll see that here in a little bit. But he wrote no books. He has no sermons. We have no miracles performed that we know of, specifically by Andrew. Peter, we see in Acts where God used him to perform some miracles, but not Andrew. And so he's a fisherman by trade, as his family. He's the brother of Peter, very, very different than his brother. Apparently younger brother. No books written, no sermons recorded, no miracles performed. We do know what his name means. Now this is a little bit interesting for whatever it's worth. The name Andrew is actually a Greek name. Now does anybody Does anybody here see that as being interesting or unique that he would be named given a Greek name The reason that's interesting, the reason that caught my attention, is that Andrew was Jewish. He was raised in a Jewish home. But he was given a Greek name. Now, if you know much about the culture at this time between the Jews and the Greeks, and really the Jews and any Gentiles That was uh generally it was a pretty rocky relationship. The Jews had no time for the Gentiles, and the Gentiles did not think very highly of the Jews. And so why in the world would an apparently faithful Jewish family, they worship Jehovah, they love God, Why in the world would they name their son with a Greek name, a non-Jewish name? Well, the Bible tells us no reason. We don't know. We're not told. We suspect perhaps They were in good relations with some Greeks, maybe. Maybe there may have actually been some intermarriage in the family, and I'm not saying his parents. We know his father was Jewish, his name was Jonah Um but uh and we don't know his mother, we assume, but we don't there may have been some uh friendly relationships they had with Greeks and uh through business deals and whatnot It may have been a business strategy. As fishermen, they would be selling their fish, their wares. Two Greeks would come to the markets, they would buy, and maybe the daddy wanted to be on good relations if If uh Andrew is the oldest, he's the firstborn, maybe give him a Greek name that may attract the Greeks over to their business and get them ahead. We don't know I do like the meaning of Andrew's name. Andrew, the name Andrew means this, manly. Masculine, valiant, courageous. I like the name Andrew. My parents named me Dennis It's a Greek name. Did you know that? Comes from Dionysius. It's a Greek name, Dionysius. I got looking up the meaning. The meaning of the name Dionysius, where Dennis comes from, means God of wine. I'm not sure what my parents were thinking. Or maybe they were. So nevertheless, has nothing to do with Andrew. So his name is Andrew means courageous, manly, valiant And so these are a few things that we study scriptures on this fellow Andrew that we're pretty certain of we pick up. Now I want to make three observations about this fellow Andrew. What we know about him, he's always appealed to me. In fact, if I was pressed and asked Who would be one of my favorite characters, apart from the Lord Jesus, maybe Apostle Paul, but one of my favorite immediate twelve apostles of the twelve apostles, I would say one of my favorite would have to be Andrew. And I'm going to show you some observations that why I think that, why I why I feel that way. Number one, the first thing I observe about Andrew is he was the very first disciple of Jesus Christ. The very first disciple. Look at verse 40 again. We read it. And one of the two which heard John, that's John the Baptist. He's preaching. He just said back in verse 36, John the Baptist had declared, behold, the Lamb of God. Matthew tells us, he said, Behold, the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. Andrew heard that declaration. And he believed. He was convicted and was convinced that Jesus Christ is the Messiah. That Jesus Christ is indeed the Savior of all mankind and of Andrew. And he believes and he receives. And he's the very first to follow Jesus Christ as a disciple. Now, what I thought was interesting here in this whole section of Scripture, John 1, 2, and John chapter 1 particularly, but over into chapter 2 But we have here in this passage before and after what we read, we have four consecutive days in the life of John the Baptist. It's like we have this little window open to us through Scriptures. We have this little window open to us, and we see four days in the life of John the Baptist. If you would, notice with me, verse 19 of chapter 1. It says, and this is the record of John When the Jews sent priest and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, who art thou So here we have this first day, and these four that are recorded for us here will notice, the very first one, we have these Pharisees and these Levites, these religious leaders Jewish religious leaders, they're coming from Jerusalem out to the Jordan River, and they're confronting John the Baptist, and they are demanding of him his credentials, John the Baptist. Who are you? Who do you think you are out here preaching repentance? Now he wasn't part of the good old boys club. He wasn't part of the religious leadership, the denominational, so to speak, leadership of Jerusalem and of Israel. He was the voice Of a man in the wilderness crying out and preparing the way of the Lord Jesus Christ. He was outside the religious box And by the way, we could use some people that are outside the religious box. Now I need to be careful. We must never be outside of the book. But as far as religion and world's religion and man's religion, that is not what we're concerned about. We're concerned about being right with God and preaching the message of God that He has given us. And so they come out, the religious hierarchy, the machinery of the religious leaders of that day come out and they confront John the Baptist. Who in the world do you think you are? What authority do you have to be baptizing and doing all this? He said, I'm just a voice of God. So that was day one in this little window we have here. On day two, notice with me verse 29 of John chapter 1. It says, the next day. After these Pharisees, these religious leaders show up, the next day, John seeth Jesus. Coming to him and saith, Behold, the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. Here you have the declaration of Jesus Christ as the Lamb of God. The sacrifice that is provided by God, just like God told Abraham in Genesis 22, God will provide himself a sacrifice. Jesus Christ is God become man to offer himself as a sacrifice To pay the price for your sins and my sins. I am glad our sins can be forgiven because of Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, paying for my sins for me. And so this is a profound statement. This is a significant point in history. When John the Baptist, behold, the Lamb of God, here he is, the one all through the Old Testament that the prophets have been preaching and prophesying of. The one that all the ceremonies and all the sacrifices of the Hebrew temple all through the years, here he is This is the Savior, the Lamb of God. That's day two on this little window. If you would, notice verse number 35. And again the next day. So here is day three. First day the Pharisees show up. Second day, John the Baptist makes this profound declaration. The third day, the next day after John stood to the disciples, looking upon Jesus as he walked, said, Behold the Lamb of God. He restates. His previous declaration. And the two disciples heard him. Now here you have the conversion of these disciples. They heard John the Baptist preach. They believed it. They trusted Jesus. They received him and they followed him as a disciple. And so you have the conversion of disciples. Then down in verse number 43, we have it says the day following, day four. Jesus would go forth to Galilee and findeth Philip, and he goes and he calls Philip and Nathaniel, and he goes on. His ministry from that point progresses. So we have this transition. This is an important four days. You have this transition from the ministry of John the Baptist He's preaching the gospel of repentance, the gospel of repentance. And people are coming and they're convicted of their sin and they know they're not right and they know they're sinners And they're acknowledging that, and through John's baptism, they're acknowledging, in fact, we are sinners, we need a savior. And now he points to Jesus Christ, and here is the Savior for your sins. He's the one that will take away all these sins you've been convicted. God's been dealing with your heart about all these issues in your life that are contrary to the holiness of God. Here is the one that will take all that away. So this is a significant transition from John the Baptist, and he has his disciples, his followers, and now they're transitioning over, and they're following the Lamb of God, the Son of God. So very, very key phase in the life of John the Baptist, the ministry of John the Baptist. And by the way, after this point, John the Baptist fades off the scene very, very quickly In fact, he made this statement. Speaking of Jesus, he must increase. But I must what? Decrease. I've done my job. I've fulfilled my role I proclaimed the day of the Savior, the Messiah. And now he steps off the scene. Eventually he ends up in prison and martyred. And Jesus is front and center. Jesus is the focus now and has been ever since. And so a key phase here. But I notice in verse 40 that Andrew is the very first one. to grasp what is taking place here. He's the very first one to understand Who John the Baptist was, what his ministry, what his purpose was, what his message was. And to understand that Jesus Christ, He is what this is about. And he follows them. Verse 37 tells us that Andrew was one of John the Baptist's disciples. It says there verse 37, and the two disciples heard him speak. Now, we don't know who that other disciple was, Andrew and some other disciple. And verse 40 says, one of the two which hurt him. So it was Andrew and somebody We don't know who. Uh uh again the idea is possibly, maybe probably, was was John, not the Baptist, but the Apostle John, who penned this book. Because the reason we think that maybe is because most of the time in John he doesn't refer to himself by name And so it's he says one of the two disciples, he doesn't mention the other one, Andrew and doesn't mention the other one, it's very possible it was John himself. He just didn't want to draw attention to himself. Again, not John the Baptist, John the Apostle. And so, John the Baptist preaching, he's pointing people to Christ, he's convincing people to follow the Lord Jesus Christ By the way, any and every good Bible preacher does not preach to get people to follow the preacher, but to follow the Savior. The purpose of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is to not develop a following of a man or any man, but to follow the Lord Jesus Christ with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind. And so he heard John speak, and his heart went to Christ. He heard John speak and his mind was focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. His trust was put in Jesus. Verse 38 and 39 tells us that Andrew spent the day with Jesus. Look at verse 38. Jesus turned and saw them following these two guys, Andrew and whoever the other one was. He saith them, What seek ye? And they said unto him, Rabbi, it means Master. You're the Master. We're seeking you. We want to know you. We want to understand what you're about, what you have to teach us, what we should do Where dwellest thou? Where do you live? He says, come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt and abode with him that day. So they spent the day with Jesus Christ. Jesus' words convinced Andrew that Jesus was who he claimed to be. Jesus' conduct, the way Jesus conducted himself. Convinced Andrew that Jesus was who he claimed to be and was worth forsaking all to live for Jesus Christ. Listen, if we get a hold Of who Jesus is, that He is the perfect Son of God, that He loves me. He loves me enough that he would suffer hell for my sins, that he would take responsibility for the sins I've committed, that I have done. The things I've said, the bitterness in my heart, the filth of my own heart and mine, that Jesus Christ Would take responsibility of all that for me and love me and suffer God's judgment for my sins and then rise again. If we understood that, I think every one of us would say, you know, he's worth dedicating my life to. He's worth following. He's worth being a disciple of. He's worth forsaking all And giving myself completely to him. That's where Andrew was. He's the very first one to get a hold of what Christianity is. Who Jesus is and what it means to be saved and live for God. He got a hold of that. And so the First observation I make about Andrew, he's the first disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. The second observation I make about Andrew is he was faithful to the Lord I look through his life in scripture here, and I find one time One reference where Andrew would have been unfaithful to the Lord. And that was when Jesus Christ was taken by the Roman soldiers. And hauled down to Pilate and falsely accused, and while he's being uh uh while he's has this uh kangaroo court, this false judgment, this all these lies and accusations about Jesus and and uh uh and the whole uh judicial uh machinery of Rome and Jerusalem is turned against Jesus Christ on false premises, false basis. He's condemned At that point, in Mark chapter 14 and verse 50, the Bible says, all the disciples forsook him. And that would include Andrew at that point. Now, I got looking at his life and I studied it as carefully as I could, as thoroughly as I could. And apart from that one event when everybody forsook the Lord Jesus, everybody. Apart from that, I find no unfaithfulness on the part of Andrew. He is faithful. You look at some of the other disciples, and for instance, his brother Peter, he denied the Lord. He didn't well no not only did he Forsake them there to go. He flat out, I don't even know this guy. What are you talking about? I don't know him. He denied the Lord Jesus Christ. But Andrew, we don't see any of that All through the New Testament, we find people, both in the Gospels and later in the New Testament, we find statements about folks that were unfaithful to the Lord Believers, disciples that were unfaithful. But Andrew, I think one of the greatest statements that can be made about a Christian, I hope you'll get this. Everybody with me this morning? One of the greatest statements that can be made about a Christian is this: He is faithful. He said, She is faithful. What can you tell me about this young person? They claim to be a Christian, they claim to be a follower of Jesus Christ. What can you tell me about them? One of the greatest statements that can be made, they're faithful. They're faithful. One of the greatest statements can be made about a church member is they are faithful. They're faithful. Andrew was faithful to the Lord. Now he had that one event, and we understand that, and we don't excuse it, but everybody forsook the Lord at that point. The whole world did. In fact, God turned his back on Jesus at that point. He was bearing the sins of the world. But he was faithful. He was faithful. 1 Corinthians 4 2 says, Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. I don't know about you. I trusted the Lord 46 and a half years ago. I bowed beside my bed and I called down Jesus Christ and asked him to come in my hard life and forgive me and save me. He changed my life. And I don't know how you feel. I don't know I can't speak for you, but I can speak for myself. I want to be faithful to my Lord. I want to be faithful to my Savior, Jesus Christ. I want to be faithful. I want to be faithful to my church. He say, well, preacher, you're the preacher. You've got to be faithful. You get paid to be faithful. Listen, and I appreciate, don't misunderstand, I appreciate all this church does for me. I mean, I'm treated like a kid. Good heavens But I tell you what, I don't want to be faithful to the dollar. I want to be faithful to my church. Whether I'm the preacher or whether I'm uh a bus kid, I want to be faithful to the church. Are you with me? Andrew was faithful. The greatest thing that can be said about a person is they're a Christian is that they're a faithful Christian. I want to be faithful to my Lord. I want to be faithful to my church. I I want to be I want to be a faithful Christian. I want to be a faithful husband. I want to be faithful to my wife. I can't speak for you fellas. That's between you and God. But I want to be faithful, husband. Amen? Are there any men at all with me on this? I'll be faithful to my wife. I want to be a faithful father. And I failed on so many levels But I want to be a faithful witness to my children. My daddy, before he passed away, it was five years ago, his past March daddy went to be with the Lord. But I don't know how many times he moved down here, eighteen months I think it was before he passed away. And uh we were able to spend more time together in that time than I did the last forty-five years of my life And over and over he said he would say, he'd called me Denny, he'd say, Denny, I just pray that I was faithful and had a good testimony to my family. And I tell him over and over, I said, Daddy, you had a tremendous testimony. I'm a saved man because of your faithfulness. I want to be a faithful father. I want to be a faithful Christian. I want to be a faithful church member. I want to be faithful to my Lord. I want to be a faithful pastor. I want to be faithful to the calling God is upon my life. And I think Sunday school teachers would feel this way, but I want to be a faithful Sunday school teacher. Amen. I was a bus worker for six years down in Chattanooga and I had a bus route in Indianapolis for four years and I ran a little van out in Colorado, little church we were trying to get started. I ran around picked up uh uh a whole little Mexican kids and brought 'em in. Half 'em didn't speak English. I don't know what they didn't get anything. They got bubblegum, but that was But as a bus worker, I want to be faithful to the ministry God has given me. Are you with me? A church has never been built on unfaithfulness. No ministry has ever succeeded. No influence has ever been on this world in any significant way with unfaithfulness. Faithful. And Andrew was faithful. He was a faithful Christian. We find nowhere except that one event. Where he forsook the Lord. Other than that, faithful, faithful. And the my last thought is this. I notice he was fervent for souls. He was fervent for souls. Look at verse 41. I love this verse. He first findeth his own brother, Simon, probably his younger brother. He went and found him, maybe down at the shipyard or wherever. He findeth his own brother Simon and saith unto him, We have found the Messiah, which is being interpreted, the Christ. He's saying we found the Savior. We found the one that's going to pay for our sins and we can have eternal life. We can escape hell. We can have a new life. We can go to heaven. We found him. We found him. His first recorded act, the first account we have of Andrew as a disciple, he's bringing someone to Jesus Christ. He's going out looking for them, he finds them, and he brings them to Christ. Of course, it's his brother. And this becomes the pattern through his whole account we have of Andrew. Finding people, bringing them to Jesus. Finding people, bringing them to Jesus. Finding people, bringing them to Jesus. Um Here in John chapter 1, he finds his brother, brings his brother. We don't have time to go to all the passages, but in John chapter 6, verse 8 and 9, there's 5,000 men, plus women and children. They're all Very, very hungry. Jesus said, How are we going to feed these people? The disciples said, we don't got enough money. Good night. Send them home. That's their problem. Good night. Get rid of them. Andrew is there, he sees this little boy. Now I don't know exactly how it all played out, but somehow he comes across this little boy that has a lunch with some uh loaves of bread and fishes, barley loaves of all things. And he takes that little boy. He says, come here. I want you to meet someone. He brings them over. He says, Jesus, here's this little lad. He's got some bread and some fish, but what's that? But the interesting thing was, Andrew saw that if he could just get this little boy and what he had to Jesus, maybe Jesus could do something with it. Say, ah, it's just a little kid down on the street playing, what what would the Lord care about him? Why don't you go get him and bring him to church and introduce him to Jesus And you may have no idea what Jesus might do with that little boy. That's just a bus kid. That's just one of the church kids, the little rug rats running around here. Why don't we introduce them to Jesus Christ like Andrew and see what God might do for them? Amen? So all through here, he's bringing people to Jesus. First his brother, and then this little boy. Then you get over in John chapter 12, verse 20, 21, and 22, and there's some Greeks. Now he's got a Greek name. We don't know why, would speculate on some things. And he finds these Greeks, and they're wanting to see here Jesus. They're wanting They're wanting from Jesus the same thing Andrew wanted whenever he went and spent the day initially with Jesus. And he gets those Greeks and he said, Well, come on, I'll introduce you to him. I don't know about you. I like Andrew. I like Andrew. Someone has suggested that Andrew is the first home missions missionary. When he first got saved, he went and got his brother. His immediate area of influence. The immediate people that he had some influence over, he went and got them and brought them to Jesus. Then in John chapter uh what was He gets these Greeks. They're foreigners. They're outside the nation of Israel. Foreign missions. And he goes and gets them and brings them to Jesus Christ. What an amazing man. A missionary. In every sense of the word. And uh bringing people to Jesus. Bringing people to Jesus. We have the Ingrams here today. Brother Howe and his wife were down in New Zealand for years. We've got 90 some other missionaries. all around the world. You say, what what's the big deal with all these missionaries and faith promise? Good great, that's all we ever hear about. Missions, Great Commission, missionaries Faith promised good night, that's all what is this all about anyway? I'll tell you what it's all about. It's uh all about the same thing Andrew was about, finding people in Kazakhstan and Russia and South America and Brazil and Africa and Europe and New England and and uh where where else? Um New Zealand and Australia and uh Papua New Guinea and do you want me to go down the whole list or you're getting the picture? And going everywhere and just finding people and bringing them to Jesus. It's all about uh Brother Ingram's going to tell stories tonight about people down in Brazil. They just found them and they brought them to Jesus It's brought them, told them about Jesus. Jesus saved them, changed their life. This one lady is an amazing story. What the Lord did. That's what Andrew was about. Just getting finding people and bringing them to Jesus. Finding people and bringing them to Jesus Notice it says it was a priority. He says he first findeth. That word first means first in importance. First in time and place, first in sequence before he did anything else. I'm going to go find Peter and I want him to meet Jesus. I want him to trust Christ. Before I do anything else, more important than anything else I do. I'm not going to invest any time. I'm not going to invest any finances. I'm not going to invest any energy in anything until I get some lost people and bring them to Jesus. First, first, priority, first in importance, first in sequence. Let me say this to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Before we do anything else, we must invest in reaching the lost for Jesus Christ. Missions is front and center. Missions is first. You say, well, what about buildings? What if we need carpet in the basement? We need to redo the basement. We need a nursery. We need this. We need that. Amen. We do. Lord, we're praying, Lord, help us. But we'll sacrifice all of that, if necessary, to get the gospel to people all around the world What would it profit anybody if we have the nicest facilities in the world and we don't tell anybody how to be saved, people die and go to hell? He said, first Top priority. And then it says he findeth. It means he pursued until he found him. To search for something intensely until it's found. It has the idea of relentless. It has the idea of not quitting until I find my brother and get him to Jesus Christ. He found him and brought him. I like Andrew. I don't know a whole lot about him, but what we do, he's faithful. He's fervent in bringing people to Jesus Christ. Does anybody here recognize the name Andrew Edward Kimball? Does anybody recognize the name Edward Kimball? Couple people, couple hands went up. Edward Kimball reminds me a little bit of Andrew. Edward Kimball was a shy, quiet, reserved Um here's my impression, a little bit insecure Sunday school teacher up in New England. And he had a little boy come to his Sunday school class as a visitor, and I don't know how he ended up there, but this little boy showed up in his class, and the little boy, his words, the little boy seemed very ignorant. I know a lot of ignorant folk, but what he meant by that was he was uneducated. If I understand his testimony correctly, this little boy couldn't even read at this point. He taught his class, he dismissed, and that week Edward Kimball got concerned about this little boy. And he gives an account of what he did. He found out the little boy worked in a shoe shop, little shoe store there. And um he let me tell you what he says. He says um he said the little boy was crude and obvious illiterate. But he went to speak and he said, I decided to speak to this boy about Christ, about his soul. Let me just read to you what he says, and then I'm done. I started down to Halton's shoe store. That was the name of the store. When I was nearly there, I began to whether uh wonder whether I ought to go then. uh just then during business hours. I thought maybe my mission might embarrass the boy. Maybe when I left the clerks would give him a hard time, make fun of him and taunt him And um while I was thinking all this stuff, I walked right by the store. I was thinking all this stuff, I walked right by, I realized what he did I did, and he says, I thought about just well, forget it, I'll just go home. But he didn't He said, I went back into the store. He said, I found a boy working in the stock room. He was wrapping and shelving shoes, wrapping up shoes, putting them up on the shelf. Kimball said, I spoke to him with limping words. I cannot even remember what I said to him. Something about Christ, something about his love. That was all He said it was a very weak appeal. He said, but right then and there, that little boy named D. L. Moody Bowed his head and called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be his Savior. Now, if you know anything about D. L. Moody, he was perhaps the greatest evangelist in the history of our country. The power of God. They said when he preached, he could hardly w talk. He was not highly educated. But God's hand was on him in a powerful, powerful way. And a man named Edmund Kimball introduced him to Jesus Christ. Edmund Kimmel never wrote a book, never preached a sermon, never preached on a big platform, but he brought a little boy to Jesus Christ, and millions are in heaven today. Because of what that little boy grew up to be. Isn't that something? That's Andrew. That's you. That's me. Just find people. Bring them to Jesus. Invest in these missionaries. Give what we can, what God tells us. Invest some money and time and prayer in these missionaries. And they go out and they bring people to Jesus. Father, I ask you bless this message. I pray you'd use it. I pray you'd stir our hearts to see others and see the need of Christ. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed this morning, I wonder if there are any would say, preacher, I want to be like Andrew. I want to be faithful. I want to be faithful to my Lord and my church. I want to be faithful to my family, my community. I want to be faithful. Is there any like that? Preach or pray with me. God will help me. Just be faithful. Any like that? God bless you Hands all around. That's what God wants from us. Faithfulness. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I want I want to do my part the best I can. To bring other people to Jesus Christ. I want to do the best I can to help get missionaries out on the field so people can come to Christ. Anything like that? By the uplifted hand, sure. God bless you. Of course we would Now pray. Ask God what He'd have you to do. Ask Him to give us boldness. Ask Him to help us in supporting these missionaries. One last question. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. You say, I don't want to go to hell. And God doesn't want you to go to hell. God doesn't want anybody to go to hell And he's paid the price for our sins, and we can be forgiven if we'll just trust him, if we'll just receive that gift. Is there any this morning say, preacher? I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. Please pray for me. That God will help me get that settled. Is there any like that at all this morning? Please pray for me. That God will help me get that settled. That I can know I'm saved. Any at all Any at all? Father, bless our imitation now I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are clear