The Word of God deals with the condition of our heart and our inner man. I broke this down here into three parts. We're looking at the first one, verses twenty-one through twenty-two. I see that God holds us to a higher standard than what the Pharisees did. Again, as long as you didn't kill anyone, it was all right. But God says, no, wait a minute, we need to deal with the motive behind why you would want to kill someone in the first place. What would prompt someone to kill someone in the first place? We need to deal with that. In other words, we need to deal with the root and not just the fruit The murder is the result of an angry heart, a murderous heart. So we need to deal with the heart. So we're held to a higher standard. Then in verse number 23 and 24, I notice God to have anger, high uh to have uh managed my anger, I need to understand, I'm held to a higher uh standard, but also we need to have a humble sensitivity. And he talks about coming to the altar and they're realizing that somebody's upset with me and there's a little anger issue going on there between me and another person. I need to go and take care of that. I need to make that right So we need a very humble sensitivity. And I've found that if I can be very sensitive to my relationship with others, it certainly will help me control my anger and keep that anger from destroying that relationship And then I notice in verse 25 and 26, we need a real honest submission. Now this is where I did something wrong. And I offended somebody and rather than waiting until it goes to the court of law and waiting until I'm forced to make things right, which is going to be I need a uh I need to humbly and honestly submit myself and say, hey, listen, I need to take care of this. We need to make this right And anger management. We looked at this higher standard. We've noted that both murder and anger are equally condemned. Remember just a reminder, he says in verse twenty-one, he says, Whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of judgment. Then verse 22 he says three times he uses basically that same statement He says, Whosoever is angry with his brother without cause shall be in danger of the judgment, and whosoever shall say to his uh brother Rakah shall be in danger of the counsel, and thou fool shall be in danger of hellfire Now we have to be careful. We don't read too much into these three statements, danger of the judgment, danger of the council, danger of hellfire. We need to be careful, I think, that we don't read too much into that. He's not talking about three different degrees of judgment on these actions. I think he's simply making a very strong statement, hey, this anger in your heart and its expression is just as condemned by God as the actual act of murder And uh we dwelt a good bit on that. And so uh our outline here, and I'm trying to go through this quickly to get caught up to where I want to start tonight. But we pointed out last week, under this higher standard we're held to, the execution of murder is condemned. I think everybody is obvious. It's wrong to murder somebody Everybody agree with me on that? If you don't agree with me on that, see me afterward, please. It is wrong to murder people. Nobody argues that. Everybody knows that It's wrong to murder people. And so that's obvious. The Pharisees, but that's all the farther they took it, as we've been emphasizing. Then we notice in verse 22, he makes takes it a step farther And he says the indulgence in anger is condemned. The execution of murder carrying out the act of murder is condemned. We know that. But indulging anger in my heart is equally condemned. And we spent a good bit of time, and I'll be honest with you, I got more feedback on this a in the uh after the message and and following dates than um uh a lot of messages I preach, I was concerned nobody did, but I got a little concerned people would get angry at me for preaching on anger. In fact, I got very angry for people complaining about my m no nobody complained. But anyway. But as I understand the scripture, I study scripture, I find out that there is n And some people take issue with me and and you know if they can be wrong if they want, but I study scripture, I find that God Says God points out there is no place for anger in the heart of a Christian under any circumstances, period. Oh, but what about righteous indignation? I don't find that in Scripture. Um fact we went to pretty lengthy uh effort last week to point this out, Ephesians chapter 4 verse 29-32. He says very clearly there, put away let all wrath and anger be put away. All I mean, there's no exceptions to that word all. Colossians repeats almost verbatim that same instruction. James chapter 1 and verse 20 says, the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. So he points it out very, very clearly there. In fact, I want to add some scripture to this. I was studying some more. Come with me. Keep your place here in Matthew, because we're going to look at this a little bit. But come with me back to the book of Psalms. And Psalms chapter 37. Whenever you get there, stick a marker in, because we're going to end up in Proverbs here before we finish out tonight. So that way I'll help you get back there. But Psalms 37 One of my favorite songs And look with me if you would at verse number 7. Psalms 37, verse 7. Verse 3 says, Trust in the Lord, verse 4, delight thyself in the Lord, verse 5, commit thy way unto the Lord. And he comes down to verse 7. And notice what he says. He says, Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. That's good advice, right? I've never regretted waiting on God. Rest in the Lord. Listen, just relax. In fact, that word rest there has the idea, the meaning of it has the idea of just relax. Take it easy. Rest in the Lord, wait patiently for him. Look at this. Fret not thyself because of him that prospereth in his way. Word, fret has the idea, don't get all worked up. Because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. See, there's where somebody would say, Well, this is where you need righteous indignation. This guy's bringing wicked devices to pass. We need to get angry about that. We need to get worked up about that. Wait a minute, look at the new Next statement Cease from anger and what? Forsake wrath The whole idea there is walk away from it. The word cease means to drop it, let go of it. Just walk away from that. And so The Bible, as I understand it, I can't find anywhere in Scripture where anybody, regardless of how great man of God they were, I don't find anywhere where somebody getting angry, it worked out good. And God blessed it, and God honored that. I was reading about, I was thinking about David, and you remember David's failure. He committed adultery with Bathsheba, and then he kills her husband. And in the process of doing that, several other people get killed, trying to cover up his sin. He gets away with it for about a year. And finally, God, in his love for David, God sends Nathan, and God's going to chasten David. God's going to correct David. God's going to deal with this because he loves them. And he sends Nathan by, and Nathan tells this little story, that there's a guy, he's poor, and all he has is one little lamb. There's another fellow, he's very wealthy, and he's got all kinds of lambs, and this traveler comes along, and the rich guy takes the uh uh uh traveler in, he's gonna prepare a meal for him, and rather than take one of his lambs that he has Scores of. He takes this poor guy's one little lamb. He takes that and serves that to the uh traveler And what does David do? Does anybody remember what does what's David's response to this little story that Nathan tells him? He gets very angry David gets angry that this man, this rich guy, would take this one little guy, one poor guy, one little lamb, take it, and he gets angry at that guy. Here's the problem David's anger was rooted in hypocrisy. And Nathan points at him, he says, David, you're the guy. You're the one that did that with the uh Uriah's wife. You know what I found? I found a lot of times our anger is rooted in hypocrisy. You know what we do? We get all worked up about somebody else doing something that we struggle with ourselves We get very angry about somebody doing something, and if the truth were known, anytime we're struggling with that very same thing We're struggling with that very same thing. And so we have to be very, very careful. Many times, I can't say across the board always, but I found many, many times anger is rooted in hypocrisy. We overreact to something we're struggling with, something we're dealing with, and maybe we're defeated by, and somebody else is involved in it, and we overreact to maybe try and cover up our own selves. To make us look, oh, I'm all worked up about that, when in reality I'm dealing with it, and so I deflect it by being angry at someone else. We have to be very, very careful. God says, put away anger. Cease from anger. Forsake wrath. Worketh not the righteousness of God. We talked about Moses. Now we come to our next thing. Now keep somewhere here in Psalms because we end up in Proverbs before we're done here. But come back to Matthew. And so the Lord says three times, person that's angry, and uh person that says Raka or thou fool, three times he says they're in danger and judgment, danger of judgment, danger of judgment. The very same thing, in fact even stronger, than the Pharisees said about murdering someone. So they're equally condemned. We have the execution of murder is condemned, we all know that. The indulgence of anger in our heart is condemned. We just saw that now. The expression of anger is condemned. And he gives us a couple illustrations here. He says, Whosoever uh is angry with his brother without cause shall be in danger of judgment. All right, that's the indulgence. I've got this anger in my heart towards, in this case, my brother, a brother in Christ. As bad if not worse. And whosoever, now here's the expression, whosoever shall say to his brother, Rakah. Shall be in danger of counsel. Whosoever shall say, thou fool, shall be in danger of hellfire. Here's the expression. The anger's in the heart. Now he's addressing it coming out. He's expressing this anger. I just want them to know. I want them to know how angry. I want them to know what I think about this. So you better be careful. The expression of anger. I may not be able to keep anger from swelling up in my heart. It's part of human experience, just like fear. Something happens. We have fear. I tell you what, last Saturday night I got the beejeebers scared out of me. I think people want to hear about it. Come back next week, I'll tell ya Now I'll tell you real quick. This is why my sermons take so long. But um I was back it was mu uh Saturday night. I usually come over and turn air and whatnot on and lock up and I spend time prayer just getting ready for Sunday And we had the staplers in the fellowship hall from doing our fingerprints. And I had set them out in the walkway so I'd remember to take them downstairs in the morning. So I just had them out and we had we had Tableclaws draped over them. So they're about that high. And they got this tablecloth draped over them So I turned off all the lights and spent time in prayer and I'm feeling good for Sunday and I'm fired up and I go back there and I go in the kitchen and put some stuff away, turn on and the lights off. And as I'm going out of the kitchen to go to the glass door to lock up, I just out of the corner of my eye I thought, for a split second, I thought it was a girl standing there with this long dress just standing there. I about died Goodness. And all of a sudden I saw the good grief. You know, the the emotion of fear swelled up in me. I don't know why a little girl would scare me, but it scared the bejevers out of me. That fear swelled up. But let me ask you a question. Are we supposed to fear? No, the Bible says fear not. What time am I afraid of? So that fear swelled up, and then I thought, I'm not afraid of no little girl. And uh I'd put the fear up. Well that's kind of the way anger is. Something happens and man that anger swells up. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean it's just that guy cuts you off or whatever. Now here's what I need to do. I can't keep it from swelling up, but I can keep it from taking over. I can keep it from controlling me and prompting me to say things that God condemns. Say things and express things that I ought not to say and express. And that's what he's addressing here I can, I'm I can't keep her from swing up. That's where he says in Ephesians, be he angry, but sin not That anger comes up, it's going to happen. Be angry, it's going to happen. But don't let it control your spirit. Don't let it take over your heart. Don't let it dominate your actions As soon as that anger swells up, you've got to put it off. You take control of that and uh and uh keep it from taking over. I like what the Bible says about the Lord's anger. Now we won't turn to all of these, but let me give you the reference. Psalms 103 and verse 8. Psalms 143 Joel chapter 2 and verse 13. Jonah chapter 4 and verse 2. Naham chapter 1 and verse 3. You know what it says about God's anger? The Bible says that God is slow to anger. In other words, he doesn't fly off. God doesn't explode. It takes a long time For God to finally get angry. You know what that tells me about God getting angry? God controls his anger He is in absolute control. God is all powerful, and God is just and God is righteous, and he is able to take anger and use it for a holy righteous, just cause, because he is able to control it. Can you imagine if God lost control of his anger? We'd all be in hell. We'd all be doomed. God would not be God. And so Anger is an emotion. It's part of our makeup. It's part of perhaps our being in the image of God. But we are sinful beings. We've corrupted ourselves because of sin. And we can't stop that anger, but we have to be able to keep it from coming, uh, from taking control. Um Now the question came up, and this bothered me since last week, because I didn't feel like I had a good answer for it. But Jesus said there, angry without a cause. And so I'm digging in my Bible and I'm digging through Scripture and I'm trying to find a just cause For a man to get angry, a person to get angry. How do when is it justified for me to be angry about something? Now we already have scripture that clearly says we're to put it all off. All anger cease from anger. The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. The only answer I can come up with that satisfies me is this. If we are going to be angry, we need to be angry at the sin, not the sinner. See what I'm saying? Because the sinner is in s in some ways, this isn't completely accurate, but some ways is the victim of the sin. And rather than being angry at the sinner, that the sin that's taking place, if I'm going to be angry, then that's where that perhaps the anger would be justified in the sin. But I ought to feel sorry for the sinner. I ought to have compassion for the sinner. I ought to want to bring them to the Savior so they can be delivered from that sin. And so that's the only, if there is a just cause for anger, I would say it would be in the case of having uh being anger directed at the sin, but having a burden for the sinner. But whatever the whatever just cause there may be for anger, I can't find any. I see the Bible says put it all off, be angry, worketh not the righteousness of God. Whatever the case The Bible is clear on this, that our anger is to be controlled. We're to put it off. And controlling anger requires incredible, incredible strength. Let me show you what the Bible says. If you would keep your place here now. We're going to come back and look at these real quick. Proverbs. Now we want to get the Proverbs for a few minutes. Proverbs talks, surprisingly, Proverbs talks a lot about anger. Proverbs talks a lot about the tongue. And anger comes from the heart. The tongue is very directly associated with the heart. So we find these two very closely. Proverbs chapter, let's go to chapter 14 to begin with. And I'm just going to go down through and look at a list of these verses. Anger. I found that little children get angry. How many people notice that? I found that little babies get angry. I've found nobody here, but I've found that old folks get angry. None of y'all, but other old folks. And all points in between Look what the Bible says in Proverbs 14, look at verse 17 with me. Proverbs 14, 17 He that is soon angry deal with what? Foolishly. And we fly off the handle at every little thing. Bible says we're dealing what? Foolishly. That's a strong statement. Look at uh chapter 15, verse 18. Now my point, my subject here is that controlling anger requires tremendous strength. Anybody, anybody can lose control of anger Doesn't require integrity, doesn't require character, doesn't require any inner strength, doesn't require any spiritual maturity to blow off and get angry. Anybody, a baby can do that It takes a little effort, a little maturity strength to control it. Look at chapter 15, verse 18. A wrathful man stirreth up strife, but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife. Now here you see the results, the consequences. Look at chapter 16, verse 32. Ah, here's what I was wanting to get to. Proverbs 1632. He that is slow to anger is better than the what? The mighty. Now the mighty here, he's talking about a military fellow. He's talking about somebody like David who was slain as tens of thousands. He's talking about a person like David's mighty men They were out there and strong in battle, and they could conquer the enemy and they could stand their ground and they could win wars. But he says a person that can control their anger is better than a guy that's great on the battlefield, a mighty warrior. Look where and he goes on and he elaborates on that. He says um 1633 let me uh he that is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city. In other words, it requires in some ways more strength to control your anger than it was for it for one man to go and conquer a city. I mean, he's not painting something here that's very simple to do. That's just, you know, any Joe Blow can do it. It requires effort. It requires some discipline. It requires strength. Look with me at chapter 22, Proverbs. And verse 24. Now we're going to come back to this in a little bit later. We're going to touch on this statement he makes here. God gives it here. Make no friendship with an angry man, and with a furious man thou shalt not go. Now he's talking about anger, and we're going to look at this in a little bit. I got one more verse down here, 29. Chapter twenty nine and verse twenty two An angry man stirreth up strife. Boy, we saw that in the news this past year, didn't we? Somebody gets all worked up, man, next thing you know, the whole city's on fire. I'm telling you this, I'll say this, I'm a little ahead of where I want to be in my outline, but I'll say this. Anger is contagious. Incredible. You get one person get angry before you know it, everybody around them is angry. One person at a stop sign gets out and blows their top. Next thing you know, everybody is mad. Uh I hate to say it, I wish this was not true, but it happens in churches. Somebody a church, a ministry, boy, they get worked up about something, they get all angry, next thing you know, the whole body of Christ is at each other's throat. Everybody's mad That's a shame. These things ought not so to be. And it takes a strong man. It's not a weakly Not a little child can do that. It takes a mature, strong person to control their anger. And the Lord says here, listen. You express that anger, you express it, that's just as condemned as harboring it in your heart, which is just as condemned as going out and killing a person. Say, well, I just got a vent. Now, God says no, you don't. And no, you shouldn't. The Lord deals with two expressions of anger. Now we're back in chapter 5 of Matthew. And he he touches on through. He says, first of all, I say to you that whosoever is angry of this brother shall be without cause shall be in danger of the judgment. Alright, that's indulging the anger. It's there, I'm holding on to it, I'm indulging it, I'm not dealing with it, I'm not putting it off. I'm not forsaking wrath. I'm not ceasing from anger. I'm indulging. He says, you're in danger of judgment. Then he says, Whosoever shall say, here's the expression. And he says, who so much shall say to his brother Rakam? Now we don't use that term. We're all looking at it and saying, what in the world does that mean? The word raka itself has this idea. It was a term used. It was a very uh it was a term of derision back in the day, I'm told The Jews would use it towards very base Gentiles and barbarians and men of the baser sort. And it basically meant this: you are worthless. You are of absolute no value to humanity or anything in existence. You are not worth living. It was a term of contempt. And God says, if you harbor, indulge anger in your heart, then you express it. And you say something to this effect, you're of no value, you're of no worth, you do not deserve to live, that says you're in danger of the same judgment that it is if you killed him. If you murder him. Uh somebody might put it this way, you've heard heard this before. Uh you're not worth the bullet it would cost to shoot you. Now stop and think about that. What did Jesus say about that person? Jesus said, He's worth me shedding my blood and suffering eternal hell for him. And your attitude is they're not even worth existing? God says you better be careful about that. That type of expression, you're in danger of judgment That is the same. God condemns that just as much as if you'd kill that person for no cause. Just kill them. Just because you didn't like them It's an attitude of contempt. It's an attitude of superiority. I am better than you. I am more righteous than you. I am a more value than you. You're not worth anything. Raka! But I am worth something. I am of value. It's a very contemptible term, a very attitude of superiority. And it is the exact same attitude the Pharisees had. This woman was taken in adultery, the very act. Basically saying the Lord, she doesn't deserve to live. What'd the Lord say? Alright, you think you do? You throw the first stern if you haven't sinned. You know what the Lord was doing? The Lord was dealing with their hearts. He's dealing with the attitude of superiority and condemnation and contempt they had in their hearts. And that's what he's saying here. This attitude, raka, is in the sight of God as terrible as murder is Can you imagine if we came into church Sunday and we got the words you hear about Brother So-and-so, one of the members? He killed someone. He just got mad at them and he killed them. We would be shocked. You'd say that's tragic, that's unbelievable, that's terrible. He's a murderer. The Lord's saying that same stigma As far as God's concerned, is on that person, has that attitude. You deal with the heart. You see, here's the premise. Your righteousness has to exceed that of the Pharisees Pharisees say, well as long as you don't kill 'em, you know, whatever. You say, oh no, no, it goes farther than that. The law of God goes farther than that. It's only one, a God is the only one qualified to judge the value of another's life. God's the only one that has that authority. You say, well, what about capital punishment? Doesn't God give man the authority to exercise capital punishment? Yes, he did, and he still does today But it is God that gives that authority to the man in specific cases when he has the authority to exercise that it is delegated authority, it is not inherent authority. There's a world of difference. And so one of the expressions is an expression of contempt, racca. You don't deserve to exist. I'm better than you. The other is an expression to crush their spirit. And that comes in the last one there. He says, But whosoever shall say, thou fool, shall be in danger of hellfire. This is an attempt. The first expression is an expression of contempt. I can't stand you. You have no value to me. You have no value to exist. I'm better than you This one, thou fool, is uh an attempt to hurt that person, to crush them, to injure them. emotionally and injure them uh e uh spiritually injure uh to uh uh uh to crush or break their spirit To render them helpless emotionally by expressing a derogatory term to them, tearing them down, thou fool! The phrase thou fool there means more than simply declaring that they have a lack of wisdom. Some people act foolishly just because they're ignorant. They don't have wisdom. They don't have knowledge about that. And they're just foolish. All of us fit that category sometimes. Some more than others. But what the statement here is more than just saying this guy lacks wisdom. It's saying this person is a graceless creature. He is uh it is a helpful, a a hurt a hateful, self-righteous expression. You're a fool You have nothing about you that is anything. It's an attempt to cripple that person. It's an attempt to crush that person's spirit So the Pharisees says, well, you don't kill someone. You're good. Don't worry about it. He said, I hate that guy. All right, just don't kill him, and God's okay with that. Jesus says, Oh no, that's not even close. You can't indulge any anger in your heart and certainly don't express it. You're in the same judgment as the guy that kills him. You're in the same condemnation as the guy that kills him. You call him Raka A fool? You see, in God's eyes, murder is not limited to just taking another man's life. Murder may also include destroying their soul destroying their spirit. I wonder how many children could have grown up and could have been something for God and could have been something of value to humanity But they had a mother or a father that was eat up with anger and just ridiculed them and broke their spirit and run them down. And the kid grew up thinking I can't do anything, I'm of no value, my life is nothing, and they wasted their life away because mom or dad or both crushed them God said, that's just as much murder as if you'd have taken their life. Just as condemned. I wonder how many husbands or wives or spirits have been absolutely crushed. And they're rendered helpless and useless because of constant ridicule and contempt and anger directed towards them. How many employees? I mean family members and just the list goes on and on and on. Listen, I don't have to I don't have to take the physical life from somebody. To destroy them, I can destroy them and yet they'll still be physically alive. And that's what the Lord is addressing here. And so, anger management. Lord says you get s y this anger issue, the the Pharisees says, oh yeah, as long as outward's okay, as long as you put on a good show, as long as it doesn't kill anyone, fine. We're saying no no no. You can't indulge it, you can't express it. In other words, we've got to deal with it. Has to be addressed. Now I I don't want to end there without giving you uh some suggestions on how to manage my anger. And this could be a whole series, you could write a book on this, but let me give you a few real quick. I want to suggest maybe you jot these down real quick. I think they're helpful. They're helpful to me If anger is an issue, and it is for all of us to some extent or another, some maybe more than others, number one, I put this down, I need to recognize my anger is sin. Until I take responsibility for the spiritual condition of my heart, nothing is going to change. As long as I keep blaming the people I'm angry at, as long as I keep blaming my circumstances for my anger, rather than saying, no, I'm angry because I have an angry heart. It's not the circumstances I'm in, it's not the people I'm around, it's my own heart that the problem is. Out of the heart proceed evil thoughts. Put this down. Anger is not a racial issue. It is not a religious issue. The Muslims and Christians are Hindu or whatever. It is not a rich man-poor man issue. It is a heart issue. Until the heart is dealt with, I must recognize my anger as sin. Confess it. This anger that I have, and some people, some some folks are just angry all the time at everybody and everything. They are just we live in a society that is angry. Listen, we need to humble ourselves and confess that is sin. What does it mean to confess? It means I have the same attitude towards it as God does. I see it just as reprehensible, just as sinful, just as condemned as God does. God, I see my sin the way you do. I agree with you about it. I want to take your attitude towards it. It's wrong, it has no place in my life. I need to recognize my anger is sin. I put this down, number two, I need to remove myself from two things. Number one, I really need to remove the anger from my heart and life. We looked at that uh in the passages, put off anger. Put away from you anger. All anger be put away. He says, let not the sun go down in your wrath. In other words, I need to get that anger out out of my heart, out of my mind. I gotta get it out As quickly as possible, before the sun goes down. I need to do it thoroughly. Quickly, I need to do it thoroughly. That means don't let any of it linger or fester there. You know what gets us? We get angry and we say, alright, alright, alright. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. But we don't thoroughly deal with it, and we let it in our heart, and it festers and festers and festers, and then it explodes again, then it's worse, and then it's worse. Lord says, no, no, no. Don't let the sun go down. Deal with it quickly, right away. As soon as that thing rises up, you take care of it, and you get it thoroughly taken care of. Uh do not allow anger to linger or fester. So I need to get away, I need to get the anger out of my heart, but this is the other one. I need to get angry people from my presence. This is where he says, make no friends with an angry person. Listen to me, don't hang around with angry people. Young people in school, those kids are all angry. Stay away from them. That is poison. That is going to destroy you. Anger is contagious. Don't listen to angry music. Watch angry shows. Angry people love angry movies. They do. Angry people love angry music. I don't want to be angry. It's wrong. It's sin. God tells me not to, to put it out. I want to please my Savior. So I'm going to put that stuff away from me. Anger instigators or people or situations. Listen, if you get mad and want to shoot the TV when you watch the news, stop watching the news. Can I get a witness? Number one, recognize my anger is sin. Number two, remove myself from the anger in my heart and the people that are around that are angry, get away from angry people. Number three relinquish myself to the filling of the Holy Spirit. Galatians 5. 16 says that we walk in the Spirit will not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. The fact of the matter is the flesh cannot control the flesh. My flesh gets angry, my flesh wants to stay angry. It's like telling my angry flesh, all right angry flesh, you make yourself stop being angry. You know what happens when I say that to my flesh? My flesh gets angry at me. Then I'm mad at myself for trying to not be mad at someone else. It's it doesn't work. What I need to do here, what I need to do is what Galatians says, yield myself to the Spirit of God. Say, Holy Spirit, you fill me. And you control me. And I want the fruit of the Spirit to be born in my life. Love, joy, peace, temperance, long-suffering. There's no law against that. You say, oh, but you don't know my situation. Oh, but you don't know my God. You know I found out a Christian can have the supernatural peace. and and and quietness and rest of God in the most hostile situations. You can. Um Yield myself to the supernatural power of the Holy Spirit if I'm going to have victory over anger. My flesh isn't going to have victory over itself. I need the Holy Spirit. Christianity is a supernatural life. And let me give you the last one. I went way too long. But redirect my energy. And I like this one. How many folks here, you don't have to respond outwardly, but I wonder how many of us here, when we get angry, we get energy we didn't have before. Uh-huh, your response just told me you know what I'm talking about. Where'd you say we come home from work? I am beat. Uh uh, we sit down. What's for supper? Uh nothing. I burnt the food. What? All done. There's super energy back. You know anybody can I get a witness? Yeah you guys are scared to say amen because your wife's beside you. When that anger comes up and it had this infusion of energy, this adrenaline. Let's alright, this is sin, this is wrong. If I can, I've got to get away from this situation, the circumstance of God I'm giving myself you fill me with your spirit. Holy Spirit, you take over, cleanse this. I've got all this worked up. You know what? I'm going to take that energy and I'm going to redirect it from the object of my anger. And I'm going to redirect it to try and make me a better person. What can I do? I'm all worked up. I've got all this. I confess, put the anger away. All right, I'm going to take energy. I'm going to go pray. I'm going to go do something. I'm going to try and go out and win soul. I'm going to do something that's going to strengthen my spiritual life rather than trying to destroy the person I'm angry at. Does that make sense? Redirect that energy from the person I'm wanting to destroy the s the the TV I'm wanting to smash or whatever it is, the cell phone I'm wanting to throw out the window. And redirect it. And then use it for this. Redirect that energy to correct the bad situation. In a situation and maybe you're in a a work environment and you're so angry at that, take that energy and say, all right, what can what can happen here to correct this whole situation so this isn't an ongoing thing. How can I use that energy to be constructive rather than destructive? Follow what I'm saying? Alright, I've got a marriage, and man, we're just rah Alright, this is not right. This is sin. I accept responsibility. I confess it. Lord, I yield myself here. I want you to fill me with the Holy Spirit. Alright, I'm gonna invest myself To make this thing what God intends for it to be. To make to make this To make this horrific home a little bit of heaven on earth And invest that same amount of effort and that energy and that enthusiasm to make it run as I do when I'm angry and I want to tear it down. And redirect it, redirect it. Anger management, boy, man, I'm telling you, the Bible is current. Isn't it? It's dealing with us where we are and what we're going through every single day. Don't tell me that's an outdated book. That thing's written today. It's like it's written today. And let's trust God. This isn't easy. This isn't easy. Any simpleting can get angry and stay angry and just go on. It takes a man or woman of God that says, you know, I want to be right thoroughly, thoroughly, through and through. I want to be thoroughly right with God. That takes some effort. That takes discipline. That takes dying to self. That takes yielding my will. That takes humbling myself. And we'll look at that later. Father, I went way long. I pray That you would help us. Lord, I'm part of the gang. We all bow before you tonight and we ask you, Lord, to help us. That in this angry world we would be a people with peaceful hearts. And the joy of the Lord and the presence of God. We need you to help us. We need you to help us. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, God's Spirit spoke to my heart today?