Peter chapter two, verse number four. Peter, as you know, he's shifted gears. The first part of the first chapter, he's talking about their spiritual growth, pressing on, adding these things to their life, not getting stagnant. And that's a real danger for the church. Now he's picked up towards the end of chapter one. He addresses the inspiration of Scripture, the authority of Scripture. Chapter 2, he's getting hot and heavy. And he is addressing apostasy within the church. False teachers coming in the church. And he's just getting started. So look at verse number four If you would. 2 Peter. And um let me get there. I'm talk telling these stupid jokes and not getting there. Look at look at verse 4. Verse 2 and 3 talks about how these guys operate. Verse 3 says, through covetousness with feigned words. They're slick. They're sneaky, they're slick. Then look at verse 4. He says, For if God spared not the angels that sinned but cast them down to hell and delivered them into chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment. And then he goes on and references a couple other Old Testament events. And he's the point he's making is this. These apostates, these guys come in and influence the church in a negative, unscriptural way, doctrinally and lifestyle-wise He says, listen, God didn't spare the angels that sinned. He's not going to spare them. And he's talking about the severity of judgment upon deliberate rejection of biblical truth. And it's serious. And so, but what I want to do tonight is just take a look at that phrase, the angels that sinned And that piqued my interest a little bit. So let's pray, and we'll study about these angels that sinned. Father, I ask you to bless now. Tonight a little different message maybe than sometimes, but I pray that nevertheless you would teach us from your word And I ask that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, my great prayer all the time when teaching and preaching is that I not inject my reasoning into the message. But Lord, your thoughts and your reasoning and your truth would be conveyed. And so I yield my mind to you, my will, and I present my body so that you could use me as a conduit to speak to us and teach us. And I do pray that we would be grounded in the truth of your word and not easily shaken and not driven about by false teaching and unscriptural influence, but be strong in the Lord. And so help us as a church to be that way. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I grew up on the north side, just outside the north side of Philly. And there are certain parts of Philadelphia, and some of you guys that travel a little bit, some folks maybe been there, certain parts of Philadelphia that are not very pleasant parts of the city. You get down on the south end, some areas down around there, and I've been gone for so long now, uh, but I know when I was young, there were certain areas, if we went down into the city, you tried to uh avoid them, they were not pleasant Live down in Chattanooga, Tennessee. It's pretty much the whole city uh down there. But uh there was parts of Chattanooga that you wanted to avoid. There they just were not pleasant Um we lived then then we moved out to Indianapolis, Indiana, and I liked Indianapolis of all the places. That was my favorite city to live in I liked Indianapolis. But, nevertheless, in a city that size, there are parts of the city that are not very pleasant. They're not attractive, but they're part of the city. Then we went out to Colorado, lived just north of Denver, up in Boulder, and there's parts of Denver that were not very pleasant. Just like there are cities that have areas that are not real pleasant, there's passages of Scripture that are not the most pleasant passages of Scripture. They make you uncomfortable. You read them, and they are, in some cases, disturbing. The book of Judges I've never heard anybody say my favorite book of the Bible is the book of Judges. There's an account of a world lived in their own understanding, doing what is right in their own eyes. And it is very, very ugly. There's there's events recorded there that are disturbing. Anybody ever read through Judges? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean it's hard to explain. So what in the world? Um judges, some of the historical books, first and second Kings Chronicles, some of the events that took place. under Ahab's rule and some of these wicked kings up in the northern kingdom and then even in Israel, the southern kingdom, are not pleasant at all. Romans chapter 1 As you have the description of the deterioration of humanity, and they progress down into debauchery And it's not a pleasant read. I've never heard anybody say, you know, I really like Romans chapter 1. That's my favorite chapter of the Bible. People will say something like, you ask them, what's your favorite chapter of the what's your favorite part of the Bible? Psalm 23, right? Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. That's a pleasant. We like that John chapter 14, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. We like that. 1 Corinthians chapter 4. We'll be caught up together to be with the Lord in the air. So shall we ever be with the Lord? Comfort one another with these words. But you come to 2 Peter chapter 2, and it's one of those passages that just isn't Nights. Just isn't pleasant. He's dealing with some uh ugly things. And by the way, 2 Peter chapter 2, and we're studying the book of Jude in Sunday school, the adult Sunday school in the morning. And those two are so parallel, they're almost identical. In fact, I'm pretty convinced, of course, this is all under the inspiration of God, but I'm pretty convinced there was some collaboration between the two. Because they're almost verbatim the same, the same illustrations, some of the same references. But they're dealing with apostasy, and there's nothing attractive about apostasy. Not from a biblical standpoint. An apostate can make false teaching and diabolical teaching seem very attractive. But from a biblical standpoint, it is anything but no one picks Judges or 2 Peter chapter 2 as their favorite verses, their favorite chapters Um and the interesting thing is in Jude and in 2 Peter chapter 2 They reference, both of them, reference Old Testament characters, Old Testament events to illustrate how God deals with apostasy. And some of the same ones. And the interesting thing about that is, both Jude and Peter pick some very obscure events and very obscure people To illustrate that God takes false teaching very, very seriously. He doesn't horse around with that For instance, in Jude, as we study, those are in the adult class, we study, he references Michael contending, Michael the archangel, the warrior angel. Contending with the devil about the body of Moses of all things Now, we have no record in Scripture anywhere else is there any mention of Michael the Archangel contending with the devil? I mean the devil, not a devil, the devil. about the body of Moses, and we're told almost nothing about how that took place or what the circumstances were around it. But yet he uses an illustration of God's dealing. Very obscure. He mentions this morning we've been looking at uh we've been studying Enoch, as I mentioned. We're told so little about this guy, Enoch, but Jude quotes a prophecy from Enoch that is found nowhere in Scripture. He is taking this quote from some unbiblical literature. Now, it doesn't mean it's wrong, it's just not inspired. That's not part of the Bible, but he's quoting this, and we don't know where it comes from. Peter does something very similar here in our text tonight. He is referencing the angels that send. Now the fact of the matter is we are told almost nothing about the angels that sinned, how that came about, or what the circumstances were, or when that was. It's an obscure event. Now it's a it's an actual event. I'm not suggesting that it didn't happen. He's just making it up. But I am suggesting he's using an event that we have so little information about to make a point. And so what I want to do tonight is I just want to do a little study on angels And I want to lead up to the angels that sinned and see if we can't piece together a little bit the puzzle. And learn something about these angels that sinned. And then, I don't know, we'll get to it tonight, but then how that applies to what Peter is uh is getting at. So number one, I want us to consider, again, it's more of a teaching tonight than than a preaching type thing. I enjoy preaching. God's called me to preach But I enjoy teaching, and tonight's a little bit of a teaching. Number one, the existence of angels. The existence of angels. Both the Old and New Testament declare the existence of angels. We are a Bible-believing church. Amen or not? We believe the Bible. If the Bible says there's angels, there's angels. And I'm here to tell you, the Bible says there are angels. In fact, it speaks extensively. The Bible speaks extensively about angels. Now, I said we know very little about the angels that sinned and the circumstances around that, but we know heaps about angels in general Over 100 times in the Old Testament, over 100 times, the Old Testament references literal, actual angels. I mean, we're told them they're described in some cases. Sometimes they're described in great detail. In Ezekiel, somewhat strange in appearance. But the Old Testament references angels as actual, real, literal beings. Over a hundred and sixty-five times in the New Testament are there references to actual, real, literal angels. They're not presented as mythological beings. They're not presented as some imaginary beings. They are treated and taught and referenced as actual, real, literal beings, just like the people that are referenced, human beings. And so the Bible speaks extensively about the existence of angels. The entire Bible references angels from Genesis to Revelation. Angels are referenced. And what I'm trying to point out here is this. They're not just grouped in certain time frames. A certain dispensation or a certain age. I believe in the dispensations of Scripture. In every dispensation, all through Scripture, every dispensation's angels have been active, active, active. All through the Old Testament, prophetic books, historical books, all through the New Testament, all the way to Revelation. There's not just some certain area, oh angels were real active here, that's when there's angels, but now you don't. No, no, no, no, no. It's all straight on through. All through there. Every period of history from Genesis to Revelation, angels are referenced and angels are active. Jesus referred to angels as literal beings repeatedly. In fact, he interacted with them. And uh if we're gonna, listen, if we're gonna question the reality of angels, existence, if we're gonna question the existence of angels, then we're gonna have to question the integ Liberty of Jesus Christ If we're going to say, well, I don't know about this angel business, then you're casting doubt on the on the veracity, the reliability, the integrity of Jesus Christ Because he presented them as actual real literal human beings. So the existence of angels. And I I know the crowd, I know our church, we all understand this, we all believe this. Amen. No doubt about it. And I'll just give you my understanding, studying that book for all these years, good. I have no doubt in my mind. There is no doubt in my mind That there are angels in this building right here, right now, in our presence right now. If somehow we can pull back the blinders to the spiritual world and we can see into the spiritual world. Probably every one of us would pass out in shock. I'm no doubt in my mind. We are among angels tonight. among angels. So the existence of angels, they are presented in Scripture as actual real literal beings all through history. What about the nature of angels? What are they like? What are they? Well, a couple thoughts along those lines. First of all, they're created beings. They are created beings, and the Bible presents it as innumerable. In other words, beyond count. You say, how can there be so many angels that it's beyond the ability to count them? Do you ever take notice how big our universe is? There's plenty of room. For all the angels. And so they're created beings. Now we're going to use our Bibles, and I'm tempted to just quote some of these, but let's turn to them. Colossians chapter number one. Now we're going to jump all over. Maybe we'll get back to 2 Peter 2. 4 here in a bit. But I want to look at some of these. I want to keep moving. But Colossians chapter 1 and verse 16 tells us that angels are created beings. Colossians 1. 16, for look at this. For by him, now you go back up in the previous, get the context, the him there is the Lord Jesus Christ. For by Christ, by the Lord Jesus Christ, were all things created. Did you know that Jesus Christ is the one that created heaven and earth? In Genesis chapter 1, verse 1. All things were created by Jesus Christ. Jesus is not a created being, he is the Creator. For by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and what? Invisible. That's the spirit world. That's the unseen spirit world. Whether they be thrones or dominions, Principalities or powers. We understand that to be spiritual beings. Spiritual powers with spiritual authority. All things were created by him and for him. So angels are created beings, and they are created specifically by the Lord Jesus Christ. He created them. They are not from everlasting to everlasting. They had a definite beginning when Jesus Christ created the angels. Now God is from everlasting to everlasting. They say, where did God come from? God didn't come from anywhere. He always was and always will be. He transcends time. He created time. You say, I don't understand that. Welcome to reality. So angels had a definite beginning. They were created specifically by Christ. Now here's the question: When were they created? When did God create the angels? And that would include Lucifer, as his name was before his fall. When did God create all of these? Now we're not told directly, but there's a hint in Job, if you would come back there with me, there's a hint in Job chapter number 38. Now, it's not definite, and I'm not going to fuss with anybody about this, but I find it interesting. Job chapter number 38 Get back to Psalms, keep backing up, you'll run into Job. And chapter 38, and I want to begin reading in verse number 4. Job is referenced, the Lord here is addressing Job. The Lord's speaking, and he's referencing creation, creation of the world. Now look at verse 4. Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? God speaking to Job. When I created earth, I laid the foundation, where were you? Declare if thou hast understanding. Now Job had been questioning God a little bit, and I don't be honest with you, I don't blame Job. He'd been through it And God's addressing you and say, listen, you think you've got everything figured out. If you have understanding, answer me this. Then look what he says: Who hath laid the measures thereof, speaking of the earth If thou knowest, or who has stretched the line upon it? Where are the foundations thereof fastened? Or who laid the cornerstone thereof? Now he's speaking figuratively here, of course. But then look at verse 7. He says, when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy. Let me ask you a question. Were there any human beings when God created the heaven and earth, laid the foundations? Were there any human beings in existence? No. They weren't created until after at least the sixth day after everything was created sixth day. So when God is laying the foundation of the earth, God is forming this thing, Genesis 1 Chapter 1, verse 1-2, in that first part, he's bringing this thing together. He says that the sun, the morning stars sang So it's some type of entity, some type of personality, and the sons of God. Now that cannot be human beings, they don't exist at this point. They shouted for joy. So again, it's a little obscure here, and maybe it's just a hint, and we could be completely wrong. But I've got a sneaking suspicion, this is talking about angels observing God creating the earth and the universe and heaven and earth. So if they're there observing, if I'm correct in my analysis here, in my conclusion, if I'm correct Then the angels had to have been created previous to the creation of heaven and earth. You follow my reasoning? I mean, if they're there singing and shouting for joy, oh wow, praise God! They're seeing they had to be in existence before this took place. So we think they were created before the earth, heaven and earth were created. And the other thing is they were created holy. They were created righteous We look at Adam and Eve, and we say they were innocent in their creation. They didn't have any of their own righteousness, but they didn't have any unrighteousness either. They were innocent, they were untested. We believe the angels were created absolutely holy, righteous. They existed in the very presence of God. They were part of the worship of God. And so they were created holy, they were created righteous. So the nature of angels, they're created beings, the Bible tells us that angels are personal beings. Now, angels are not human beings. Oh, God took him home to heaven. Now he's an angel. Wrong. Angels and humans are two completely different things. They're not the same. Somebody, uh, mommy, where was I before I was born? Oh, you were a little angel up in heaven. What are you, a Mormon? There were no angel up in heaven. Humans and angels are two very, very different, I want to say species, that's not really the word I want, but we're two completely different entities. They're not the same. Angels are not humans, never were, never will be. Humans are not angels, never were, never will be. They're their own personalities. They have an intellect. You study angels in the Bible. They have an intellect, they can think, they can reason, they can rationale. Angels have a will. They can make decisions. They have emotion. They can praise and rejoice. So they're personal beings, they have personality, they're spirit beings. Take your Bible, if you would, come to Hebrews chapter number one. And we're jumping around here a little bit. But Hebrews chapter one gives us a little bit about the makeup or the nature of angels. Hebrews chapter 1 And look with me if you would at verse number 14. Now he's comparing Jesus Christ to the angels, and just to put it in my own words, he's saying There is no comparison between Jesus and angels. He's so much better. He never said to angels the things he says about his son, Jesus Christ. That's the context. And then verse 14, the last verse, he says, This are they, referencing angels, are they not all ministering what? Spirits. Non-physical entities. They are not material. They're spirit And by the way, he goes on, they're sent forth to minister for them who shall be the heirs of salvation. Do you know the angels' ministry is to minister to you and I? Help us. Somebody said, do you think there's such a thing as guardian angels? Absolutely. I have no doubt about it If there wasn't, I'd have been dead many times, years ago. But uh they they minister to the saints, they help us. Um But he says they're spirits. They're spirits, they're not physical beings. Um if you would come back to Luke chapter number eight. Luke eight And notice a couple verses here, chapter eight and verse two. Now he's talking about devils. Devils are spirits. Devils are, well, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here. Devils are fallen angels. Angels that sinned. But notice how they're referred to here in Luke chapter 8, verse 2. And certain women which had been healed of evil spirits. And infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils. Come over, if you would, to uh verse chapter 11 of Luke and look at verse 24. Luke eleven and uh verse twenty four Says, uh, and when the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking rest, finding none. He saith, I will return to my house from whence I came out. And when he cometh, he findeth it swept and uh garnished, and then goeth he and taketh to him seven other spirits, more wicked than himself, and they enter in. And dwell there. And the last state of that man is worse than the first. They are spiritual beings. They are spiritual entities. They are not material. They are not physical. And it is possible, and not only is it possible, it is actual people possessed with devils. There's no doubt about it. You say, well, that was just Bible time. Uh-uh. I'm convinced there's still today. Now listen, if you're if you're don't fall into the Hollywood's version of devils. That is inspired of the devil. And he will distort what he is and what he appears. So don't say, oh, devils are like I saw this I saw this uh devil-possessed person in a movie and this how that don't even buy into that garbage. That's the devil's twisting, disguising who he is. But there is devil possession. And by the way, did you know the word demon is not in the Bible? There are no demons. There's devils. That's what they're called. That's the Bible term. Devils. Look it up. It's not in there one time in your Bible. Demon. It's devils, devils, devils, devils, devils. We have the devil, and then we have devils, and they're fallen angels. But the point is they're all spirit beings. They're not physical. Now they can take on the manifestation of a physical person. They did in the Old Testament. They appear, remember at the at the uh uh at the at the at the um Tomb of Jesus. Mary shows up. There's two angels there, but they appeared. They looked like men. They had appearance, but Their very nature, they are spirit beings. And angels are immortal They do not die. Now they were created, they had a beginning point, but they do not die. You never find a reference to an angel dying in the Bible. They don't die. Now, we'll get ahead of myself a little bit. They're cast in the lake of fire, but that is the difference. There's a whole world difference between dying and being cast in the lake of fire. They don't die. There's no reference to an angel dying in Scripture. And by the way, angels do not reproduce. Jesus made that clear when questioned about a fellow that a gal married a fella and he died and so his brother married him and then he died and then his or his brother married her and then he died and then his next brother married her and he died And the next brother married her and he died, and it went all the way down to seventh. I don't know about you. If I was that seventh brother, ain't no way I'm marrying this gal And they said, all right, in heaven, these guys, these are the Sadducees, they're mocking the reality of heaven. After life, they didn't believe it. They're mocking it. And they say, All right, in heaven, whose wife is she going to be? She had all seven brothers. And Jesus basically called them ignorant. He says, You don't know the scriptures or the power of God. And he says, in heaven, you're like the angels. He doesn't say you are angels. He said, in that relationship-type thing, you're like the angels, they don't interact, they don't marry, they don't reproduce. And so the nature of angels created, they're personal personalities, they each have their own personality, they're spirit beings, and they're immortal. They don't die and they don't reproduce. Now that brings us back to our subject, and I want to finish up with this. What about the angels that sinned? Where does that come in? Come back, if you would, to 2 Peter chapter 4. Let's look at our verse again here. And notice how Peter words it. He said, God spared not the angels that sinned. I looked up that word sinned. Is an angel sinning, is it different than a man or a woman sinning? And I found it's the exact same word that's used in Romans 3. 23, for all have Sin. So their sin means that they miss the mark that God's holiness requires. It means they come up short of the standard that a infinitely blindingly holy God requires. They come up short of that. The angels that sinned. And sin is a free will decision. At some point, apparently They were given the ability to decide whether they're going to remain holy and loyal and submissive to God, or are they going to join in rebellion? And these angels that sinned, he doesn't say all the angels, but the ones that did sin face judgment. Come over quickly, if you would, to Jude, back just before Revelation. And we looked at this a couple. Months ago in our Sunday school study. But look at verse 6 of Jude. Here he words it a little differently. He's making reference to the same event, but Jude words it a little differently. We have a little more information. It's the angels which kept not their first estate. So their first estate, we noted that they were created holy, but they did not keep that condition. They were holy, they were righteous, but they didn't want to hold on to that. They didn't want to keep that. They abandoned that. They forsook That holiness that they were created. And he says they left their habitation. In other words, they rebelled against God's plan and purpose for their creation. They rebelled against that. They left that habitation. That purpose, that condition, that place God had for them to serve. worship and and be what he created them to be in the holiness they were created to be a as they were created. And they abandoned that, they forsook that they rebelled against that Both of these references imply a free will decision on the part of the angel. They made that conscious decision, we're going to disobey. Everybody with me so far? I don't know about you. I find this fascinating. Nobody else enjoying it. I'm having a big time up here enjoying it Revelation chapter 12, verse 3 and 4 implies that one-third of all the angels created joined in this rebellion Now I'm running out of time, so we're not going to get to all the references I wanted to, but if you would, if you're interested in this, jot down Isaiah 14, 12 through 15. And there were given a description of Satan's fall, of Satan's rebellion against God. And his whole rebellion was rooted in pride. And he says, I will be like the Most High God. I will sit in the sides of the north five times. I will, I will, I will, I will, I will And Revelation, as I said, implies that when Satan rose up in rebellion against God, one-third of this infinite number of angels sided with Satan in rebellion against God. Now, it was a fool's effort. They were defeated instantly. There was no way in the world a created being is going to overthrow the immortal, eternal Creator God. But one third, one third, Ezekiel 28, verse 15 through 17 again gives an account of the fall of Satan, and behind it all is pride. So here's here let me try and answer a few questions and I've got to shut this down. First one is, what was the time of their fall? When did these angels sin? When was that? Well, the Bible's silent. All we know about it is what I just told you right here. That's all we know. And particularly in Peter and Jude, is all we know about these angels that sin. We got a little, we got a good bit of information on Satan's rebellion It's referenced that this one-third joined him with that, but we don't know when that was. The Bible doesn't tell us. There's a lot of theories out there, most uh all of them, but the one I hold to I disagree with Of course. I do not believe there was a pre-adamic race of people, and the angels fell there. There was be uh it listen, there was no sin before Eve ate the forbidden fruit. There was no death before that. So these Bibles, study Bibles that say Genesis 1, chapter 1, verse 1 and 2, there's a gap in there, and there was a pre-ademic race. That's baloney So when did they fall? We believe they were created before the creation of the world. When did they fall? Well, some say God ordained them to sin. Our Calvinist neighbors say, well, God's in his sovereign team. Designed them that they would sin, and it was his will and his predetermined purpose that they sin against God. I reject that completely. If God is the author of sin, and then turns around and condemns the sinner For being what he created him to be, then we have no moral authority in the universe You follow what I'm saying? If I if I if God would say, Alright, I'm making this angel and I am purposely designing them that they're going to sin My responsibility. I'm making them so that they sin, and then I'm going to hold them responsible for what I made them do and judge them for all eternity. For what I made them do, there is no righteousness in the universe if that's true. There's no justice There's no moral authority. God has no moral authority if He is going to judge a created being for doing what he made them to do. So I reject out offhand that somehow God's sovereignty designed these angels that they would sin. So the only other option is they had a free will. God at some point gave them the option to choose one way or the other. And by the way, you and I have a free will. We cannot earn our salvation. We don't work for our salvation, but we have the free will to choose the free gift of salvation or not. And so at some point they were given this option And initially, I think initially they were given this option to the ability to deliberately and willingly obey or rebel against God. Now I come back to my question, when did this happen? I never did answer that question, did I? Here's what I think. And again, Bible's silent. I think that the angels, Satan, Lucifer, his name is the time. And one-third of all the angels rebelled and sinned against God after God created man. Because Satan's already fallen being then, right? So it had to be before the fall of man. But I believe it was after the creation of man. I may have misspoke there. I believe they fell. I think God, here's leathermanism. I think God created man in his own image. And gave him dominion over all the earth and all of that. Here's what I think. I think the devil got jealous. There's a phrase in Psalms that I don't have the reference, says, What is man that thou art mindful of him? I think that's the devil's thinking. What in the world? I'm Lucifer. I'm the Archangel. I'm the chief of all the created beings. And you create this man and you give him power and dominion and ultimately going to set him over us, that ain't happening. That's what I think. And I think Satan rose up in rebellion when God created man and says, I'll be like God. He's in your image, I'll be like God. And Adam fell. And that's why I think this is Leathermanism, so you can take it or leave it. You can be wrong if you want. I think that's why Satan hates you and me so much. That's why I think these devils want to possess Now they can possess the saved person, but they want to possess people and destroy their lives. Because we're creating the image of God, and Satan hates that. Hates that. So I think the timing that Peter is referencing these angels that sinned was after the creation of man. Pride rose up, rebellion against God, and now he comes in, and Satan is cast out of heaven, and now his target is mankind. And he hits Adam and Eve right at the get-go. Boom. Or the consequences. Well, we go back to Peter. They became corrupt. They're referred to these fallen angels that sin are referred to as unclean spirits. They're corrupt, as you can imagine. I tell you, we think about seedy areas of New York City and big cities over in Taiwan or different places like that, Amsterdam, where there's such perverse, perverse debauchery. And I'm telling you, mankind hasn't come up, I don't think, with a debauchery as awful as the fallen angels. I think they are absolutely filthy in their morals and spiritual condition. They're unclean, they're called. Some are confined, 2 Peter 2. 4, and maybe we'll look at this in the future. They're kept in a hell. And it's I don't think it's I I think it's a compartment maybe, I don't know, where these specific and for whatever reason there's certain of these fallen angels are confined. In this place, chains. They're chained there. And eventually they're all cast in a lake of fire, Revelation chapter 20. They're all cast in a lake of fire. So angels that sinned. Now what's the lessons? Number one, no one's too big to fall. Listen, if an angel can fall, you and I can fall. No one's too big to fall. Number two, no one escapes the consequences of rebellion. No one. If the archangel Lucifer cannot escape the consequences of rebellion, you and I are not going to escape the consequences of rebellion against God. And that's the whole point Peter's making in chapter 2. These apostates who are rebelling against the truth of God and the righteousness of God They will not escape the judgment of God any more than Lucifer and the angels that sin escaped it. Now, humans, God provides salvation for us. We can find salvation. We can find forgiveness and restoration. Angels do not There's no salvation available to us angel that sinned. Jesus didn't die for angels, for God so loved the world. He loved mankind. And number three, this is the point: false prophets face severe judgment. Ungodly influencers face severe judgment. And the whole point we've been trying to make in 2 Peter and Jude, as we study these, the whole point is that God takes biblical truths seriously. God takes righteousness seriously. And he's illustrating this. Now later, we're going to see here, he's going to go back to the flood. He's going to look at Sodom and Gomorrah. So let's pray. Father, I ask you to take these thoughts tonight. Help us to learn. Help us take heed. Lord, these are heavy stuff. This is serious. But we want to learn. We want to be what you want us to be, Lord. I want our heads bowed, eyes closed before we go to the Lord's Supper. I wonder if someone would say, Preacher, pray with me. I want my heart right. I want to be submissive to the Lord. Maybe there's a hint of rebellion. Maybe God's touched on something in your heart and life, and that's between you and God. But you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I want I want wholehearted. I want s I want total submission. To the Lord. Any like that uplifted hand. I want to be total submission. If there's something there that's not right, let's make it right. There's a brother or sister in Christ I've got crosswise with. Let's make that right right now Right, don't don't go into Lord's Supper. Let's make it right. Father bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together