Matthew chapter five. This is the only way I can get some people to sit in the front half of the church. Somebody with Sandy sat down, she goes, Oh wow, we're in the front. I kinda like it. I'd sit back here too if I was knew it was like this. Matthew chapter five, I want to read verse twenty-one down through verse twenty-six, where in the Sermon on the Mount, greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached. The Lord Jesus Christ, seven chapters long, Matthew 5 through Matthew 7. And uh we're past the introduction, which I view the Beatitudes as the introduction to this message, and we're getting in to the meat. He's I think the Lord has given the premise or the thesis, if you want to say, of his message. The theme, what he's trying to say, is given to us actually In verse number twenty, just by way of reminder, he says, For I say unto you that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. Now, what what did we say? The righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, what did we say their righteousness consisted of? Anybody take a shot at that? Just outward. It was superficial. It was external. As long as you had all the outward stuff in place, as long as you look good and you had the right haircut and you had the by the way I do need a haircut Uh I feel like a hippie. But um uh uh as long as you had the outward play and all that in place, then everything was fine as long as you appear good. Remember Jesus rebuked him in other places. He says, You had the uh you're like whited walls. He says you're like you're like whitewashed uh tombs. Outwardly you look good, but in s inwardly you're full of dead man's bones. And um so uh uh that was what their righteousness consisted of. As long as I look good outwardly, as long as I put this outward show on, then everything's fine. Now listen, we ought to do right outwardly, right? We ought to do that, and there's no doubt. But the Lord is saying that that's not acceptable to him. Simply having the outward in place, there needs to be an inward righteousness. And then he goes on, he makes six statements to illustrate what he means by that and how the law actually requires more than just lip service or following the letter, but actually the spirit. There's to be more to it. And this is one of 'em. And in verse twenty-one he says this. It is written. He doesn't say that. He says, you have heard it said of them at all. So he says, This is what these guys have been teaching you all these years. Thou shalt not kill, and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment. Alright? Verse 22. But I say unto you. That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whosoever shall say to his brother, Raka, shall be in danger of the counsel. But whosoever shall say, Thou fool shall be in danger of hellfire. So he says, Listen, my standard of righteousness, my standard of acceptability is far higher Then what the Pharisees, the religionists, say, as long as I'm good outwardly, that's fine. Jesus says if you've got anger in your heart, you're just as condemned as the guy that murders someone. Then verse 23, I think, verse 23 and 24, he's actually bringing a second thought along these lines. Therefore If thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way. First be reconciled to thy brother. And then come and offer thy gift. Alright? So he's kind of expanding, and that's what we're going to look at tonight. Let me just go ahead and read verse 25 and 26, just to keep the whole thought together. Agree with thine adversary quickly, whilst thou art in the way with him, lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge And the judge deliver thee the officer, and thou be cast into prison. Verily I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means come out thence till thou hast paid the uttermost farthing. And so I've entitled it, if you'll remember, Anger Management. And I think this is like the fourth installment in our anger management message. So let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless as we look at this next session. It's been a good week, and uh we ask now that uh as we look into your word, you'd open our hearts. Lord, you'd give us victory, not just outwardly, but in our in our hearts that we would be not just do what you ask of us, but Lord that we would be the people you intend for us to be. And fill me, I Pray with your Holy Spirit and speak through me and help us. In Jesus' name, Amen. Verse twenty-one and twenty-two, as I pointed out, the Lord is holding us to a higher standard than what religion does. Sometimes people say, Oh, you're saved by grace, that's just cheapening God's requirements. No, no, no. Grace is far more higher requirement of us than the law ever did. The law, uh grace says, man, we ought to love God with all our heart. So we're held to a higher standard. Murder is wrong, yes, everybody understands that But God says hatred and anger in your heart towards your brother is also wrong. So our first point in anger management. We're all enrolled in anger management. And the first point we have is we are held as Christians, we are held to a higher standard than the world does. You can have hatred, you can have anger in your heart towards someone, as long as you don't hurt them, as long as you don't kill them, that's okay. God says, no, no, no. That anger itself isn't right, needs to be dealt with. Now, the second stage or aspect of our anger management If we're going to have victory over anger, and our righteousness is going to exceed the Pharisees, we need to understand we're held to a higher standard. Number two, we need to maintain a humble sensitivity I get that from verse 23 and 24, a humble sensitivity. I came across this quote recently. It said this: No man can think clearly when his fists are clenched. Although that's an interesting statement. No man can think clearly when his fists are clenched. I re-worded it this way. This is my version of that quote. No man can pray effectively. When his fists are clenched. No man can worship effectively When his fists are clenched. No man can serve God effectively when his fists are clenched. Now, what do we mean when we say his fists are clenched? He's what? He's angry. He's angry. If I come to the altar, if I come before God with my prayer requests, maybe it's my regular scheduled daily pray time. Maybe there's a need has come up. Maybe there's a real burden, a situation. I need to get a hold of God. And I come to God and I've got anger in my heart. My prayers are ineffective. My prayers are ineffective. We are told that murder is wrong. Well, that's clear in Scripture. Everybody knows that. Everybody understands that. The Lord says not only is murder wrong, but indulging anger in my heart towards somebody is just as condemned. If I would go and choke and kill Brian, how many people agree with me? That would be wrong. But Sandy, I knew Sandy would uh Uh anyway, we'll just leave that alone. Thanks. But according to the standard that we're given in Scripture, me choking and killing him would be wrong. But if I'm harboring anger in my heart towards him for whatever reason, the Bible says verse 22, I'm just as condemned. I'm just as as wrong as the guy that kills them. Now, killing them has more greater s consequences than me being angry towards them. So the consequences of the sin have varying degrees, but the condemnation of the sin is the same. And so that's what we've learned. That's what we've picked up from what the Lord has told us in these first two verses. The world understands that. There's aspects of the world and some of the psychological world understands the damage that anger does um to ourselves, to others, to society. I mean you can't watch the news for the last ten months and don't you can't see where anger doesn't do a lot of damage Uh the world understands that. So the world tries to respond and the world, excluding God, the earthly wisdom we've been talking about Sunday nights, they try to deal with anger and they try to bring damage control to the anger. And so this is the world solutions to dealing with anger. For one of them is this. Well you've got to, and I'm put it in my words, you've got to release that anger In other words, just get somewhere away from people and just let it go. Punch a hole in the wall Get you a pillow and just beat that pillow to pieces. Go out back and just scream and yell and cuss and whatever. And just get it out of your system Actually, experience tells us that doesn't work. You know what expressing anger does? Rather than releasing the pressure, you know what expressing anger does? It nurtures anger. It actually escalates that anger. It's like pouring it's like blowing oxygen onto that fire. And so the world says, well, you know, you get angry, don't take it out on the person. You just go out and release the anger. Let it go, smack, smash a hole in the wall or whatever. That doesn't work. Another one of the world's solutions to anger is you've got to restrain it. Just calm down, take a deep breath. Um uh uh count to ten. What is the rest of the other ten? All right. Uh you know the whole idea is just hold it in, restrain it. Don't let that thing take over you. There is a well, and they'll say something like this just walk away from it. Just go for a walk And there's a certain element of truth in that that does help. In fact, Proverbs 17, 14 says that strife, and I'm I'm not quoting this and I don't want to turn there for sake of time, but it's something to this effect That strife is like when water is coming through a well. Uh well, I better quote it because I'm not even getting even close. Uh Proverbs um uh uh seventeen fourteen. Let listen to what it says. The beginning of a strife Is as one letteth out water. What happens if you've got a dam and the water is starting to flow over the top? What happens as that happen that's letting out water? What happens? Alright, it floods, but what's it do to the dam? It washes, erodes the dam away until finally you got this whole thing. He says, so when you let out when you get involved in strike, you get angry and you get that thing going, what he's saying is that thing's gonna escalate. I've made this statement several times through this message, and over the years I've said, and I think we understand this to be true, anger is contagious One person gets angry before long, everyone around them is angry. And so he says, when uh the beginning of strife is when one letteth out water. Therefore Leave off contention before it be meddled with. In other words, he's saying just walk away from it. The word leave off means uh just kind of let it alone, get your hands off of it, stay away from it So here's the advice. If you see a if you see somebody going at it, best thing to do is I'm not getting it well I don't say you shouldn't get involved, you should try and help it, but don't get caught up in that thing. So the world says, well, first of all, release it. Just blow off steam. That doesn't work. The other thing is, well, try and restrain it. Just hold it in. And there's an element of truth in that, but that's not solving the problem There's another idea the world has for dealing with anger is to refuse it. In other words, just hold it in. I'm not mad. I'm not mad. It's not there. I'm not mad. Fellas. Did you ever walk home, come home, you walk in the house and your wife's there and where's Kathy? And uh see uh and you can t fellas you walk in the door and you know it's not a happy camper there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You just walk in and you know I mean the tension and you say, sweetheart, you know, there's just you just know something's not right and say, Sweetheart, you know, what's wrong? Nothing. Oh, here's a little bit of advice, fellas. I came across this is nothing to do with the message. But um if you say something to your wife and she goes, What? That doesn't mean she didn't hear you. That means she's giving you another opportunity to rephrase the statement What's wrong? Nothing. What are you upset about? I'm not upset. And he and ladies, the guys guys are just as guilty, huh? Guys do that too sometimes. I'm not upset. I'm not mad And that's the whole idea is you just kind of refuse it. You try and just keep it under down and put it down. What's the problem with that? And here's the thing. If we just if we just try and quench that anger and just kind of keep it under control, number one, the flesh can never control the flesh, and anger is a sin of the flesh. And the other is if I do somehow manage to keep it under the surface, somehow manage to keep that current, anger current down low, that thing gets stronger. And we're not careful, it turns into a root of bitterness. And that is deadly poison. And so the world really doesn't have an answer for solution or a an answer to anger, a solution for anger The world says, well, you know, just let it blow. That doesn't help. Try and restrain it, just walk away, calm down, keep you don't uh or just refuse it, just don't admit it's there. God has a better solution. Now the first two verses he says it's wrong. You're held to a higher standard. This anger has no place in the heart and life of a believer, child of God. Then the next thing he says, alright. He says, alright, what do I do? It's wrong. I don't want to. He says, put it off. How do I go about that? Well, the world says refuse it or release it or restrain it. And God says, no, no, no. What we have to do, and this is what I got out of verse 23 and 24, is we have to be proactive in maintaining a heart and spirit where anger cannot take root. Regardless of what happens, regardless of what's going on, I maintain, I actively keep my heart and spirit in such a condition. That are not provoked to anger. There's nothing there for it to get a hold of. And that's what I believe he's teaching us here Uh uh God says uh remove it, put something else in its place, develop a type of spirit where anger cannot flourish. Where anger cannot develop, where cannot get a hold of anything. We must do more than just keep anger from taking control of us. We must keep anger from even germinating. in our hearts and lives. And I believe that's what he's talking about here. I have a little garden. If I would evaluate my skills as a gardener these last four years I've had this little garden, I would be a total failure for the most part Uh I'm not very good at gardening, but I've got tomato plants and I've got peppers and I've got um uh uh what are those big long green things that grow? Um zucchinis And uh and I got my green beans are doing great. And uh but anyway, there's two ways to approach the garden with weeds. Let's say the weeds are like the anger. My heart is the garden And weeds, the anger is weeds that grow up in my garden. They're going to come. And you can do everything you want. They're going to be there one way or another. Now I can take a machete And I can go through the garden and just hack off the top of the wheels. What's going to happen with that? All I'm doing is keeping them under control. I'm just uh hacking them off, hacking them off all around there, and the roots are still there and the plant's still there. I'm just hacking it off. That's saying, all right, weeds are bad, they ought not to be in the garden, and I'm trying to deal with them, but I'm just hacking off the top. Or I can get a rototiller. And borrow it from somebody, if you don't have one, get a rototiller, and I go between the rows, and what does the rhodotiller do? Ah, it breaks up the fallow ground. Those roots, those weeds get down there, and the longer they're there, the more entwined those roots come. And the more f firmly entrenched they are into that soil and into that ground. But if I come through with a hoe or with a rototiller, and I break up that ground, I'm pulling that thing up by the roots and I'm maintaining the soil in such a way that when the root when the weed does show up, I can very easily get it out of there. It pulls out of the ground. The ground is soft. It's broken up. I can very easily pull them out. It's not matted and rooted down in. You follow what I'm saying And so I believe what the Lord is telling us here in verse 23 and 24 is how to keep that heart, the soil, broken up and sensitive and tender. So that when that anger does come in, it's not it doesn't have anything to get a hold of, and I can deal with it and replace it immediately. And I believe that's what he's telling us here. So the way to do that is to be very sensitive to the Lord, to be very humble before the Lord. Sensitive to the Lord's Spirit. Sensitive to the Lord's will for me. So verse 21 and 22, anger bad. Verse 23 and 24, all right, this is how you maintain a spirit where it can't get in there, where it can't stay and take root and take over your life. And so look what he says. Therefore, all right, if this anger is so bad it's you'll be j it's condemned. Therefore, if you bring if thou bring thy gift to the altar And there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee. Leave there thy gift. You see the sensitivity? Oh man, so-and-so is really upset with me. All right, I'm sensitive to that. Or, so-and-so has aught against me. So-and-so is upset. I don't care. That's his problem See the difference? I have the attitude, I don't care what he I don't care whether he's mad at me or not, I don't care. I'm gonna pray, I'm gonna offer my sacrifice. Ah I've just created an environment of spirit where anger can really dwell, where anger can take root. But if I'm sensitive, I'm praying, I brought my sacrifice, and God speaks to my heart, uh, I know it. And I respond to that and I'm humble, sensitive, I go and deal with that, I'm not giving that anger any chance to root. That soil's tender, it's broken up, and I can deal with that and get it taken care of. Now here's the thing. Our worship of God, he says here you bring your sacrifice, you bring a gift to the altar is the gift Bring the gift to the altar. It's more, here's what I got from this. When we come to church, we take the offering up, or we go to the altar, God speaks our heart, we respond to the altar, or we're serving the Lord in some capacity, teaching or whatever, in the choir, whatever role we might play, but we're doing it for the Lord. I love God. I want to serve Him. Uh the fire trucks are for the teens. The place is not on fire, so don't worry about that. They're back there. Trust me, there ain't nothing on fire around here. It's everything soaked. But uh anything I'm doing for the Lord, any gift I'm bringing to the Lord, and it's not just the financial, but my gift of my service, the gift of my love, the gift of my worship. That is not primarily for God, although it is All of that, much of that is to develop me into being the person God wants me to be. Do you notice? He comes here, he's bringing his gift to the Lord, but there's a change that needs to take place in this guy's life. And that's what bringing the gift to the Lord provoked him. to go and make some changes and deal with some things. And he came back closer to the Lord, more right with God, in fellowship with his brother, than he was when he started. You see what I'm saying? What I found is when I'm serving God, when I'm bringing my gift to the Lord, whatever it might be, I'm growing closer, I'm getting stronger spiritually, I'm getting more mature, I'm maturing spiritually. Serving God, worshiping God helps me be a better Christian. It's not just For God, but it helps me. You follow what I'm saying? And so no act of worship or service of any kind Is of any value if I'm not willing to allow God to change me while I'm doing it I've always felt like if someone's going to serve God, and I'm a little rabbit trail here, but I've always felt if someone's going to serve God effectively, the very first requirement should be that they are surrendered to the Lord. I've been in this a long time, and I've seen people who wanted to serve God who were not surrendered to the Lord. And you know what it is? I want to serve God, but I want to serve God my way. I want to do something for God, but I want to do what I think I should do for God. I want to do it the way I want to do it for God. And you know what that person gets out of that service? Nothing. But when a person comes and says, Lord, I want to serve you, here I am, I'm fully yielded to you. You show me, you use me, you direct me however you want, that person's going to grow. You're going to see them develop spiritually. And so he's bringing his gift to the altar, but he's very sensitive. He's humbly sensitive to the Lord. And he wants God to have his way. And so it uh um uh and so one of the aspects, if I'm gonna be right with God, I've gotta be right with my brother. Look Bring there the gift of the altar, and remembers that thy brother hath aught against thee. Leave there thy gift before the altar and go thy way. One of the important aspects of our service of the Lord is help me get uh right with the way uh help me be in fellowship with my brothers and sisters in Christ. You know I found out I get the closest to in my Christian walk the people I'm serving God with. Those are the ones we get closest to. When I first got saved, I said this before, when I first got saved, I thought the word fellowship, the Greek word for fellowship was fried chicken. Because every time they said we're having fellowship we went and there was fried chicken. So I said, Man, this fellowship's great. And they're like, Yeah man, this is good fellowship. I said, Yeah. I like the Brown fellowship and uh what And so but you know what I found out? When I'm shoulder to shoulder with somebody, I'm serving God, I'm not trying to win souls, or we're on a mission trip, or we're serving God together. I get a whole lot closer to them spiritually than when I'm sitting eating fried chicken with them. You follow what I'm saying? And so part of our service of the Lord is develop us and get a and and bring the people of God closer. I founded a church that is active. and serving God and focused on reaching people, that church is happier, that church is closer fellowship than the one that's out there. And everybody's doing their own thing, and they don't have any real clear vision. They really don't have a burden for others, and they have no concern for the loss, and they just they just want to have a good time, and we just want to celebrate Jesus And I found that that there's a lot of not a not a lot of joy in that. There's not a lot of close fellowship, but being you get people serving God and bringing their gifts to the altar and serving the Lord, you'll find them getting closer to the Lord. A gal years ago said, uh talked to somebody's name came up and and she said this. And I'm not trying to be funny. This is the way she said it. Well, we are not on speaking terms Is what she said. I said, really? I didn't say it, I wasn't brave enough to say it to her face. But I later I walked away, I said I thought, then that tells me she's not on praying terms with her Lord. Right? She's not on worshiping terms with her Lord because the two are tied together. So Two indisputable requirements for being in fellowship with God. I must love the Lord with all my heart, and I must love my neighbor as myself. So here he says. Verse 21-22, anger is bad. You're held to a higher standard. I do not accept anger in your heart as a believer. Murder's wrong, anger's justice condemned. Then he says, all right, uh, that's the higher standard. Now you need humble sensitivity. So that your heart is so tender, you're so so sensitive to the Lord's will and the Spirit of God that when something comes up, rather than allowing it to develop into anger, you deal with it In a humble, sensitive way, so that the anger can't take any root. Now, here's the thing. This is what he's telling us here. Number one, I put this down. The outline shorter than the introduction. Number one. I must be perceptive. I must be perceptive. Look at verse 23. Therefore, if I bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee. Here's a God. And we'll just use the illustration of the old altar up here. He comes to the altar for whatever God spoke to his heart, or maybe he's coming up to give his offering or whatever. And he comes up there and the Spirit of God touches his heart. You know, sister so-and-so, or it's a girl, sister so-and-so, or brother so-and-so, you know, things are out of whack with them You need to deal with that. And they're sensitive to that. They're sensitive to the Holy Spirit's conviction. Jesus said later on, he says, part of the ministry of the Holy Spirit is to bring things to your remembrance. I don't know, but I'm I would guess I'm probably right now as I'm talking there's some people sitting here and somebody's coming to your mind right now. I have no idea. Do you know you know you know what brings that to your mind? That's the Holy Spirit. He brings things to our members, yes, I know. And he said, we need to be perceptive. We need to be sensitive. When we come to worship God and we're serving God, our heart must be sensitive. The altar is any place where I'm yielding myself to God's will. Lord, I want to be right with you. God, I want to serve you acceptably. I want to be the person you saved me to be. And the Spirit of God brings something to my remembrance. This here needs to be dealt with. And I'm perceptive of that. I'm sensitive to that. The strongest Christians I know are very sensitive to the Spirit of God. My dad and I was down for a month, about a month or two ago, and we had some tremendous talks. And when it was over, I talked to my wife. My dad, I I think he's more so now than I ever remember him, is so sensitive to the Holy Spirit. There's a lot of times we talk and he'd just weep. So I want to make this right. I want this to be that. I like for this to be that. I tell you, that challenged me. The strongest fishing in there were very tender-hearted to God's will and to pleasing God. What's it mean to be tender-hearted? If something's tender, if you've got sunburned on your back, the slightest little touch, It's very tender. That's what the idea is being sensitive or tender-hearted Lord. The Spirit of God just touches my heart. I need to I need to respond to that. I need to do what he says. I told you before the old guy down at Highland Park, and he was at the altar all the time. My first couple months I was there, I thought this guy must be a wicked sinner. He's at the altar every time for a long time praying and weeping. Well, as time went by, I got to know him. He's probably one of the most godly men I ever met. Held no position on the church, just a humble, godly Christian, gave out hundreds of thousands of gospel tracts. You know what I learned? He was so tender-hearted and sensitive when the Spirit of God would speak to his heart, he wanted that to be right. Many things, what you and I would never give a second thought about, but he was so tender, he wanted to be right with God And he'd respond. So he says, you come to the altar, and there you remember your brother is ought against you. You're very perceptive. You're sensing the Spirit of God is speaking in your heart about that. Then I put it down here, one, I must be perceptive. Two, this whole ordeal might be problematic. Look what he says there. Comes the altar, there remembers thy brother is all against us. Look at the first part of verse 24. Leave there thy gift before the altar and go the way. Now that could be a problem. You're right in the middle of church service. Maybe we're taking an offering up, or you're at the altar up here, and all of a sudden God comes and he says, Lord says, listen, it might be disruptive. It might be a little bit of a problem. You might rearrange your schedule. It might not be according to plan, but you need to go and make that right. You need to go and do what you need to do. I remember years ago I was in a church service there having Lord's Supper and the preacher had given uh uh the the warnings that we always do we need to come with uh uh uh uh worthily you know and not and while he's doing that one of the church members got up and went over to another church member and said We've been out of sorts, and I'm not going to take Lord's Supper with my heart not being right with your heart. I'm sorry, and I want to make things right. And those guys sat there and prayed together and got things right before they took part of Lord's Supper. That's what he's talking about. It might be problematic, it might be disruptive, it may be awkward But I'm telling you, being right with God is more important than not being awkward. Having God's blessings. Being everything God wants me to be has never been cheap and it's never been easy and it's never been without trials. Being thoroughly right with God often requires a lot of humility and is often very inconvenient. So number one, if I'm going to get a heart that is such a spirit that is not going to allow anger to take root and become an issue, Because anger is wrong, it's just as condemned as murder. I've got to be I've got to be perceptive, I've got to understand and listen and let the Spirit of God speak in my heart sense that it might be problematic, I might be awkward, it might be disruptive I put this down. It must be a priority. Look at verse 24 again. First, be reconciled to thy brother. Some things in life have to take priority over other things. If I'm going to have victory in my Christian life, if I'm going to have victory over anger, there are some things that must have a priority. If I'm going to be what God wants me, some things have to have a priority. And what he's saying here is you've got to first decide to put God's will before your will. First, go and be reconciled. You say, yeah, but I'll look bad and I and you know it's just a it's not that big a deal and all that. Listen, do you want God to get the glory or not? And then last of all, I put this. One, it needs to be uh, I must be perceptive. Two, it may be problematic. Three, it's got to be a priority, and I put this one. I may be the innocent party. Now look at this. This is what got me. Verse 23, come back up. There rememberest that thy brother hath Ought against thee. In that little statement, who did who wrong? The other person has aught against you. It doesn't say, listen, if you come to give your bring your gift to the altar and you remember you did somebody wrong, you've got aught against somebody Will you go and t uh tell them and uh uh uh or no no uh i i i if you come to the altar and you realize somebody did you wrong And you've got aught against them. I'll pick on Brian tonight. Brian did me something wrong, and I'm pick giving my offering. And uh I remember, you know, Brian did me wrong. He's not saying if somebody did you wrong, you go and deal with it, you go and confront them. That's not what he's saying. He's saying the opposite. If I'm at the altar, I'm giving my offering and I realize I did Brian wrong, and he has aught against me. Even if it may be imaginary that I did wrong, and he thinks I did, and maybe I really didn't, but he believes I did. I need to go to him. I've got to go make it right. Now let me just throw a no note of caution out here. I know I'm going a little long here, but I'll throw a note of caution out here We live in such a world where everybody feels like everybody's doing them wrong. Right? I mean, it's at a point where you can't even comb your hair if you have any, and somebody's not offended by that. Uh uh Winston Churchill uh said this. He said if you sh uh um He's let me get it down here. If you will never reach your destination if you stop and throw stones at every dog that barks. That's good advice. I mean everybody that's upset about something you did, if you tried to deal with all of that your whole life, all you'd be doing, if in my position particularly, all I'd ever be doing is dealing with people that are upset about something I did So it requires a little bit of wisdom. But when I've got a situation where somebody believes, I really believe I did them wrong. I need to go and make that right. You know what I'm doing? I'm diffusing anger. I'm not giving anger any opportunity to develop and take root because I'm going and trying to make it right. I had a lady years ago. And I think for the most part she was a fine lady, but she just got mixed up. And she called me up one day and she said, Pastor Leatherman, she had been attending our church for a little while, she said, Pastor Leatherman I'd really like for you to come over. I need to talk to you. I said, okay. So my wife went along and I don't remember what day it was, but we went over. It was the afternoon. We sat down and she was there and there was another preacher she had invited to come and he was there and uh I thought this is unusual. And we sat down and she goes, Pastor Leatherman, the Bible says that if I have aught against you, that I should come to you about it. And I thought, that's not what the Bible says. And for the next half hour to 45 minutes, she proceeded to tell me everything she didn't like about me. And I mean to tell you, I didn't do anything right. And I while she was telling me, I thought, this is an impressive list. And I thought, but I know me better than she does. She don't have half of the list that I can put on there And so I sat there and I put my head down and Kathy sat there and we just sat down and we let her talk and for half hour, like I said, forty five minutes, she just told me all these things that she didn't agree with and all these things that I had said and done that hurt her and all these things just went on and on and on. And the other preacher was sitting there to my right. And so when she finally finished, I said her name and I said, Listen, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to hurt you in any way. Let's pray. I prayed, asked God to bless her and lead in her life and help her. And we dismissed ourselves. I wasn't going to engage her, I wasn't going to defend myself. We just left. The preacher slipped out. And he came as soon as we went out, he came out and he said, Pastor Leatherman, I am sorry. He says, I did not know that that's what this was going to be. He says, I apologize. He said, that was wrong. I don't want nothing to do with that. Now what she did in principle was correct. She just had the cart before the horse. What the Lord's telling us to do is if I did something to somebody and they hurt them, I need to go and make that right with them. Follow what I'm saying? That's the way I keep my heart tender. Man, I said something to Kim. Ah, I shouldn't have said that And I want to go and make that right. Because he might have aught against me. And that's going to diffuse the anger. That's going to keep my heart tender. In fact, I had somebody this week came up to me this today. They said, Pastor Letterman, I got a little short. I said a few things And uh I'm sorry I didn't mean to do that and it was just whatever. So no, it's fire, I even think about it. You know what that's doing? That's keeping a humble sensitivity to the Lord. And keeps that anger from getting in up. You follow what I'm saying? Now I know it took a long time to say that point, but it's really important that we be tenderhearted, that we be humble and sensitive to the Lord, because when we get proud, when we get hard. Then anger is a huge issue. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I trust you'd help us on this, Lord. I know I need to in this I'm in the same boat here, Lord. And so I ask you would help us just to be humble before you, very sensitive, perceptive when you lead us, you speak to our hearts That uh we very be very very sensitive, not harden ourselves or stiffen our net. Very humbly going Do what we need to do to make things right. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, and I know this could be very personal and between you and the Lord. I understand that. But maybe tonight you say, preacher, God did bring maybe somebody or some situation to my mind. Say preacher, it's awkward. It would be awkward and it wouldn't be easy, but I really, I really, really, really. I want to be everything God wants me to be. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God would help me to humble myself and And make sure these things are right and what they ought to be. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. It's part of life. We interact. As we stay humble. How many would say, preacher, and again, this is between you and God, but you'd say, preacher, pray with me. Pride is an issue in my heart. I just struggle with being so proud. And I don't want to be that way. I want to be humble before the Lord. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? That's my prayer. I want to be humble before God. Father in heaven Lord, I can't hardly give an altar call here with this, but maybe we could make just our own pews there or just our own hearts a little altar. God, we bow before you tonight and we yield our hearts and our will, and we ask you teach us to be sensitive as your Spirit deals with us and bless us and help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.