I changed my mind. We're gonna sell them. Yeah, it's uh that's why I'm poor. I don't think of that stuff till after it's too late. Matthew chapter five, we're preaching on the Sermon on the Mount. And uh working our way through. If you'll notice in verse number 21, Matthew chapter 5. Let me get turned on here. Boy s Sunday was a day, wasn't it? Man Alive, that was a great service. There we go for the name. Alright, verse 21 of Matthew chapter 5. Ye have heard that it was that it was said by them of old time, thou shalt not kill. And whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment. But I say unto you, that whosoever is angry with his brother without cause shall be in danger of the judgment, and whosoever shall say to his brother Rakha shall be in danger of the counsel. But whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hellfire. Therefore, if thou bring thy gift to the altar and there remain there there rema and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, Lead there thy gift before the altar and go thy way. First be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift. Agree with thine adversary quickly, whilst thou art in the way with him, lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee the officer, and thou be cast into prison Verily I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means come out thence till thou hast paid the uttermost farthing. This is one of six statements the Lord makes. And he's addressing his concern about the Pharisees teaching folks that as long as they kept an outward ritual, as long as they kept these lists of do's and don'ts outwardly, that uh everything was okay. They were just with the Lord. And the Lord is explaining that the outward actions need to be right, but also our heart and spirit need to be right. And he made the statement, if you remember, in a verse or two before, he said, Except your righteousness shall exceed that of the Pharisees, you'll no way inherit the kingdom of heaven. And so uh he makes this and five other statements to illustrate that truth, that what the Pharisees were teaching, that as long as I'm outwardly okay, as long as I look right and I say the right words and I do the right actions, then everything's good. Lord's illustrating, no, no, no. It's the condition of your heart that the law is concerned about, that God is concerned about. And so he addresses this matter of murder and anger. And he's addressing anger management. So let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our study into this passage of Scripture, Lord, more than anything. I want to be true to your word. And Lord, I want you to use me and speak through me that we would grow in our relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that for none of us, myself included, God, I ask that you would convict us that none of us would simply have an external Christianity, that it would not just be a a facade, it would not just be an outward thing. But Lord, we would have a genuine relationship with you, and our heart and soul would be what you intend for us to be, our nature. And so I ask that you would fill me with your Spirit and speak to our hearts tonight. Teach us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Every aspect of uh the Christian life and every area of our relationship with the Lord, everything about our relationship with the Lord always begins with the heart. We mention this often because it's so important God is concerned with the heart of mankind. God is concerned with the heart of his people. We have a tendency, man has a tendency to establish religion and have an outward formality, and I keep re saying this, but we have a list of do's and don'ts. If you're going to be religious, anybody here ever try to witness or try to look for the Lord of Job or somewhere with your family? And somebody says this, oh uh, you're very religious. Anybody ever hear that? Or somebody talking about you will say, oh, he's he's a very religious man. She's very religious. I don't like that Because I don't view myself as having religion, so to speak. I view myself as having a relationship with Jesus Christ. And that's what God's concerned about. The Pharisees simply put this facade up, but God's concerned with our heart, even in this matter of salvation In John chapter 3, Nicodemus came to the Lord Jesus Christ. And he says, you know, you're obviously a prophet, come from God. No man can do the things out those except God be with him. And the Lord immediately, before Nicodemus can even get to what his question was, what his concern was, the Lord immediately, knowing his heart, says to him, Except the man uh be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of heaven. Now that's interesting. The word born there is the idea, and the other places in Scripture of Reveren has the idea of being regenerated. Made alive, being born a new creature. The Lord doesn't say to Nicodemus, Nicodemus, if you change your behavior Then you can inherit the kingdom of heaven. Then you'll see the kingdom of heaven. If you'll reform your actions, if you'll change your behavior, then you can inherit the kingdom of heaven. The Lord doesn't say that. The Lord says, you've got to be born again. You need to have a new nature. You need a new a new heart and soul if you're going to enter the kingdom of heaven. So salvation, by its very nature, is a heart matter. is a spiritual thing that produces, that affects the outward behavior. The matter of dedicating my life to Christ as a Christian begins with the heart. Keep your place here if you would. If you would come to Romans chapter 12. And to me, Romans chapter 12 is such a significant passage of scripture. And verse 1 and 2, and we're very familiar with this. Many of you have this passage memorized, which is excellent. It ought to uh uh my mind it ought to uh in very minimum be underscored in our Bible. It should be underscored in our hearts But notice verse 1 of Romans chapter 12, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Now he's talking about a person as a Christian, he says brethren, so he's talking to believers, and he's talking about them coming to the point in their life That they just, for lack of a better term, sell out for the Lord. They just dedicate their lives to Christ. I am going to live for God and for His glory, for the cause of the gospel. That is what my life is going to be lived for. That's what he's addressing. But notice in verse 2 where he says this begins, where this takes place. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye what? Transformed. That word transformed in its meaning has the idea of something from the inside out being changed. being changed in my nature, not my behavior, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. The word mind and heart is often used interchangeably in Scripture, and we renewed our mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. My point I'm trying to make is this Every aspect of the Christian life, from salvation to dedicating my life to God for living to the Lord, It all begins and is carried out through the heart of the believer, through the nature of man. And that's what God is concerned about. The Pharisees had reduced the things of God to simply a legal observation We do this, we do this, we do this, we do this, we don't do that, we don't do that, we don't do that, and that was it. And they didn't see the spiritual part of it. They weren't concerned about the the condition of the person spiritually as long as they had this legal observation. Fact is, the Bible is more than just a legal list of do's and don'ts. It's not what the Bible is all about. The Bible deals with our condition as sinners. It deals with our condition as saints. And why does a person sin? Why do they sin? Because they're a sinner. That's their nature. They're not a sinner because they sin. They sin because they're a sinner. The Pharisees and a lot of religion today is just if and and and for not careful it creeps into our church and churches like ours Well, I'm doing this and I'm not doing that. We really don't focus on our heart condition of where I'm at spiritually, what I am We're just concerned, well I do this and I don't do that and I'm there and I'm here and I'm at prayer meeting. I got my King James Bible, everything's good. No, God's concerned about our heart And that's what this whole passage is about. Six statements he make, coming back to Matthew 5. Six statements he makes through here. Murder and anger, talks about lust and adultery, talks about marriage and divorce. He comes down all down through and he deals with these different issues, responding to injustice He he uses these six issues and he illustrates the point he's trying to make that God's concern with what you are more than than what you do because what you do will be controlled by what you are When um dealing with murder, that's the first subject. He's dealing with murder The law of God says thou shalt not kill. And the Pharisees ended there. But Jesus said, listen, it's more than just when God says thou shalt not call, thou shalt not kill, He's not just addressing the act of murdering somebody. He's addressing the whole aspect that would even cause a person to murder somebody. The whole condition a person would be in that would make them do that, would prompt them to take that action. Where the Pharisees, as long as you didn't murder, nothing else mattered. Never entered their mind. And the Lord's saying there's a whole lot more to it. So we're talking about with a murder, he addresses anger. So my subject, my title is Anger Management Now, I don't know, but there's enough people here tonight. I would venture to say I'm talking to some folks, and don't, I'm not asking for a response on this, but I have no doubt I'm talking to some folks that have an issue with anger You have to deal with that. It's something as a Christian you say, man, I struggle with anger. I get angry over things and and my anger gets the best of me sometimes. And uh I know it's not right and I've got this issue with anger. I don't kill the person, but boy, I sure want to. You know? One guy said, Well, we've never considered divorce, murder, but never divorce. Well the Lord says, listen, I'm putting my own words here, of course, but he's saying something to this effect. If you want to have victory over anger, You've got to address the condition of your heart. You can change the outward all you want. You can change the circumstances. You can try and get where things, people stop making me angry. But until my heart is changed. That's always going to be an issue. It's always going to be an issue. And so victory over anger begins with the condition of my heart, not the circumstances surrounding me, not how people are treating me. I can't control that. I can't control what other people say and do. I can't always control the circumstances I find myself in. But I do have a say on the condition of my heart. And if I want to have victory over anger, I've got to get my heart where it's supposed to be. Because until that happens I'm not going to have victory. Three parts here. I've taken verses 21 down through verse 26. I've broken them into three sections. And we're going to try and look at each of these in the next three Wednesday nights, Lord Willie. And these three areas address this matter of dealing with anger that produces murder. First of all, I notice in verse 21 and 22 that God holds us to a higher standard. The world, the Pharisees, and religion said, as long as you don't kill anybody, it doesn't matter how mad you get. Listen, I might not kill somebody, but if I'm punching holes in the wall, there's something wrong with that. God holds us to a higher standard. I might not be hurting somebody, but if I'm throwing stuff around, God says Christians live by a higher standard than that. That's not how we behave. We live by a higher standard. Then in verse number 23 and 24, but there needs to be a humble sensitivity. He says, if thou bring your gift to the altar and you realize you got into it with somebody, here you're to you're bringing your offering or you're at the altar, God spoke to your heart, and you do this and You come up there and say, man, I really got into it, I blew up on that person. I need to go and make that right. And if we're going to have victory over anger, we've got to have a very humble sensitivity to the Spirit of God speaking to us So we're held to a higher standard. We have a humble sensitivity. And then the last one we're going to have to kind of elaborate on a little bit when we get to it, but there needs to be an honest submission If I have an adversary and I've got somebody that I'm not right with and I'm all worked up, I need to be honest with that person and submit and do my part to make it right and we'll examine that. But I want to do this first part. uh where we are held to a higher standard. You don't have to read verse 21 and 22 very carefully. I mean you don't have to really examine it or tear it apart to come to the conclusion that murder and anger are equally condemned. Now I've said this for years and I've had preachers from our pulpit and just within the last year we had a very man that I respect tremendously made a statement that uh is contrary to my statement, but I'm standing by my statement, especially since he's not here. Um But I've often said, and I feel like all sins are equally condemned by God. I think if you study Scripture, all sins are equally condemned by God. Now there's good men I highly respect. They take issue with that and say no. But my answer is, they say, well, in the Bible, not all sins are responded to the same way. So this is the way I see it. All sin is equally condemned by God, but not all sins have the same consequences. I've said that many times Hating someone in my heart doesn't have the same consequences physically as killing that person does. Right? I would far rather have somebody hate me than kill me. Right? But you look at this passage of scripture here and you find out that God condemns the hatred part equally With the murder part. Look, I want to show you something. Look at verse 21. Ye have heard that it was said of them of old time, thou shalt not kill. And whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of judgment. All right, we don't have any issue with that. That's correct. The law said that. No problem. Jesus saying, listen, it goes farther than that. It doesn't just end with that. In that statement, in that command, in that truth, there's the spiritual aspect. There's a deeper application. Now look at verse 21. But I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without cause shall be, look, he uses the exact same statement, shall be in danger of the judgment. Huh. Exact same condemnation for anger as there is for murder. Uh look, read on. And whosoever shall say to his brother Rakha, and we'll talk about what that means here, shall be in danger of the council. Now what is the danger of the council? The council was back in that day is what you ever read in the Bible, ever hear about the Sanhedrin? The Sanhedrin are the ones that condemn Jesus Christ. He's the that's who he came before on that mock trial. That's what the council is. It was some legal biblical legal uh uh people had legal authority and they had the legal authority to turn people over for capital punishment if necessary And that he says you're in danger of that. If they are applying the law of God as they're supposed to, you're in danger of the judgment by this council. Look again, look at the rest of the verse. But whosoever shall say, thou fool, shall be in danger of what? Hellfire. Good night. What's he saying? I think we have to be careful. That uh we don't read too much into these three statements. I was reading what some other guy said and doing a little study on this and trying to get some other perspectives on it. Several fellows uh suggested that these are three different levels of judgment. Judgment uh you're you're in danger of judgment, judgment of the council, and hellfire. They hadn't convinced me I think the Lord is simply making a very strong statement saying this, that anger is just as condemned by God as murder is. And the expressions of anger, raka, thou fool, are just as condemned as the person that goes out there and kills someone. The Lord is making a very, very strong statement here. That this is to uh uh that if I have animosity in my heart towards another I'm just as guilty before God as if I killed that one. I'm j uh I'm just as condemned, I should say. I violated the law. If I have if I have animosity and hatred in my heart towards somebody and anger in my heart towards somebody I am just as guilty of breaking the law of God as if I killed them. That's the point he's making here Without cause. We'll come to that later. Um Let me give you my, I've got three points here. We're going to get to two of them under this higher standard we're held to. Number one, the execution of murder is condemned. In other words, if I murder someone carrying out the act of murder is condemned. How many people agree with that? Right God forbids murdering people. That's obvious. He gave the death penalty. If man sheds a man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. Now listen, let me throw this in. That does uh God that does not include self-defense. God allows for man to defend himself if I am If I am in under threaten of being killed, God allows for me to defend myself as far as I need to, if I need to kill that guy to keep him from killing me The Bible allows for that. If I'm protecting my family, and the only way I can protect my family is by taking that man's life, I believe the Bible allows for that. Protecting your country God allows for a country to defend itself if they are under attack, if their citizens are in danger of being killed, they're allowed to kill that enemy to keep them from killing them. The Bible allows for that. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about murder. He had something I have, or I get angry at him, or I get mad, or he did something I don't like, and I'm just going to murder him. So that's condemned. God condemns that. We understand that. That's condemned. Here's what I want to get to. Number two: the execution of murder is condemned. Number two, the indulgence of anger is condemned. The indulgence of anger is condemned. Now I'm going to make a statement, and it kind of applies to what Chuck was asking there a little bit, but I want to show you some verses. And we have to, I believe we have to interpret that phrase without pause in light of some other clear statements the Bible says. Whenever you insert, whenever you study the Bible, you've got to do two three things, I believe. First of all, you've got to know what the word means. I want to look up, I want to know exactly, I want to find out everything I can about the meaning of that word. I want to know what that word means. Number two, I need to take it in the context of what it's used. So I've got to look at the passages before and after that. How is it used in this context? Sometimes how it's used in context is a little different than the literal meaning of the word. And so I've got to look at that. The other thing I have to do is I have to compare it with others' passages. Sometimes, even in the context, it appears to be saying something, but I find other passages where that same subject is addressed, that same word is used, and it's used very clearly in a way that helps me understand what he means here. So let's do that with this. If you would, take your Bible and turn to Matthew chapter 15. We're going to look at a bunch of verses here. Matthew chapter 15. Then we're going to go to Mark chapter 7 after that. Matthew 15. Look with me if you would at verse number 18. Matthew 15, 18. But those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart, and they defile the man. Now look at this. For out of the heart, that's what the Lord's addressing here, our righteousness has to be more than just external, has to uh exceed that of the Pharisees, they just outwardly, it's got to be heart. All right, here's a problem, for out of the heart proceed what? Evil thoughts. Now look at the order of how these issues are addressed. Out of the heart perceived first what? Evil thoughts. And then he lists murders, adulteries, fornication, thefts, false witness, blasphemy. Why did he put evil thoughts first? Because that is where all the rest of those come from. My heart produces evil thoughts. Now, in our context, we're talking about anger Which is the as condemned as murder. I believe the suggestion here is the implication here is this. Those murders, those thefts, those uh adulteries all come because I get worked up in my mind Which produces that type of action. And it all comes from the condition of my heart. If I have a problem with anger, if I have a problem blowing up and throwing stuff and getting mad and saying things and exploding It's telling me I know one thing. It is because my heart, it's coming from my heart, not from the surroundings, not from my circumstances. My heart is where this proceeds from For out of the heart perceive these evil thoughts, this thinking a wrong way, this unscriptural, unspiritual thinking. Which produces all this. Matthew, uh Mark chapter 7, he says basically the same thing. Mark 7 and verse number 21. For from within, out of the heart of man, same order, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetous, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness. So he's including the outward behavior and the inward condition all in the same, coming from the same source, a sinful heart. Now, turn with me if you would to Ephesians chapter 4. Now here's it gets uh gets pretty specific. Ephesians chapter four, verse twenty-nine. Ephesians 4 29. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good. to the use of edifying that it may minister grace unto the hearers. Tell you what, just obeying that one verse there would solve a lot of problems. Now look what he says. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Now, verse 31, and if you have a pen, I want to encourage you to underscore a word here. Verse thirty-one, let what's the next word? All the word all allows For no exceptions. You agree with me? Yes. He says all, and there's no exceptions. Let all bitterness and what? Wrath and anger And clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. And be ye kind one to another. Tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Question, are there any qualifications or there are any exceptions on putting away all this anger, this wrath, this malice, and being kind? No. He allows no room for this. All anger and wrath. Come over to Colossians, just a few verse pages over. And chapter three and verse eight. But now ye also, he says this, put off, there's that word again, what? All Put off all these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth He says twice now in Ephesians chapter 4 and Colossians chapter 3, he says, twice, he says, put off, put away all anger. All of it. No exceptions, no qualifications. It is not to be a part of your experience. Out. Off Just as much as rat uh look at the list there. Blasphemy. Is there ever occasion when it's okay to blaspheme? Any circumstance where I would be justified in blaspheming God? No. He says, just like you put off all that blasphemy. Is there ever a circumstance where malice and filthy communication would be justified? Is there ever a circumstance where it's okay to use bad language? No, there's none. And in that whole list, he has anger and wrath. And he says, put all of it away, all of it, put it off. There are no exceptions. The anger in the heart of man is condemned by God. And I believe until we get that through in our minds, that there is no place for this, there is no justification for this. I cannot tolerate this in any way. It needs to be dealt with, needs to be put off, needs to be put away. James chapter 1 and verse 20. For sake of time, we won't turn there, but I I hope you're taking those. I hope you'll got this down. It says this For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God It doesn't say the wrath of man usually does not work the righteousness of God. It doesn't say the wrath of man almost always worketh not the righteousness of God. It says the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Nowhere in Scripture do you find a man getting angry and God being pleased with it? Nowhere. Nowhere in scripture do you find a person getting angry and God saying, Amen. That's exactly what I wanted. Never. It's not anywhere there. You find the greatest men in Scripture. You know what I found? Some of the greatest men in Scripture had issues with anger. Had issues with anger. And not one time, not one time does God ever commend them for it, not one time does God ever reward them for it, not one time does God ever approve of it. God kind of tolerates it. Take your Bible, if you would, turn with me to Exodus chapter 32. Anybody think of a great leader in the Old Testament that struggled with anger? Moses, classic example. Now don't think, oh good, I struggle with anger. Oh good, Moses did too, so I'm in good company. Don't think that way. Because Moses paid a heavy price. Uh Exodus chapter 32. Here Moses is uh up on the mount. God's calling him up there and This just is is amazing to me. God writes on tables of stone. God does this. Writes on tables of stones his law for mankind. God writes on these tables of stone that God has prepared The law for mankind. And he tells Moses, take these tablets of the commandments, these tablets of the thirds. You take them back down the mountain. And you're going to instruct the people what I've told you. So I don't know how big these tablets were. I would imagine they're stone, so they're not light. And he comes all the way down the mountain, he carries this. When he gets down the mountain, he hears something. What's he hear? He hears partying. Says that's not the noise of war. They're that's rock and roll. That's uh carrying on. They're dancing and carrying on. That's a Something's up. And he comes down and lo and behold, uh they made the the um they had made the golden cap and they're dancing to it and they're all uh immodest, naked, dancing around. I mean it's just a horrible, horrible situation Look with me, would at verse 19 32, not 33. Look at verse 9. And it came to pass as soon as he, Moses, came nigh unto the camp, that he saw the calf and the dancing. Look at this. And Moses' anger waxed hot. And he cast the tables out of his hands and broke them beneath the mount. Let me ask you a question: what did God do wrong? I didn't do anything wrong. What was wrong with the law and the tablets? Wasn't anything wrong with them? Why'd he break them? You know what I found out? When people have a problem with anger, things tend to get broken. Right? When people have a l when people have a problem with anger, they tend to start throwing things. They tend to start tearing things up. They start destroying even good things. And Moses loses his temper. I mean, it's a bad thing they did wrong. But he loses his temper and he takes the law of God and he smashes it in a fit of rage. Has nothing to do with the circumstances, doesn't solve anything. He just lost it. You say, well, there weren't any consequences from that. You know, God dealt with them, and that was righteous indignation, and Moses did what he had to do. He got everybody's attention. I agree he got everybody's attention. But turn with me, Wood, over to chapter 34. And God in no way commends Moses for this. In fact, in chapter 34, verse 1 The Lord said unto Moses, Hew thee two tables of stone like unto the first. Who made the first ones God did. God says, all right, you lost your cool, you busted them up, and you make them this time. Hew thee, two tables of stone, like the first. And I will write upon these tables the words that were in the first tables, which thou breakest God's not commending him. God's pointing out you did something stupid, Moses Look what he says then. And be ready in the morning, and come up in the mountain unto Mount Sinai, and present thyself there to me in the top of the mount. And no man shall come up with thee, neither let thou any man be seen throughout all the mount, neither let the flocks nor herds feed before that mount. And he, Moses, hewed two tables of stone, like unto the first And Moses rose up early in the morning and went up unto the Mount Sinai, as the Lord commanded him, look at this, and took in his hand two tables of stone Now he's God made him. Moses brought him down the mountain, which I would imagine would be a feat in itself. He loses his tool, he smashes him. God says, all right. You make them this time. You bring them up. I'll rewrite them and carry them back down. What I'm trying to say is this Moses' anger, at the very minimum, inconvenienced him tremendously. It delayed everything. What if he would have handled Israelite sin and the golden camp? What if he would have handled that in a spiritually mature godly fashion, rather than losing his cool and throwing stuff around and smashing things up, how much better would they have been? He would have not have had to make that second trip He would not have had to exert all that extra energy. He would not have had to go all through that. They could have dealt with it and gone on, but he didn't. He lost his cool. And here's the thing, Moses does that over and over and over and over. Turn with me if you would to Numbers chapter twenty. Numbers chapter twenty. And verse 7, they're out on the road. Now, question. How many people say, how many people would say, creature, but I can see why it would be very frustrating dealing with these Israelites? Yeah. A million of them. I mean, they're as carnal as can be. They're stubborn. They don't do what he says. They complain about everything. I mean, understanding the circumstances are there to produce this. But what Jesus is saying His anger was not the result of the external circumstance, the anger result because of the condition of his heart And my point here at this point is God tells us to put all anger away, all anger away. Look at Numbers chapter 20 and verse number 7. The Lord said and spake unto Moses, saying, Take the rod and gather thou the assembly together, thou and Aaron thy brother, and speak Ye unto the rock. They're needing water, and God's going to provide, miraculously provide water for them. God tells him to do what to the rock? Speak to it. Before their eyes, and it shall give forth this water, and thou shalt bring forth to them water out of the rock, so thou shalt give the congregation and their beast strength. Moses took the rod from before the Lord as he commanded him, and Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock, and he said unto them, Now, I see this building. They're complaining, they're whining, there's no water. God says, go out, speak to them, speak to the rock, I'll provide. I can see Moses. He's got a problem with the temper to begin with. He's getting things together. He's ready to go out there and speak to million plus people and give them instructions, and he is getting hotter and hotter by the minute. Everything I've done, God's provided for them, and all they do is whine and complain, and it's getting to him. And those evil thoughts that proceed up out of the heart are getting worked up. And look what he says. And Moses lifted up his hand with the rod, and he smote uh verse uh verse 10. Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock, and he said to them, Hear now, ye rebels Must we fetch you water out of this rock? And Moses lifted up his hand and with his rod and smote the rock twice. The water came out abundantly. The congregation drank, and their beasts also. The Bible doesn't say this, this is my imagination, and Moses stormed off. Pit. He wasn't supposed to hit that rock. You know what happened there? What happened to Moses? He lost his temper again. And stuff started flying around and started hitting things and smiting stuff. And what was the consequence to Moses? Anybody know the rest of the story? God says, you didn't listen to me. Your flesh, your anger took over. You didn't listen to me And as a leader, I expect more from you. As a leader, I expect you to be more disciplined and not let your temper control you And I will not allow you to enter the promised land. Ouch! This is what he's been working for since day one. This is what they've been this is what it's all about. All those plagues in Egypt, this was all about getting into the promised land. Forty years in the wilderness was all about getting in the promised land, and Moses never gets to put a foot in it. For one reason, his anger. He could not control his temper. Now I got thinking about that. Think with me for a minute. How different would it have been? If Moses would not have lost his temper and God would allow Moses to lead Israel into that promised land rather than Joshua and take those cities and go through there and see the fruit of 40 years of commitment to the Lord Jehovah. How different would that whole scenario have been had Moses not had a problem with temper, did what God says, and been allowed to lead Israel into that promised land? How different would it have been? I'm telling you, there is no place for anger in the heart and life of a Christian Put all anger away. Now, let's come back to the question without cause. Come back to Ephesians with me. I find nowhere in Scripture, I find nowhere in Scripture where God commends a person for losing their temper. I've seenhere in Scripture where God commends a person for getting angry. Now, Ephesians chapter 4, and look at verse 26 with me. Let me get back here quickly. Ephesians. Now remember, um Are you there? I'm getting there, hold on. Remember, in verse 31, he says, Let all bitterness and wrath and anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you. All of it. But come back up to verse 26, and there's a statement here. Be ye angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. Creature, I knew there was somewhere where it was okay to be angry. I don't believe that's what that verse is teaching. I think this Tremors is teaching that when that anger, which is a natural emotion, somebody does something, that anger comes up Don't let that be expressed. Don't let that take root. Be angry, but don't let it turn into sin. Don't let that become sin. You put it off. And anybody here, and I maybe you won't answer this, but anybody here ever have a thought come to your mind that was not a good thought, and it's like, where in the world did that come from? Anybody don't make me look like I'm the only one Now, when that thought comes to your mind, you can't control it. It comes there. But am I supposed to dwell on it? Am I supposed to keep it there? Or what am I supposed to do with that thought? Get rid of it. Put it off. Don't let it there. Are we supposed to be afraid of things? No, the Bible says don't fear. Fear not. Fear not. Does anything ever happen that produces fear in our heart and life? Sure, but uh so we're afraid, but don't let it get a hold of you. Don't let it grip you, don't let it control you. Put it off. Trust the Lord. And that's what I believe he's saying here. Anger hits and something happens and ah, the flesh gets angry, but don't let it develop sin And he goes on, he says, don't let your son go down in that wrath. He's saying, deal with it. Get rid of it. Get it off. Don't let it linger. Don't let it stay there and fester and become sin. He's not justifying, and he's not certainly not commanding us to be angry. If he was commanding us to be angry in verse 26, then he would be contradicting his own command in verse 31. He says, put it off. Anger is a natural emotion that happens when a situation is right, just like fear, but it's not to be tolerated, it's not to be nurtured, it's not to be indulged, it's not to be justified. So what about when Jesus says, he that is angry without cause? I want to suggest to you that God is the only one that has just cause to be angry. I do not believe that you and I, as sinful men, have just cause to be angry. God's anger, get this, this is important. God's anger is a legal, justified expression of his perfect holiness. God's anger is a response to the violation of His holiness. You and I have no holiness of our own. I cannot justify my anger because my heart is sinful and it's corrupt and my anger is coming from a corrupt well. You say, what about if somebody's harming a little innocent person? You ought to get angry about that. You ought to get in there. No, I suggest to you, don't get angry, get involved and make it right, but don't get anger take over. Alright? Let me finish my statements here, okay? I want to encourage you to jot these down. I'm just I'm right at the end here. Let me jot I want to encourage you to jot these down. Would you? I think this will help you. Man's anger, I put a list down, one displeases God Number two, man's anger delays the progress of the gospel I don't know any situation, I don't know of any event in history where man getting angry advanced the gospel, because the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Anger, man's anger, damages our effectiveness. Moses was a phenomenal leader. How much greater could he have been if he had not had that issue with anger? Anger destroys our testimony. And how many people have hurt their testimony on the job because they got angry and lost control? How many people have hurt their testimony with their family and their children because they got angry? And did things that hurt their testimony and said, you know, that guy's Fody. That is not right. Anger displeases God, delays the progress of the gospel, damages our effectiveness, destroys our testimony, and diminishes our potential. I want to submit to you that a person who does not who controls their anger, who puts it off, that person can do far more for the cause of Christ and for the Lord than the person who cannot control and put off their anger. It diminishes our potential. God is, I believe God is the only one with divine authority to express anger. Answer your question? I don't believe my dad was happy or I believe he got pretty gangpills. And I believe that that would have been enough anger without sickness. Well in my opinion. It may be semantics, I may just be using words, but there's a world of difference between anger and firmness. I'm being very firm. I'm being very stern. I mean business. I'm not horsing around. This is incredibly important. You have got to learn, child, that this is wrong. You're sitting against God. There's going to be dire consequences. I'm being very firm and I am dealing with this. That's firm. That's conviction. Anger is, you idiot, boom, you stupid fool. See what I'm saying? Yeah, I I can't answer for your dad, but I would say there's a difference between a firm Um I I I'd like to say, I believe, and I I may I probably shouldn't use myself for example, but I'd like to say, I believe that I never lost my I never got angry at my boys in Destillary, but I do feel like I was very firm with them. And we meant business and we expand. When it came time for discipline, joking was aside, everything aside, we were very, very firm. But I don't believe I lost my, I don't believe I got angry at them. And um so I may just be twisting words around, but that would be how I would distinguish the two. God is very firm. You read Jeremiah, it talks about him sometimes. Man, he was incredibly firm. And he expressed the anger of God. He expressed God's anger, but you don't find anywhere where man's anger is justified by God. Does that help? Well that's I'm sticking by my statement there, or I'll get mad if you don't agree with me. So here's the thing. I believe God's people, we ought to be strong in our convictions. We ought to be very firm in our position. But we cannot allow anger. Put off all anger. Malice. All that we've got to put off. Now he gives us some other things, how to do that, being sensitive. dealing with things before they can develop and he he touches on all of that. But uh I want to challenge us tonight and I have no doubt and I know our hearts, I know my own heart That, you know, we it's an issue and we deal with it. And we live in an angry world. And anger is taking over everything. And we have got to be very, very careful that we stay tender-hearted. That the Spirit of God, if you read feet, if you read Galatians 5, anger is a work of the flesh. It's not a fruit of the Spirit. And we need to be filled with the Spirit, controlled by the Spirit. So maybe we need tonight just to ask the Lord, Lord, give me a tender heart. Fill me with your Spirit And help me be kind and gracious and gentle. Firm, not compromising, but gracious. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, I hope this lesson helped. I believe this is what your word teaches. And I pray that you would stir us to be a people of godliness and holiness, but also humility and discipline and temperance. And controlled by the Spirit of God. Bless us as we raise our children. God direct us as we work on the job in circumstances, situations that the flesh reacts to. Help us, Father. To be spirit-filled and godly. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, God's spirit dealt with my heart? I've got some things to pray about. God has given me some stuff to pray about tonight. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. And there's some things here. Anything like that, by the uplifted hand, the Spirit of God has given me something to pray about. God bless you, hands all around. And this is a sin that affects all ages. Little kids have struggled with temper. Senior citizens deal with it. It's part of our flesh. Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. I ask you would help us to be humble and gracious, controlled by your spirit and not by our flesh. In Jesus' name, let's stand together, heads about eyes are closed, get