Matthew chapter five. We're continuing our Wednesday night series on the Sermon on the Mound. Greatest sermon preached ever by the greatest preacher that ever preached. Ever, the Lord Jesus Christ. And Austin caught me a little off guard there. Of course, the Lord is confronting, if you remember, he said in verse number 20 he said that our righteousness is to exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. And of course their righteousness was superficial. They trusted as long as they had the outward appearance, as long as they went through these outward rituals, that uh made them acceptable to God and uh that what made them righteous. And the Lord of course said the law required a whole lot more than simply outward conformity to the law, if that would even be possible completely. And he says, if you notice there in verse number uh 21 and we've been uh pointing this out repeatedly as we come down through here. I think this is about our sixth message on these six verses. But he says, you have heard that it was said of them of old time. He makes that statement six times through the rest of the passage here. And what he's doing is illustrating the fact that God's law, God requires more from us than simply outward conformity. And that's the overall premise of what he's saying here. Now, in dealing with that, he uses six different areas, he makes six different statements to illustrate How the law requires more than just outward conformity. Now what we've been looking at here is uh the statement that the uh the Pharisees made of old. And again, I want to point out, he doesn't say it is written. He's not going to He's not a uh quoting scripture in verse 21. He's addressing what the Pharisees said about the scriptures And they had distorted it somewhat. He says, You have heard that it was said of them of old time, Thou shalt not kill. And whosoever shall kill be in danger of the judgment. All right, that's all the farther the righteousness of the Pharisees went. Verse 22, he says, but I say unto you. And what he's doing now is he is interpreting, he's telling him what the intent of the law Thou shalt not kill, whoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment. But I say unto you that whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And Whosoever shall say to his brother Raka shall be in danger of the council. But whosoever shall say, Thou fool shall be in danger of hellfire. Therefore, with that being true Therefore, if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way. First, be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift. Agree with thine adversary quickly, whilst thou art in the way with him, lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast in the prison. Verily I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means come out thence till thou hast paid the uttermost farthing. So the point the Lord's making here is that our righteousness, God expects our righteousness to be more than just external. He expects it to be what we are and how we live our lives. And he illustrates that by addressing this matter of murder and anger Now here's the thing, and what I've tried to take out of this these last two months, I think, has been principles that help us manage anger Because anger is an issue in everybody's life. If you live in a body of flesh, how many people here have flesh? Good. Be hard to raise your hand if you didn't. Um so if we live in the body, if we have flesh, if we live in the flesh Anger is at some point going to be an issue. In fact, in Ephesians he says, be ye angry, but sin not. And the idea there is, listen, it's going to happen. When you get angry, just make sure it doesn't become sin. So let's pray And uh I want Lord willing, um this is the last message we'll bring on in this series on this passage. Father in heaven, I ask you bless now as we uh try and bring this all to a head here and bring in the loose strings and and bring this together. I pray you would help us as individuals and in our homes, in our church, our workplace, out in the community, that you would help us to put aside, put away all anger and wrath I pray we would be people of principle. Pray you'd help us to grow spiritually, we'd be spiritually mature, and be able to deal with differences and disappointments and frustrations. in a way that is acceptable to you and uh and our and our our faith in you and our our Christianity be more than just a superficial uh facade, but it would be what we are. And so please fill me with your spirit. Help me, Lord, and and open our hearts and minds to receive what you have for us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. If you remember, I broke these six verses down into three thoughts. The first one was verse one and two, if we're going to manage our anger First one we need to understand is that we live by a higher standard. As we said, the Lord pointed out that uh simply uh not killing someone is not acceptable. We need to uh uh control our anger. We live by a higher standard. Our moral standard, I put this down as a summary of verse 21 and 22, our moral standards begin in our hearts with what we are more than what we do. And this is a danger even in independent fundamental Baptists. I believe the Bible gives us principles on every area of life. I think God addresses every area of life. um from our appearance to our associations to how we handle our finances to our use of our time. God deals with all these things. Now, among uh independent Baptists who if we're not careful, we'll get the idea that as long as I'm dressing the way the Bible says dress, then everything's alright As long as I've got that KJV Bible under my arm, then everything's alright. As long as I'm uh, you know, I don't smoke, I don't chew, I don't hang around those that do, as long as I don't got all that in place, everything's alright. And God says, no, no, no. You can have all the external right, and if your heart's not right, you're still not right with God. And that's important to understand. My outward testimony is to be a reflection. Of my inward condition. Follow what I'm saying? My lifestyle ought to be pure. My actions ought to be pure because my heart is pure. I ought to be modest in my appearance because my heart is modest before God. And so that's what the Lord is saying. We live by a higher standard than what the world's religion does. Then we noted in verse 23 and 24, we ought to have a humble sensitivity. If I'm going to manage my anger, one, I've got to uh uh be careful here in my heart um and uh uh control that and then uh I need to be uh humble east I need to be humbly sensitive. And by that we pointed out that uh when we come to church and we're worshiping God and we're and uh uh we're serving the Lord. My heart ought to be so sensitive if I've done something against somebody and they have aught against me. I did something wrong, I offended somebody, I sinned against somebody, and they have a legitimate claim against me, they have a legitimate gripe against me. And I've come to the altar, my heart ought to be so sensitive that if I'm out of fellowship with somebody, particularly if it's my responsibility, my fault I need to be sensitive enough to humble myself before them and go to them and make things right and then come back and offer to the Lord my Christian service. And uh we dwelled on that. So we said, number one, we live by a higher standard. If I'm gonna have victory over anger, I need to understand I live by a higher standard. Just not killing my kids is not enough. I've got to uh control my anger towards them. I've got to maintain a humble sensitivity. Then the last one, what we're looking at tonight, is we must practice an honest submission. Now look with me again at verse 25. Agree with thine adversary quickly whilst thou art in the way with him. Lest at any time that adversary deliver thee to the judge, and then he goes on, the judge deliver thee to the officer, and you're throwing in prison, and you're going to be there until you pay it all. There needs to be an honest submission, alright? I've got somebody and uh I've sinned against them, they're my adversary, and uh I need to honestly go submit And do what I need to do to make things right. Now, uh settled that, I want to back up here just a moment. I see, as I was looking at this and getting these final verses here, I noticed a progression That the Lord is is taking place and the Lord's dealing with anger. First off, he starts out, and we've pointed this out, but I just kind of put it together here. I noticed a real progression. First of all, he starts out Don't murder. I mean people agree it's a good thing not to murder people. Yeah, I'm glad. Uh that and everybody knows that It's a good thing not to murder people. So the Lord starts out with a very general statement. He quotes what the Pharisees said. Don't murder people Alright, that's good. Then he progresses and he goes a little deeper. He gets under the skin. He says, all right, don't just not just don't murder people, but don't express anger And that's where he says, uh, you know, if you s call your brother uh um who so shall say to his brother Rakh, or shall say to him thou fool. So number one, don't kill him. Number two, don't even express anger towards him. Got to bring that under control. Then he takes it to another level, and in the next verses, we point it out that he says we need to develop and maintain a heart and spirit. Where anger can be dealt with very readily, very easily. Um uh and your heart is tender, your heart is very sensitive. And there you realize, man, I I did wrong to this guy, I d I I did her wrong, I said something I ought not to say, I did something I shouldn't have done, or I didn't do something. I show that my heart needs to be very sensitive so that that division, that animosity between me and another doesn't fester and be people get angry and anger become a factor Uh if you remember, I used the illustration keeping a garden, keeping that thing tilled so that when the seeds uh when a weed gets in there I can very easily pull it out. That that garden, that toil is very s tender. It's very easy to pull it out. If I just let it go and it gets hard and those roots get down in there, man, you can't hardly pull the weeds out. And that's what he's saying here. So one, don't murder anyone. Wait a minute. Not only not murder them, don't even express anger at them, and wait a minute. Not just that, but keep your heart so sensitive that you that if any issue does come up that could produce anger, that you can settle it before it ever gets to that point Then he brings it to a third fourth level, and he says, tell you what, let's go ahead and eliminate the causes of anger in the first place. Not only are we going to keep that heart tender so that when anger does show up, I'm sensitive and I can get it and eliminate it before it takes root. I'm going to insulate it so that the seeds of anger can't even get there. And I think that's what he's talking about. We're uh in these last two verses. Now I want us to notice a few words. Am I making sense? Anyone with me? Alright, everybody? Okay. Alright, good. Sometimes I don't know. Number one, three words here. Notice in verse 25. He says, agree with thine adversary quickly. First of all, there needs to be an agreement. The word agree there has this idea. Let me ask you. I'll get you involved in this. If you agree with someone on something, what does that mean? You accept them? Okay. I agree with Brian and I agree on something. But same opinion or like-minded. Alright. Anything else? Accept each other's what? Thoughts? Okay, that'd be like-minded. That would uh uh have the same mind about something. The word agree there actually means this, to be of the same mind. Or it has this idea. To be at peace with each other, to be reconciled. In other words, an issue comes up between Tom and I And so we I need to we need to work together and come up with an agreement. He sees it from one perspective, I see it from another We work together till we come like-minded. We both see it the same way. We both have the same uh opinion or thoughts about that issue So he says there needs to be an agreement. He says, agree with thine adversary. I think what he's telling us here is we must be able. Now, this is so important We must be able to resolve differences without allowing our flesh to dominate those differences. I've got to get to the point in my life as a Christian. If I'm going to be the Christian God wants me to be I have got to get to the point when there is when I've got to be able to resolve differences, particularly with my brother or sister in Christ, but it should be my fellow man I've got to be able to resolve differences without anger dominating that issue, that difference, or even being a part of the resolution. Agree with an adversary. I've got to be honest. I've got to be submissive. I've got to be able to get somebody that has an issue with me, or vice versa, and I can get to the point where we see that, we work it through, and we can see it without anger being a part of the process Some would call that being spiritually mature. And we can deal with this, we can resolve this, we can agree with this without anger even being in the mix. I don't have to browbeat them. I don't have to intimidate them. I don't have to shout them down to get them to finally agree with me. But we can come to the same mind. We can resolve that. In a Christian, Christ-like, spiritual, spiritually mature way. So he says, agree with thine adversary. Get to the point, work that thing out, do what you need to do. So that you're both of the same mind, you're at peace with each other, you see that the same way, you're both satisfied with the solution. Now that does not mean we compromise our convictions He's talking about someone that has aught against me. He's talking about, in this case, someone that I have done wrong to. And so uh one there has to be an agreement. Now, some folks are better at that than others, working with people and It requires submission. It requires many times dying to sell. It re absolutely requires honesty. To agree with someone. So the first word I notice is agree. Then he says, agree with who? The person that agrees with you on everything in life. No, that's anybody can do that. But agree with thine what? Adversary Now I thought this was interesting, the word adversary there. I said, All right, what's he talking about? Is that somebody that did me wrong And uh somebody that uh uh stole from me or lied to me or did something hurt me in some way, I'll go, yeah, we'll agree, all right. No. It's the exact opposite That word adversary there is it means this, one who has a just or legitimate claim on me. This is someone that says Dennis Leatherman did me wrong and he's right. It's a legitimate claim. Dennis Leatherman did him wrong. It's actually a legal term, according to some of the Bible dictionaries I looked at. It's an illegal term, and it's talking about an opponent in a lawsuit. In other words, somebody is taking me to court. I did them wrong in one way or another, I shot their cat I don't know what it is. I did something wrong and uh shot Mark's cat and Mark's taking me to court and uh because he loves cats, don't you? It's an ad it's somebody that I did wrong to and they have a legitimate claim against me In fact, I got looking there, verse 23, he says, there remembers that thy brother hath aught against thee. I think that's what he's referring to. Somebody that I did them wrong and they've got a grudge against me because of what I've done. How many people how many people here, come on now, be honest, have ever had somebody do you wrong? Come on now Now wait a minute, we remember that, don't we? So uh as soon as their name comes up, they that guy did me wrong. But wait a minute, I'm not gonna ask you to raise your hand How many of us have ever done somebody wrong? We don't remember that. I don't remember ever doing anybody wrong, to be honest. Fact is, we're just as guilty as the other side. That thing goes both ways. And what the Lord is saying here, he says, listen, you have got to learn. To humble yourself and submit to those that you have done wrong to. And I get the impression here, the Lord is telling us, if I'm able to humble myself and do that I'm going to be a whole lot better at controlling my anger and keeping anger out of the equation and I'll be able to when somebody does me wrong I'll be able to deal with that in a spiritually more mature way if I'm able to humble myself and submit myself when I've done somebody else wrong. I need what he's saying here is agree with thine adversary What he's saying here is own up to your fault. If you did someone wrong, if you said something you ought not to have said, if you didn't do something you should have done, own up to it. Come clean with that. How many people here agree with me that we should confess our sins to God Yes. We sin against God. We ought to confess that. What does that mean to confess my sin to God? Does that mean I tell God something I did that God didn't know I did? No, it's not giving God information. You know what it is? It's agreeing with God The same word here. When I confess my sin to God, I come and I agree with God. God, you are right. I did this, it was wrong. It's a violation of your law. I see my sin the way you see it. I agree with you, God, this is sinful, it's wrong. I acknowledge it and I forsake it. I want to have the same attitude. Towards the what I did as you do, Lord. And that's what he is saying we need to do. We ought to confess our sins, not just we ought to confess our sins against God to God, but we ought to confess our sins against man to Man. I sin against my brother or sister in Christ. I sin against a fellow man. I need to be able to come to them, my adversary, that one that has a legitimate claim, and agree with them about that I need to confess my sin against them. An angry person generally is very quick to react to other people's wrong against them Would you agree with me on that? If a if you have an angry person and somebody does them wrong, what happens? Boom They blow up on that. Man, you did me wrong, you're gonna pay for that. Ah! Anger. But I've also noticed this, and I think the Bible bears it out. Generally, generally, an angry person, not only do they blow up and get very angry very quickly at somebody that does them wrong, generally, they're very slow And very reluctant to acknowledge when they've done wrong. And brother, it's gonna uh oh and you know what, you know what? An angry person generally It's going to be very quick to react to somebody else's wrong to them, but they're going to be very resistant to dealing with their wrong to someone else. What are we going to do? We're going to justify it. We're going to try and what? You think we're going to what? Blame someone else for it? And we'll do everything else in the world. Now we don't follow that same line of thinking when somebody does us wrong. We don't try and justify them doing us wrong. We don't try and blame some other circumstance on them for doing us wrong. We hold them accountable They need to own up to what they did to me. But if we're not careful, we never follow that same line of thinking on us against others. And the Lord is saying here, listen, if you want to keep, if you want to get to the point in your spiritual life, I believe this is what God's teaching us. You want to get to the point in your spiritual life where anger is not a factor in your interaction with others, even over offenses, then I've got to be honest and submissive When I do wrong to someone else. I like what Matthew Henry said. Listen to this. You've got to give it a little thought. Listen to what he said. He said, Be merciful to those who have done me wrong. And I must be just to those whom I have done wrong. You follow that? If somebody sins against me, I need to be very merciful to them. Listen, you know, hey, you know, just show mercy. But when I sin against somebody else, I ought to be very just. Say, no, I did wrong. It needs to be owned up, it needs to be dealt with, it needs to be made right. You follow what he's saying? I think that's good advice Somebody offends me or sins against me, I'm going to be very merciful to them. If I do wrong to somebody else, then I'm going to hold I'm going to be just. I want to be just about that. So we have the word agreement. Alright? We've got to resolve this. I did them wrong. I want to resolve this. My adversary means they have a legitimate claim against me. It's someone that has a legitimate gripe. I did them wrong absolutely I'm going to own up to that, I'm going to acknowledge it, I'm going to be just and straighten it out, do what I've got to to make it right so that we can be in agreement. But then he uses another word Agree with thine adversary, what's the next word? Quickly. In other words, if something is done quickly, what does that mean? All right, very fast. Has the idea of with great haste, without any passage of time or delay. In fact, this is the idea he's given here. Listen, I did somebody wrong. I did Ken wrong somehow. And I know I did. Well, I'll wait till next week. Maybe it'll blow over. I'll wait a month. I'll I'll let it go. What happens if I do someone wrong and I I know I did and I don't make it right right away and I let that thing go, what what's happening? It's growing. It's building. That offense is there, is festering. And next thing you know, you get a sheriff's deputy knocks on your door and he's you've got a summons to court. And now I'm forced to deal with it. I have no choice. I have to come either I've got to prove my case or I've got to plead guilty or something because I'm being forced to deal with it. And the Lord is saying this, don't wait until you're forced to make things right Do it right away, voluntarily. You go and make that right right. Don't wait until he comes to you. Don't wait until he approaches you. Don't wait until it you're forced to make it right Voluntarily, be honest, submit yourself, and quickly go and make it right before it becomes an issue. I think that's tremendous, tremendous advice The idea here is make this right voluntarily. Don't wait until I'm forced to deal with it. And what do I do? I put away all self-defense? I put away all self-justification. And I say I did you I did wrong you're right I want to make this right I want to hold myself to it Um I heard Ron Comfort. Anybody recognize the name Ron Comfort? Great evangelist, many, many years. He's he's still out there preaching. In fact, he was just down in New Zealand, brother uh Uh how was went to hear him preach down New Zealand. Ron Colbert's a great preacher. I heard him say this years ago. He said whenever uh something comes up and he's accused of something, he says, I never attack and I never defend myself I never try to justify or defend myself. If I did somebody wrong, he goes, I'm going to come clean with that. I'm not going to blame someone else. I'm not going to justify myself. If I did them wrong, I want to make it right And uh I believe that's what the Lord is telling here. I must be willing to humble myself to make things right. Hey, it might require this. I must be willing to appear to be a fool. If that's what it takes to make it right, I need to remove all barriers of fellowship, all barriers to my brother and I being in agreement. So that I'm not even allowing anger to be an issue. I need to be quick to forgive other people's faults And quick to confess my own faults. I need to be quick to overlook the shortcomings of others and very quick to deal with the shortcomings of myself. The Lord said, agree with thine adversary quickly. Quickly. Don't even let their chance to become angry become a part of it. Get that taken care of immediately. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Of course, 1 Corinthians 11, we refer to that on a regular basis when we have the Lord's Supper And the Lord gives very sober, as we mentioned this past Wednesday night, the Lord gives a very sober warning about coming to the Lord's Supper trivially or sinfully And he makes a statement here that I think applies to what we're talking about. Note down, if you would, 1 Corinthians 11, look at verse 28. The first part of 1 Corinthians 11, 28. But let a man what? Examine himself. What's he saying? He's saying, now in this context here is the Lord's Supper. Before you come, just stop. But I think it's a principle that's good at every point and every point in our Christian life. Just stop and say, all right, where am I? Am I an angry person? Is anger an issue for me? Can I be very honest with you? I for years I never felt like that I was a very angry person. I don't know if anybody else thought that, but in my mind, I'm not an angry person. It's not an issue with me. I don't struggle with it. I hardly ever get angry. I'm not an angry person. And then I heard a sermon on anger. Powerful sermon on anger. And God caused me to stop and examine myself And I had stopped when I that sermon was done. I was on my knees. I said, Lord, I never saw myself. I never saw that. I always thought I was just, I always thought I was excused. I always thought I had a reason, and I justified my anger. And I had to deal with it and examine myself and say, wait a minute, Dennis, this is an issue. This is part of your flesh. You need to deal with it. Come down to verse number 30, or verse 31, same chapter. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord. You know what he's saying here? If there is an issue, if there is Something that's not right. So in this case anger. If that's part of my thinking, it's part of my way I function and I've never really given any thought I never really examined myself, but now the Lord's given some principles. I see it there. Wow, you know, it's just something is part of my flesh, something I need to do with. If I judge myself, in other words, if I agree And say, yes, this is, it's right, and I make the changes that need to be made, then I'm not going to be judged by the Lord. In other words, I'm not going to be forced to deal with it. I'm dealing with it voluntarily. Because, verse 32, when we're judged, we are what? Chastened. And we know from other passages and we know from scripture, no chasting of the Lord at the time is joyous or pleasant. It's miserable. And so what he's saying here is you better examine yourself. And if this is an issue, number one, understand we're living by a higher standard. We don't operate the world. World's angry. The world says as long as you don't kill them, you can scream at it, holler them, you can throw things, knock a hole in the wall, slam stuff, throw stuff around, but as long as you don't kill them, Lord says, no, no, no. We have a higher standard than that. That's not the way we act. And then we need to have a uh a humble uh s sensitivity. And when the Lord pricks our heart and we realize that, hey, there's something out of whack here, I don't get angry, I don't let it stew, I go and take care of it And I have an honest submission before the Lord the other one, and I make it right, and I agree with them, and I want things to be right. And in a mature, godly fashion, without anger being a part, we resolve it Socrates said, the ancient philosopher, he said, an unexamined life is not worth living. I don't know about Socrates, but I modified his statement to this. An unexamined life is not going to develop. It's not going to grow. If I'm not willing to stop and examine myself where I'm at spiritually and how I'm doing with this the issue of anger, whether it's a fact or me, if I don't ever stop and examine myself, if I don't judge myself, I'm never going to go beyond it. I'm never going to grow. I'm never going to get stronger. I'm never going to be more mature. I have got to stop and see where I'm at. and what needs attention and what needs to be addressed and then go ahead with that. The key to spiritual growth is seeing I need to grow. And then letting the Lord have his way. So the Lord says, the world, uh the Pharisees said, don't kill. If you kill, you're going to be judged. The Lord says, no, it's a lot more net. Don't let that anger get down in there. Don't express it. Don't tolerate it. Do what you need to do to resolve things so that anger is not a part of your interaction and your life. Let's pray. Father, in the first time.