Alright, Galatians chapter 5. We've been referencing this passage a good bit through the series. I want to uh begin reading in verse number 19 And then we're going to go to Ephesians 4 and then Colossians, then James. Ready? Verse 19, Galatians 5. But the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations. What's the next word? Wrath. Ah, that's our subject tonight. Uh anger or wrath. Strife, seditions, heresies, envings, murders. Drunkenness, revelings, the such like, the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God, but The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law So there you find in the works of the flesh we find that word wrath, who is a type of anger. In the fruit of the spirit, we find nothing of that sort there at all. Now, if you would, uh come with me to Ephesians chapter four And I want to read verse number 31, Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 31. I don't is I don't think my mic's on, Brother Dave, here. I think I have it turned on. There we go. Verse 31. Now notice the second word here. I circled in my Bible the second word in verse 31. Let. What is that word? All. What would all include? Everything. So this following list is all inclusive. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice How much anger, according to this verse, how much anger are we to put away from us? All of it. No exception. Come over to Colossians chapter 3 with me. And verse number eight, Colossians three, and verse number eight But now ye also, I circled these next two words, put off, and then I highlighted the word all. Now, ye also put off all these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth How much of that list are we to put off from us? All of it. No exceptions. We're supposed to put it all away from us. One more passage. And uh then we'll get into our message. Come over to James, if you would. James chapter one It was surprising to me when I began studying this subject how much the Bible talks about anger and wrath. These are just a few of the scores of passages that it's dealt with. Look at chapter 1 of James, verse number 19. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. Why? The next verse tells us. For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God Do you catch that verse? For me to accomplish the righteousness of God in the world, to see the righteousness of God in my life or people's lives or in a ministry in a church life The wrath of man will not produce that, will not accomplish that. That is not a means to accomplishing the righteousness of God through anger. So a sin that many Of us maybe don't even recognize in our lives. Many of us often, I'm afraid, excuse it and justify it. But as I study Scripture, the more I study Scripture, the more I convince that anger is to have no part in the Christian's life And uh I think I can uh substantiate that here. Let's pray. Father, bless our study tonight. And this uh has challenged my heart, and uh as others of the subjects we've been dealing with has Lord, I think I speak for all of us, Father. They're here in your presence. Lord, we want to be good Christians, and Lord, we want to do right, and we want our lives to please you And uh we need your help. We need your word to instruct us, and we need your Holy Spirit to enable us. So fill me with your Spirit. I pray tonight would be a night that we would grow and develop, become more like Christ. in our lives and please bless. In Jesus' name I ask. Amen. I read this statement recently. It was actually in a book that he was quoting another fellow, but he i it was this. He said this. Is a universal problem prevalent in every culture experienced by every generation No one is isolated from its presence or immune to its poison. It permeates each person and spoils our most intimate relationships. Anger is an active part of our fallen human nature. And then he went on and added this. Sadly, this is true even in our Christian homes and churches. He's saying anger is prevalent within the human experience. All cultures deal with it, all uh uh generations have dealt with it, and the tragic fact is Many times our anger is hottest towards those we say we love the most. Often, I've said this before, and I've seen this in my own life and others. Often we're kinder to total strangers than we are to those whom we say we love with all our hearts. And we will express anger at maybe a spouse or a child or a parent in a way we would never express that anger to a total stranger in the marketplace or downtown. My brethren, these things ought not to be. Ought not to be that way. And what is even worse is when we get where we justify it and we excuse it. And so I want to deal with this subject anger. Number one, here's my first thought tonight. What are some characteristics of anger Uh I tried to find a good definition that I uh that I was I felt good about. I wanted to find a definition that didn't make me mad. And um Uh but uh the the definitions it it's anger is one of those things that's you know it when you see it, but it's hard to define it. You follow what I'm saying? Uh Webster's, I think it was, had it this way: a strong feeling of displeasure. And then they had this a strong feeling of antagonism. Others added, that is expressed inappropriate ways or whatever. It's hard to define anger. I could not find a definition that I was satisfied with. We read in Galatians chapter 5 that anger, wrath, finds its source in our flesh. Now, what do we know about our flesh? Nothing good. Paul said, In me that is my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing. There's nothing, not no fruit of my flesh. Is going to profit me spiritually or please the Lord in any way. The flesh is corrupt, the flesh is. But an anger, according to Galatians 5, finds its root in our flesh. You go down to the fruit of the Spirit, you find no mention of the Holy Spirit producing anger in the life of the one who is filled with the Spirit. It is always the flesh. That is producing anger. So that helps us understand a little bit of the nature of what anger is, if we know where its source is, where it's coming from We hear people say, and I have uh we've had I brought preachers through here from this pulpit have made reference to righteous anger. I have preacher friends who will preach and in their messages they'll reference righteous anger, or another word for it is holy indignation. And the argument is this, is that, well, anger in some cases is okay. If that anger is directed towards an unj injustice, or that anger is directed towards something that is uh uh defames the Lord or is displeasing to the Lord. Now I respect these men tremendously and I I would never get in a fuss with them about that, but uh I respectfully disagree with them. And the more I study Scripture, the more I become convinced that anger on the part of a mankind is not acceptable to God. You know what I've found for myself and others? All of us view our anger as justified. Right? So you say, well, it's uh that's j that's uh righteous indignation. Oh as far as my flesh is concerned, all my indignation is righteous. Of course I'm right to be angry But you don't find that in Scripture. The only righteous indignation I find in Scripture The only uh only holy anger I find in Scripture comes from God. Never man Now I I studied this out and I tried to find somewhere in Scripture where we have an example of a human being Expressing anger and it being positive in any way. And I cannot find it I looked all through scripture to find some individual, man of God, a prophet, that expressed righteous indignation on his part, and I cannot find it. The only place you could even suggest is in Jeremiah. I don't have the reference, Jeremiah expressed anger about some injustice that Israel was doing. But if you study the context of that passage, and I can give it to you if you want, but if you study that, it's not Jeremiah's anger that's being expressed. He is telling them of God's anger on what they are doing. I cannot find anywhere in Scripture where mankind got angry and it produced positive results. And it pleased God. The only being I find in Scripture that gets angry and it does not uh is not a bad thing is when God gets angry. God's anger is the result of his justice, his holiness. And only God is perfectly holy. And only he, my understanding is, my position is, only God can express righteous anger. You and I have no righteousness in and of ourselves. And so, what is anger? How do you define it? I can't give an adequate definition. I can't find a de uh definition of the word anger that I'm satisfied with. So I decided to do this. Proverbs amazingly speaks a lot about anger. So let's go to Proverbs, and I just want to go through and just pointedly Look at some statements that the Bible says about anger in the book of Proverbs, and see if we can't get a mental picture, get a grasp on what it is Exactly, we're talking about Proverbs. And uh I got a list here. We'll go down through them quickly. Proverbs chapter twelve. And these aren't the only references in Proverbs to anger, but they're the ones that I felt like characterized, gave a uh a characteristic of what anger is. Proverbs 12, verse number 16. Notice here, I'll read the passage, I'll make a few statements, then we'll go to the next one. Chapter 12, verse number 16. A fool's wrath is presently known, but a prudent man covereth shame. Now let me read that again. Now look very carefully and think about what's being said. A fool's wrath is presently known. In other words, see if you agree with my paraphrase of this, everyone knows when a fool gets angry. Right? A fool's wrath is presently known. Everybody knows it. Everybody knows when a fool gets angry. But then he goes on and makes a statement. Then he uses the word but. Now that word is a contrast. So he says: a fool's wrath is presently known but a prudent man, not a foolish man. This is a man that's wise and prudent. Covereth shame. Now, as I looked at this and tried to digest this verse here a little bit, it dawned on me that word shame Is referencing what other word in the verse? Wrath. A fool's wrath, everybody knows about it. But a prudent man, he covers. That shame. And so if I understand this passage correctly, I think I do, he's referring to anger here as something that is shameful I look up the word shame and it has the idea of disgraceful, dishonorable, brings a reproach. And he says a fool blows up, he gets angry, everybody knows about it, but a wise man, a prudent man, he he covers that thing, he views it as something that would be shameful for me. That would bring dishonor to me. To be angry like that. Isn't it strange? Our world, and by that I mean society, almost exalts angry people. Uh man, a lot of you listen to some of the music that is popular today. A lot of this, is it I I don't uh you might be glad to hear this, but I don't listen to rap music. How many people are glad to hear your preacher doesn't listen to? Me too. But the little bit I have heard when I'm visiting the deacon's houses and stuff, um no, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It was the deacons, it was trustees. But um no. Uh but the little bit I have heard of it, man those guys sound angry. Don't they? Man, I don't even know what they're saying, but they just sound angry. And man, the world loves it. The world exalts. Boy, you get somebody, they're angry, boy, they're. Do you ever notice the guy, the uh the young people, the ones that are cool, always look mad? Huh? How many people remember James Dean? Man, back in the day, he was the cool guy, wasn't he? He was always mad. And uh you look at uh boy, they must be cool, they're mad. Um I don't understand that. The Bible says that anger is something that is a shame. It's dishonorable. It's disgraceful to that person. So the world exalts that which God says is dishonorable. Come over to chapter 14 of Proverbs. And you're right there. Verse number 17, Proverbs 14, 17. Look at this. He that is soon angry deal with what? Foolishly. Uh come to chapter fifteen and verse eighteen A wrathful man, man that's angry, stirreth up what? Strife. The word strife there is also translated discord and contention Uh boy, uh you ever you ever know somebody that's angry is always in a fuss. You ever know that? There's always an issue going on. They stir up strat uh strife. Chapter 15, verse 18. Let me get back here. A rat a wrathful man stirreth up strait, but he that is slow to anger How what does he respond? How does he respond to strife? He appeases it. He puts it down. The person that gets angry, man, he's causing discord and passing going on. Person that's slow to anger, they're bringing people together. They're helping the situation. Can I suggest to you that more churches have been damaged by anger than apostasy? More churches have been damaged by anger than by immorality. In fact, if immorality comes to a church, God forbid, but it happens, if somebody in the in a church it fails, in immorality particularly in the leadership, If the church responds in a scriptural way, that church can survive it That church can go on and become strong, but what happens is somebody fails, and man responds to that failure in the flesh. And people get angry and start being angry at each other and fighting each other, and that work's destroyed. You follow what I'm saying? The Bible gives us steps to follow if somebody fails. The Bible gives us a strategy for dealing with failure on the part of man in a church setting. The Bible tells us to. And it has nothing to do with getting angry at that person or other people. That causes contention, that causes division, that causes destruction. I submit to you, more ministries have been destroyed by anger than have been destroyed by immorality or apostasy. Because people did not deal with the apostasy or the immorality correctly, spiritually mature, and they got angry, and they destroyed the work. Destroyed the work. And so a wrathful man stirs up strife. Boy, he brings division and tears it down and causes problems. But he is slow to anger, boy, he appeases that strife. He keeps it from happening. Keeps the thing together. Look at chapter sixteen, verse fourteen. Chapter sixteen and verse fourteen. Where is chapter sixteen at? My pages were stuck together. Chapter 16, verse 14. The wrath of the king is as messengers of death. Yikes But a wise man will pacify it, will pacify that anger. Come to chapter 19. And look at verse 11. The discretion of a man, now let's stop there. Discretion, what is that? What's discretion? Integrity. Judgment. It m it's making kind of these two two words together. It's making right decisions. Discretion is the ability to make the right decision. Would you say that a mother who gives her children chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream for breakfast, is that discretion? No Although I don't see anything wrong with it. But um so look at so keep that in mind. Here is a person that is able to make right decisions. Proverbs 19, verse 11. I keep losing my spot here. Um Let me get back here. The discretion of a man defer his anger And it is glory to pass over a transgression. That word deferreth means to put off, to prolong it, put it aside. It has the idea of just putting it up on a shelf and letting it expire. So look at let's look at this verse as a whole. The distraction of a man defers his anger. He puts it off, he puts it on a shelf, he just lets it die out. And it is his glory, that one that man of discretion puts his anger aside, it is his glory to pass over that transgression. What is that verse telling us? I think this is the picture he's given us. Somebody transgresses against this man of discretion. Rather than getting angry at that transgression, he defers it. I'm just going to put it aside. He's going to let that thing Um the world has a uh area and I don't think it's adequate, but they say something like this. Before you get angry, count to ten. I think counting to like 14 million would be better, actually. That's the idea, the word deferring there. It means completely putting it aside, uh packing it up, storing it away. Um are you getting the picture here? The characteristics of anger? The more I study this, the more uh it became offensive to me. Look at chapter 21 real quick. Everybody, are you still with me? Everybody hanging in there? Look at chapter 21 and verse 19. Don't get mad at me for preaching this, okay? Chapter 21, verse 19. It is better. Oh, I like this verse. Ladies, don't get mad. It is better to dwell in the wilderness than with a contentious and what? Angry woman. Let's just say that uh you know what I wrote in the margin of my Bible here? I put this, why some men go camping and hunting It's better to dwell in the None of the men in here, ladies. No, uh no what I know. But uh it's better to dwell in the wilderness, better to go out camping and hunting than to dwell with a woman. Uh this is my that didn't go over so well Uh this is my summary of that verse is anger is unpleasant. Would you agree with me? It's unpleasant What he's saying here is nobody wants to live, and he's using a woman, but it applies to both genders. Nobody wants to live with a person that's angry. Nobody wants to be around them. It's not pleasant. Oh good, I can't wait to go home. My wife's angry. Nobody's ever said that. No wife says, I can't wait till my husband gets home. He's always angry when he comes home. No wife has ever said that because it's unpleasant. Chapter 22. Here's something we learn about the characteristics of anger. And again, we could just go on and on. Look at verse 24 of Proverbs 22. Um, make no friendship with an angry man Why not? Oh, and with a furious man, thou shalt not go. Why not? Next verse tells us, lest thou learn his ways and get as snared. What's that verse telling me about anger? It's contagious. It's contagious. We say to our young people or young ladies, don't ever angry, don't ever date or marry a man that's always angry at something. He'll ruin your life. Young man, don't don't don't if you find a girl, she's pretty as can be, and you just think she's the most beautiful thing in the world, but if she is angry, you stay away from her. You know what I found out? I found that anger is very contagious. I found it true in my life. If I get around someone that's angry, it's not long till I'm angry. Right? Isn't that true? Somebody you're somewhere and somebody gets mad at you. What do we how do we respond? We get mad back. In fact, I don't know how you are, but if I see someone in a store somewhere and they're angry at each other, I start getting angry at them. Am I right or wrong? It's contagious. And so, uh, let's one more, one more in Proverbs here, 29, chapter 29. I'm sorry, two more. Chapter 27. I'm sorry, eight more. No, I'm kidding. Chapter 27, look at verse 4. Boy, this just summarizes it, really. Twenty-seven verse four. Wrath is cruel. Anger is outrageous. Now, the word outrageous there is re is used outside of Scripture to refer to like a raging flood. A river that is just over its banks, raging. You've seen pictures of it. Or it also is used to refer to like a an intense downpour. Wrath is cruel, anger is outrageous, but who is able to stand before envy? I put in the margin of my Bible, evil triplets Anger, wrath, anger, and envy. But when he says that anger is outrageous, I think he's saying this to us it's uncontrollable. When a person gets angry, they are losing control. That anger takes over. Now, I'm not going to ask you to respond visibly. But how many of us have said something in anger that we really did not mean? If we were in control, I would have never said that. If I was in control, I would have never done that. Anger is outrageous. It's like a roaring flood. You cannot stop it. You cannot control it. It takes over. And the interesting thing here is he says, wrath is cruel. I got studying that word cruel, and I've come to this conclusion: cruelty is the opposite of mercy. If a person is merciful, if a person is cruel to somebody, they're not showing mercy to that person. And so, wrath is the opposite of being merciful to somebody, it's being cruel to them. Not a pretty picture. Not a pretty picture. We could go on and on and on. The Bible talks a lot about wrath. It gives we have in uh we have uh instances in the lives of men and women throughout the Old Testament, even New Testament Where good godly people, Moses, uh Elijah, got angry And it had terrible consequences. One thing, and I and I'm not going to get delve into it in this message and or maybe if we ever will, but uh one thing I picked up in my study is that there's a appears to be a close correlation. Between sexual sins and anger. Now, I don't know exactly how or why that is, other than sexual sins feed the flesh. And when the flesh doesn't get what it wants, the flesh gets very, very angry. And it seems like in Scripture there's a close correlation there. And again, I don't know all the answers to that. And here's the thing. Did you get the picture of anger that I got in studying this? It's not pretty. It's not a pleasant thing. In fact, the Bible says repeatedly that even when God expresses anger, he's very slow about it. The Bible says repeatedly, God is slow to anger. He is long-suffering. Now, of course, God's anger is not sinful. It's not tainted by the flesh like ours is. But even God, in expressing his holy anger, is very, very slow about it. Very, very deliberate. Very, very reserved. So that's the characteristics. Let me give you real quick the causes of anger. I already touched on it. Galatians 5 is uh it's a work of the flesh. Let's see if you agree with some of my suggestions. There's a lot of them. I just put three down. Pride. Do you agree with me? Pride is a cause of anger. Man, if somebody says or does something that makes me look like an idiot, I get angry at them. Huh? That's my pride. Somebody makes me look bad, I get angry. Uh somebody embarrasses me, boy, I get angry. The second uh cause I put down selfishness if I don't get my way. Man, we get mad over all kinds of things. We got a date off and got planned, and it rains all day and we're mad Because I didn't get to do what I wanted to do. Number three, I put this down. In response to another person's anger. We already touched on that. It's difficult to be around angry people and not get angry. So thus we're instructed. Stay away from an angry person. Don't make friends with an angry person. It'll mess you up. And there's many, many other causes. Let me give you the cure real quick. We all agree with it's ugly. I think so. But I'm telling you, having victory over anger is not easy. It's not easy. It takes, it requires humility and honesty. I put this down, how to have cure over anger. I put this down. Recognize it and acknowledge it Until I recognize anger in my own heart and acknowledge it, I'm never going to have victory. I'm going to fail. And that's not as easy as what we think. A lot of times we get angry and whatnot, we don't even see it. Others do, but we don't. I never viewed myself as an angry person. I really didn't, I'm being honest. And I got really mad when somebody said I was But seriously, I I never I never viewed myself as an angry person. And I got a series of DVD messages for counseling. I use them in marriage counseling, different things. I think they're very helpful. And he came out with a series on anchor. And I never viewed myself as an angry person, but I watched these, so I know how to use them to help others. And man alive, I watched the first one, I become so convicted. And I had to get alone and get on my knees. This was a number of years ago. I had to get alone and get on my knees and say, God, this is wrong. And God helped me see the fact that anger was an issue that needed to be addressed. And until we recognize that, until we see that, we're not going to be able to deal with it correctly. And so it needs to be acknowledged. Proverbs 28 and verse 13 says, He that covereth a sin shall not prosper. But whoso confesseth, that means acknowledge it, say it for what it is, and forsake it shall find what? Mercy. Mercy. So number one, acknowledge it. Recognize and acknowledge it. Number two, I put this down. Be mindful of Christ's example. Now we don't have time. Write this reference down. If you're taking this seriously Write this reference down and look this passage up, 1 Peter 2, verse 18 through 23. I really wanted to spend time on this, but we can't. There, Peter is addressing servants of masters whose masters mistreat them In our vernacular it would be our employers, except they were a little bit more captive to their employer than what you and I would be. And the and uh the employer, the master, was abusive and hateful and unkind to the Christian servant. And his response, he tells them, and you can study this out, he tells them that their response should not be unkind. Don't get angry at them. But rather be mindful of Christ, who, though he was reviled, reviled not again And what they're saying is the way to avoid getting angry when you're mistreated is to keep in mind the Lord Jesus Christ and how He responded. Be mindful of Christ's example. Third one I put down is put off anger and put on kindness. Ephesians 4. Again, I wanted to spend time on verse 26 all the way down through verse 32. Be ye angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down on thy wrath. Now, some people take that passage, be ye angry, as a command that we're supposed to be angry. I think they're misinterpreting that. If you read that whole passage, there's nothing nice said about anger. In fact, three verses later, he says, put off all anger. The Bible doesn't contradict itself. So what he's saying when he says, Be ye angry and sin not, he says, listen, when that anger blows up, when you get angry, it's going to happen. You've got flesh, that anger shows up. Don't let it turn into sin. Don't let it express itself. Don't hold on to it. Don't let it go down. Then he goes down through there and he ends with this. He ends with uh, and be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted. Forgiving one another, even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. So what I need to do is, when that anger flares up, put it off, defer it, and deliberately make the decision. I'm going to be kind I'm going to be patient. If nothing else, I'm going to keep my mouth shut. Get alone with God. And then the last one I put down was be filled with the Holy Spirit. And we end up in Galatians chapter 5 again. The works of the flesh, anger, wrath, malice, all that, but the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace. In such there's no such law. Say, preacher, I feel like an idiot. I gotta struggle with anger. Hey, you're no more an idiot than Moses was. Moses had severe anger problems. Everyone around him knew it. I think Isaac was scared to death of Moses. Isaac? Aaron. I don't know if Isaac was or not. I don't. I think Aaron was scared to death of Moses because he makes several references about Moses losing his cool. Moses got mad at the children of Israel. He went up on the Mount Sinai. God carved out two tablets of rock, put down the commandments. Moses carried them down, saw the Israel worshiping the gold calf, he lost his temper and smashed the tablets that God made. Whoa. After his time everything worked out, God says, all right, this time you carve out the tablets and you bring them up to the top of the mountain. I don't know about you. I don't know how big they were, but I don't think they were little I don't think they were tablets like you buy at US Cellular. I think they were they were rock big tablets. I would rather carry them down than carry them up and then back down again. It costs them. Moses got mad at the nation of Israel when they complained. And rather than speaking to the rock, what did he do? He smote it. Must we get you water? Everybody, a fool's wrath presently know. God says, all right, you're not going into the promised land. And Moses' anger cost him dearly. Cost him the blessings of God. And you know what God spoke to my heart about? I thought, I wonder how many of God's blessings I'm missing because I get angry. I wonder how much happier marriages would be if we just quit getting angry. If we put that off. I wonder how better mu kids and parents would get along. I wonder how many of God's blessings Christians are missing. Because we justify our anger. We fail to see it. I wonder how many churches have lost the presence and blessing of God because people in the church got angry. Cost Moses dearly. Let's acknowledge it. Let's let the Lord show us. You know what a good prayer would be for some of us? Lord, just show me, is this an issue in my life? Because a lot of times we don't even see it. And we need God to show it to us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. We need revival so bad in our country, in our churches. I wonder, Lord, if it isn't sometimes in our own hearts that's grieving the Spirit. Issues like anger that are in our own hearts that are grieving and hindering the Spirit of God from working. And I pray, God, that you would search my hearts, our hearts, and Lord, my heart. Our flesh is so corrupt. It is so deceitful. Our own hearts Help us to open up to you, Lord. Come clean. Our heads are bowed and eyes are closed. How many Christians tonight, and I don't know what your issue is, it's between you and God. But how many Christians, members of this church, would say, preacher, I'm willing to at least ask God to search my heart on this matter? I'm willing to at least say, Lord, show me. If this is an issue that needs to be dealt in my life, Lord, show that to me. Make it clear and then help me have victory. How many be willing to pray that prayer tonight? Lord, let me see that. Now that's the first step. God bless you, hands all around. I tell you, the altar is a good, good place to do that. Encourages others. I believe it pleases the Lord and God helps us. Before we leave tonight, let's just ask God to help us. Search us. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand