Back to Hebrews chapter eleven. And uh music is beautiful this morning. As I said, we thank God for Christmas music. Hebrews chapter one Hey uh I get calls periodically, uh young men or whatever looking asking if I know of any churches that are looking for a pastor, that they're wanting to pastor church and Um and just calling if I can have any contacts for them, whatever. Uh usually I don't know of any churches in any particular A lot of times I'll just tell them, Well if you can't find one, just go out and start one somewhere. we could use more churches. So uh but it reminded me of a fellow uh was a young man uh a fellow was uh before a pulpit committee and they were considering for pastor and they said uh Uh they said, Are you a man of convictions? And the uh candidate for the pastorate said, Yes, but no felonies. And so um he never heard back from them again. I don't think he understood the question. Look with me if you would. I was reading my devotions some time ago. It's coming through Hebrews chapter 1 and um verse number 9. Says this, thou hast loved righteousness. This is God speaking of Jesus Christ, God the Father speaking of God the Son. Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity Therefore, God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. That phrase caught my attention as I was reading through there. The oil of gladness. This is actually a quote from back in the book of Psalms, I believe chapter 45, is the original statement that this is made of God speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh Hebrews here again quotes it, but uh I got thinking of that, and I want to speak this morning on how to be anointed with the oil of gladness. Let's pray and ask God to speak our hearts. Father, I'm grateful for a good service this morning. Lord, the music has been a special blessing to my heart, and I thank you for giving us the gift of song And uh the uh the the need in our hearts to sing praises to you is uh given to us by you. And so We're grateful for that. I'm grateful for the fellowship we've had. Good to see some old friends again this morning. And of course our our regular folk are always a blessing. Lord, now as we look into your word, I ask God that you would open our hearts and minds, that we would be receptive to the truths that are given to us here. And that your Holy Spirit would take these truths and apply them to our hearts and lives. I pray, Lord, that we would be a glad people, that our church would be a happy, glad church. And that our testimony to this world would be the fact that you're a good God and that your people are happy in the service, in your service, and living for you. So challenge us, help us, Lord, convict us, encourage. I yield my body anew to you, Lord, and I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and again speak through me to each of our hearts, I pray. In Jesus' name I ask this. Amen. You study the Bibles, I believe, and I think you would agree with me, the greatest truth in all is scripture, and there's a lot of things taught in the sixty-six books of the Bible. But without a doubt, the greatest truth in the Scripture is that we can have our sins forgiven I can't think of anything greater. You say, oh, what's the big deal of having your sins forgiven? Until you've been under the conviction of God for their sin, uh you I don't think you really appreciate the greatness of forgiveness of sins. to be forgiven. The greatest truth in the Bible is that our sins can be forgiven and that God can and will give us a new life. Uh eternal life. When I was saved at the age of nineteen, back in nineteen seventy-nine, one of the factors driving me to Christ, one of the great needs in my life is that I wanted my life to be changed. I did not want to be the person I was becoming. As a nineteen-year-old boy, I did not want to go the direction my life was taking me and and I cried out to God, God help me, God I I need a new life I remember and uh uh I just remember is uh I lived with my father during most of this period of time and uh he would be driving uh truck throughout the week and Sundays he was faithful to the Lord in church, Sunday morning, Sunday night. So I'd be left at home. I didn't go. I had no interest in that. And uh I remember many occasions I would get the old family albums out. And I'd go back and find pictures of me as a child. And I don't know what You know, why I did this other than I was needing something changed in my life. And I see these pictures of myself as a child. I remember several occasions just weeping and saying, God, if I could only go back and start again God, if I can only- I made such a mess. I've failed so drastically in my life. God, if I could only start again. You know what I learned? That through Christ I could start again. I could be born again. I could have a new life. Boy, what a great truth in Scripture. Sins can be forgiven, I can have a new life in Christ. And then as I learned after I trusted Christ and got saved, as time went by and I'm studying scriptures in church, I learned not only has my sins been forgiven, not only has God given me a new life. But when I die, I'm going to heaven to be with the Lord forever. What a great, great thing we find in Scriptures. We come to the book of Hebrews with that Those that truth in mind, what we have in trusting Christ, sins forgiven, new life, home in heaven. We come to the book of Hebrews. And we find that Jesus in the book of Hebrews is being exalted. In fact, there's a key word in the book of Hebrews. It's the word better. If you'll go through there and pay attention when you read through, maybe uh mark in your Bible the word better, you'll find that at least thirteen times the word better is used in the thirteen chapters of the book of Hebrews. And over and over again, the Bible emphasized that there is nothing better in the physical world or the spiritual world than knowing Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. He is better than the angels, the Bible says in the few verses before that. He's better than the Old Testament law. In fact, the purpose of the law was so that it would bring us to Christ. He's better than the ceremonies that they went through all through the Old Testament. Jesus Christ is better Knowing Jesus Christ as Savior. Now I think there's an interesting statement in uh in uh uh verse number um uh let me find here uh Verse number five, for unto which of the angels said he at any time. Now God's asking this question. Thou art my son. Which angel did he say this to? Thou art my son. This day have I begotten thee. And the answer to that question is: which angel did he ever call his son? The answer is none Jesus Christ is the only one that was the begotten Son. And actually, I didn't notice this before until James was reading this a few moments ago. That is actually referencing Christmas Did you catch that? Let's read that again. Unto which of the angels said it unto said he at any time, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. What day is that? It's the day of Christ's birth. Jesus Christ, born of a woman, and uh begotten of God. And so, uh interesting verse there. Now, I'm gonna get right into the message this morning. The first thing I want us to notice As we look at verse 9 particular, that God hath anointed thee, Jesus, with the oil of gladness, I want us to notice, first of all, Jesus is our example of gladness. Jesus is our example of gladness. It's an interesting statement at the end of verse number 9. He says, Hath anointed thee, Jesus, God anointed Jesus with the oil of gladness. Look at that next three words. Above thy fellows. What does that say? Jesus had a gladness that nobody else had. He was anointed with the oil of gladness above his fellows. Of all his disciples, Jesus was the most glad. Of all his followers, Jesus was the most glad. That idea, that word gladness, has the idea of exceeding joy, of uh the word is exuberant joy. We often picture and we sing of Jesus as being a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And he was a man of sorrows. On the cross, he took our sins. He bore our sins on the cross, our griefs, and uh he does know what sorrows. He was all points tempted, like as we are But I'm telling you, there's an aspect of Jesus Christ the Bible presents that we don't think of too often, and that is this. He was a very, very happy man. As a as a as a God man here on earth, he was the happiest, he was the gladdest of all his fellows, of all his uh associates. So he's our example. Listen to John chapter 15 and verse number 11. These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy, this is Jesus speaking, that my joy might remain in you. and that your joy might be full. Do you hear what Jesus Christ is saying? He's saying, the joy that I have The gladness that I'm experiencing, I want you to have in your life. I want you to experience in your life. I want your joy to be full God wants his children to be happy. God wants his people to be glad. And so, how do we do that? How do I get to the point where I can be anointed? With this uh with the oil of gladness. Well, Jesus is our example. So let's find out what was it that made Jesus so glad? What was it that produced this joy in his life? Well, I got thinking about that and going back and studying. And I got to Matthew chapter 3, and at the end of Matthew chapter 3 Jesus did something that was very significant. Jesus was baptized of John the Baptist. Now let me ask you a question. Did Jesus have to be saved? Does Jesus need to be saved from sin? No, absolutely not. He's the Savior. He had no sin Jesus never said a word that was displeasing to God. He never had a thought that was displeasing to God. He never did a deed. Jesus was without sin. He was godly and holy in every sense of the word. He was unique from all of mankind in the sense that he was the sinless and is the sinless Son of God. So Jesus didn't need to be saved. Question, do man, does mankind need to be saved? Absolutely. If a person does not accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, they die in their sins, they're lost for all eternity. We need Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. Jesus did not need to be saved, but at the end of Matthew chapter 3, he does something very interesting. He is baptized of John the Baptist. That is not a testimony of a salvation. We are told that that is an example for those who will believe in him, that they are to follow the Lord in believers' baptism. I say this often. I repeat it again this morning. The most important thing for a new believer to do is to follow the Lord in believers' baptism. That is the First thing, and once a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, they ought to follow the Lord in baptism. They ought to be baptized. So Jesus at the end of Matthew chapter three was baptized to be an example for his followers that Once they accept him, they are to be baptized and testify the fact that they've accepted Christ as Savior and be a witness for that. Then something happened. When Jesus came up out of the water There was a vo well of course the Spirit of God, Holy Spirit, came upon him in the form of a dove, and he was anointed and filled with the Spirit, and from that point on he began his miracles. But there was a voice came from heaven. God the Father spoke with an audible voice. Now that's a powerful, powerful thing to happen God the Father spoke, and he said this: This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Jesus did something. Now keep this in context, but Jesus did something that pleased God. Jesus was baptized to be an example, fulfill all righteousness, be an example to us. And God says, I'm very pleased. I am very pleased. My experience has been that when I do something that pleases my earthly father, it brings gladness to my heart Can I get a witness? If I do something that I know pleases my dad back in Philadelphia, if I say or do something that pleases him, boy, that brings joy to my heart. And I'm telling you, this is a testimony here. Jesus was anointed with the oil of gladness. Now, just about all Bible scholars agree that that anointing took place here when the Spirit of God came upon them And the Bible says he was glad above all of his fellows, of those twelve disciples following him around, Jesus was the happiest Jesus was the gladdest, and one of those reasons was, is he did things that pleased his father. You want to be happy? You want to have gladness in your heart and life? You want your life to be a life of joy and fulfillment? Then find out what pleases God, your heavenly Father, and do it, and you'll find gladness in your life. Jesus was glad because he did the things that pleased his father, followed the Lord in baptism. There is a deep heartfelt gladness when my life and my actions are pleasing to God. I've told this illustration a number of times before. I try and tell it every other month on the second Sunday of the month I use this illustration. Not really. But I graduated in 1986 from Tennessee Temple University. Thank you. You're warming up. It's going to get better. And um uh at my graduation, and I have to I just have to give this illustration every now and then to remind our church folks what a wonderful pastor you really have, and how amazing he is When do you hear this? I mean I get amazed just thinking about it. But seriously, I uh uh when I graduated, I didn't anticipate any of this, but they gave me an award for Afternoon Sunday School Worker of the Year. A nice plaque. Is it called the J. R. Faulkner Award? He was the assistant pastor down there. And it's hanging in my office. I kiss it every day and hang it up. So they gave me that. Wow And thank you. And uh then they had an award that I didn't even know existed. It was the Howard Estep Evangelism Award. That thing had a big fat check came with it, I mean a chunk of money, and I got that Ooh, thank you. You guys are learning well. And um and so they called up and I went up there, so I got these two awards and um Then uh then they went on the ceremony, we got our diplomas, and they have one they said we're instituting a new award every year at graduation. Now there's like a thousand people graduating, it's five thousand students. in the college at the time. And um and so they said we're instituting a new award, the highest award this university gives out. It's a new one. It's the Lee Robertson Award. And they said the inaugural award goes to Dennis Leatherman. They called me up there. And I w Now you I ought to get a standing ovation over something like that. And uh and so it had all this stuff and uh I all I'm saying is you've got an amazing pastor. I'm in and But you know what happened? After it was all ceremonies were all done and we were on the front pew there at this huge church, 6,000 seat auditorium, and I had all these awards lined up. And um my family's there and we're taking pictures and everything. And after it's all we're gonna go out to eat, and my dad comes over and he pulls me aside. My dad says to me, he says, son, I am so proud of you. At that point, those words meant nothing. To hear my daddy say that he was pleased with his son, and that he was proud of his son. That brought joy to my heart that there wasn't enough money in the world could have bought the gladness that I got hearing my daddy say that he He was pleased, he was proud. You know what brings joy into a heart is when I know that my life Is pleasing to God, my creator. That when my actions and my attitudes and how I'm living my life is pleasing to the one that saved me from sin in hell, the one that created me. That God is pleased. Boy, what joy that brings to a heart. I'm telling you, there's nothing this world can do for you and I that will produce what knowing my life is pleasing to God will produce. What was it about Jesus that made him so glad? Why was he anointed with the oil of gladness above his fellows above everything else? Because listen to what Psalms chapter 40, verse 8 says. He says, I delight to do thy will. My joy, my gladness is knowing that I'm doing that which pleases God. Um John 8 verse 29, Jesus made this statement. This is a testimony as to where this gladness and this joy came from, the heart of Jesus Christ. He said, I do always those things that please him. Please my Father. He said, Oh, it's not a factor of whether it pleases others. It's not a factor whether it pleases me. Does this please God? If it pleases God, then that's what I'm going to do. And that produces joy. God says: I've anointed Jesus Christ with the oil of gladness above all his fellows. When we get to the point in our lives where pleasing God is more important than anything else in my life, boy, then we'll start to understand real joy. Then we'll just understand real gladness. Then we will be anointed with the oil of gladness. I was thinking about a little fellow in the Bible named Zacchaeus. Anybody familiar with Zacchaeus? Zacchaeus was a wee little man, and a wee little man was he. Zacchaeus was a rascal. To be honest with you, I doubt seriously many of us would have liked Zacchaeus before he met Christ He was extremely wealthy, and that's nothing wrong with that in and of itself. Uh, by the way, compared to the rest of the world, all of us are extremely wealthy. Most of the people in the world, so be careful. So he was extremely wealthy, but worse, the the problem was he was a lying thief. He'd take advantage of people and he would use his finances to rip people off. And he stole from people. And you know when we find out that Zacchaeus he was living for himself. And he didn't care what others thought. He didn't care what God thought. All he wanted was what he wanted. And his life was empty. And we've come to that conclusion because he seeks out Jesus Christ. And the idea behind the whole story is he's looking for something that Jesus could do for him that all his money and all his shenanigans and all his selfishness could not do for him. And so being a man of small stature, he climbs up a sycamore tree. So he can see Jesus. Jesus comes by. Of course, Jesus knows our hearts. Jesus knew him. He knew what he was. He knew his heart, the desires of his heart. He knew what he was seeking without even speaking to him. By the way, Jesus knows what's in your heart this morning. That which you think is hidden from everyone else, Jesus sees very plainly, very clearly, it's nothing hidden from him. Everything is open and naked to the eyes of him with whom we have to do. And so Jesus knew immediately what Zacchaeus's situation was. And he says to him, Zacchaeus, come down I'm going to go to your house today, we'll have a feast. And Zacchaeus climbs down and brings him over. In the process, Zacchaeus accepts Jesus Christ as his personal savior. His life is transformed. And the Bible says, when he came out from that supper, with that meeting with Jesus Christ, he says, Listen, half of my goods I'm going to give to the poor. Something had changed in the heart and mind of Zacchaeus. He was thinking differently now, after he trusted Christ, than he was before he trusted Christ. His values were different. His perspective on things was different. God had given him a new life. He says, half my goods I'm going to give to the poor. And he says, if I have stolen from any man, I'm going to pay him back fourfold. In other words, if I stole $100 from somebody, I'm giving them $400 back. If I stole $1,000 from someone, I'm giving them $4,000 back. I'll restore them fourfold. And so, and then it makes this statement that he joyfully Receive this. You know what I found interesting? Before Zacchaeus came to Christ, you find do not find him described as being joyful. That word is not used about him. But after he came to Christ and he began living a life pleasing to God, now the word joyful is being used in association with Zacchaeus. What's that telling us? When we live our lives, when we conduct ourselves in our homes, when we live when we work on the job place, when we handle our finances, when we interact with others in a way that is pleasing to God, we experience a gladness that you can get no other way. Jesus is our example. He was anointed with the oil of gladness. You know who the most miserable people, I believe, in the gospels are? Matthew, Mark, Luke, John? You read through there. You know who the most miserable people are? Pharisees. It's interesting. The Bible references a bunch of harlots throughout the gospels that came to Christ and got saved. Doesn't say much about them. Uh but they're not present and I'm not suggesting there's any joy or happiness in that lifestyle. It obviously isn't. But the people that are presented through the gospels as the most miserable were the Pharisees You know what characterized the Pharisees? Two things, I believe. Number one, self-righteousness and self-seeking. It's a common word in both those two statements. Self. The Pharisees were about themselves. What they how they looked, the recognition they got, the authority they had, whether people were doing what they say or not, everything was about themselves. And you read them, and every time the Pharisees were presented, they're angry, they're making accusations, they're fussing, they're miserable. Nowhere do you find the self-righteous, self-centered Pharisees enjoying anything? They had no gladness, they had no joy. But then Jesus is said to be anointed with the oil of gladness above his fellows. What was the difference? One is living for the pleasure of God, the other was living for the pleasure of self. You know the Christians I've found that are most miserable? Let me make it personal. You know what I've found that I'm most miserable? When I'm least happy? It's when I'm living for me. When it's all about me. What I want, way I want it, when I want it, how I want it. And man, I'm miserable. You know, sometimes uh vacations are a great thing. I'm all for them. But you know, sometimes vacations are miserable because we get so self-centered. We get so wrapped up in ourselves and we lose that gladness. Jesus is our example. He said, I do all those those things that please the Lord. God said when he was baptized, He said, This is my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased. That explains where this joy that Jesus had comes from. That explains this happiness. Of all the disciples, he of course he had twelve that he called. directly. At one point he had 120 disciples, close followers of his. Beyond the twelve, another a hundred and ten, twenty, a hundred and eight. He had the twelve he called, 108 more, 120 disciples, close associates of his, listening to his every words, following his teaching. And the Bible says of all that 120, Jesus was the happiest. He was anointed with the oil of gladness above all his others, above all his fellows. There were some points in his earthly ministry, the three and a half years he was ministering. that uh he had tens of thousands of people following him. Tens of thousands, I mean upwards, maybe forty, fifty thousand sometimes. And the Bible says, of all those people, Jesus was anointed with the oil of gladness above all of them. He was happier than any of them. He had a joy that none of them could even come close to. Why was that? Because he did always those things that please the Father. You know when our church, you know when our church will be happy? When we determine we're going to please God more than we please ourselves. We're determined that our ministries and everything we do. Uh hey, you know how to be happy when you're singing? Now I've heard some people sing that didn't make me very happy. You're looking at the main one. I do my best singing, and this is no joke. I sing great in the shower. It is fantastic. And then I get up here and sing, and it doesn't sound the same. It's something happened. But you know when I quit singing for for others and start singing for the Lord, boy, there's going to be some joy in that singing. I don't know if you notice it. I could care less what you think about my singing. I'm having a good time singing up there. And I determined years ago, before I was ever even a pastor, I said, when I sing, I'm singing for the Lord, and He's getting it all out. I feel sad for people sometimes they're singing and they're like this. Let's see. You say, What's the matter with you? Why are you saying why don't anybody hear me? If if you're singing so that no one hears you, why are who are you singing for? Yourself. You're worried about what people think. It's all about me. Forget that and just sing for God. Amen. We get to the point of just raise the roof off this thing, singing to God. That guy sounds terrible, yeah, but God likes it. You know what? I bet he's happy. So Jesus is our example. Of all the crowds following him, he was anointed with gladness above all his fellows. For in John 15, 11, God wants us to have joy. My joy I give unto you, that your joy may be full. He wants us to have gladness. I want to challenge us this Christmas season in this coming year, and really for the rest of our lives, let's determine to get our eyes off of pleasing ourselves and get focused on pleasing God. Let's just do that. Let's get our eyes on you say, preacher, my circumstances are so awful. Alright Find out what pleases God in your circumstances and do what pleases God and see if God doesn't give you some joy in the midst of your circumstances. You remember in the book of Acts, two fellows, Paul and Silas, remember those guys? They're out preaching the gospel. They're just trying to win others to Christ, keep people out of hell, get others to accept Jesus as their Savior. They're doing everything they can. And they get arrested for it. Why would you arrest someone for trying to keep people out of hell? Why would you arrest someone for trying to help people get a new life in Christ? They did. And they're thrown in prison. And not only are they thrown in prison, they're beat up, they're chained down. And the Bible says in Acts chapter 16, this blows my mind. At midnight, the Bible says they're singing, they're praying, and praising God. They're singing in these unbelievable circumstances. They've been unfairly arrested, they've been unjustly arrested, they've been unfairly treated, falsely accused, their bodies are beaten. They're not even looking at that. They're just praising God. They were anointed with the oil of gladness. In the midst of unbelievable circumstances. You say, Preacher, you don't know what I'm going through right now. I know that, but I know there's a God in heaven that can make you happy and give you joy even in the midst of difficult circumstances. So let's get our eyes off of ourselves. Let's quit living for ourselves and being all worried about this. And let's say, God, what is it that pleases you? In the midst of this overwhelming circumstance, God, what is it that pleases you? Of course, we find that out from Scripture. God tells us what He pleases Him and what He wants us to do. I heard years ago a preacher say he had a lady come to his office and she was discouraged and down and defeated and in the uh we used to call them had the mully grubs Anybody ever hear mully grubs, you know what I'm talking? Y'all looking at me like I'm nuts. Um, which is normal. But uh Uh she was just oh my just oh everything's terrible. And um he said he kinda got aggravated. So while she was talking he just wrote down. She goes, all right, what are you writing? He goes, this is what I want you to do. I want you to go home, make five dozen cup uh cupcakes. Best ones you ever made. He said, I've given you a list of people in nursing homes, shut ins that are very, very uh he'll have terrible circumstances. I want you this week to go and take these cupcakes to go to each of these homes and then come back and sit down with me and I'll talk to you next week. She goes, well that doesn't have what's that going to do for me? That does nothing, that's not going to help me at all. He said, just trust me, just do it. For one week, she got her eyes off of herself. For one week, she got her eyes off of her circumstances, and she went out and did something for people who were in worse circumstances than her. And he said the next Sunday she came back and sat down. He said she was smiling ear to ear, and she said, Preacher, this is the happiest I've been in years. She got her eyes off herself. She got her eyes off her circumstances. And she gave herself to others. So Jesus is our example. He was anointed with the oil of gladness. Why? Because he always did things that pleased the Lord. He wasn't living for himself, he was living for the Lord. Let me give you my second thought real quick. Coming back to Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 9, not only is Jesus our example of gladness, but God is our source of gladness. Look again at verse number 9 with me in Hebrews 1. He says, Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity, therefore, God, even thy God, hath anointed thee. It was God that won that gave this oil of gladness, that anointed with this oil of gladness. Listen, has anyone has anyone Does it seem like to others that we live in a wicked world? Is it just me? Or is this world absolutely perverse? We live in a fallen world. That's scriptural and that's obvious. You know what I found? There's a lot of laughter that goes on in the world. You agree with me? There's laughters in the night there's laughter in the nightclubs, there's laughter on the television, there's laughter on the radio, there's laughter in The church house left, left, left, left And listen, there's nothing wrong with laughter in and of itself. This world is good at making people laugh. But this world cannot give joy. This world cannot give gladness And some of the most miserable people in the world are your comedians that make other people laugh. If you'll read their biographies, some of the famous comedians, some of the most hilarious people this world has to offer, if you'll read their biographies, almost without exception, they're alcoholics, they're multiple divorced Their lives are empty. There's a world of difference between laughing and having joy. And having the gladness. You know why? Because this world cannot give joy. Only God can do that Only God can give us real gladness. This world can make us laugh. They're very good at that. This world can give us a temporary buzz. Boy, you can go to a nightclub and you can go to a uh you can buy a bottle and boy you drink that down, you get caught up, and boy, for a period of time, you're on top of the world. And for a period of time, man, all your worries are gone, and you can just laugh, and life is wonderful. But it is temporary. It is phony. It is superficial. And eventually that buzz dies out. Eventually, that liquor gets out of the system. Eventually the crash comes. And inevitably what they find out is they are worse off after their uh uh buzz than they were before. And they go and seek it again. And seek it again. And many of them end up just on a perpetual drunk. Why? Because there's no joy. Because there's no gladness. I've heard folks, Christians, and I've I've been guilty of this early on in my Christian life, and I learned a hard lesson. I've heard Christians give testimony bragging about all the drugs they did and all the liquor they drank and all the women they ran around with before they got saved and how awful they were. You know, I've come to the conclusion, yeah. I made the statement for it, that the older I get, the more appalled I am at what I was before Christ. There's no there's nothing to brag about being empty. There's nothing to glory And the fact that life was empty and I needed superficial things to help me function, a Christ comes in and he gives fullness of joy. And he gives gladness. And he gives fulfillment. And God gives us that. Not the world. I'm so aggravated with churches and preachers trying to imitate the world. The world has nothing to offer us. God gives gladness. So I just want my home to be happy. You know where you're going to find that? Look to the Lord. Except God build the house, they labor in vain that build it. There's not going to be any joy there. So God is the one that gives gladness. He's the source. Jesus said in John 16, 33, In the world ye shall have tribulation. If you're looking for gladness in the world, you ain't gonna find it. I guarantee it. You'll find laughter. Boy, they'll crack you up. They'll have you splitting your sides laughing, rolling in the aisles, laughing. If you're looking for joy, the world can't do it. C. H. Spurgeon, one of my favorite preachers of all history, said this. If I had a brother who was murdered. What would you think of me if I hung out, and I'm putting this in art terminology, what would you think of me if I hung out every day with his murderer? If I was close friends with the man who took the dagger and drove it through the heart of my brother, what would you think of me? He said, this world crucified my Savior, nailed him to a cross, pierced his heart with a sword. beat a uh crown of thorns on his head. Why would I want to associate with this world when they've crucified my Savior? This world has nothing to offer us. There's no joy that this world has to give us. It's found in Christ. And God gives us that joy when we trust Christ and seek and live our lives to please Him. Number one, Jesus is our example. I do always those things that please my Father. He was anointed with the oil of gladness. Let's live to please God. Number two, understand that joy comes from God. That gladness comes from God, not from the world. And number three, godliness is the condition for gladness. Look with me again, real quickly, at verse 9. God speaking to Jesus, thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity. Therefore, God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness You see the cause and effect here? You've loved righteousness and hated iniquity, therefore God anointed thee with the oil of gladness. What does it mean to love righteousness? Because I studied this out, I came to this conclusion. It means to cherish and highly value that which is right by God's standards. In other words, if I love righteousness, I find out what God says is right, and then I commit to it. I cherish it, I value it. This is what God says is right, therefore, that's where I stand. Follow what I'm saying? Loving righteousness. I've often told Christians: don't you dare do what you think is right. Don't do what you think is right. Do what God says is right. I found many times what I thought was right and what God said was right was two different things. Love righteousness, love what God says is right, love it, cherish it. Value it. I'm afraid we live in a day in many churches that what God says is right is not highly valued. But what brings me pleasure, what is fun, what makes me laugh, that's where I value. Rather than what God says is right. So loving righteousness is valuing that which God says is correct, what's right, and then hating iniquity means to despise that which is outside the will of God. If something is not of the will of God, then I despise it. I separate myself from it. I don't want nothing to do with it. And he says, because he did that, therefore God anointed him with the oil of gladness. So what are we saying? I don't know about you. I like to laugh. Right, I like to laugh. I've tried it, I do it a lot, enjoy it, I enjoy life, I like to laugh. But there's more than just laughing. There's joy we can have, a gladness down inside our heart. How do I get that? How do I live a life, no matter what my circumstances are? I have a deep-seated joy, heartfelt joy. Doesn't mean I'm laughing all the time. Doesn't mean everything's ugh. You know, you know, you can be shedding tears and yet be joyful. Your heart can be broke, but yet still be glad. It's what God does for us. So one, I need to live my quit living for myself. Start seeking to please God. Number two, understand only God gives it to me. The world can't give it to me. And number three, find out what is right and wrong according to God, and get away from the wrong and love that which is right. Why does the world glorify that which is wrong? Why is it doing right in the world? You're square, you're odd, you're not cool. Why are the cool kids always the ones that are bad? Am I right or wrong? The big famous Hollywood people, they're all the ones that are half naked, drunken, adulterers. They're the cool ones. But the people that love God and try and do what's right and be decent and modest and humble, they're weirdos. Huh. Interesting question, huh? So find out what God says is right. And by the way, they're the ones that are miserable. Why why are why are the cool people always look like they're either mad or bored? That guy's cool. What is that? Doesn't look cool, it looks stupid. The world's I thought of this quote the other day the world has convinced this generation that being rude and obnoxious is funny. When in reality it's just rude and obnoxious. So where is their joy? Find out what God says is right. Find out what God says is wrong. Get rid of that which is wrong. Do that which is right. Please God, die to self, and God gives you the joy of gladness, the oil of gladness. Simple. Simple. There's a boy, I've used this years ago, but I think it fits here. There was a boy who was mentally handicapped and his mom family loved him dearly and he'd play outside and They had a very busy road, it's a very dangerous road there, and they always told them, don't go out on the road. If you go out on the road, the cars are going to hit you and you'll be killed. So stay away from the road. His simple mind he comprehended that. He stayed out of the road. One day he was playing, the ball ran out in the road, and without thinking. He just ran out. Simple mind. He just wanted his ball, ran out, and he got out in the middle of the road, and lo and behold, a car came flying up over the hill and uh right towards him. And his first thought came to his mind is, I'm going to be killed I went on the road, I'm going to be killed. And the car hit the brakes and was able to slide and just missed them. And his simple mind got reasoning. Huh. Mom said that if you go on the road, you get killed. I went on the road and I didn't get killed. I must be something special. Other people go on the road and get killed, but not me. So he came back off the road and he waited Another car came flying down and he jumped out in the road. And the car hit the brakes and skid and just missed them. And in his simple mind, that reconfirmed to him that he was something special. Cars don't hit him. And that went on over a period of time until it got known in the community: watch out at that one house, there's a kid there that jumps out in front of cars. His parents tried everything they could to stop it, but he was convinced in his mind. Sometime later they went and visited grandma. Behind grandma's house was a train track. And he was out messing around playing and heard the siren and looked and saw that train coming. His simple mind said, Cars hit and kill other people, but they don't hit and kill me. Trains hit and kill other people, but I'm something special. We stood out in the train track. The train came barreling around the corner, saw the little boy there, and blew the horn, locked it up. Crushed his little body to pieces. He was wrong. He wasn't so special. He was simple. Now, what that boy did, it's what people do all the time. God says you can't live in sin and be happy. You can't live independent of me. You can't ignore my word and the principles I've given you for life. You can't live that way and have real joy and real happiness. But we're all convinced that we're something special. That somehow I can live my life, I can ignore God, I can disobey His word, I can just go on and do my thing, and somehow it's all going to end up okay. But it doesn't. Any more than it ended up okay for that little boy. And lives are empty, and our world is angry And people die and go to hell because we fail to realize that Christ, God, is the source of life and joy and purpose and meaning in life. So let's find out. What is it that pleases God? Let me ask you about your marriage. Is your marriage being conducted in a way that pleases God? Maybe that's why it's so miserable. You're ignoring what God says about it. What about your finances? What about your how you live your life, your interaction with others? Do we even stop and think, all right, what does God have to say about this? What is God's will concerning this? Alright, this is what God says: if we do it this way, if I do this and don't do that, lo and behold, it works. Imagine that. God is right. What area of your life needs to be changed so that it'll please God? What needs to get put out of your life so that God would be pleased? That's questions you and I have to ask ourselves. We have to come to the Word of God. What is it? Have you trusted Christ as Savior? If not, that's the beginning point. Accepting Jesus Christ your personal Savior. Then you begin a life of following His leadership and following His instructions, and God blesses and God blesses. Father in heaven, hear us, Lord, and help us. I pray that we as a church and that our homes, our individual lives would be lived in such a way to please you. Help us to trust you, Lord, and have faith in you. I wonder with our heads bowed in eyes