Last week, I just kind of gave some introductory thoughts, and I want to give the content of here of what I believe the Bible is saying here in this portion of Scripture. Notice verse 27. Behold This have I found. Question, who's speaking here? Solomon. This is Solomon's account. This whole book is Solomon's account. And I think it's a record of his thinking behind his tremendous, horrific backsliding. And so he's making the statement, behold, this have I found Now he's been living under the sun. He's pushed God from his life. He said, I learned something from this whole experience. This have I found, saith the preacher, counting one by one. to give out the account which yet my soul seeketh. But I find not one man among a thousand have I found I'm not reading this right. I got new glasses, so you all bear with me here a little bit. Let me start over. Behold, this have I found, saith the preacher, counting one by one to find out the account, which yet my soul seeketh, but I find not One man among a thousand have I found, but a woman among all those have I not found. We'll talk about that Lo, this only have I found that God hath made man upright, but they have sought out many inventions. And uh Solomon is seeking for wisdom. I think what he's telling us here He's seeking for wisdom, but he's seeking for wisdom under the sun. God's been pushed out. We've already talked about this quite a bit through the book. God's been pushed out. He's not a factor in his thinking It's not a factor in his his pursuit of meaning and purpose. And he's looking for wisdom under the sun. Let me ask you a question. How much genuine wisdom is there when God is not a factor? There's none. Under the sun, there is no genuine wisdom. There's earthly wisdom, wis uh worldly wisdom. James talks about that. We looked at that last week So he's searching for wisdom under the sun. Let's pray, and I'll give you some of my thoughts. Father, I ask your blessing now as we look into this portion of Scripture. And Lord, we just look at the life of Solomon and the record here and what happened to him and how his thinking got so out of line. And I pray you'd protect us from that, and you could use his account here you've preserved, inspired for us, that uh we would be very, very careful And what we allow our thoughts and help us to seek that wisdom that comes from above and that we so desperately need. Fill me, I pray, again tonight, Lord, with your Holy Spirit. And speak through me, I pray. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. He's looking for wisdom under the sun, and he comes up empty and frustrated. And I talked about this, as I said, a little bit last week. And he's sharing with us the lessons he's learned during this period of time that he was away from God. So I'm going to get right into my outline. Number one, I want you to notice this his desire. There's something Solomon is wanting. Look at verse 27 with me again. Behold, this have I found. I've learned this. Say it the preacher. Counting one by one to find out the account, which yet my soul seeketh, but I find not. What is he looking for? He's looking for wisdom. He's looking for someone under the sun that can give some direction in life. He's looking for someone, somebody that's wise enough, somebody that is under the sun. God is excluded. Remember, he's pushed God out. He's looking for someone that can give some answers to life's problems Now notice he says there, this have I found, say it to the preacher, counting one by one to find out the account. Counting one by one. What's he saying there? I think what he's saying is I have been I have been very systematic in this. Of course, as king the wealthiest king that ever lived, perhaps. He has the resources. And he has set out, and he is very systematically going through the population, the census of his country, Israel, and he's trying to find somebody that has some answers to the life's problems. He has somebody that can give some direction and uh and and solve the problems that they're dealing with. He said I've been very, very systematic about this. I got thinking about that phrase where he says one by one. I wonder, and I got, and again, I got thinking, I can't answer this dogmatically, but I wonder if he didn't do some sort of poll. He went out and took a poll one by one going through, maybe he had a list of questions, and he's trying to find somebody, somebody, somebody that can answer these questions. I used this quote and I think it was Wednesday night's message and I really prepared it for this passage here, uh but um Uh years ago, there was a French politician. How many people here Wednesday night heard me say this? There was a French politician years ago that um it was in the sixties when everything was a mess and uh he made this statement and uh uh again I said this the other night but I wish I would have document would have kept this and documented it, but he made this statement. He says, we are looking for a man. Be he the devil himself. That could answer our questions and solve our problems. Now, this is a very, very influential man, and that tells me the desperation On the part of mankind without God to find somebody that can solve our problems. How many people agree our world is has problems today? And you look on the international scene between the nations, what a tangled mess. How complicated can man get make things out? And now we're talking, you know, Russia and the verge of war and you know all this uh uh racial uh uh upheaval going on And Solomon is saying something like this. I went through everywhere and I tried to find somebody that had enough wisdom to tell us how we can solve these things. Somebody that had the answers. to help us settle this thing and get things working and functioning decently. That was his desire. And I want to suggest to you that is the desire of man today. But the world is making the same mistake Solomon did, where we have that desire for wisdom, direction, for peace, for answers, but we're trying to find it without God. Without God. Um, I think that's what the United Nations is about. Isn't that what the United Nations is about? Trying to find answers to man's problems, find solutions to man's uh problems But yet we push God out. Uh I have never in all my years some of you some of you old folks um uh May have heard I've never heard anyone at the United Nations get up behind a podium and address the nations of the world and say, you know, the answer to our problems is never going to be found under the sun. We've got to look to the Lord Jesus Christ for answers Have you ever heard anyone say that? No, so what are they looking for? They're looking for answers, they're looking for solutions, they're looking for direction from under the sun. And so the United Nations is exactly what Solomon was desiring, is somehow we can bring peace, somehow we can get direction, somehow we can get answers, and that is the desire of Solomon here I want to suggest to you that's the desire of everyone that we met yesterday. We gave out gospel tracts. I think deep down in the heart of every single person is a desire to have questions answered. Right? A desire to have some direction in my life. One of the houses we went up to is a porch and there was a bunch of guys there and And um it was oh w what time were we down there? 10 o'clock, 11 o'clock, it was forenoon sometime, and they'd obviously been hitting the bottle pretty good And uh I went up and said, Hey fellas, I'm the Baptist preacher. I want to give you all some gospel tracts. And I thought, all right, here we go. How are they going to respond? And they're there, oh yeah, I believe in God, yeah, I believe the Bible, and they start going on and And all of that. And I started talking to a little bit. And one of the fellows said, hey, can I have one of those? I want to share it with my wife. We talked a little bit, and he didn't say anything specific, but I walked away from there thinking, that guy is hungry. That guy's got problems going on and he wants some answers and he wants some solutions. And he was hoping that maybe this preacher that came by and gave him a little piece of paper, maybe That paper, what's on that paper, would have some answers to his problems. You know what I think? I think that paper does have the answers to his problems Because the source of wisdom in this world, the source of answers, the source of solutions in this world is not going to be found under the sun. It's going to be found in the Lord Jesus Christ, in him alone. And so Solomon has this desire. He says, This have I found, I say to the preacher, my soul seeketh. I'm looking for something, but I can't find it. Because he's looking under the sun. Look number two at his dismay. Verse 28, he says, Which my soul seeketh, but I find not. One man among a thousand have I found, one among a thousand have I found, but a woman among all those have I not found. So he comes up empty. Now this gets a little touchy here. This is what he's saying. He's saying, I pulled, I went one by one to a thousand men. And out of a thousand men, I found one guy that had some answers, one guy that had some solutions, one guy that showed a little bit of wisdom, one out of a thousand. Now here's where it gets touchy. Anybody read what it says there? He says, but out of women I didn't find one woman that had answers or had the solutions. Now I didn't say that. Alright. Solomon said that. And I looked at that and I thought, uh, what is he saying? I think one thing he's telling us here, let me give you a thing, and then I'm going to address that last statement he makes there I think one thing he's telling us, wisdom is very, very rare. One out of a thousand. That's pretty rare. Wisdom is not very common. Anybody ever make this statement? Whatever happened to common sense? What do you mean by that? We can't find it. It's very rare. And so I think he's saying, listen, I'm dismayed. I can't find any wisdom. I can't find all this. And then he addresses this statement one out of a thousand. Then he says, but a woman among those have I not found. Now, did Solomon hate women? No, he loved them. That was his problem. Did Solomon think badly of women? I'm going to answer that here in a minute. I think the key to understanding what he meant by when he says, among women, I haven't found one, is the key is that number thousand. Among a thousand. Now, if you read your Bible much, how many Bible students here would say, when you think of Solomon and you think of women and you hear the number thousand? How do you connect the dots there? He had 700 wives and 300 concubines. What do we know about Solomon's wives? Many of them were strange women, which we described before. And they drew his heart away from the worship of Jehovah. They drew his heart into the worship of pagans. Now this is what I think. This is what I think is taking place here. I think Solomon looked to his wives, who were ungodly, pagan, worshiping strange women for the most part. And he said, I didn't find any wisdom among them. I think that thousand tells us the crowd he was looking in for wisdom Now, that brings me to this question which I asked just a moment ago. Did Solomon think lowly of women? No, let me give you some verses. In fact. . The Bible, Solomon and the Bible spoke very highly of women. . Let me give you my notes here. Let me stick to my notes here. This is not a blanket statement on women. I think he's addressing the women that were in his life, who he was very foolishly brought into his life, who were not wise, who were strange women and drew his heart away. Now what does the Bible say? Particularly Solomon, what does he say about women? Well let's look at it. Take your Bible, turn over to Proverbs. Chapter number four. And I think this is important for us to understand. Now he talked up above there about strange women, and we did pretty thorough study on that. But let's look here. What does he think about women specifically? Proverbs chapter 12 Chapter twelve Let's always go by the last thing I said, not the previous ones. Proverbs chapter 12, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to say four. Proverbs chapter 12 and verse 4. Look at this. A virtuous woman is a what? Crown unto her husband, but she that maketh ashamed has rottenness to his bones That word virtuous means this, morally excellent, a strong woman, morally strong, morally excellent. I want to suggest to you, Solomon thought very highly of women Solomon says that a virtuous woman can make her husband appear to be regal. Noble, a crown to his husband. And so he thought very highly of women. Come over, if you would, to chapter 14. And notice verse number one. Every wise woman buildeth her house, but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands. You know what he's telling us here? He says, a woman, a wise woman, can make a home into something. She may have, now I'm reading into it a little bit here, she may have the sorriest husband that ever lived. But if she's wise, she's not going to tear that down. She's not going to rail with him and tell him how terrible he is and dwell on all his mistakes and stupid stuff he does. That's foolish woman does that. She tucks it down and destroys it. But Solomon says a wise woman is able to do something that's pretty amazing. And that is take a home and build it up and make something out of it. And make it a haven of rest and a place of godliness where the presence of God is. And the joy of the Lord is there. Solomon speaks very highly of women. Take your Bible, if you would, and come over to chapter 18 of Proverbs. And notice with me verse 22. Proverbs 18, 22. Look at this. Whoso findeth a wife findeth a what? A good thing, and look at this, and obtaineth uh obtaineth favor of the Lord. I don't know about you, but that sounds to me like he thinks a a a woman, a a good godly woman is Something to be valued. And you found a good thing. Highly favored of the Lord. Lord gave me this woman. Boy, this is good. This is highly favored of the Lord. Look at chapter 19 And verse number, did we go to 18? Yes. Look, go to chapter 19 and verse 14. Notice what it says. Houses and riches are the inheritance of fathers, and a prudent wife is from the Lord. Now I wrote in the margin of my Bible, and this would be advice to a young man: go to the Lord to find a wife A prudent wife is from the Lord. Again, speaking very highly of the woman. Then that classic passage, chapter 31. And verse number ten, Proverbs thirty one and verse number ten. Who can find a virtuous woman for her price is far above rubies? How many people to you, that sounds like him speaking ill of a woman? That sounds to me speaking very highly. Precious, valuable, rare, a virtuous woman. And then he describes that a little bit. Come over to verse number 30. Favor is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be what? Praised. Praised. What I'm trying to say is this, and I'm trying to pull these verses out, and I'm trying to communicate this. Solomon did not think ill of women women. He thought very highly of them. He had God's perspective. At one point in his life at least, he had God's perspective of women. He saw there something that are very, very fa powerful, that are very, very, can be a very, very positive influence in this world and in the life of her family. And he speaks very highly. How many people have ever read the book of Solomon Song of Solomon? Anybody ever read that? That's a fascinating book. Gets a little steamy in there, you know. I heard one preacher, Dr. David McCoy, say, he goes, all my teen boys love to read Song of Solomon for some reason. And um but man, he's praising women there. He's speaking very, very highly of women. All through the uh book, the Song of Solomon. Um and by the way When God personifies wisdom in the book of Proverbs, when He gives human attributes to wisdom What gender does he always use? The woman. She. He always compares wisdom. When he personifies it, gives it human attributes to wisdom, he always uses the woman. The woman. She. She. She. Let me give you some references for that. Proverbs chapter 1, verse 20 in following verses, chapter 8 and verse 1 in following verses, chapter 9 and verse 1 in the following verses And so, when he says this, he says, I've sought a thousand men, I found one guy that had a little bit of wisdom, that had a little bit of common sense, and I sought all these thousand women, I didn't find any. I think From what he statements he makes other places, I think he's he I think he I think he pulled the wrong w women I think he polled his crowd that he got into that were obviously ungodly, were told that. And he pulled them, of course he's not going to find any. uh wisdom among that. So what is he saying? He's saying that he could not find genuine wisdom under the sun. It was missing. It wasn't there. Now let me give you last of all number three his discovery. He learns something from this. He says, I want wisdom. I need some answers. He's looking under the sun. I can't find it. Went through my my population, all that, all these people, I could not find it, and I learned something. Look with me at verse number 29. Now I need to get back here. Until Ezekiel 7, look at verse 29. Lo, this only have I found. So I was looking for wisdom among all these people, I couldn't find it. But this is what I did find. That God hath made man upright. Now, when he says man, he's talking about mankind. God hath made man upright, but they have sought out many inventions. God made man upright. When God created man, Solomon says, I see this, I understand this, I I've observed this, I found this to be true. When God created man, he created him upright. Now, what does he mean by that word, upright? It simply means this. When God created man, he created man correctly. He created man as he should be. When God saw his creation, he sold all that he made, and he said that it was good. But he says this. He says, look at a verse. God hath made man upright, but they, mankind, have sought out many inventions. What he's talking about there is, and the idea behind that statement is this: man has pursued his own way. Man has leaned on his own understanding, and man has corrupted himself. Now bear with me. Man has corrupted himself. And I believe what Solomon is telling us is I can't find any wisdom under the sun. God's, we exclude God, there's no wisdom here. Something's wrong with mankind. If they don't have any wisdom, something is wrong. He says, now I know, I know this is true, that when God created man, He created him good. He was upright. He was correct. He was the way he was supposed to be. But man has corrupted himself. Man has sought his own way. Man has leaned on his own understanding. And man has brought this situation upon himself where there's no wisdom. It's just foolishness out there. How many people here ever see policies that are passed or laws that are passed or policies put in place and you think that is the stupidest thing in the world? Anybody know what I'm talking about? You say, what what what sane person would think that's a good idea? What morally sane person thinks it's okay to kill babies in their mother's womb? You know, and you look at this and you think, what in the world has happened to mankind? Why is there no wisdom here? Why is there such foolishness here? And Solomon's saying, I found out something, and this is it. It's not God's fault. It's not God's fault. God created them correctly. God created them uprightly. But they sought out many inventions and they went their own way. They've corrupted themselves. And they've done this to themselves, it's not God's fault. It's not God's fault. How many people have ever heard this statement? Where was God when that kid's walking around the school shooting down kids? You always like to bring that up. Where was God? Oh, uh oh, if there's a God, then we wouldn't have this. If there was a God, you wouldn't have people doing that. And Solomon's saying, hey, I learned something. God created man right. We've done this to ourselves. We've done this to ourselves. By one man, by one man, sin entered into the world And death by sin. And not just physical death, death of wisdom, death of common sense, death of morality, death of everything good and right Has come into the world. And Solomon's, he says, I push God out of my life. I can't find any purpose. I can't find any meaning in life. And I can't find any wisdom. When God's excluded. But this is what I've learned. It's not God's fault. We've done this to ourselves So what does that tell us? That tells us we desperately need the Lord. Don't we? We desperately need the Lord. And that's coming back. And then you could tie salvation to this. This is where Christ comes back to restore us, the second Adam. To bring back to us wisdom in Christ and direction and meaning and purpose in life. So it's not God's fault. What was that old cartoon? What was that cartoon years ago? We have found the enemy and he is Pogo. We found the enemy and he is us I think that's what Solomon's saying. We've done this to ourselves. So let's pray and ask the Lord, God help me. Help me to look to you. Help me to trust you. Help me to let you lead me and direct me. And let's ask God for wisdom from above. Wisdom from above, and then share that with others. Father in heaven, I pray you take these thoughts such as they are Lord, I think maybe your Holy Spirit would speak to our hearts. We do need wisdom. We know man doesn't have the answers. Government doesn't. Philosophy of this world doesn't. Only you have the answers we need. We need that in our lives, and we need to share that with others. And so please bless and help us. With our heads bow and eyes closed, how many would say, Pastor, there is a desire like Solomon in my heart? To find some wisdom, have direction in my life. That desire is there. How many people would say that's true for my, in my heart and life, I desire wisdom? in my life. God bless you. I think that's all of us would say that. But how many of us are looking above that old sun? And looking beyond our own understanding and putting all this side and saying, Lord, I'm looking to you to lead me and direct me. I'm looking to you to guide me. And when we do that, God will guide us. He will lead us. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand