We're not going to give the full message tonight because uh we took a good bit of time uh to get these young people in front of us and I thought it was important that we do that. And I think you understand that. But Ecclesiastes chapter number seven, if you would find that, and also for sake of time, find James chapter three. And all I'm going to give to you tonight is just the introduction to the message, and uh then we'll pick it up next week and get the rest of it. Uh I'm just going to stand behind here, Jamie. Let's just do that. Ecclesiastes chapter 7, and I want to begin reading in verse 27, and this will finish out the chapter down through verse 29. The Bible says, Behold, this have I found, saith the preacher, counting one by one to find out the account which yet my soul seeketh, but I find not. One man among a thousand have I found, but a woman among all those have I not found Lo lo, this only have I found that God hath made man upright, but they have sought out many inventions Now there's three thoughts here in this I want to share with you, but I just want to lay the groundwork tonight, then next week we'll come back and Lord will and look at those three thoughts. But I want to uh this is the message, searching for wisdom under the sun Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now the few moments we have. And Lord, I just pray you'd use your word, stir our hearts. I'm so grateful for the young people. I'm so grateful for so many people that invest in them and love them and put time and effort and finances and resources to help these young people live their lives above the sun. And so please bless now. And fill me with your spirit. Stir our hearts tonight, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. As you remember, I Ecclesiastes chapter 1 through 6 Solomon is giving testimony to the fact that he had gotten away from the Lord and he was living his life under the sun. Key phrase in the book of Ecclesiastes. And he sought desperately to uh find purpose and meaning in life without God, pushing God out of his life and just living for what is under the sun, what you can see, what you can feel, the here and now, the physical only. And so he invested his life the last years of his life and he came up frustrated. He tried wealth, he tried working, he tried wild living And all these things he sought for. And every single time he came up frustrated and he came up empty. Then chapter seven begins a transition in the book. And now I believe he's sharing lessons that he learned. from his experience living under the sun, trying to live a life of meaning and purpose without God, and some lessons he's learned. He goes down through here And what he says here, in this portion, what we're looking at, I believe what he's doing is he says, I was trying to find wisdom, true wisdom. Among mankind, just among man's thinking, man's wisdom, man's understanding. I was looking for real wisdom. But he came up short again. He was looking for wisdom under the sun. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 25. He says, I applied mine heart to know and to search and to seek out wisdom. And the reason of things and to know the wickedness that goes down through there. But he's looking for wisdom under the sun. And he comes up frustrated. Now here's the question, and this is the groundwork I want to lay for some of the thoughts that I want to share, but here's the question. Where do we find true wisdom? Where do we find real wisdom? We find it from the Lord, from above. Now, if you would, come back to James chapter 3. And I want us to look at verse number 17. In fact, I'm going to start at verse 13 James chapter 3, and look with me at verse 13. Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge from among you? Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. But if you have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not and lie not against the truth. This wisdom, now look, this wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. Now you could say, beside verse 15, you could say that wisdom is from under the sun. It's not from above. It's not from God. This is the best wisdom man can come up with. And it's earthly. It's sensual and it's devilish. Verse 16, for where envying and strife is, there is confusion and every evil work. Now here's verse 17. Look at this. But the wisdom that is from what? Above? Above the sun. He just described the wisdom of man. He just described the wisdom of humanity, of the earth, of fallen man. And he says, it's frustrating, it's envying, and it's filled with strife. Would you agree with me? We live in a world filled with strife. We live in a world filled with frustration and envying and look at the list there. He goes, envying and strife in your hearts, dishonesty. And that is what man's wisdom produced. When mankind lives under the sun, God is excluded, or their version of God, but the true God is excluded, it's frustration and its emptiness, it's man's wisdom. But true wisdom is from above. And that's what Solomon is looking for. And he's trying to find wisdom. And he says, I've looked among a thousand men, and I found one, maybe, that had any resemblance of wisdom. Then look at verse 17. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable. Gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy, good fruits, without partiality, without hypocrisy, the fruit of righteousness is shown in peace of them that make peace So here's what I want to leave us with. And I I I don't want to get into the bulk of the message because I won't be able to get through it. And I want to put it all together as a package. But this is what I want to leave with tonight Particularly with the idea of the young people, the young people making decisions. Would you agree with me? Our teenagers desperately need wisdom. Desperately need wisdom. Would you agree with me, these young people, the few that were up here and the ones they represent throughout our ministries? Would you agree with me? They need teachers, parents People that influence them, that have wisdom from above. Do you agree with me? They're getting bombarded with the wisdom of this world. The wisdom of this world. But they need wisdom from above. So here's my question. This is what I want to leave us with. How do I get that wisdom from above? Solomon was looking for it Here on earth, in humanity, in man's experience, in man's understanding. And he says, I can't find it. I can't find it. I can't find any wisdom here. Now, there's an element of wisdom in the world. I mean, there's some people that are what we call worldly wise. How many people know what I mean by that? Oh, they know how to make money. Well they can handle money wisely. They know how to play people. They know how to work the system. They got streetwise, their street wisdom. They have wisdom here. But think about this with me. If our wisdom If man's wisdom completely excludes the reality of eternity If man's wisdom completely excludes the realit the spiritual realities, the spiritual aspect of man, It disregards that, disregards any idea of eternity. How wise is that wisdom? It's pretty foolish. This is what I'm trying to say. The world's wisdom says, oh, you've got to learn how to make money, how to get possessions, how to work people, how to be happy how to experience pleasure, and boy, they can figure it out and they can be real wise with that. But if they're excluding the fact that one day they're going to die and go out into eternity, that to me seems pretty foolish. What should it profit a man? He gains the whole world. But what? Lose his own soul Oh, they can make money, they can gain the whole world. They're wise that way. But when it comes to eternity, they're foolish. And that's what Solomon's saying. I can't find anybody among the world that is wise. That recognizes the fact that there is more than just what we are right here. What kind of wisdom is it that sees all the physical but totally disregards the spiritual aspect of man You and I, mankind, are spiritual beings. But if all we're living as if we're only flesh and blood, if all we are is wake, we're some evolved metap evolved um organisms and there's no spiritual aspect to us, how foolish is that? And we see a world that is so prosperous but yet is starving spiritually And Solomon says, I can't find any of that. So how do I get this wisdom from above? I believe it comes down to this. For those of us that know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, I believe it comes down to this. is developing a humble, consistent, daily walk with God. I believe that is where true wisdom comes. We ask God for it. And then every day I humbly walk with God. I let Him lead me and direct me from His Word. Instruct me, guide me from His Word. I trust Him. And I follow that instructions on a daily basis. And as I do that, God gives me wisdom. That wisdom, I see things from above. Am I making sense tonight? And these young people desperately need to learn to have a daily walk with God, to seek the Lord on a regular basis. Moms and dads desperately need that. So I want to challenge us before I get into what I think he says here. I want to challenge us this coming week. Let's determine every single day. That we're going to spend some time with God. Let's determine, let's all of us determine that tomorrow, Monday, April 9th, I'm going to walk with God tomorrow. I'm going to let him speak to me. I'm going to live throughout the day. I'm going to give these gospel tracts out. I'm going to try and live for the Lord, live in his presence and honor him. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. A daily walk with God. Let's not allow our Christian life to simply be a Sunday-only Christian life. But let's make it every single day. Amen? And then we'll look at here how frustrated Solomon gets in looking for wisdom here on this earth. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, I pray that you've used the service this evening to encourage us and challenge us and bless us in our hearts and souls. And we ask that you would give us as a church And as individuals, give us this wisdom from above to see this world, to have heaven's perspective and heaven's values, priorities. And live our lives daily in your presence, walking with you. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, This Sunday night, this service today, God stirred my heart, and I want to commit myself for the next seven days at least. To walk with God on a daily basis, spend time with him, let him lead me, try and live in his presence. Every day for the next seven days. How many are like that, preacher? I commit myself to walk with God these next few weeks. Things that are displeased to the Lord, I want to push out. Things that the Lord wants in my life, I'm going to bring in. And I want my life. To be lived for the Lord in the light of his presence. And God will give us wisdom. He surely will. Any others? Uplifting hand preacher, that's what I want. Young and old. God bless you. All around. Let's finish out the Lord's day. How about an old-fashioned altar? Just praying, Lord, help me to do that. Help me to carry that out and do that in a practical way. Let's pray for our young people. That God will hedge them about and lead them and direct them and raise up a great generation For our Lord and Savior. Father, bless our imitation time now. I ask. A little different service tonight. But I pray you'd challenge us in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand