Chapter 5, I'd like for us to read together in unison, if you would, verse 7 and 8. Of course, verse 8 is our memory verse for the month of August. And I want to challenge all of us to work at committing James 5. 8 to memory. Work on that. It's not difficult. It's not a long verse, but I believe it would be very, very helpful. But I'd like for us to read together James chapter 5, beginning in verse number 7. Is everybody ready? All together. Verse 7. Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it, until he received the early and latter rain Be ye also patient, stablish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Grudge not one. Oops, verse nine. We ended there. I got caught up in what we were reading Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now you'd bless our time in your word. I pray that you would speak to our hearts. And I pray you challenge us as we uh look forward and anticipate the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that our hearts and minds you would uh open them to your will for our lives. I yield my will to you, Lord, and I present my body anew with all my heart. I ask you fill me With your Holy Spirit and change our lives, Lord. Change our thinking. Help us to see things from your perspective. See our world, our lives, our situations. And so have your way, Lord, in this next few moments. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Book of James, of course, is penned by James. He is the half-brother of our Lord Jesus Christ. And by that, we've mentioned this before, but by that we mean this: James and Jesus had the same mother. But James and Jesus Christ had two different fathers. Of course, Mary being the mother of Jesus and also the mother of James and numerous other children, the Catholics are wrong when they say that Mary had no other children but Jesus. That is incorrect Bible clearly teaches us she had many other children, numerous, uh James being one of them. So they had the same mother. Joseph was James' daddy, but Joseph was not Jesus' daddy. God Almighty, God the Father, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. So he's a half-brother of our Lord Jesus Christ. He is uh he was the pastor, the first pastor of the church there in Jerusalem This would be what I refer to as the mother church of the New Testament church. This is where they first organized. This is where they first established. having pastor and uh uh deacons and all su the structure to the church is in place. James was the pastor of that very first church. Would you agree with me? That's a pretty significant position The very first church, the mother church of all other churches. In Galatians chapter number 2 and verse 9, Paul refers to James And he refers to him as a pillar of the church. A pillar of the church. That's quite a statement coming from someone such as the Apostle Paul. He says that James, what does a pillar do in a building? It holds things in place. It holds it up. It's a key part of a structure. And he's saying that James was a significant man that held that church together, that supported that church, and Very much the New Testament church was the great church it was because of the leadership of Brother James as he pastored that thing And so James is a tremendous man. He was martyred for his faith. Uh stood faithful to the Lord right to the end. How many people agree with me? It would be challenging to be faithful to the Lord even unto death. Would you agree with me? That would be challenging. And uh James was faithful even unto death. The book of James itself, it's one of my favorite books of the Bible, and I have numerous ones. They go back and forth. But I always Whenever I hit James in my Bible reading, I'm always thrilled. James is a very practical book. He is presenting practical Christianity. If you were in college and you took theory, a lot of classes are a theory of this, theory of that. Book of James is not a theory book. It's a practical book. Get out and do it. Get out and live it. Book of James is a practical book, much like the book of Proverbs, very, very practical faith. And what he tells us, if I'm going to summarize the book of James just quickly, what he tells us in the book of James is this, our lives should mirror our faith In other words, what we say we believe should be evident on how we live our lives Everybody get it? Go to chapter 2 with me. Just quickly. I want to get to our text here pretty quickly this morning. But go to chapter 2. And if you would, look with me beginning in verse number 14 He lays it out very plainly here. Now, sometimes this passage gets a little misunderstood. You have to compare scripture with scripture. But notice what he says here. And if you pay close attention to the words he uses, it's very clear what he's saying. Verse 14, he says, What doth it profit my brethren? Now when he says, my brethren, who's he talking to? Fellow believers, don't save people here. He says, what doth it profit, my brethren, though a man, next word, say. I circled that in my Bible. Though a man say he hath faith and have not works, can faith save him? Now that's a question. Here's a guy who goes around saying, oh yeah, I believe, I believe, oh yeah, I have faith, I have faith But you don't see anything in his life. Has no effect on his life. Can that faith save him? Look what he goes on. If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them Depart in peace. Be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding you give them not those things which are needful to the body. What doth it profit? What's the answer to his question? Doesn't do any good. Me just uh, you know, uh Virginia comes up and she's starving and she needs food. I say, oh yes, uh Uh, Virginia, God bless you and uh God will take care of you and I've got the food there to provide and take care of her and and feed her. Uh am I helping her at all No, I'm not helping her a bit. And he's using that to illustrate. Somebody goes around and say, oh yeah, I believe the Bible. Oh yeah, I believe in God. Oh yeah, I believe. I have faith But there's no indication in their lifestyle that they actually believe that. Does that faith profit anything? No, it's meaningless. It's a show. And so he's challenging, he says, listen, your life ought to mirror, ought to display what you believe Look there at verse number 17. Even so faith, that if had not works, is dead, being alone. Now look at verse 18. Yea, a man may say Now this is the key verse, I believe. A man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. And he says, look at this next word. What's the next word there? Show me thy faith without thy works. Alright, you want to you say you got faith. All right, show it to me without works. You can't. You can just say it all you want, but there's no you don't show anything there. Show me thy faith without the works. Now look at here it is. Here's the key. And I will show thee my faith. Next word By my works. You know what works do? Works do not save a soul. For we are saved by grace through faith, not of works. It's a gift of God less than it not lest any man should boast. It is not our works that save us, but what our works do is they display the fact that we've been saved. Follow what I'm saying? Ephesians 2 says, we are saved unto good works. And he goes, all right, listen, I got faith. Alright, show me your faith. You can say all you want. Let me see it Let me see it in your lifestyle. And so James is challenging the New Testament believers here, and these are folks that are under persecution, he's writing to, and he's challenging them, say, listen, don't let your faith just be lip service. Allow it to affect your life. Have a testimony of a saved person. Do you ever have this somebody maybe at work or whatever? Somebody comes up and says you talk to them about the Lord and say, oh yeah, I'm saved. And you would have never guessed in a thousand years that was a saved person. Anybody know what I'm talking about? There was no evidence. There was nothing, no testimony there. He said, what in the world? Uh I never I never knew that When I got saved I worked at a meat packing plant and uh a pretty rough crowd. There was about thirty-five on the floor there where we worked and uh a lot of ex cons and some of them were still cons but some of them were ex cons And uh I mean just hard drinkers, just rough, rough people. And um I got saved and there was two others got saved right about the same time I did independently And um man it just went through that that like that floor there, that uh the the meat floor there where we were working. Oh, Leatherman got saved. Oh, they got saved, they got saved. And uh they called us the God Squad. There was three. Anybody remember that old show, Maud Squad? They called us God Squad. And so, and out of nowhere, these two guys start talking to me about doctrine. I had no idea. Here they were seminary students. I had no clue they were even Christians. They had no witness, no testimony whatsoever among that crowd. How many people agree with me? That don't sound right to me. Listen, what I'm trying to say is this. If you're saved, show it. Live it. Let people see it. That's what James is saying. You say you got faith. All right, listen, show me your faith without your works. You can't do it. I'll show you my faith by my works, how it affects my life, how it affects me. So James is a very practical book, and he's writing to these New Testament believers who are being severely persecuted Who are uh have paying a heavy price for their faith in Christ. And these challenges say, listen, don't let it just be lip service. Allow your faith to affect your life Be a testimony. Now, I'm telling you, for them to have a visible display of their faith in Christ was going to cost them something. It wasn't just people calling them names and calling them God Squad and making fun of them. It was going to cost them violently Many of them were thrown in prison. Many of them were beaten for their faith in Christ. And he's challenging them. He says, listen, you maintain a testimony. Even in that situation. Very practical book, very challenging book. And he's writing them. Now we come to chapter 5, our passage for this morning. And I notice in the first six verses here, James is giving a brutal rebuke To these corrupt rich men. How many people caught that when brother Pastor Matt was reading through there? Look there at verse 1. He says, Go to now. He's rebuking them. Go to. Come on now, you guys. Listen. Go to now, ye rich men. And he comes down for six verses. He just brutally rebukes them. Now, he's not rebuking them for being wealthy. If you look at it very carefully, he's not rebuking them for being wealthy. There is nothing inherently wrong with being wealthy in and of itself. There's nothing wrong with that. That is not a sin. It's not a sin to be rich Everybody understands that, right? Sometimes in certain circles in our media and in politics, boy, they like to make it if you're if a well- person's wealthy, then they're corrupt. And they equate corruption with wealth. And that is not the case. You read through the Bible, there were many extremely wealthy men of God, of great faith. And uh the so there's nothing wrong. He's not rebuking them for being wealthy. There's nothing inherently wrong with being wealthy. Um money is not the root of all evil. You say, what? The Bible says money is the root of all evil. No, it does not say that. Take your Bible. He said, all right, you want me to prove it? Alright, well I'll prove it to you. Go with me if you would to 1 Peter chapter 6. Go back a little bit there. 1 Peter chapter 6. Money is not the root of all evil. Look, come down. To verse number ten. First Timothy, chapter six. What are you guys looking at? What did I say? First Peter. It's not in 1 Peter. What in the world? 1 Timothy chapter 6. I want to begin reading in verse 9. That's the second time this has happened today. 1 Timothy chapter 6, look at verse 9. Let's start in verse 6. But godliness with what? Contentment is great gain. You know, if we can learn to be content, we're on the road to success. For we brought nothing into this world, and it's certain we can carry nothing out. You never saw a U-Haul hooked to a hearst. Right? Having food and raiment, let us therewith what? Be content. Then he says, but they that will be rich, these are people that want to be rich. Man, I want to be rich more than anything else. I want to have a $1. 5 million house. Nothing wrong with being rich. Nothing wrong with wanting to have a $1. 5 million house having a there's nothing wrong with having it. But what he's saying here is that if that's your whole purpose in life. Then you got a problem. That's your highest priority. But they that be rich fall into temptation, a snare. And if any many foolish and hurtful lights, man, if that's your whole motivation in life, you're gonna end up doing stuff that you really don't want to do, which drown men in destruction and perdition. Look here, verse 10. This is what I'm getting at. For money is the root of all evil. It's not what it says. For what? The love of money is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after They have erred from the faith and pierced them through, pierced themselves through with many sorrows. That's what James is talking about. Come back to chapter 5 there again. James chapter number five. He's rebuking these rich men not for being rich, but he's rebuking them for their abuse of their riches He's rebuking them for the misuse of the wealth that God made possible for them. They love their riches more than they loved the Lord. They love their possession. They love their wealth more than they loved their fellow man. And did you see there, he says, you hire, verse 4, you hire the hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud. It was more important that you got your money than you did than it is that you did what was right. He's rebuking them. Not for being wealthy. There's nothing By the way, hey, I want to remind you, every single one of us sitting in this auditorium today, by the standards of most of the world, we are very wealthy. And so we're going to turn on the wealthy people, just condemn them just for being wealthy. We better stop and think for a minute. Because by the standards of most of the world, you and I are extremely wealthy. And so he's rebuking them for loving their money and their riches and their possessions more than they do their fellow man. It's more important that I make a profit than it is that I do what's right. That was their thinking. It was their worship of their riches that he is rebuking. It is the priorities of their wealth that is being rebuked here. And so for six verses, he has the scathing. Rebuke on these rich men. You read down through there, and it's like, man, he's just laying into them. And then you get to verse 7. Now notice the wording here carefully. Verse 6, you've condemned and killed the just, and he doth not resist you. He's talking to the rich men. Then verse 7. He says, be patient, and he uses a very important word. The third word there is very important. What is it? Therefore. Because of all that's just been said. Because of the abuse of these corrupt, wealthy men and their misuse of their employees, their low view of their fellow man. making a god of their wealth, therefore, because that is happening, brethren. Whenever you see the word brethren, he's talking about what? Saved people. He says, all right, you folks that are saved, my brothers and sisters in Christ. Because they're behaving that way, here's what you need to do. Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Because of all this corruption. That is in the world, particularly within this wealthy class of people, these particular fellas that are this way, this is how brethren ought to be like You know, we, a child of God, a child of God ought to be different than the wicked men of this world. There will be a difference in our thinking, in our behavior, in our values, in our priorities. He says, therefore, be patient, therefore, brethren, all this Therefore, you be very patient, my brothers and sisters, in Christ. That's what he's saying. He's contrasting the characteristics of these corrupt rich men with the believers who were being severely persecuted for their faith. These are guys, they don't pay their employees, they're condemning and killing the just And here you are, a child of God. Don't be like them. There's a contrast here. These brethren were suffering poverty. Because of their faith in Christ, their jobs were taken from them, their houses were taken from them, they were run out of their communities, they were beaten mercilessly, many of them were killed, they were savagely afflicted. And Peter uh and uh James is writing to them and he's saying, Listen, brethren, the Lord is coming back again And you need to keep a few things in place. These things must be true in your life. Our theme this year is maybe today the Lord will return. And every day that goes by, I think, maybe today. Maybe today. I don't know how many times this week I caught myself throughout the day at home or here out of the fair as working the fair And that little song kept coming back. Maybe today my Lord will come for me. Wouldn't that be a wonderful thing? And Peter and James is writing to these believers, and he's saying, Listen, the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. And there are some things that must be true in your life, some characteristics that must be true about you. In anticipation of the Lord's return. This is how the world is acting. This is how people that worship things and materialistic-minded people, this is how they behave. But you, brethren, be patient. I see three characteristics here that ought to be true of every one of us As we anticipate the return of the Lord Jesus Christ, number one, here's the first characteristic I see, is be patient. Be patient. If you would notice he uses that word multiple times in this passage. Look at verse 7. Be patient, therefore, brethren Look at the middle of the verse and hath long patience for it. Look at verse 8. Be ye also patient. Establish your hearts. Come down to verse number 10, the last part, for an example of suffering, affliction, and of patience. Verse 11, behold We count them happy which endure. It's a form of patience there. Ye have heard of the patience of Job. Patient, patient, patient, patient, patient. I got the idea as I studied this passage that when we are anticipating the Lord's return, every day goes by, we're waiting for Jesus to come back, we ought to be very, very patient. That's what he says over and over and over again. Be patient. Be patient. By the way, the word patient here is a very strong word where it comes from. The word that we get, our English word, patience, a very strong word. It means literally, now this is the literal definition of it, and I'll try to explain a little bit, but it means to be long-tempered To be very, very, it takes a long time to get a reaction. Patient. It has the idea of to maintain our composure. How many people ever ha have been in a situation where it was difficult to maintain your composure? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Being patient, being I didn't mean just today, I mean at some point, but being patient means I maintain my composure even in difficult circumstances for a long extended period of time. Would you agree with me? That can be a little challenging. Anybody ever ever anybody here ever get in a conversation with someone or something and it doesn't go the way you want? And boy, before you know it, you lost your composure. And by that we mean this. You blew your stack. Everybody know what I'm talking about? It's like, oh! And James says, under the inspiration of God, he says, listen, the Lord's coming back again. You be patient. Don't be blowing your staff. Don't be reacting and going off. Um, you see stuff sometimes in the news or different things, road rage. Boy somebody cuts them on and uh they get mad park the car and get their uh they get the um tire wrench out. Boy uh oh yeah and it's the get their rock, you know, and make this the James is saying, don't be that way. Can I say this? A Christian ought never. A Christian ought never express road rage. Amen or not? A Christian. Ought not to be that way. He says, be patient, to be long-tempered, to maintain your composure, do not react. To maintain composure for a long time in difficult circumstances, you just keep your cool. You just stay focused. How many people here would agree with me? Boy, that's challenging, Brother Leatherman. Yeah. Anybody here could use a little more patience? Anybody here? Um anybody here want some patience right now? He says, be patient. Five times. Be patient. Patient. Patient. Patient. Patient. One thing ought to characterize us as we're waiting for the Lord to come back is to be patient. is to be patient. He illustrates it in verse 7 with a farmer. It's interesting, the same God that created this world and the the laws of nature, if you want to use that term of sowing and reaping and and springtime and harvest, the same God that created that is the God that gave us the word of God, and he uses his creation often to illustrate spiritual truths. And I think it's fascinating here, particularly in the Gospels, but throughout all scripture, how God will often use what he refers to as the husbandman. It's what we might call a farmer of sorts, and he uses that uh the uh the work of a farmer, the work of a husband to illustrate spiritual truths And that's what he does here. He says, notice in verse 7, he says, be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold the husbandman. So now he's illustrating. He says, look over here at this farmer, this husbandman. Look what he does. He waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and with long what? Patience for it until he received the early and latter rate. He's using a farmer to illustrate the importance of patience. Can I say this now? I'm not a farmer and I'm not the son of a farmer, but I do have two tomato plants and two pepper plants. So I think I'm qualified a little bit to speak on this subject. And they're b all still alive. But I've come to the conclusion, if you're not a patient farmer, you're not going to be a successful farmer. Farmer goes out and puts a seed in the ground. Two days go by, there ain't nothing growing, digs them all up, goes gets others, puts them in the ground. There's something wrong with these seeds, digs them up, and anybody agree with me? That ain't gonna fly. He with long patience waits for the latter rain and the fruit. A farmer that does isn't patient isn't going to be much of a farmer. He's going to have a hard time. And by the way, I put this down, you cannot be a successful farmer without patience. Do we have any farmers agree with that statement here? Anyone? Can't be a successful farmer if you're impatient. You've got to wait on that. You've got to wait on the timing of the of the growth, the development of that wheat. Cannot be a successful farmer without patience. Can I say this? You cannot be a successful Christian without patience. An impatient Christian is not a very good Christian. Not when they're patient. Would you agree with me? Our Lord was awfully patient. Good heavens. S uh every one of those Pharisees has been struck down with lightning early on. Right or wrong. Judas, I'd abandon him right off the bat. Good heavens. Um uh uh, you know, he called down fire, uh, but he did. So the Lord was very patient. They come and say the worst things about him, awful things about him. And he'd confront him sometimes. He didn't back down, but he was very, very patient, very, very patient. I want to challenge us myself as I was studying this. I want to challenge us. Let's seek the Lord to help us be patient. Be patient. Lord's coming back again. Can I be very honest with you? This is my thinking, and it's flawed. I know it is. But this is my thinking. I thought the Lord would have been back by now I really did. I'd be honest with you, I thought 2000. When we hit 2000, I thought bingo. That's when the Lord I never never said that. I didn't teach it or preach that. The Bible says we don't know the day, the hour, but in my head, that's what I was thinking. You know what I'm talking about? I thought, all right, that's it. And it wasn't. And to be honest with you, I don't know when the Lord's coming back. It might be ten hours from now. Might be ten days, might be ten months, it might be ten years, it might be a hundred years. I don't know when the Lord's coming back, but I do know this. We need to patiently wait for his return. Just because he hasn't come back yet doesn't mean he ain't coming. And so uh James is writing to them, listen, you be patient. Don't you how I think part of what he's saying here is this, don't you be falling in love with this world. Don't you be don't you fall in love with riches and material things and and the wealth. Don't you make that your God. You stay focused on Christ. You just be patient. You hold on, you be patient. And so one of the characteristics as we anticipate the Lord's return should be patience. By the way, being patient is not the same as being passive. What does it mean if someone is passive? It means they're what? Persistent? No, it's a little different. It means if someone's very passive, they're Careless a little bit means they're not active. Passive is just kind of like, oh hey man, I'll just hang around. We'll just lay around to check, you know And uh we'll just be passive. We're just not active doing it. Patience is not the same thing as being passive. You know, we can be very active while we're patient. You follow what I'm trying to say? While I'm waiting for the Lord's return, I ought to be about our Lord's business. When we say be patient, we don't mean uh just sit on the church pew. Some people's ministry is keeping the church pew at the 98. 6 temperature. That's their ministry. I just need to make sure this pew stays warm. And I'm glad I want warm pews. I would rather have a church of warm pews than cold pews. Am I making any sense at all? But God has given us responsibilities while we're waiting for the Lord to return. Not the least of which is the Great Commission. And so while we're waiting for the Lord's return, we ought to be busy about our responsibilities God has given us. Patience is not indifference. Well, I just I don't care. Maybe he's coming. That's not patience. Patience is, yeah. Lord's coming. Yeah, he is. Patience implies there's a confidence. That it's going to happen. Oh boy, it's been a long time, Brother Leatherman. It's been a long time. Lord isn't back yet. Are you worried he ain't coming back? No, just patiently waiting. He'll come. He'll come in his time. It'll come has the idea of being humble before the Lord. Lord, you don't return on my schedule, you return on your schedule. I have to admit, and some of you maybe have been the same way, I have to admit, sometimes I get frustrated with the Lord. Can I get a witness? So a few you're afraid to admit it. But it's true. You know what I learned early on in my Christian life? God hardly ever works on my schedule. Lord, this is when this needs to happen. I found out the Lord's schedule is far superior to my schedule. There's a lot of things that afterwards say, oh yeah, boy, that's a good thing that didn't happen there. So patience is confidence in the Lord, that, yeah, He's coming back again. It's humbling myself before the Lord. Lord, this is your timing, not mine. Patience is not indifference. It's not being passive. A farmer, when he plants a seed, correct me if I'm wrong later, uh, but a farmer, if he plants that seed, he doesn't just go back to the farmhouse and sit around for three months drinking ice tea and watching Bonanza. What's he doing? While he's waiting for that harvest, what's he doing? He's out there weeding, pulling the weeds, right? You are you is everybody alright? You with me? Pulling weeds while he's waiting. Good night. Uh you look out and see the far the cornfield. There's weeds all grown up everywhere and there's uh it hasn't been irrigated and the the Plants are wielding. You walk in, the farmer's sitting there watching bananas and drinking iced tea. So what are you doing? He says, Oh, I'm just waiting on the harvest. Well, you gotta wait on it, but listen, you ought to be doing some stuff while you're waiting Get the weeds out, irrigate that thing. Uh fertilize it. Our neighbors down the road here, the field over there, uh they fertilized their fields this week. And boy, we knew about it all week long Right here. We were downwind of that, blowing from the west. And uh gets out and fertilizes. And so James is writing saying, listen, the Lord's coming back again. You be patient. You be patient for his coming. Don't lose your cool. Don't lose your composure. You just be about our Lord's business. You keep on winning souls. You keep on running those buses. You keep on preaching the Bible. You keep on doing right. You keep on loving others. You keep on helping people. You keep on building the churches. You keep on giving the faith promise. You just stay at it and be patient till the Lord returns. Amen or not? Be patient, be patient. Second thing I notice here, he says in verse number 8, he says, verse 8, he says, be ye also patient. That's the third time he mentions that word. Then he says this, establish your hearts. Stablish your hearts. That word stablish means to make stable. To make it so it's unwavering. My pictures, I was studying that word, how it's used. This is the word picture I got in my mind, is cementing it into the ground. I've had a problem with my mailbox over the years, is uh people that plow the church parking lot doing that driveway there back over my mailbox Now I'm not going to say who it was that done that, but everybody that plows knows who it was that does that. But nevertheless, all right, I'll tell you it's me. But um And so after I I mean the thing's knocked over. And then you got the s the State Roads crew coming down and knocking the thing over. I mean that poor m so finally I said I gotta fix it So I asked Brother Derek, I said, can you help me? We got to do something with this mailbox. So we dug the old one out and uh got a what was it four by four post I think, something like that. And guess what we put down in that hole Cement. Brother, that thing ain't going nowhere. We fill that up with cement. Now for you guys, this is probably just you do this all the time, but for me this is profound And uh put that somewhere, man, that thing is solid. That pole ain't going nowhere. Isn't going anywhere. And uh that's what the word stablish means. In other words, you plant yourself in the middle of God's will, and you cement yourself into that. You follow the picture in my mind? You just cement yourself in it. You just anchor yourself into that thing. Stablish your heart. Stablish your hearts. Proverbs chapter 4, verse 23, Solomon puts this this way: keep thy heart with all diligence. You establish it, you plan it, you cement it in. You anchor that, your heart, where it needs to be. Settle your heart, not a wavering heart. Settle it in your heart. I'm not gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna stay the course. Not wavering. I know what's right. God saved my soul. He's given me a purpose. He's given me instructions. He's given me his word. I'm going to cement myself into it. I'm going to stay the course. I'm going to stay Focused on Christ, I'm establishing my heart. That's what he's saying. The Lord's coming back again. You know, one of the characteristics of the world in the days just before the Lord comes back is denying and wandering from the faith. Would you agree with me? We look around our old world, we're getting farther and farther from the Bible every single day goes by And God is saying, you be patient. While you're waiting for the Lord, you be patient. And you cement yourself into the will of God. You be where you're supposed to be. You be what you're supposed to be. You uh uh be where you're supposed to be. Stablish your heart, stablish your hearts. Dr. Lee Robertson, my pastor years ago, he used to say this: don't turn to the right hand nor to the left. Just stay forward. Stay forward, he'd tell us preacher boys. I've tried all these years, thirty-five, thirty-seven years now, I've tried to keep this church stay the course. We're not turning the right hand, we're not turning the we're not turning to the left of liberalism, we're not turning to the right of contemporary, we're staying right the course, amen or not. Stablish your hearts. Stablish your hearts. Stablish your hearts on the Word of God. Listen to me. We don't need a Bible of the month club. We got the old book right here. Let's just stablish our hearts on the old word of God. Amen or not. This is this is I I gotta get this thing out. We need to establish our hearts in the will of God. Do you know God has a plan for your life? God has a will for your life. Yeah, all these young people, God's got a will for your life. Hey, you old people, God's got a will for your life too. Just say, alright, I know this is who God's will for me. Boom. Anchor yourself. Cement yourself in. I put this down. Stablish your heart on the house of God. Hey, let's just be faithful to church. Come on now, help me. Let's just be faithful to church. This is the body of Christ. This is the house of God. Establish our hearts. Establish our hearts on the love of God. Let's just fall in love with Jesus and stay in love with Jesus. Establish your hearts. Be firm. Be unwavering. Stay focused on Jesus Christ. Stay focused on his call on your life. What has God called you to do? What is God's will? Establish your heart. Jesus coming back again. I tell you what, it'd be a bad thing to be it'd be a bad thing Jesus come back and and I'd be out of the will of God. How many people here want to be out of God's will when Jesus comes back? Anybody? I don't want to be. I want to be in the center of God's will for my life. Establish your heart. And then lastly, thirdly, let me show you here. Notice in verse number nine. He used an interesting word. He says, grudge not one against another. This is in the context of the return of the Lord. Grudge not. Boy, what a word. Grudge not. It means this. Don't be critical of other people. Don't be focused on other people's faults. The word grudge there, I got looking it up. It has this idea. How many people know what it means to murmur? It's just you got something you're unhappy with and you just keep repeating it over and over and over in your mind or you're just kind of muttering it. Yeah, my boss did that stinking stinker and uh you know he's uh oh boy what a knucklehead he is and and just going over and over and over and over in your mind how he did you wrong. Anybody know what Well, grudge has the idea of murmuring just over and over and over something that others are doing wrong. I f I find something that Austin didn't do right. And I just grudge over that. I just, oh Austin did this and he he took me fishing down this thing, just about killed me, climbing down the side of that mountain And uh and uh and just grudge. And uh James is saying, don't do that. Here's the point I put. Number one, be be patient Number two, let me give you my points here. Number two, be persistent was my second one. And number three, be positive. Be positive. Don't be focused on everyone else's faults. To grudge means to murmur over and over and over another person's faults Another person's failures, just dwelling on that, grudging over that over and over and over If you would, real quickly, turn with me to the book of Galatians. Just a few back towards the front of your Bible. Come back to Galatians. If you get to Corinthians, you've gone too far. In chapter 5, he touches on this. Paul is writing to a group of churches in Galatia. It's a region there. And in verse number 13 of Galatians chapter 5, he says this. Give you a moment to find it. Galatians 5. 13. For brethren, talking to saved people, for brethren, ye have been called unto liberty. Only use not your liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. Kind of ties in James' rebuke of the rich there. And then look at verse 14. For all the law was fulfilled in one word, even in this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Now look at verse 15. But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. I think Paul is writing, speaking under the inspiration of God, the same thing that James is addressing. Grudge not one another. Grudge not one another We need to ask the Lord to help us put out of our minds this focus on other people's faults. And other people's failures. The world is eat up with that. Politics is eat up with that And Jesus is telling us, God is telling us through James, don't let that into your thinking. Don't let that characterize you, this grudging. Of what everyone else is doing wrong, of what everyone else is, how they're failing. You be positive. You be positive. Now, by the way, if you come back to James, he takes this very seriously. Back in James, he says, notice what he says there at the end. He says, Grudge not one against another, brethren. Look at this, lest ye be condemned. Behold, the judge standeth before the door. God takes this grudging very, very seriously. I put this down. God holds us accountable for our attitudes towards others. God holds us accountable for attitude towards others Here's the thing. We get all wrapped up in the failures of someone else. We get all we just see everything they do wrong. We see all their sins, and we just grudge on that. And then one day we're going to stand before Jesus Christ and our failures and our weaknesses. And we're going to realize, you know we're going to realize? That every last one of us, we're no better than anyone else For all sin and comes short of the good. I like Paul's attitude. Would you agree with me? Paul was a pretty good Christian. Probably the best. Pretty good Christian. You know what he said? I'm the chief of sinners. You know what he said? He says, I'm the least of all the apostles. Paul said, in me, there's my flesh, there dwells no good thing. What an attitude. What an attitude. Be patient, be persistent, and be positive. Queen Victoria It's Queen in England, and she was loved by the people of England. They loved her. And what Queen Victoria would do, as I was reading about this, what she would do is she would unannounced and just Randomly would show up in a neighborhood throughout England. They'd have them take her out, and she'd just throw up, show up in a neighborhood and just pick a house of just the regular people And they would go approach the house and say, The Queen, Victoria is here to visit you. And it was like, ho, ho ho ho And so they'd invite her in, and she'd just chat and talk and ask them about their needs, and just like a friend visiting a friend. And she would do this over and over all through her kingdom. And it got to the point where people would start anticipating Queen Victoria showing up in their neighborhood. I said, oh, I wonder. In fact, one history article I was reading, they said that they would actually use this phrase, maybe today the queen will come to our neighborhood. And they said the people got the mentality that they would keep their houses neat just in case the queen came by that day. And in back, some of them, they said, would actually have a chair, the best chair they had. They would have a chair set up and a place all set up so whenever the queen might come by, they would have a place to put the queen. Isn't that something? I'm here to tell you the king's coming by. And maybe today the King of Kings and Lord of Lords might show up. And let's make sure our place is ready. Our hearts and lives are ready for the arrival of King Jesus. By being patient, by being persistent, and being positive. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us as we anticipate the return of Christ That we would have these characteristics in our lives, that we would be what you instruct us to be. Humble, patient, unwavering, kind, positive. Their heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need God to help me. Be patient. Any like that? Can any like that? I need God. God bless you. My both my hands are raised. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Just to not lose our composure, maintain our testimony. How many people would say, preacher, I need God to help me establish my heart? It just seems like I tend, I'm prone to wander. I just get things right and in place and then before I know it I kind of drift out. And how many would say, preacher, pray with me? God will help me establish my heart. Just cement that thing where it ought to be. Any like that? Any like that? Sure We need that. How about this matter of being positive? I mean sometimes I think our personalities sometimes are predisposed to maybe be a little critical or whatever, but for whatever reason And maybe we just need the Holy Spirit to fill us and help us see people the way Jesus sees them. And to love people and be positive. And try and help any way we possibly. Is there anything like that? Say, preacher, pray with me. I'd not grudge. I'd not let that be in my life. Sure. Hands all around. And maybe this an old altar is a good place to come say, Lord, teach me this, help me this. God, make these changes. Give me wisdom how to do this. There's someone here to say, preacher, I'm not saved. I don't know for sure I go to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to be left behind when Jesus comes back. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that I can get that settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me I need to get my soul's salvation settled. Any at all. Father, I pray you bless our invitation now as we respond to what you spoke to our hearts about. In Jesus' name. Amen.