Just pay attention, we'll read a couple of verses for you. Romans 1:16. For I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed, from faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness. Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has showed it unto them. For the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen being understood by the things that are made. Even as eternal power and Godhead, so they are without excuse. I posed a question this morning that'll be the content of the sermon. Are the heathen lost? What about people of some foreign land, some island? some Godforsaken country. And you think, do these people have a chance? Are they actually going to die and go to hell? I just spoke to someone a couple of weeks ago. They're in Newfoundland. Newfoundland, I didn't realize this. There's 500 million people or 500 million. 500,000 people in Newfoundland. Half a million people And there's four or five more or less mission work, five hundred million people. Several years ago it was a father-son thing and a few guys went with me. We decided we're going to take this special trip, you know father-son type thing. So I took my boy, two boys, and uh we went to Montreal. We drove a thousand miles north of Montreal, Canada Then we got on a gravel road for 600 miles and drove to Kenopisco Lake. Then we got on a float plane and flew in an hour. We were in wilderness We're going caribou hunting. And while we're on a 600-mile gravel road, 2,000 miles away from our home, There are little side streets ever so often, Indian villages. These people live there. There's no church. There's no essence. What about those people? Would that be fair if they died and went to hell and they never heard the gospel? You see, that's the very incentive for missions. That there are places like that that we want to get the gospel to them. Now maybe they would get saved and maybe they wouldn't. I mean the truth is there are people that that go to church, even a fundamental church, and never get saved. They hear the gospel over and over again. Sometimes I worry about some people. Do they get it? Are they really saved? They don't show spirituality at all. But there are places like that that are forsaken places. I was in Alaska, friend of mine. We were in Fairbanks and I was preaching and Teaching about spiritual warfare, and we got on a plane that uh this guy they did this periodically. They flew out two-hour flight on maybe a six or eight passenger plane And we we come in and I'm sitting in the co-pilot seat and I'm seeing this. It was a delta and it was summertime. It was May. It felt like winter, but it was May. And the snow had melted And it was just a bog. There's no road in or out. The only way to get there is you had to fly in. There was a missionary. There's probably 2,000 people in this village And there was a missionary, their daughter, who grew up there. He spent his whole life in that Alaskan village. Why would he do that? Because people who are lost need to hear a clear gospel presentation. They need to hear the gospel. That there are people around here. They they've kind of got stuck in their own life doing their own thing. They're not saved. But there are forsaken places where very little gospel is. We and New England is the least evangelical part of our country That was one of the reasons that I went there. That's what drew me there. People say, why would you go to Connecticut? You know, that's not a place for Baptists. That's why we went. Because it's not, because of the need. If you ever look at a political map. It's all blue. We don't have one senator that's red, that's Republican. It's all liberal. And even when there is a Republican, they're liberal. I mean that's what why'd you go there? We went there because people need the gospel. They never heard the gospel, never understood the gospel. Now maybe they heard some other means, there's a radio. I mean there are things we have to realize things that God can use to reach people. That we it may be beyond even our comprehension. But the truth is they need the gospel. That's how you get saved. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. That's it. There's no other way but through him. There's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. Now you can't, as the pastor said, we can't reach the whole world. But we can reach those around us, and we can't support missionaries to go to many of these places There are some places you can't hardly get in. But someone can go. There is something called the doctrine of revelation. God has revealed Himself. And in this passage of Romans, we see this revealing of God, even nature and creation. It's absolutely amazing. In fact I wrote a a book on apologetics that's in the back and it's I call it Apologetics for idiots. It's the simplest form. I mean you get strong theology and it's a book this thick. I don't know if you have one. I mean it it in a tiny, tiny print. I probably couldn't even read it today. But I just simplified it. The truth is there's evidence all around us that there's a God. Just the fact that there are churches. Just the fact that people think about God. Why would we even think about God You look at the stars, you say, is that an accident? You look at the moon, the sun, you say, is that an accident? All this world around us, it's all just by chance? None of that makes sense. It's it came from somewhere. And I'll say it, people are incurably religious. They may not know the truth, but they have some God, some desire. They're looking, they're searching for something. And let me just throw this in that since the death of Charlie Kirk, there are a lot of young people that are very, very interested. And we have a a a small window, an opportunity to reach out to them. And we ought to take advantage of this right now. There are young people looking in surgery, and they don't even know what, but they're looking for something. That's an opportunity. And periodically, you know, COVID created a new uh initiative Because of COVID, because of the violence in the street, because of the DEI, the riots, all this stuff people are saying What's going on? Why is this happening? Am I missing something? And I'm finding as I travel around that every church has got people just show up. They're looking There's something missing. You see, God created man in his own image. So we there are two aspects that we are we have a certain ability mentally to solve problems, to think. So intellectually, God gave us something after his image. It's not in physical resemblance, but intellectually, but also morally There's something about without a person ever going to church or reading a Bible, there's a certain element they know some things are right and some things are wrong. They may not know all the things that are right and wrong. And they may not do the things that are right. But man has inherent this moral nature. Unfortunately, in the Garden of Eden, it became impaired. And man is damaged. So now he's in a fallen state. So why do people become evil? Why do they do wicked things? Because that depraves state. That's why they need the gospel That'll change them. That's how we are created to be moral, but only found now through Christ. So the only way you can truly know that Morality or what's right and wrong is through salvation in Jesus Christ. So God gave revelation, so there is light. For all men. All men have some light, at least nature and creation. Everybody has that. And they have this moral capacity that they were created with, maybe depraved to some degree But they have that element within them. So there is a revelation revealed to man. Now you think the alternatives. What about atheism Well, if atheism is correct, why would you say there is no God? By stating there is no God, you say there is. You're denying something you say doesn't exist. And what solution does that give you in life? I find people are not really atheist. They're avoiding hearing the gospel. They're persistent in their sin. Agnosticism, not much different. Somebody said, I'm an agnostic, and a preacher said, oh no, no, you don't want to do that. Why is that? So you know what agnosticism is? No, well I thought I did. What what is agnosticism? It's professing ignorance. You you don't want to do that. I mean that really is true though. Professing to know they don't know anything. And then materialism, as opposed to spirituality, and the personality of God or triumph of God, as opposed to all these gods that are not gods, and the Trinity of God All those things are revealed to us. He revealed himself through creation, through the revelation of his word, through his son, who came to this earth, through the illumination of the conscience and mind, and through the witness of other people. It's amazing when I I had a barber, he was uh French Catholic, most of the people were Catholic where I've uh where we started, and I thought this man, you know, he's so he he was that grand knight at the Knights of Columbus, uh, which is the protective order of the Roman Catholic Church. And as Catholic as you can be, came from Canada You know what I found out? This took several years. I know he had a son-in-law or a nephew who actually was saved and going to Bible college. I did not know that. And I believe he got saved. I believe he got saved from Billy Graham. I'm not a big proponent of Billy Graham, but anybody that gets saved from hearing the gospel, I'm for it. And and I believe that the the man is saved. And developed a relationship for many, many years. There is the doctrine of revelation that everyone receives some light, and if you accept the light that you're given, you'll receive more light. The Ethiopian eunuch had received a certain amount of light, and he said, I'm going to go to Jerusalem. I'm going to find out more about this. And ultimately God led an evangelist to him And he got saved. Now that's a hard thing for us to comprehend because it covers the whole world. But there is the evidence that is given when a person says, I accept that. Now who is that God? Where is that God? God will reveal Himself. And I've heard stories of missionaries that they said, we're compell I'm just compelled to go to this town, to this village, and we're gonna see if we can preach the gospel. They come in and they they say, we've been seeking who the real God really is. And they come in and they evangelize the whole community. When people receive what light they're given, they get more light. And let me tell you the opposite is true. A person hears the gospel, someone witnesses them, they reject it, they say, I don't want it, I I don't talk about God or religion. Then you don't get more light. You put up a wall of resistance. So there is a doctrine of revelation. Then there's a doctrine of refusal. Light refused increases darkness. Look at verse 21. Romans 1, 21. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations. And their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. Satan's job is to deceive. That well it's not a job, but that's who he is. That's in essence his character. He he wants to destroy, rob, kill, and destroy. There is a real Satan. I mean, if you believe your Bible, you have to believe that that's true. And sometimes we don't realize the power of Satan to blind people's minds. When I was very young, I attended, my parents attended a little country church. It happened to be a Baptist church. When I was nine years old, I got baptized. I remember coming forward, I talked to my parents about it, I came forward, and the preacher said, a young man came forward this morning and got saved. No one talked to me. I didn't know anything about the Bible. They baptized me. Soon the church closed its doors, which I was happy. I didn't really want to go to church. And then my teen years were wasted. Just living like everybody else, doing my own thing. And then my mother got concerned and she started praying for me. I would come in on Friday night. Friday night was football night and they had to dance afterward and I would come in late at night Now, my mother be sitting in a rocking chair with her Bible open. Now we're not going to church. We're not attending church. But she, I drove her back to God. And I would have to walk by her to get to my bedroom. She would be praying and weeping for me. Now I love my parents, but not as much as I loved what I was doing. And I continued, persisted. As I said I went to Purdue University to play basketball, and you there's something you may not know about the uh Purdue basketball. They're a poor judge of talent. I got cut from the team. And because of that, my mother had started going to church just prior to that, maybe a year or six months before that, started going to church. I came back on Christmas break. And I gone two or three times and I uh there there were a couple of guys I knew that said, hey, why don't we play basketball? I said, Oh yeah, I'll come over to the church, we'll play basketball. And I got to the church that morning and the building was locked. And I went to the parsonage right next to the property and Twilight was the pastor's wife's name. She met me at the door. Said, you have the key to get into the building, we're going to play basketball. Oh yeah, I'll go get it. She went to go get the key, came back, and she reached out to give it to me, and then she remembered something. I promised Jim's mom, I would talk to him about going to Christian college. Now she knew it wouldn't do any good Her her hope was it would satisfy my mother. Look, I tried to talk to him, but he wasn't interested. I'm sorry. I know that's what she was thinking But she pulled that key back and she taught the conversation was very simple and short. Have you ever thought about going to Christian college? Do they have a basketball team? Oh yeah, the basketball team my nephew plays on the team. Alright, I'll go. That was a conversation. Now remind you I had a mother praying, fasting. No, this was not a planned fast. She just couldn't eat. She was overwhelmed with grief. A few years ago, my parents are in heaven now, but a few years ago my parents became very faithful. I mean a cornerstone of the church. But they had a couple's retreat in the church. It was a good thing to do. And then people were giving a testimony. My father stood up and he said, I'm thankful for 63 wonderful years of marriage. And my mother elbowed, said, Bob, it's been 65. And he said, I'm thankful for 65 wonderful years of marriage. There were two years that weren't wonderful. That was because of me. There's a lot of stress in our home But you know, God answered some prayers of a mother that was overwhelmed with a burden for her son, and I have a sister of her daughter. So God answer that prayer, but whenever you reject what God does in your life, I mean I was blinded by Satan. I was four months in Bible college. I was sitting in a class. I wasn't even accepted as a student yet. I drove my Dodge Super B down to Bible college. You know, the red, beautiful, black decals and 383 power pack mag I mean it was this thing that that was cool. That's what I drove by with it. I had Elvis Presley sideburns. And I keep hearing this stuff, you know, you've got to cut your sideburns. They're too long. Why is that you can't just go off campus, you gotta get permission. Why is that? I mean all the I didn't know anything. I hadn't d orientation, nothing. And I'm sitting in class and a teacher Is teaching when you go to Bible college, the first semester is Old Testament survey, the second semester New Testament survey. They go in order. So I'm just saying a New Testament survey. And he talks about the substitutionary death of Christ. He turns a chalkboard and he puts a cross on it. And he takes some paper, he rips it to pieces, and he hammers out his fist into the cross. He said, that's what Jesus did for your sin That's the first time I understood the gospel. First time anybody explained that to me. Two weeks later we're having a Bible conference, and that Bible conference Basically the protocol is you you start at 9 o'clock, you have a speaker, you have some music, announcements, another speaker, same thing, third speaker, you go to lunch. And they do that all week. This either the first or second day of the Bible conference, and a man named Dolphus Price, did you ever you know who I'm talking about. Man named Dolphus Price, an evangelist, was speaking at the Bible conference, and he was the first speaker, 9 o'clock in the morning. And he got in the pulpit and he said, God has burdened my heart. There's someone here not saved. Now there's 3,000 people in the auditorium. There's no doubt there would be someone not saved, even among college students. But he had a special burden that morning. There was something God put on his heart. And he preached from Matthew 7, by their fruits you'll know them. I don't remember anything else that he said. But I know the Holy Spirit was tugging my heart and said, you know, are you really saved? And they gave an invitation, which they ordinarily would not do. I don't know if they ever did before or after. They gave an invitation that morning, and I was up in the balcony and I came out the stairway down to the front. Dr. Price met me. He came down with a big platform up high. He came down and he met me at the front. Said, son, why'd you come? And I said, well, I'm just not sure that I'm saved. Now before I could say the next thing I was going to say, I was going to say, I think I am. Before I could say that So let's sit down here. And he turned to one verse in the Bible, John 1. 12. But as many as received him, them gave you power to become the sons of God. When he read that verse, and I'd read it before, but when he read that verse, it's like blinders coming off my eyes. He said, I don't have them. He's on my heart and life. I'm not saved. He never turned another verse. He didn't go in a counseling room. He just said, well, let's pray, ask the Lord to save you. They fill out a card. They started to take it up the platform. There were a number of other students that came also. In fact, that week there were over 200 saved in a Bible college. It was an amazing meeting. They s filled out the card and I said, wait a minute, come back there, put down their call to preach. Now one year before that, there would be no hope, no desire, no opportun. I mean it would be impossible to think I would ever end up in the ministry. But I accepted what light I was given. And I said, I'm gonna preach we we've not turned back, we've not changed that that's what we started to do. Two years later I was married, my wife and I, we we left everything and drove to New England, not even knowing where we're going. Just said, God, where do you want us to go? And we just celebrated fifty years. Been there fifty years I just want to say that when you refuse the lights God's given, whenever God speaks to you about something and you reject that, then you're rejecting the rest of God's direction for your life. You have to accept what He gives you. This is why we have missions. We go somewhere because give them the opportunity at least to reject. Hopefully they'll accept. The light accepted increases light. The Bible says in uh the passage, from faith to faith, so one level of faith to another level of faith. Look at Coronius, he was seeking God, and they got the message, and then God began using him. That he accepted the light that he was given. I like this verse. John 7. 17 says, If any man will do his will, he shall know the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself. If any man will do his will. Here's where the problem comes in. There are people who don't want to do his will. They they want to do what they want to do. But if we're willing to do whatever he wants, it's amazing how God directs us, how God guides us. Whenever that was a few years ago, I just felt Fifty years, I guess that's long enough to be a pastor, both, fifty years. I was in good health. I felt like I could pass her to 75, 80, 85 I'm good health, could do that. But I said, no, I think that's what God wants to do. And we started planning, preparing, and we made the transition in May. I never thought about the next step. I just said that's what God wants me to do. And about six months after that, and I told some of the leaders of the church that's what I felt we should do. The thought occurred to me, what are you going to do? You step down, but then that never occurred to me. What am I going to do? What's next? And God put on my heart, I'm going to go to churches and help young churches, young pastors. And that's what I've done. I've done eighteen church reviews. I'll go into church and I'll spend Saturday, Sunday, Monday, or sometimes Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday. And I evaluate everything. I have a question here, 400 questions. No one wants to see 400 questions. I don't care who you are One pastor, it took him eight hours to fill it out. He said, Preacher, if you don't ask me another question, I'll do anything you want. Just don't ask me any more questions. And I evaluate everything from the carpet to the outreach to the budget to pastoral retirement. I mean, everything in that church we go over, I spend 12 to 14 hours with a pastor over that weekend Now that's God's leading. That's what He wants. That's what I'll do. I've gone to two churches. I said, I don't even want a penny. Don't even give me an offering. I'll pay my own way. I want to help you. That's what God put in my heart. See, if you're willing to accept the will of God, He'll lead you further. He'll show you what to do. It's called the doctrine of acceptance. Accept what He's given, He'll show you more. Here's the next step. But then finally, sadly, there's a doctrine of judgment in Scripture. God judges by the amount of light received. People that have heard over and over and over again the gospel message and reject it or do not accept it will be held higher more highly accountable. than those that are on some Godforsaken place, some island, some cold place on the coast of Alaska He's going to hold people more accountable. Luke 12, 48 says, But he that knew not and did commit things worthy of stripes shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required. Do men have committed much, of him they will ask the more. God's no respect for persons. Remember what he said about Capernaum? Here's his home base. There are people where Jesus started his ministry That never accepted them. So you're going to be held more accountable. You're going to be held accountable. And anybody that can't comes to a church like this without really receiving the gospel and accepting it You're going to be held more accountable. I don't know what that means, but it means something. Someday you can stand before God and you'll be without excuse, like, what did you do? I don't know. They didn't do anything. You see, there is such a thing As God being able to give his word to people in the corners of the earth, that he uses people to do it. That's why preachers are so important. That's why the missionary is so important. He uses people to get the gospel out. I felt this way where we are, I think, uh being a bit unique, but if you could get someone, especially people with a Catholic background, that if you could get them to sit and listen, almost always they'll get saved It's just getting to that point where they'll be open and listen. And isn't that the struggle that we have? Just getting people to that point that they will listen and hear. But he just can't get to everybody. Everyone needs to do their part. Everyone, uh great, send money, give money, support the missionaries. But we all have an obligation to reach our family, our neighbors, those that walk in the door. The best prospects you had, somebody walked in the door for some reason. They're looking for something. Do we really take advantage of that? Do we befriend them? You know, we had our own little circle. You know what you have is unique and it's special. Same in our church. It's very unique and very special. Everybody doesn't have that. That's a shame, isn't it? There have to be communities all around here that they don't have what you have. There should be that burden. We've started 17 churches out of our church. We need to start more churches. Unfortunately, and I'll say more about this tonight. We're having trouble filling the pulpit of those men retiring, stepping down. There aren't enough helpers. There aren't enough surrendering to ministry. There aren't enough young people. You can live your life, you can make some money, you can get four wheel drive pickup, gun rack in the back. Do you have hunting dogs at home? Do you have a boat? Do you have golf clubs? Do you have a nice living room? Is that what life's all about? Is that utopia? Is that everything? Oh, when we surrender our life to God, He will guide and direct us and use us to help carry out that gospel. And that's why we give money to missionaries to get them places we can't go. Both are important. You say, well I didn't have a chance to hear the gospel. I didn't well, you had some light. Everybody has some light. If you accept that light, God will bring somebody, and it may be that missionary you support going to Taiwan, that someone there has said there's got to be more, and that missionary meets them Gives them the gospel, and they get saved. This is what the ro the the Great Commission is all about. And we're all part of it. Can you imagine that? Here we are, just ordinary average people, undeserving. Yet God saved us and He gave us a church and a church family and a preacher to help us and strengthen us and the opportunity to help others. But if we don't do it, who will? We've got to go to the heathen because they are lost. Let's bow for prayer. I'm going to ask the preacher to come just a moment. Heavenly Father, I pray this morning that there is someone here that does not know you as their Savior. Maybe they've been blinded by Satan. We pray those blindness will come off and they'll see the truth that salvation is only through the shed blood of Jesus Christ. It's his substitutionary death and putting faith in what he did at Calvary. I pray they would respond this morning. Allow someone to take the Bible. Show them how to be saved. And perhaps, Christian friend, that God has a plan for your life and you've not been following it Maybe there's a young person. You need to surrender your life to say, I'll do whatever God wants me to do. I'll yield my life to Him. May God help us just to do what He wants us to do. May we respond as He leads us. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.