Don't take for granted the opportunity to get to preach God's word in any man's pulpit. Uh I understand what it is to be a pastor. I understand what it is to To make the sacrifices of a pastor, I have a pastor's heart. It's the one thing I miss about evangelism is getting to deal with the people one-on-one on a consistent basis The Lord's allowed us to do something else. He's allowed us to be able to deal with a lot of the lost folks. I love church. I mean I'll be honest about that. I I got saved when I was 13. My family was we just a good heathen group of coal miners. My dad was a coal miner And uh we didn't go to church. Uh only thing I knew about God was the way Dad used him in his language. And that's that was my concept of God. And so uh when we got saved in Cleveland, Ohio I started going to church. God gave me a love for the house of God. And I don't know how you are, but I can't wait to get to church. I had a little Volkswagen bug and that thing had autopilot to get to church You know, once I got saved as a teenager, I wanted to be a church. And uh when I went to Bible college, I wanted to be a church. And today I love going to church. And I had no idea when we went in evangelism I thought we'd basically be ministering to the local church and God's allowed us to spend a lot of time out with the world. We do a we we do a lot of ministering to the world. Uh we're out with lost people. About 60% of our time we're dealing with lost crowds. So it's kind of refreshing for me to come into the house of God where I'm not the minority. Amen. You say you're the majority with God, but I'll be honest with you, you get out there with two, three thousand lost people and you find out real quick that people don't think the way you think We think the same. Amen? Me and your preacher have a kindred spirit because we have the Spirit of God and we believe the same thing. We have the same direction. Our goals are the same. The world doesn't think like I think And so uh my language, the way I talk, the way I handle myself in the world, uh I've I've I've enjoyed the experience. Uh I've enjoyed the fact that many times I go in And I'll be I'm uh I'm nervous. I'm a little intimidated by the circumstances. Maybe in a college or university, they've asked us to come in and bring the birds or we get opportunities to uh I've got a couple of fairs that we do. One of them is right outside of DC And let me tell you something folks, they may be a lot of people with their PhDs and engineers, they may be designing roads, but they don't have the sense to cross them. I mean uh uh and it seems like that's the ones that God gives all the money to. They walk up and I'd look at my son and say, How in the world these people make a living? Because they just don't have any sense at all. I mean we deal with every kind. Uh this last summer and and uh I'm not ashamed to to deal with it, but this last summer at the Montgomery County Fair I dealt with sodomites for three days solid. And they'd come up and and and I'll be we'd start talking about birds and uh w I talk about birds about five minutes and we're gonna be talking about the Lord. And we get to talking about the Lord and I'm not too afraid of them guys, but some of them gals scare me I had a little gal buddy and I thought she's gonna whip me. Uh I looked at my son, I I was wanting help, buddy. She was backing me up and uh she was ready to fight. Bottom line was, I just asked her a simple question. I said, are you happy in your relationship? And she got mad And I said, well the truth of the matter is the reason you're acting the way you're acting is gives you no peace in your life. That's why you can move from one relationship to another. What you're doing is unnatural. It's not of the Lord. And God gave me an opportunity to be a witness to her. She did calm down after a little bit. Her partner ran. And uh so listen, pray for us. I we we covered your prayers. I may talk to four or five hundred lost people in a day But God will have four or five six people throughout that day that I've asked God for that day that'll come up and start a conversation with me. And I found out if I'll shut up, and preachers have a hard time shutting up, but if I'll shut up, they'll start sharing their problems with me. And when they begin to share their problems, it's not long, they get personal. And then I can give them the truth. God will always open that door. And you don't always get to lead them to the Lord, but you do get to see a lot of people saved. God allows us to personal evangelism and get a leap to lead a lot of people to the Lord. A lot of people come to see us every year now in other local churches. I'd ask you to pray for us, especially in the field of hunting. God's open doors to the Eastern Sportsman Show and the Western Virginia Sportsman Show And now the outdoor channel, uh Harold Harold Knight of Knight in Hell has asked us to come down and do a TV show with him with our birds. And I said, I'm willing to do that on one one One one thing that we've got to get square, I says, I I want to do something for the Lord in the show if we can. He said, Well, we always try to give a testimony at the end. I said, I don't want just testimony. I want to give the gospel. And I don't want to just give the gospel, I want to give doctrine Well you guys talk about getting saved all the time, but what about after salvation? If you're a new creature in Christ Jesus, what about the local church? What about getting involved? So pray with us. He said, listen, he said, I'll back it up, give you a couple extra minutes to be able to do that And he did it with tears, so pray that God will open this door. He says he has about forty million people watch the show, so that's a lot of people to be able to give the gospel and give some truth to. Pray that God opened that door for us if that's what the Lord wants. We've I tried, listen, now my biggest fear It's doing something I like to do instead of doing the best thing that God wants. I love working with the birds and I love to hunt, and so it's very, very easy to get drawn into that hunting thing. They're drawing into that crowd. Those some of them guys have 300 days out of the year. And they make their living doing that. And that's not what I'm about. I'm about the gospel. And that's my ministry is to preach the word. So take your Bible this morning, turn to Nehemiah chapter 13 Kind of wrestled with this thing a little bit. This is a new message and I had something else I wanted to preach. It's more of a Sunday morning message. And we enjoyed so much being with you last night. I've been looking forward to this. You hear a lot about your smortsman's banquet. Now I know why You guys put a lot of work into it. You as a church, you work hard, and you cram them in there now. I'm telling you something. I was sitting from a fellow next to Fairmont last night and uh I I don't know if I was eating out of my plate or his plate, 'cause we were that close together. I mean we didn't know each other to begin with, but we knew each other real well by the time we got done eating. And uh we were packed in there and uh I just kept kinda chuckling to myself. Uh first four tables I was watching, they were just all beat red, and it wasn't because of the preaching, it just got warm And uh I you know, it's gotta be a good thing for people to be willing to come and sit and eat and sit close together and it was really I really appreciate the opportunity. We do a lot of those so we get a lot of experiences. I could go on for hours about some of the things I've seen and some of the things I've eaten. Amen. Yeah. And some beaver. I'll be honest with you, it was bad. It was like eating a stringy, watery tire, you know? So I went to another church and this lady she was so kind walked up and she said, You've got to try my husband's beaver and all I could think of was that beaver I tried three churches before and it was really, really good. So it's really all in how it's fixed. I think it Anything that crawls, as long as it can't crawl out of my mouth, is edible if it's fixed right. I mean, put the right kind of hot sauce on it, we can deal with it. Amen. I don't know how I got off on that. I was talking about how that God had led me to this message. Nehemiah chapter 13. Let's drop down to verse uh Verse 19, and it came to pass that when the gates of Jerusalem began to be dark before the Sabbath, I commanded that the gates should be shut, and charged that they should not be opened till after the Sabbath And some of my servants set I at the gate, that there should no burden be brought on in on the Sabbath day. So the merchants and the sellers of all kind were lodged without Jerusalem once or twice Then I testified against them and said unto them, Why lodge ye about the wall? If ye do so again, I will lay hands on you. That's a good Baptist preacher right there. I will lay hands on you. From that time forth came they no more on the Sabbath, and I commanded the Levites that they should cleanse themselves and that they come and keep the gates to sanctify the Sabbath day. Remember me. O my God, concerning this also, and spare me according to the greatness of thy mercy. Father, bless now our time together this morning. Lord, may it be profitable to each soul present. For the lost man, Father, that there might be regeneration, that he might be born again. For the bachelor man, Lord, that he might Father, rededicate himself to repentance, to a renewed relationship. Father, to that one growing who may be ignorant of things in the Word of God, may they be illuminated today. In this time that we have, Father, and that illumination bring them to a new step in growth in their Christian walk. To the faithful in the Lord, Father. May they be convicted, Father, to the point and place that again they will step forward to fill in the gap, to be the soul winner and the instrument that you desire for them to be. Lord, ask you to be at this preacher. Well, God, do a work in my heart this morning. You know I've been burdened with this subject. Father, it's one of those things that's kind of laid on me. And Father, I'd ask now that you'd work in my own heart this day. And we'll give you the praise and honor in Jesus' name. Amen. I was recently reading a book and had my devotions. I had my devotions that morning, and uh I had been given a book, actually, it was a secular book, but it was on research strategies. And uh my preacher gave me one word of advice, one sentence of advice when I left for Bible college. He said, Howard, he said, you're gonna be dealing with people the rest of your life. He said, learn a little bit about everything. He said, because people do all kinds of different jobs. He said, so if you have a knowledge of what people do, he said it'll be instrumental in helping you and be able to deal with them. And so I've been an avid reader, most preachers are And I picked up this book on research strategies, and it was dealing with how to research properly. And all preachers have their methods and the way they research the Word of God, they study the Word of God, and And I'm always looking for methods, especially in our society today, when we're so flooded and bombarded with material of how to research properly. So this book was an interesting book to me And I'd read a s a portion of one chapter and it had to deal with the World Wide Web. Now listen, I'll be honest about a preacher and myself when we were kids, you know That was not a tool that I had when I went to Bible college, a preacher built his library. That's how he worked at building his library. He built a a uh a battery of periodicals and things that he could read that would encourage him, keep him up to date with current events. But today our our young people, our children, they they're flooded with information Absolutely flooded. We have more information traveling down the pike today than we've ever had before. And because of that, this book dealt with the subject of how do we keep the gate in the World Wide Web. What am I saying? How do we maintain the flow of information to where the information is sound or truthful information? It's called gatekeeping It's like a firewall, if you understand the concept. I know the older folks may not with computers, but you set up firewalls and it it controls the type of information that comes into your computer. And one of the things I like about a firewall is that the firewall shuts the door completely. Now here in Nehemiah, that's what's taking place. Here in Nehemiah, Nehemiah has come back and he's found that everything's in array. The people, the children of Israel, are in rebellion again. We're having a problem in Jerusalem. They have overtaken the temple. They've allowed, listen, they've allowed unclean things to move into the temple. The men of God are not being taken care of. The men of God have had to go out and start working in the fields again. Listen, the people are discouraged They're not able to perform the duties of worship the way they'd like to be able to do. And nobody's standing up against wrong, kind of sounds like today. That's where they're at. The first thing that Nehemiah does, he takes some of his personal servants, he goes down there and he says, I want you to shut the gates of Jerusalem. Not crack them, not partially open them, I want you to shut them completely. And then just two verses later, he tells the Levites, I want you to come out of the field, I want you to cleanse yourselves, I want you to get right with God. And I want you to go up there and I want you to listen shut the gates of the temple until we get this thing squared away. Now, folks, we have gatekeepers in all parts of society. And the problem with it is, is like the media, they're prejudiced and they're biased. I was just uh just reading about uh out in Nevada, they had one of the Tea Party movement, and they had a big rally. And CNN said there was dozens of people present. Well, does the dozens mean 24? Does that mean 36? Does that mean a hundred? We've come to find out there was over 10,000 people there That's a biased approach, is it not? And we we see that all the time. Uh recent recently read an article that dealt with uh Texas and uh and the uh Board of Education down there and the publishers publishing the social study books that our children use. And they're the the the publishers, listen, a publisher, his job is to control what is put into the public's hands. So if if a publisher is biased, if he's anti-Christian Then you're not going to see Ronald Reagan. You're not going to see the Founding Fathers presented him as Christian in the social studies books. And these books were actually pro-Muslim and anti-Christian So we have gatekeeping in publishing in ma in the media in and the and in the internet. It's it's horrible. You've got to be very careful Googling something and believing what you read. Because in the in the internet there is no gatekeeping taking place. There's nobody controlling the flow of information. We see nothing but prejudiced and biased. In fact, I I actually typed it out. It said the theory of network gatekeeping explores information control on the World Wide Web Positioning the gatekeeping is a network context involves not only selection of information, but also channeling, manipulation, localization, integration Disregard deletion of all information. So that's what they do. That's what the media does. That's what our publishers do. I expect that of the world, don't you? I expect them to cut out Christianity Truth of the matter is, we have a gatekeeper right here in this church. It's his job. This pastor's job is to stand at the gate. His job is to stand at the gate and control the flow of information that's give out from this pulpit and from the Sunday school teachers downstairs. But see, now he has an absolute. It's right here next to him. It's called the Word of God. The world doesn't use that. The world uses what their bias is or their prejudice. They prejudge what they believe or they think. And I got to studying this gatekeeping and I thought, you know, Nehemiah had the right idea. He shut the doors completely. I like the greenhouse effect. When I was raising my kids, my Jason laughs about it all the time. He said, you know, I wasn't guarded. I was locked in. Dad's favorite answer to me was no. But we're in the min he's in the ministry, isn't he? He likes being with his dad still today. Hey listen, that's what that's what works. But the only way it works is not based upon my bias. See, this church is different than the church down the road. It's even different than the Independent Baptist Church down the road. You know why? Because this gatekeeper is different. Every house is different. I mean you may come into you as as a dad, as a husband, you control I went into homelessness. I'm a preacher, I've been in churches. I mean I've been surprised what some preachers had come off with, you know I had one preacher, he told me, I mean this was a conviction of the pastor. He said, I've never seen my wife without makeup. I said, Never? He said, no. He says, I I I require her to always have her makeup before I get up I said, you've got to be kidding. That's what I said to him. I said, you've got to be kidding. He said, no. He said, I think she ought to be at her best. I said, well how about you? Do you think you ought to be at your best too? But you know that he had listen, that was a conviction of his based upon a biased or prejudiced. And you know what I tend to be biased. I tend to be biased. There was things in my homes that, you know, that you were like, well, maybe I wouldn't do that. Maybe I've got a conviction about that. You know the problem with the world, the problem with us sometimes, is it's got to be based on truth. We can get ideas that are funny sometimes. Churches do it, families do it. We all can do that, can't we? Well, I'm not talking about the world today, but I am talking about gatekeeping My question to you is, are you keeping your gate? What do you mean? Well, not as a dad, not as a husband, not as part of the media, not as part of the world. I'm talking about this temple. Are you keeping the gate in this temple right here? Because it wasn't happening in Jerusalem, but it sure wasn't happening in the temple. And I got to thinking about it. I've got mine with me today. What's every gatekeeper need? We are seeing truth ministries. And I came up with this object lesson the other day. I was going to use it in PowerPoint, but I went ahead and did it up real small because I want to be able to walk around with it. I got me a set of keys because a gatekeeper is supposed to have what? Keys. And I come to realize some things about my keys, and I'm going to talk about them in just a minute. That every gatekeeper, if he's going to be it going to be an effective gatekeeper, he's got to have his keys. There's some keys that we've got to have to be effective for the Lord. I want you to take your Bible with me, and we're going to come back to Nehemiah, but we're going to jump over to 2 Peter. The second Peter Peter. And the gatekeeper's job is one of vigilance We're in a declining and deteriorating moral and spiritual world, and if we're going to be effective for Jesus Christ, then we're going to have to understand there's some conditions to being effective. gatekeeper. There's uh some prerequisites to be what we ought to be for the Lord Jesus Christ. In Second Peter chapter one The Bible says Simon Peter a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ to them that obtain light precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ. Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God and of Jesus Christ according as his divine power. Now listen to this, verse three, according as his divine power hath given unto us All things that pertain unto life and godliness through the knowledge of Him that hath called us to glory and virtue. I'm going to read it one more time, verse 3, according as his divine nature, divine power hath given unto us, what's his next two words? All things. All things that pertain unto life and godliness through the knowledge of Him that hath called us to glory and virtue Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through what through lust. God's telling me I've got a recipe for you to escape the lust of the world. I've got a recipe for you to be able to listen, combat the world. I've got a recipe for you to know when, listen to me now, when to shut the gate or open the gate in your life. I'm asking you the question this morning, are you an effective gatekeeper in your own personal life? Now the truth of the matter is I know that most of us aren't. Just like we don't we're not experts on God like Jason was talking about in Sunday school. We're listening we don't have the relationship we ought to have with God in our lives. I also know that we're not the right kind of gatekeepers. I know it's not so in the world. I know it's not so in the media. I know it's not so in our publishing companies. I know it's not so even in many of our churches today. And the shame of it is we're not so as dads, we're not so as moms, and we're sure not so as Christians. That's why we're not in all the other fields, is because as Christians we're not keeping the gate right. In fact, I can go out there to that book table And the majority of those books on that table is dealing with one subject, how to how to be the right kind of gatekeeper in my own life. That's what they're dealing with. I saw something on pornography out there. I saw something on a prayer life out there. Positive and a negative. When do you open the door? When do you not open the door? When do you open the gate? When do you not open the gate? See where I'm coming from? Okay, that's what we're talking about right here Now let's look there at verse uh verse five, and it says, and besides uh besides this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue And to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge temperance, and to temperance patience, and to patience godliness, and to godliness brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness charity. But if these things now this third time, these things be in you and abound that they may That they make you, ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now I want you to drop down. I want you to drop down to verse 12. It says, wherefore? I will be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though ye know them, and be established in the present truth. Yea, I think it meet as long as I am in this tabernacle to stir you up by putting you in remembrance, knowing that shortly I must put off this tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ hath showed me. I want you to show how important these things are. I want to show you how important the keys are. The Apostle Peter here He's writing, he says, here's the way it stands up, guys. He says, I'm going to preach these things to you, even though you already know them. Now every preacher combats at some time in his life, you know, I seem to be hammering this all the time. The Spirit of God's always got me hammering this subject. The truth of the matter is, your people already know it, but they may not be doing it. Peter saying here said, Listen I'm so stirred up about this thing, these things, that I'm going to preach on it even when you already know it. That's what he says there in verse 12. Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though ye know them and be established in the present truth. Then in verse 13 says, Yea, I think it means as long as I I am in this tabernacle to stir you up by putting you in remembrance. So not only am I going to preach it to you, even though you know it, I'm going to stir you up about it. You know, I think there's a triple uh process here. I think first of all I give you the knowledge. Then as a job, my job is to stir you up with it. And then my job is not only to give it to you and to stir you up with it, but my job, listen to me, my job is to get you to move. But stirring you up's one thing. You may go out of here stirred up today. But I want you to change. I want you to move. And the Peter's saying, he's saying, listen, this is so important. These things are so important. That I'm going to tell them to you even when you I know you already know. And then I'm not only going to tell them to you, I'm going to strew you up with them. And then look what he says there in fourteen. He says, Knowing that shortly I must put off this tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ has shown me, not only am I going to tell him to you when you already know him And I'm going to screw you up with them, but after I die, I want you to still remember them. Now, preacher, I think that's pretty important. He's putting a lot of emphasis on these things. Well, what's these things? Back there in verse 1 says, Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to them that have obtained like precious what? Like precious faith. I've got my keys here today. Can most of you see my keys? I got my keys here today. If you'll notice right here on the head of the key, the word is faith. I can't have any attributes of a gatekeeper without faith. So on every one of my keys, see, I have the word faith. And what's the faith? What's the faith that I share with Apostle Peter? I share it with Brother Leatherman here. It's the faith that there was a time and place in my life that I asked Jesus Christ by faith. To save me. It's the faith that Jesus Christ provided to me that I might be saved. God gave me the ability to trust Him for salvation. Understand with me today that if you're here and you're not saved, you can't listen. You can never be a gatekeeper in your life. You'll never control the flow of information into your life. You'll always be controlled by the world and the flesh and the devil in your life if you don't have faith. What is the faith? The faith to save. It's the faith to trust that Jesus Christ came, died, and rose again for me. He has the power to overcome sin. Are you with me this morning? Aren't you glad this morning you're saved? Praise God this morning I'm born again. Hey, listen, I have no reason to be here. I have no victory outside of Jesus Christ. I know nothing about God if it was not for the Son of God. The Lord Jesus Christ has taught me all there is to know about the Father. And through his actions, becoming man as God and walking this earth, I was taught about God. Isn't that tremendous this morning? So therefore we must have the keys to be a proper gatekeeper. Now listen, you have the responsibility. No, listen, you even have the power given to you by the Spirit of God if you're saved this morning to be able to Open and close the gate according to righteousness. To know to do the right thing. Because God's given us the keys. We're going to go through the keys real quick. But first of all, you've got to be saved. You'll never, listen, you'll never be a good citizen, a good daddy, a good husband. A good employee, a good employer. You'll never be a good friend or a good enemy without Jesus Christ. And worse than that, if you're here today without Jesus Christ, you're going to die and go to hell. Not only was your life empty and no purpose, your eternity is going to be without God. In a place that was not prepared for you You've got to have faith. You've got to be born again. But let's go through them. The first one was what right there? The word is virtue. Let's back up there and see it. It says there And verse 5, and besides this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue. What is virtue? We're going to move from real quick, so I want you to kind of stay with me, okay? I'm going to move to them quick because I got a conclusion. I want to be able to get through it. I want to be able to deal with it. The word virtue, moral excellence, goodness of character, moral strength, moral currage It's kind of like living like Christ intended us to live. I'm going to say a statement, and this is not just for the men, but virtue to me is manning up spiritually. There comes a point in time where you just gotta man up. You gotta start somewhere. Some of you people look at this in your whole Christian life. You know what? You never come to a point in place where you said, hey listen, to be saved means I'm a child of God. I'm a joiner with Jesus Christ. I'm not supposed to be walking around I'm supposed to be walking around in the royalty of God. The problem is that you don't feel that way, and so therefore you let your feelings dictate. No, I'm saved. I'm a child of God. I'm a joiner with Jesus Christ. Therefore, I will walk like a king's son. That's moral excellence. That's a virtuous life. That's walking the way God intends for us to walk. That's manning up. It's a choice. It's a work. It's a choice. I had a preacher two weeks ago look at me and he goes, boy, your family's talented. And I said, I'm sorry, preacher. I am not a talented man. My son is not a talented man. My wife is not a talented woman, but we work hard. Well you're sitting watching TV. My son never watched, I don't ever remember my son watching the TV program. I went eight years without a TV in my home, but the truth of it is, my son was reading and studying, practicing with magic tricks. I can never right to this day he'll call me at one o'clock in the morning and go, Dad, I he's a late person, I'm an early person. I get up at four in the morning, he don't want to go to bed till one. Dad, I just read this. This is really good. Well, how about if we try this? Dad, I think I could breathe fire. I think I could work and learn how to do that. Well, son, we can talk about that tomorrow. You know. That's what I want to do with him sometimes. He's always been that way. You know why? He he's so urgent about the things of God. He settled, he manned up. When he was in college, I'm gonna show this real quick. When he's in Bible college, he's got most of Bible college students. There's a little bit of play still left in him. He was rooming with a young man down at Crown College. His name was Troy Holmes. Troy was six months saved preacher, but boy had a s he had a heart for serving God. He was a soul-winning machine. He was a sinner on the football team. His neck was that big and his neck was that big. And it was proportional because I'm telling you, the boy just constantly making mistakes. I brought him up because he he got engaged to my oldest daughter So I I said, he's going to marry my daughter, he's going to come work for me for a summer so I can get to know the boy. I'm telling you this kid could eat me under the table. He was from Baton Rouge. They talk about two things down there. That's food and deer hunting And that's why that's the order in which that boy talked to my wife put him on a diet. And he would eat my wife's breakfast and I would find him down at 7 Eleven getting donuts. I just loved this kid to pieces because he he was so transparent and wanted to serve the Lord. And he had a prayer life. He would get down and pray with me and sob over souls. I mean I knew God was going to do great things with him. And him and my son got a job like most college students. My son's trying to work himself to college. They've got a job at one of the men in the church was demolishing homes and they were demolishing a home and and Jason and him were they uh that's one thing Troy could do. He could tear a house up Ham and Jason were tearing this house down and he got underneath the porch and concrete broke loose. He was set in a crushed leg and hit him around top of the head and broke his neck and killed him. off of the turn just like that. My they were scheduled this was in March, they were scheduled to be married in July. And uh absolutely devastated my daughter. And uh when I went down for the funeral, uh Pastor Sexton uh preached the funeral to church, I preached the graveside down at Baton Rouge and and uh And I can never forget watching my son stand there and I I saw a maturity take place. You know how that happens, preacher? They kind of grew up real quick. Saw something happen. There was a resolve in my son. I saw resolve and maturity. He manned up. Got serious about the things of God. There was there was probably a dozen young men that's on mission fields today because Chloe and my daughter were going to go to Ireland as missionaries And uh I watched Jason Man up. That's a virtuous life. That's that's settling that I'm putting on royal rugs, I'm staying there. You with me? Okay, let's move to the next one. Add to your faith virtue, and to your virtue knowledge. Knowing, listen to me, knowing what to do in the situations of life. Now listen, and doing it. It's not just knowing, it's the doing. He said, add to your virtue knowledge. Now you've got to have virtue first because you've got to settle that you're going to man up. Then you've got to have knowledge. That means that you've got to get in the book. Now, folks, you've got to get in the book. You've got to get in the book so you know what God wants you to do. Because you're facing the world. I get asked questions all the time and I don't know the answers. But I'm going to find out. But you'd be surprised just through your personal devotions how God will answer your questions for you, for the public. For the man that's got questions about his soul. Hey, listen, I need to know when to say yes to my kids and when to say no to my kids. I need to know when to say yes to my wife and no to my wife. I need to know when to say y I need the knowledge to know that. God said He'd give me that knowledge. I've got the absolute truth here. I'm not like the world. I don't need to be biased or prejudiced. I have the truth. God says, listen, first virtue, then knowledge. Let me ask you a question this morning. Do you have knowledge? I never stop learning. I never stopped learning. I had the opportunity to be with several of the great preachers before they passed off the scene. And every one of them have told me the same thing. I just didn't have enough time to learn it all. To get it all. To study it all. I still feel like a child when it comes to the Word of God. Hey, listen, knowledge. God says we've got to add to that knowledge. What's the next one there? And to knowledge, temperance. I like the word temperance. It means to master and control the body or the flesh with all of its lust. Hey, it means self-control. First Corinthians says, and every man that strive for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible To master and control the body. Why do we let this rule us? Why do we do that? I'm sure your preacher can attest to this. There's been many a time that I was so sick on Sunday mornings That I couldn't I couldn't even bear the thought of getting out of bed. And I'd say, Lord, you know, I've got to preach this morning. You gave me the message. I know I'm supposed to preach this morning. And I would be able to get up here and preach my message and God give me full liberty in the pulpit. And when I go back to the house, I felt just like I did when I got up that morning. Have you ever been there? It's when you just say no to this body. You know, you say no to it long, it finally sinks into this body. It means no. Now it's not just no to this body, it's yes to. Yes to give and the track. To the waitress. Amen? Yes, given the opportunity to be a witness to that individual who you know doesn't agree with you. It's saying yes and no, to be temperate in all things, to take control of this flesh. Listen, most of us give in to our bodies very readily You just be honest about it. But if you've manned up and you have the knowledge, those two things, you're so used to saying no and yes to righteousness. And you know what's right, that the Spirit of God in your conscience is sharpened, and you just want you can't stand it. You've got to do the right thing. That's what makes you tempered. And you've learned to say, no, you've put this body under submission. I don't know how you folks are. I can't wait to get to heaven for one of the main reasons. I don't have to count calories anymore. I've lost three, four people in my life. I'll lose fifty pounds, I'll gain sixty pounds. I mean I hate it. I can't wait to be able to just eat anything I want to eat. To say no to this flesh. I mean, I get so tired of it, but listen, I'm in this body. I have to deal with this body. God gave me all power over this body. I'm trying to teach you That we're not prepared as gatekeepers in our lives. That's why we're not the dads we ought to be, we're not the Christians of we ought to be, we're not the husbands of we ought to be. We're not making the eff Back on America that we oughta make. We're just not doing it And we can! God's given us the tools to do it. And to knowledge temperance, and to temperance patience. Now, we've got a full misconception on patience, folks. Patience is a is is enduring. It's fortitude. It's steadfastness. Jason talked about my dad this morning in Sunday school. My dad shined in adversity. I mean the worst of the circumstances. In fact, I almost think he thrived on bad things. He was just good at it. I mean, you know, do you guys that fought in war? You have a concept that we don't have. You've seen the worst that man can do. And so everything else falls in perspective underneath of that. And my dad had an ability that he was enduring. He had a fortitude. He was steadfast. I mean he thought so quick on his feet when emergency came. I've seen him rush into an emergency ward past the guards before they could even catch him I mean, I've seen him do things that I thought, man, how in the world did he get away with that? But was the Spirit of God, and he was so enduring and steadfast in the things of God. He was so bold, he was so persevering. See, this is not a passive word. Folks, these are not passive words. These are active words. These are aggressive words. A patience is not made being passive It's not me sitting back and waiting for something to happen. No, I'm making it happen. A patient person is somebody that's making it happen. I don't sit back and put up with the trials of life. I face them head on. That's a patient person. When there's a problem, you stand up and face it. I got so tired of the pastor of a wife walking into my office and telling me that their husband won't take care of the responsibilities. Some things missing our lives, guys. Problem is a lot of them are not saved. They don't have faith to begin with. With faith, my Bible tells me a man on a man up. You gotta gain knowledge means how to study the word. I have a problem with a man that never reads his Bible. I get I get tired of women being the only Sunday school teachers. Who says you're not supposed to read? Well, the only thing you do in school is play football. My Bible tells me that listen, I've got to learn God. Because of sin, I was alien from God. When the Spirit moved inside of me, I had a hunger and thirst for the things of God I'm not going to sit back and wait on the trials of life. I'm going to stand up to them by the grace of God. That's what patience is. But you're not going to have patience. Listen to me now, if you're not temperate. If you've not got your body under control, if you don't have knowledge in your life, if you're not a man-up man, you're not virtuous. See, it's progressive. Not only patience, folks. What's the next one? You think, well, that ought to be easy, godliness. I think it's the hardest of the bunch. In fact, I think this is the turning point right here. It's living like God. It's stopping having the mental mindset of deterioration and decay and corruption spiritually. Hey, I was dead in my trespasses and sin. I was lost. I was on my way to hell. I got saved. I got born again. Amen? I'm on my way to heaven. I stopped decaying. My Bible tells me, but we all with open face, beholding as a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed in the same image from glory to glory, even as the Spirit of the Lord. This listen, godliness is the highest quality of life. To be godly, I got, I'll be honest with you, your song service this morning, I appreciate it. I like the good old hymns. That's what I like. I get charged up spiritually inside. Spirit of God goes to moving around inside of me, and I feel like there's not enough room for him to move around. I feel like I'm going to burst. And then I'm ready to preach. That's what godliness is. The world is listen, the world is not going to get saved until they see God in you. I'm getting younger every day. In fact, starting to work with kids again after after pastoring adults for all those years was one of the best things in the world for this old boy. I'm 58 and getting younger every day. I don't feel like it physically sometimes, but then there's another one. There's brotherly kindness. I'm gonna make this one quick. Brotherly kindness. Now listen to me, it's real easy. This is what sign is about church. The word brother means born of the same womb. I was born first of my mother, and then I was born again. And when I was born again, well, Dennis Levin became my brother, we're born of the same womb. Now when you say, you say, well, you know, I just can't serve in that church because I can't get along. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. You know a good gatekeeper. You know, keeping you gate. Something's missing in your in your set of keys because the truth of the matter is, God said, I have the ability to love everybody in this room that's saved. If you don't love your brother, you're not a good gatekeeper. And if you let me say this to you, if you're not loving your brother, you have trouble loving your wife or loving your husband. Well, you should. And you're not the kind of mother you ought to be. And you're sure not the grandparents you ought to be. Because God said, listen, we're born in the same womb, and I'm very tolerant of my siblings. We think alike. We act alike. We enjoy the same things. Last one is charity. Now listen. This is how I know we're not good gatekeepers. Charity means that I'm gonna love the guy that despises me and hates me. I'm gonna have the ability to care for his soul even when he wants to do me bodily harm. Are you at that point in your life? You say, well, you know, I may have a few of them attributes, preacher. You think so? You think you got a few of them? I don't know. I don't think we can just have a few of them, folks I don't think it works that way. I think we've got to be uh I think we've got to be all or nothing. See I want to show you something. If I just have one of those keys, it won't open the gate. If I have two of those keys, it won't open the gate. But if I've got all of them, I've got a complete key. See, I'm not going to have influence and power with God or man unless you get the full key. When he said all things, he meant all things. You gotta start working somewhere. Are you keeping your life? I'm not gonna take the time. We're about done. If we were to go back to Nehemiah, listen to me real quick, I'm done. If we go back to Nehemiah, we go back to 13, we find out, listen, we find out that the children of Israel had a mixed multitude in the church. Don't close your Bibles yet. We're almost done. And a multi-mixed multitude. First thing Nehobi did when he shut the gates, he got rid of the mixed multitude. Then he went into the temple, went right into the church, and he found out Tobiah had been moved into there where they were supposed to be receiving the offerings. And he moved Tobiah and all his junk out. We need to do a house cleaning. Need to shut the gate, stop, stop, back off, clean house. Clean house. Next. Listen, next he started building confidence. How did he do that? Well, first thing he did He got the Levites back into the temple because he had cleaned house. And he told the people they could start bringing their tithe back in. People started bringing their tithe back in. All of a sudden the Levites could start doing their job again. Once that started to happen, confidence started to build again. At the same time, listen, at the same time, every time somebody mouthed off the Nehemiah, he took care of business. My Bible tells me that he cursed some, he grabbed some by the hair, he pulled some hair out Now, I'm not telling you to go grab somebody by the hair. I'm sure I'm not telling your preacher to go grab somebody by the hair. I'm telling you to take charge of yourself. This is your temple. You're responsible for it. Do what you've got to do in your own life that confidence might be built on what God's capable of doing. We started something two years ago in our ministry. Every time God answers a prayer for us, we write it down. Now that doesn't mean our faith doesn't wane, but this last year, this last year alone, we had 112 prayers answered. Now that means that God's working in your life. I like seeing that. I mean sometimes it was financial, sometimes it was physical, sometimes it was health, sometimes it was somebody we want to see saved, but God answers those prayers When God starts working in your life that way, hey, listen now, stay with me. You're almost done. Hey, confidence begins to build. I get confidence in my preaching. I get confidence in my teaching. I get confidence in my living. I have a boldness about me when I go out and witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. And because of it, I have all things added to me. I have my keys in my hand. Hey, listen, I know when I go out there, He's with me. Confidence builds. The last thing, Neobi, he uses the word three times in that chapter. He contends with the world. He contends for the faith. We better start contending, church. I've got a lieutenant colonel down in uh Fredericksburg, Virginia. Say four years. His job, his whole job for the last 30 years, has been studying the Muslims. He's the one they send to Afghanistan to tell them what the Muslim is going to do in a given action He said, because of political correctness, we are so naive, we're as naive as babies concerning the Muslim faith, he said it is going to run over top of America if we allowed it to. And you know what we're doing? We're sitting back and we're just sleeping We're not standing as gatekeepers in our houses, in our communities, in our homes, in our churches. We better get listen, we better get busy for the Lord. And you better be what God needs you to be to do so. Where do you stand? Are you gatekeeping your temple? Let's bow our heads together. Heads bowed eyes closed. Now, here's my first question to you this morning. You can't be a gatekeeper if you don't have the faith. And you can't have the faith unless you're born again and saved. And you can't be saved unless there's been a time and place in your life that you've come to realize that you need the Lord Jesus Christ in your life and heart. Is there someone in here to say, preacher, listen, as the music begins to play softly, preacher? I'm here this morning. I'm not sure if I'm saved or not. I'm not sure if I died today I'd go to heaven, but I'm concerned about my soul Preacher, would you pray for me? I'm not going to come to you. I'm not going to point you out or anything like that. I just want to know if you're concerned about your soul this morning. If you'd like to have the abundant life, if you'd like to have eternal life If you'd like to know what it is to have victory in your life, if you'd like to have the peace of God in your life, if you'd like to have divine purpose in your life, who wouldn't want that? If you're not sure if you're saved, if you'd like what I've got today, would you be willing to just raise your hand and say, preacher, pray for me that I might get saved before it's eternally too late? Just raise your hand up and write back down. Do I have someone like that this morning Just raise your hand up and write back down. Be honest with me. Say, preacher, there's a tiny of my heart this morning. There's something inside me says I need that in the worst way. Anyone at all How about you Christians? You're keeping your gate? Do you have all things added to your life? Do you have the keys? Are you being the gatekeeper that needs to be for the temple that you live in? I think it's a pretty pointy question, don't you think? How many say preacher? Oh my keys lined out. Virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness, brotherly kindness, charity. Got problems there, preacher Pray for me. Just raise your hand upright back down. God bless you. God bless you. And you and you and you and you. Let's stand to our feet. I'm gonna have a word of prayer. If you're here this morning and you're not saved, we invite you to be saved this morning. We'd love to take the word of God and show you how you can know when you leave here today that you can have confidence in God. That you Christians, wouldn't you like to be contenders for the faith? Wouldn't you like to be able to have the confidence that you can trust Jesus Christ every day of your life? Do you have the knowledge to know to do the right thing? Wouldn't you like to be the gatekeeper God wants you to be, that you might be effective as a as a parent, as a grandparent, as a son or as a daughter? That you might be effective in your witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. That you'd always have the word to say. That you'd be effective in your walk for the Lord Jesus Christ. That you might have victory daily in your life. You might have peace and joy in your life. If you raise your hand this morning, I don't know about you, but listen, God convicts me. I'd come down here and do some business with God. I'd get on my face before God and do some business with God today. And ask God to allow me to be the gatekeeper out of being my own life. Until you get your life right, you're never going to be effective around you. You're never going to be what you need to be outside of that. I'm going to have a word of prayer, and as I pray, I'm going to ask, listen, if you raise your hand this morning, even if you didn't, won't you come forward? Father, bless now this invitational time. Lord, we give it totally and completely to you. Lord, if we had some safe people here this morning, maybe even now step out, come down here, and get down on their face and do business with you. Lord, this is the time we draw for conclusion We want to see folks get down on their faces and do business with you, Lord. Father, confess their sin. Lord, increase their knowledge. Get in the Word. Man up. Father, face the trials of life. Trust you. Love the brethren. Love the lost Get a desire, Father, not just to give, but to give them themselves. Lord, may they do it through rededicating themselves and giving themselves totally to you and seeking these things And we'll thank you for it in Jesus' name. We're going to have a standard or two of invitation. We invite you to come even at this time. Won't you come? Come on. Bless your hearts. If you're here not saved today, listen, preachers right here, I'm right here, we'd love to be able to take the word of God and show you how you can know. Maybe you're here last. Maybe you didn't totally understand. We'd love to be able to show you through the Word of God how that you can have eternal life and have an abundant life and full life. Piano plays, God spoke to your heart this morning. I tell you the key areas of the Christian life were addressed, they all have to be in place Maybe you've been saved, but you've not been baptized. That's an important part of my growth as a Christian and being all that God intends me to be. Making that public stand. We invite you to come. Maybe you've been saved, baptized, not a member of a good gospel preaching, Bible-believing church. God's dealing with your heart. Whatever your need is, the invitation's open. How about it? As she plays through one more time. God deal with your heart. Is everything right And every respondent what the Lord's stirring your heart about Thank you, Father in heaven, for this challenge from the Word of God. I pray, God, that we would take our uh spiritual condition very seriously. And we would examine ourselves in light of your word that we could be the people that you intend for us to be. We can have your hand a blessing upon us. We could have an influence in this old sinful world. Help us, Lord, and uh use this truth in our lives, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you