There's a lot of things about the future we don't know. Do you agree with me on that? In fact, I there's most of the things about the future we don't know. We don't know for sure that we'll be here tomorrow. Bible says, boast not thyself of tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We don't know what tomorrow holds Uh tomorrow may be the worst day of our life. Tomorrow could be the best day of our lives. We don't know that. Some people have an optimistic outlook at the future, others have a pessimistic outlook of the future. The way I hear Some Christians talk and I read what they write on the computer, uh good grief. I wanna go out and I wanna throw a I wanna throw a toaster in the bathtub when I'm taking a bath, plug it in and throw it in there. I was just Uh it's hopeless and you you hear what they say and listen, uh I'm I'm as concerned for America as anybody else and I'm praying and working and my heart is as broken for our country as anybody else But I'm here to tell you, God is bigger than America. And I'm a part of something that is bigger than any particular nation. We're part of the kingdom of God. And that transcends all the kingdoms of the earth. And so God raises up nations and God puts down nations. And whatever God chooses to do with this country, it has no bearing whatsoever on where I spend eternity. And so while we work for revival and we try to change our country and we like to see things the way they ought to be, nevertheless our eyes are on the Lord Jesus Christ. And we live above the affairs of this world. That's an optimistic outlook. And I try to and I want to maintain that. Others, as I said, have a pessimistic outlook. There's a lady who had two had a set of twins, two boys And they were as different as night and day. One was an optimist, no matter how bad things were, uh, he was happy and excited. The other was a pessimist. No matter how great things were, uh, it was all terrible and no good. Finally she decided something needs to be done. These boys are extreme. So she took him to a psychologist and she sa he says, what's the problem? And uh she said uh she goes, she explained, one's an optimist, pessimist, I don't know, they're extreme, something has to be done. She says, We will do that test And she goes, okay. So he took him down the hallway in the first room. He says, take the pessimist. And he put him in that room. That room was filled with toys and games and candy and ice cream and just everything a little boy would dream about. People put them in here for one hour and analyze. They stuck him in there. They didn't hear a sound. Just silent in there. Hours up, he opens the door to the little boy sitting in the middle of the room, crying, sucking his thumb, crying, all sad. Little boy, what's the problem? He goes, I'm afraid I'll get hurt with all these toys. And if I eat that ice cream, if I'll eat the ice cream, I'll get sick. And if I eat the candy, I'll get cavities, and I might fall off the rocking horse. He just goes on and on and on about and uh professor the psychiatrist, oh very interesting, huh? They take the optimist and they took him down the hall a little farther and he opens it and it's a room full of horse manure. They put them right in the middle, they close the door, he says, We wait one hour and be analyzed. They stood outside the door. There's hollering and laughing and carrying on, jumping up and down, clapping hands, singing, and I mean just a time Finally, an hour's up. He opens the door and analyzes. They open the door. The boy's covered with the manure, and he's laughing and hollering and clapping his hands. He says, Young man, young man, what's going on here? The little boy said, with all this, there's got to be a pony in here somewhere So we can have two approaches to the future. We can have an optimistic view. Hey, hey, with everything going on in the world, the Lord has to be coming back pretty soon. Two things about the future we know for certain. Absolutely we are positive about. Number one, Jesus is coming back. We know that's a fact. That is so clear in scripture. We could and and as I was preparing the message, I thought I'll put together all the references and uh I got looking at that and I thought, good night, we'll be here till Wednesday. The Bible is clear. Jesus is coming again. We can bank on that. As sure as he came the first time. He is coming back the second time. First time he came as the savior. Second time he's coming as the judge. First time he was the sacrificial lamb. The second time he'll be the conquering lion And we need to be prepared for the coming of Jesus Christ. He is coming again. The world mocks it Liberal Christianity denies it, but the Bible's clear. Jesus is coming again. I hope if you leave here in a few hours, uh a few minutes. Um You leave here in a little while. I hope you leave taking one thing with you. Jesus is coming back. Jesus is coming back. So one thing we know for certain, Jesus is coming again. Second thing we know for certain We don't know for certain when. I am sure that I don't know when he's coming back. I know he's coming. That's clear. But we do not know when he's coming back. He's not told us that. Now, my personal opinion, I'm probably going to repeat this throughout the message, my personal opinion is I believe he's coming very, very soon. But I can't say I know he's coming very soon because I don't know that. Could be a while, could be a long time till he comes back again. I can't imagine that, but we are not told when he's coming. So now we come to our passage, Matthew chapter 25, and actually chapter 24 and 25 are all part of one session, if you want to call it that, of Jesus Christ teaching his disciples. He's on the Mount of Olives. If you come back to chapter 24, just to get the setting here and the context of What all has taken place in chapter 24 of Matthew, verse 1, it says, Jesus went out and departed from the temple, and his disciples came to him. Uh to for to show him the buildings of the temple. Now the temple was impressive at this time. And uh disciples were captivated by it, and they they just wanted to to look at it with the Lord and they wanted him to see it. And I I I imagine they're wanting him to comment about the beauty and the grandeur and the majesty of this temple that was built, where they worship Jehovah. And the Lord said, verse 2 unto them, see ye not all these things? It's kind of like saying, You guys see this, and you're so captivated by this, you're so impressed by this temple. Look what he says. Verily I say unto you, there shall not be left here one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. Well, that took the wind out of their sails. Huh? Verse 3, and as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately. It was just the disciples, the twelve come to him. They're concerned about what he said. That bothered them. Tell us when, I circled the word when, when shall these things be? And what shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world? Tell you what, that's the question God's people have been asking a long time. When is all this going to end? When is the end of the world? When is the Lord coming back? Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you. Many shall come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and shall deceive many. And then he goes on for the next two chapters. And he gives a major doctrinal lesson to his disciples on the second coming. The term we use in Bible Institute and colleges we use theological term is uh eschatology the study of things to come Future events. And he gives them a series of lessons and a major, one of the major teachings in Scripture on the second coming of Christ in the end times. We'll not go through the whole thing, just a few highlights here, a few emphasis that he gives through this, some of the major teachings. One of the things he does is he warns his disciples about the spiritual deception that will be in the last days. I read a little bit of it there in verse number four. He says, Take heed that no man deceive you. For many shall come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and shall deceive many. If you come down to verse eleven He says, Many false prophets shall rise, and shall deceive many. Verse number twenty-three. Lo, if then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there, believe it not For there shall arise false Christs and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders, insomuch that if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect He uses that word deceive several times in this opening section of his session on second coming. And that tells me one of the characteristics In the end days will be a lot of deception in the name of Christ. A lot of signs and wonders, a lot of spectacular events in the name of Christ. And he says, be very, very careful. Do not let everybody that talks about Jesus fool you into thinking that it is actually about Jesus. So Lot will come and false Christ and teach false things in the last days. It is extremely important that you and I as Christians go by what God's Word says. You start hearing people make statements like, Listen, you don't need your Bibles. I'm going to teach you about God. You don't need your Bibles. You better run from that rapidly I don't care how great the preacher is, I don't care how intelligent he may be, I don't care if it's me. I'm not necessarily equating those two. Um nobody said amen there, thank you. But I am saying this, it doesn't matter who it is, if he's teaching something contrary to the word of God, you stick to the word of God. And Jesus says in these last days, be very, very careful. That's why I try to urge and uh caution, particularly on new believers, is that everything that's sold in a Christian bookstore isn't necessarily Christian Everything that says it's Bible isn't necessarily Bible. We have to be very, very careful, and we need to compare scripture with scripture. So Uh one of the things he starts out, he's got his disciples there. They're very concerned about what he said about the temple. They want to know when this is going to be, when's the end of the age, when are you coming back? What else is it? And he says, listen, first thing, you be very, very careful. There's going to be a lot of deception. It's kind of a lot of false teaching in the name of Christianity. You be very, very careful. Then the second thing he points out as he goes through this session with them, he speaks about the intensity of the tribulation period. Look with me if you would at verse 21 of chapter 24. He makes a significant statement here. He says, For then shall be great tribulation. Now look how he qualifies this and describes this great tribulation. Such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be. Jesus is referring to a future event here That the Bible calls the Great Tribulation. Some places it's referred to as Jacob's trouble. It is a future event, even for you and I. When after the rapture there will be a seven-year period, most of us are familiar with this, there will be a seven-year period called the tribulation. Jesus is saying that that period of time will be so horrific Will be so devastating, so catastrophic, and how the earth is affected, and the numbers, the sheer numbers of people who died, violent deaths are overwhelming. There never has been a time before like that period, that tribulation period. There never will be again beyond it. It is unique in all of history. A time of violence, a time of tribulation, a time of heartache, a time of death. And he talks about that. Then he points out as he goes through that, and this is what gets to our message this morning. He emphasizes to his disciples. He's gathered them around. He's made reference to the temple's going to be destroyed. They're very concerned. When's that going to be? When's the sign of the end of the times? He goes, listen, fellas, first of all, it's going to be a lot of deception, and don't be fooled. Second of all, there's a period coming in the future that's going to be horrific. Tribulation. And then there's the third thing he leaves with that. When I come back, it's going to be unexpected. It's going to be unexpected. Look what look what he says again chapter twenty-four and look with me at verse thirty-five Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. By the way, that's a glancing reference to the fact the Bible's going to stick around God's word is eternal. Now look at verse 36. Now this is important. I take notes in my Bible. I jot thoughts down in the margin and I underscore verses. I highlight different things I used red pen to underline this passage right here. But of that day and hour, look at this, knoweth no man. No, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only. When Jesus Christ comes back, nobody knows when that's going to be. Look with me up at verse 42. Watch, therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. Verse 44, therefore be ye also ready, for in such an hour as you think not, the Son of Man cometh. An old-time preacher, I'm talking about back 1700s, was preaching to preachers, and in his message, he said, How many people think the Lord will come back tomorrow? This was in England. And all of them said, We think not tomorrow, we think not tomorrow. He goes, Oh, well, maybe the Lord will come back tomorrow, because he says in an hour that ye think not. The Lord will come back. Now obviously the Lord did it, but the point is this. Jesus is coming back at a time we don't expect. Time we don't anticipate it. It is going to be unexpected. Verse 50. The Lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, and in an hour that he is not aware of And then our verse for this morning that we read together a few moments ago, verse 13 of chapter 25, watch therefore, for ye know, look at this, for ye know neither the day Nor the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh. All throughout, people have been predicting when Jesus is coming back again. There was a well-known Christian some time ago who wrote this. The last days are upon us. Weigh carefully the times. Look for him who is above all time, eternal and invisible. That was written. In A. D. 110, as it was 2,000 years ago, 1900 years ago, he said, the days are upon us. In 375, another Christian wrote, there is no doubt that Antichrist has already been born. Firmly established in his early years, he will, after reaching maturity, achieve supreme power. 375 A. D. And we can come down through here. I've got a list of folks that throughout history, throughout church history, have predicted when the Lord Jesus Christ would return. Did you know that Christopher Columbus wrote a book called The Book of Prophecies? He was convinced that the Lord was going to return in 1656. Christopher Columbus was wrong. And all the way down through here, up until modern days, I think it was in 1994, a fellow by the name of Harold Camping has a very famous, I think he's passed away now, has a very famous radio program, Family Radio It's known all across popular all across the country. I think it's still in the air. I don't know. But he prophesied very emphatically that Jesus Christ would come back. I think it was nineteen ninety-four And he had a slew of followers. They bought billboards across the country. Jesus is coming back. And of course the day came and went, and Jesus did not return. Now, does that mean that Jesus is not coming back again? No, absolutely not. It simply means this. Nobody knows when he's coming back. And Jesus I I I made the statement to the church at the time when all this was in the news and everywhere and and uh it was just huge. Jesus that day I told the church the Sunday before, whenever that day was, I said, I can tell you, guarantee you what day Jesus is not coming back. He's not coming back on the day that he says he is, because Jesus says in a day that you think not Now, my point is this: that Jesus is emphasizing to the disciples, you don't know when I'm coming. The angels don't even know when the return is. And therefore you must be ready at all times. You must be prepared at every moment. Now we come to chapter 25, and the passage we read is a parable the Lord gives about ten virgins, and they are part of a wedding party. And uh the custom in the day was, without getting into detail, as the bridegroom would uh before the wedding begin, he would announce his arrival and he would come and take the bride and they'd go off and be married And you have to be careful as we study this, and as I was studying this, and as you read this and look at this, we have to be very, very careful. We don't read into every detail of this story here The Lord is trying to make a point. And as I was reading this and reading other commentaries and what other people said, they tried to dissect this and give significance to every little detail of the story. I think they're missing the point. For instance, the fact that these are five uh ten virgins referenced here, I don't think the fact that they were virgins has any bearing on what the point is the Lord is making. He's just using that For an illustration, uh some people tried to make a big deal that there was ten of them and five were wise and five were foolish and they tried to find significance in that And to be honest with you, I don't think those numbers have have any bearing whatsoever on what the Lord is saying. The Lord is simply saying this, I'm coming back, you don't know when you've got to be ready So that's the overall point of this parable. But let's look at it here. The first thing I want us to notice is the condition of these virgins. Now, this applies to us and applies to the subject of the return of the Lord. Five of them are wise, and five of them are foolish. Look with me again at verse number one and two of chapter 25. Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins. Which took their lamps and went forth to meet the bridegroom. He's just setting the stage. Don't read more into that than just what he's saying Five of them were wise and five were foolish. The fact that some were wise and some were foolish is significant. That's important in the truth he's presenting. Now the word wise there is interesting. It has this idea, to be intelligent, to be prudent. One of the definitions I came across and how that word is used, five of them were wise. Is this to be mindful of their own condition? A wise person is aware of their own condition. These uh uh virgins were wise. They were aware of the fact that the bridegroom was coming. They were aware of the fact that they had to have certain things in place to be prepared for his coming out to go to the wedding. They knew the bridegroom was coming at any time. They knew that certain things had to be in place, and they were wise in this. They were aware of the fact that he may come back at an inconvenient or an unexpected time. Therefore, they needed to be ready at all times Am I making sense? They were wise. They assessed the situation, were aware of their responsibilities in this situation. And did what needed to be done so that they were prepared for the moment that the bridegroom came. They were wise. They were wise. Now five of these virgins were foolish. Again, I did a study on that word foolish and how it's used. Proverbs is used a lot in Proverbs throughout the Bible, really. The word foolish is used. It has this idea, the one definition I found is I was looking up how it's used different places and different dictionaries. The one definition, the dominant definition, was very blunt. It said this. Stupid. Now when I was a kid, if you called someone stupid, we got our mouth washed out. I'm not a kid anymore, so These virgins were stupid. It has the idea of, I like this definition, intellectually dull. It had the idea of being heedless. If somebody is heedless, I don't know how you picture that word in your mind, but to me it's like just a recklessness. Not giving any thought to the situation, not giving any thought to the consequences of our actions, not giving any thought to how what I do or don't do affects me and people around. Just Heedless, just reckless, just intellectually dull. Stupid. Did you ever see somebody doing something and say that guy is a dunny? He's gonna mess up. Listen to this one definition. I think I'm enjoying this a little bit too much, to be honest with him. This is in a theological dictionary, blockheaded. There's my that's my book. These five foolish virgins, they were blockheaded. I want you to notice a couple things here about the wise and the foolish virgins Anticipating the coming of the Lord. I put this down. First of all, the appearance of them both was the same. Just looking at them, you'd have not known the difference. They were both where they were supposed to be. They both had their little lamps in case it was at night. They were both new the bridegroom was coming back. I mean, as far as their appearance was concerned There was no distinction between the two. They both appeared the same. The difference was here you have the wise virgins and here you have the foolish virgins and they're waiting on the wedding and the events that lead up to the wedding They both looked the same. They're dressed for the occasion. They both had their little lamps there waiting for this. The difference was the wise gals, they had oil in their lamps. The foolish ones, they had the lamps, but the one not made up. They're empty. The wise had the oil in the lamps. Hey, outwardly they looked the same. Outwardly, everything was in place. Outwardly, everything was the way it ought to be. And by the way It's good to have the externals in place. I'm speaking this morning, I trust, to a large number of saved people. You've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. I think a saved person should talk like a saved person talks. The outwardly ought to Uh for if uh uh uh it's good to have the outward in place is what I'm trying to say. They both had the lamps, they both had the garb, they both were where they're supposed to be, the wise had oil, though foolish did it. Listen, it's It's good to have the outward in place. Christians ought to talk like Christians. When I'm at Walmart or I'm on the job or I'm at a social get-together or something, people ought to know I'm a Christian by the way I talk. There are certain words a child of God ought never to use. There are certain ways that Christian should not talk. Outwardly, my appearance, my uh my uh Uh the way people see me, my outward external testimony ought to bear fact, uh bear uh bear uh truth to the fact that I'm saved. If I'm saved, it's good to have the outward place Christians ought to talk like Christians. Christians shouldn't talk like the world. I cringe when I hear Christians using some slang terms. And nasty, crude words that in and of themselves are not necessarily a bad word. They're just crude. I think sometimes I hear that and I think, man, alive, you're a child of the king. Talk like a king talks. Not like some barroom alley. So Christians ought to talk like Christians. I think I put down Christians ought to act like Christians. The wise, they were where they were supposed to be. They were doing what they're supposed to do. They had oil in their lamp, unlike the foolish, but they were doing what they're supposed to do. Christians ought to act like Christians Um Christians oughta look like Christians. It bothers me when you have Christians that uh you that look and dress and act and appear just like the world does. That's not right. Uh anybody remember years ago down where the Walgreens is now, there used to be like these old apartments and there was an ice cream shop there. Anybody remember that ice cream shop? Uh I'm trying to remember what it was called. Custard stand, yes, we love the custard. I miss it so bad. We go down there pretty regularly, three, four times a day. But um that's why I look the way I looked a year ago. But uh We were down there once it was a Sunday night, I think it was summer, it was still light out, we had gone down. My wife and I were sitting there and I guess the boys were horsing around and we were just sitting there and this guy came up to us And a big old tall fellow, he came up. I found out later he is a preacher in some church in town here, another denomination, but he came up to Kathy, he walked right up to her, and he says, You're a Christian And she says, uh yes. He goes, I knew it. And I said, How'd you know? She goes, She dresses wholly Now the way she dressed, that's a Christian or he saw her. She dresses holy. After he left, I told Kathy, I said he thinks you dress holy, he should see my socks. You saw my socks, you know I was a Christian too. What I'm trying to say is this. A Christian ought to look like a Christian. We ought to have that outward appearance. That's not wrong. That's right. Man looketh on the outward appearance. That's the only testimony I can have with the with the world is but is by how I talk and act and behave and my appearance actually that's the only way I can have a testimony with the world They can't see my heart. Only God sees my heart. All the world can see is my external. So that ought to be in place. But just having the externals in place is not enough. I've got to have oil in that lamp. I need the lamp. I need that. Be in my place. I need to be ready for that. All the externals ought to be there. But if I don't have any oil in that lamp, all that external is meaningless. We see that in the experience of the foolish. And they're left out. And they're lost. And a person can look the part and talk the part and act the part, but if they don't know Jesus Christ as Savior. They're lost. They're lost. Foolish, stupid, blockheaded And so they both, the appearance of the both were the same. The foolish appeared to be prepared. They had their lamps. They had their guard, they were in place, but their lamps were empty. How foolish. How foolish. Apparently, these foolish virgins gave no attention to their soul's condition. How foolish it is. How foolish it is for a person to give no attention whatsoever to their spiritual condition. All they live for is the here and now. All they live for is materialism. All they live for is the thoughts, all they're worried about. is what people think about me. All they're worried about is how I'm uh the image I'm portraying. Uh years ago there was a commercial it said this, image is everything And I'm saying to you, image is nothing. It's the condition of my soul. That is everything. How foolish to never even think about My spiritual well-being, how foolish it is to give no attention whatsoever to my standing before my creator. How foolish To neglect my soul's destiny. I try to point this out occasionally at uh funerals if it's appropriate or whatever, I try to point out many times, so many times. We uh we buy insurance on our houses. Say why in the world would you spend so much money a year or a month or a quarter, however you may pay it, and saying all this uh lots of money to get insurance on your house. What are you planning on burning it down? Is it going to burn down? No, I hope not. I don't plan on my house burning down. But I'm concerned that if it does, I'm prepared for that. We buy insurance on our cars. In fact, uh we're required by the government to have insurance on our cars, not because we're going to have a wreck. Not because we're going to smash the thing, but in case. If it happens, therefore we're prepared. And we'll be all prepared for our houses, our cars, our our health All the material things we're so concerned about, and then how foolish to give never a thought to the condition of my soul. And we don't plan on the house burning down. Hopefully, chances are it won't. We don't plan on wrecking the car. Hopefully, chances are we won't. But I know one thing is going to happen. I'm going to stand die and stand before God someday I know one thing is going to happen. Jesus Christ is coming back someday, and if I'm alive at that moment, I'm going to be either left behind or taken. And why is it we are so foolish in preparing and so concerned about the material and the external and the here and now? And we never give a thought to the condition of our soul which is gonna which we're gonna have to bear the consequences of for all eternity. How many funerals I've done over the years, scores. Where I had to stand over a body and Preach the gospel to s and have a body laying there of a man or a woman woman who gave no thought to where they're spending eternity, never concerned about trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. And they died, went out into eternity In their sense, because they never were concerned about their spiritual well-being Listen to me, this is what I'm trying to say. As a preacher of the gospel, I am saying to you this morning, the most important thing in life. is knowing for sure that you've accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. That God has forgiven all your sins. So that if Jesus Christ would come back today, or God forbid you'd die in some horrendous thing, you know for sure you'd go to heaven and not to hell. How foolish to neglect that You say, Well, I've I'm a member of a church and I've got a Bible and I've got my lamp and I've got it trimmed and I've got the garb and I got Listen, it doesn't matter what you've got externally, if you don't have the oil of Jesus Christ in your heart and life, you need to be saved. Am I making any sense? You're here this morning and there is a shadow of I would never in a thousand years would I want to get a genuinely saved person to doubt their salvation. But if there is a shadow of a doubt about where you're spending eternity when you die You need to settle that and you need to settle it today. You can know Jesus Christ as Savior. You can know your sins are forgiven. You can know you're going to heaven and not to hell. You can have new life in Christ. So, the wise, oh, they had everything in place, and that's good, and we should. But the wise had the oil. There was substance there. The foolish, they had everything in place, but their lamps were empty. We've got churches today. And folks, they've got everything in place, but their heart and soul is empty. They've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. How sad. How sad So their appearance was the same. Their appearance was the same. I got thinking about these gals with the empty lamps, these foolish, these clock-headed uh gals. I got thinking about them. Why what possessed them to have these empty lamps? What possessed them to not make sure they had the oil in place? Why in the world would they not be prepared? Well, there could be any number of reasons. One, perhaps it was neglect. They knew the wedding was coming, they knew the bridegroom, it could be any time, day or night, midnight or the noon, or they didn't know when. They knew that I'm going to have to get some oil. Those lamps are empty. I'm going to have to make sure I get oil. But they just neglected that responsibility and they really didn't make it a high priority. And before they knew it Bridegroom's coming back and they're not ready. I'm afraid how many people die and go to hell, not because they didn't know they needed to be saved, they just simply never took care of it. They just never settled. They just neglected their soul salvation. How can we neglect so great a salvation? How can we know there's a heaven and hell and neglect our soul salvation? So I don't know how they ended up without land. Maybe maybe it was neglect. Maybe some of them says I ain't spending no money on no oil. If he comes back, I'll just, if I'm ready, I'm ready. If not, fine. Now that's really dumb. You know, I've talked to people. I've talked to people one-on-one, shared the gospel with them. They know they're lost. They know they're under the judgment of God. They know if they die in their sins, they're going to hell. And they say, listen, I'm not going to worry about it. If it happens, it happens, no problem. How crazy is that? Tim Leh uh Tim um who was the guy in Oklahoma bombed Tim McVeigh I I saw him interviewed by one of these news people, I don't remember who it was. And um they said and they asked this question, I'm not sure I'm wording exactly, but they asked this question, they said something to the fact Tim, you're going to be executed or you're when you die or whatever. And you wake up in hell, what are you going to do? You know, he killed a lot of innocent people. Babies. You wake up in hell, what are you going to do? This is his answer. I heard him say it on TV. He says, I am a survivor. I will learn and I will adapt and I will survive in hell. You know what word went through my mind? Fool. Fool. Fool. Nobody's going to adapt to hell. You read what Jesus says about hell. You read what Jesus says about hell. Wailing, gnashing of teeth, outer darkness. Eternal. Listen, you're not going to deal with it in hell How foolish, how foolish. Well, I I ain't afraid of going to hell. Foolish. Stupid So why how did they end up with empty lamps? Why in the world would they go to this and ha not have the oil they need for this? Why would they well some of them no doubt intended to wonder I gotta get that oil, don't let me forget to get that oil. And they just neglected it. Some of them, I don't know, I'm just guessing. I don't want it. Some of them maybe says, you know, I'll get it later. I get it. I know it. I'm gonna get it later. I'm gonna get it later. One of these one of these days I'm gonna get that oil for that lamp. I know it's uh that wedding's coming up, and uh I'm gonna get it later, I'm gonna get it later, I'm gonna get it later. Brother, if every person that got saved That said they're going to get saved, hell would be a lot emptier. One of these days, how many times those of us in our church, we go out and knock on doors each week, how many times we've stood at a door And we ask them, well, do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven, not to hell? And they say something like this, No, I don't know. I hope I go to heaven. Can we show you from the Bible how to know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that God can give you eternal life, you go to heaven and not to hell? Sure it'd be fine. And we go through the book of Romans, we tell 'em about sin, about the judgment of God on sin. Hell, we tell 'em about Jesus uh suffered that judgment for us, was buried and rose again And they'll tell them how if we'll call on him, trust him, look to him, accept him as our Savior, He'll forgive us our sin, give us a new life, take us to heaven. And they'll say something like this, you know, I'm just not ready for that yet. I stood beside a hospital bed in Kaiser, the old Potomac Hospital down there. Anybody remember that? That was quite a place. I said, I'm here to visit so-and-so. One of the members had asked me to visit. It was a family, uh, in-law family member that had had a massive heart attack, unsaved. Would you go down and visit so and so I'll be glad I got down there they were back in ICU. I told them who I was, they brought me back, they let me in a room. I said, listen, you don't really know me. They knew of me, but we'd never met before And I said, I said his name, and I said, I want to show you from the Bible how you can know for sure that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. He said, that'd be fine. And I did what I just went through with you just now. I went through Romans Road with him. And I said his name. I said, listen, Jesus died for you right the way you are. Would you be willing to call on him here and now with me and trust him as your personal savior. He's in an ICU, massive heart attack. You know what he told me? He says, you know, I'm just not quite ready for that yet. In so many words, I say, good heavens. What in the world has to happen before you're ready? Hanging by a thread over flames of hell, and then you decide to get saved? As far as I know, that man died without Christ. How foolish. How foolish. Uh I don't know why these gal's lamps were empty. The Bible doesn't tell us. But the Bible does tell us they were foolish. They were foolish. They were unprepared. They both had the same appearance. They both had the same anticipation, and I already touched on this, but uh they knew the bridegroom was coming. The wise took it seriously. The foolish apparently neglected their responsibility. And by the way, I want to point something out. Do you still got your Bibles there at Matthew 25? Look at verse number 8 with me And the foolish said unto the wise, oh, here comes the bridegroom. Yikes, we're not ready. And the foolish said unto the wise, give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out. But the wise answered saying, Not so, lest there be not enough for us and you. But go ye rather than them that sell and buy for yourselves. Now, again, you have to be careful. We don't read too much into that. I think this is what he's telling us. You can't borrow someone else's salvation. Let me say a word to our young people here. You've got a good godly mother, you've got a good godly daddy, Christian fa parents You can't borrow from their salvation. You need to make sure you're saved yourself. Your daddy's salvation does not save you. Your mother's salvation does not save you. You can't come to someone else and say, Let me borrow your salvation, let me get in on your salvation. No, I need to be saved for myself I didn't know that I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. Because a lot of folks grew up in a good, godly Christian home, died and went to hell because they never settled their own salvation. How tragic is that? Not so! Can't lend you ours. Hey, you can be a member of the best ch Bible preaching church in all the land, but unless you're saved, personally saved yourself, being a member of that church doesn't do you a bit of good. Everyone around you might be saved, but you can't borrow from their salvation. You need to know you're saved You've heard preachers say this. Have you been around at all? Wonder what would and I thought this myself. We need to be careful, but I thought this myself. I wonder If the rapture took place during a church service, I wonder if there'd be people left behind. I wonder if the rapture took place at five o'clock on a Sunday morning. I wonder how many church members would show up at church that Sunday morning. Left behind. Unsaved. Lost. Listen, again, I would never in a thousand years want to put doubts in a genuinely saved person's Heart and mind. But I've been around this long enough to know just because a person's a church member doesn't necessarily make them a saved person. Now we at our church, and I believe a Bible-believing church, a Bible a church where the Bible is their authority, to become a member of that church, you need to be saved and baptized. Have a testimony of salvation baptism. But God knows the heart And so they all had the same appearance and they all uh had the same anticipation. The foolish had no oil, and they could not borrow from the wise. They had to settle their own issue. And we cannot borrow from other people's salvation. We need to make sure we're saved ourselves. Don't have time to expound on it, but the second thought here, verse number 13, is the coming of the Lord. First we notice the condition of these ladies, and now we have the coming of the Lord. And I'll just have to go down through it quickly. But number one, I put this down, the coming of the Lord will be sudden. Now I need to explain here in Matthew 24 and 25 what Jesus is referring to is what we call the second advent That is after the tribulation period where the Lord comes back to earth. That's what he's referring to. The Lord's second coming is twofold. First is the rapture of the church When he catches up to us up out of here, all saved people in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, uh our bodies will be changed, we'll be caught up. That's what the word the rapture means, caught up off the earth The unsaved will be left behind, you'll have that tribulation period. Then the Lord comes back, we'll come back with them. The Lord is directing primarily to that second advent, but the principle is the same because it's both part of his return to the rapture. And what I'm trying to say is this, I'm trying to quickly summarize this But when the rapture takes place for you and I as Christians, it will be sudden. Jesus said in Revelation 27, he said three times, I come quickly. quickly. Now that doesn't mean he's necessarily coming soon. We've already addressed that. But it does mean that when the Lord does come back, for us, the rapture, when that rapture takes place It's not going to be a prolonged, drawn-out event. It is going to be instantaneous. Corinthians tells us in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye In an immeasurable period of time, so brief you can't even measure it. The Lord will come back and we'll be changed. My point is this We're not going to have a chance to get ready. We've got to be ready ahead of time. It's not like, oh, there's that trump. There's the angel sound. Oh, I got to quit and make things right. No, no, no, you're not going to have a chance. It's going to be the middle of a sub- It's going to be like that. Ed and I were talking, we were touched on this a little in Sunday school, but we were talking about how the Lord, uh the truth of the coming of the Lord affects us, and I'll just tell you how it was for how it is for me. When I that dawned on me after I got saved, before I got saved, every Sunday night we went to the movie theaters. We'd watch the latest movie, didn't matter what it was, how nasty, whatever, we went, I was lost, I didn't care less Sunday nights was go to church night, sober up, get the stuff out of your system, and get ready for work the next day. Well, I got saved. God changed everything. My whole perspective, my desires, everything. Well a group in the church there I was at, uh there was this movie came out, it was called Jesus, the Jesus movie. And they said, Oh, this thing's awesome. It's right according to the Bible, this thing's great Oh, we're all gonna go see it. And I'm like, okay. So we went, well it was Friday or Saturday night, we went to the movie theaters. And I went in there and sat down. I got sat in there. I'd been in that theater many times and I'd seen some things unbelievable. I got thinking, what if Jesus came back and I'm sitting in this nasty place I got so convicted about that. We got out of there. I said, I am never, ever going back into a movie theater again. And for 30 plus years, I've never done it. Now listen, I'm not preaching against movie theaters. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about this. When Jesus comes back, we're not going to have time to get things right They've got to be right in place. They've got to be in place. I've got to be careful where I go and don't go. I've got to be careful what I do and don't do. I've got to be care I've got to be careful because when that Lord comes back, I'm not going to have time to make things right. They have to be in place. These gals went to get their oil. Good heavens, I can't borrow from them. Oh, we gotta find a sheet that's open 24 hours, see if they got oil. Too late. Too late. It's going to be sudden, it's going to be surprising. And we've got to take it seriously. We've got to take it seriously. Watch. That word watch there in verse 13, give strict attention to, be vigilant about. I need to make sure I'm saved so that I I'm ready when he comes. I'm not left behind. I'm lost. But as I if I'm saved, I need to make sure I'm living for the Lord. I'm not going to be left behind if I'm not living for the Lord, though I'm saved. But I am going to have to answer to God. Can you imagine sitting there watching some nasty show on TV, and poom, next moment I'm facing face to face with Jesus Christ. I need to be vigilant. I need to watch. I need to be careful. I read a reliable article, and I am with this. I'm a fella and he's a different denomination, but he says some good stuff and he's and he's pretty straight on what he says. I mean if he says it's pretty pretty accurate He says that this Sunday, today, this morning, while I'm standing here across America, 400 church leaders are going to resign on this Sunday morning. Are standing before their congregation, before their ministry, saying, I have to resign. Anybody recognize the name Ashley Madison? Anybody watching news at all? Ashley Madison is a website that is designed to enable people to commit adultery. Their statement is this, life is short, having an affair. There's 30, I want to say 30 million names were signed up so that they could have affairs, as a married person have an affair. And they were thinking it's anonymous. Nobody will know. I'll go through this website, nobody will ever know. The last thing in the world they expected, somebody hacked in there and made public every one of those names. And today, 400 church leaders in America are standing before their congregation, having been found out That they were having affairs and having to resign. How many people agree with me? That's horrendous. Horrendous. Now wait a minute before we get too self-righteous. When Jesus comes back It's not going to be somebody hacking into an anonymous website. It's going to be my true condition exposed before God. I'm not going to be able to change things. I'm not going to be able to adjust. I'm not going to be able to hide. It's exposed. Now, here's what I'm trying to say, and I believe this is what this parable is about. We have got to be ready. Jesus is coming back again. We must be ready. We must know that we've trusted Christ and that we're saved. And if we are saved, we have got to determine, be vigilant in living for Him and keeping our hearts and minds pure. Because we will stand before him. We will stand before him. Father in heaven, help us now. Lord, this is convicting and challenging thought, and I pray that you would have your way in our lives. Don't let us deceive ourselves into thinking we can hide. Don't let us deceive ourselves into thinking that we can sin and disobey and neglect our walk with you and not have consequences Lord, this morning I pray that it would be a time of readjusting and retuning our lives to be lined up with what you want us to be so that you would be pleased, so that you can bless us and we'd be ready The return of Christ. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, I know for sure I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I know I've trusted Christ as Savior. He's changing my life. He's working in my life. But you'd say, preacher, to be very honest with you, there's areas in my life that if the Lord came back right now, I would be ashamed. There's areas in my life that I know are not what they ought to be as a Christian. And I want, when the Lord comes back or when I face him, that my heart be pure and that I would be unashamed as a Christian to stand before him. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. There's adjustments in my life that need to be made. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Now what they are is between you and God. But this morning you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. How about it? Young and old Preacher, pray for me. I know there's some adjustments. Some things have got to get out. Some things have got to be put in. Some ways I'm thinking have to be changed. Any others, preacher, pray for me also. God bless you. Young people, older people, God bless you. There's someone here this morning say, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm not sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I'm not sure when the Lord comes back that I'd even be saved. Afraid I'd be left behind. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. Pray for me, that God will help me settle that, that I can know. I'm saved on my way to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I want to know for sure I've been saved. Oh, you might have the outward looked good. Everybody might be full, but in your heart you know there's no oil. You know the lamp of your soul is empty. And you say, preacher, pray for me. I need Jesus Christ as my Savior. How about it? Any at all? Any at all? Father, now bless our invitation. A lot of hands raised. We're all at some point. We need to grow. We need to adjust. I pray you'd help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed.