Well good morning, Church. It is a delight and joy for us to be back at uh Mountain Lake once again. We had a great, great week. I always enjoy being with your preacher. We go many places throughout the course of a year, and uh I would have to say he is one preacher that is bound with energy. And he has a vision. And I I appreciate being around people that have a vision to do something for God. I I'll be quite frank with you, there's a lot of deadheads in the work of the ministry And uh they they're just sitting on their laurels and doing nothing to reach this world with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I I appreciate You, the church family, I appreciate your preacher and what you do to worldwide missions and reaching out to the lost with the gospel of Jesus Christ. I never grow weary of seeing the sight that is before us this morning. This represents a lot to me. Uh the first thing that comes to my mind is that it represents soul-winning tools for the missionary. Uh we we have missionaries around the world. But they need tools in order to evangelize people in their areas, in their language, with the Word of God that is able to turn their hearts to the Lord. But it also represents seed for the Holy Spirit. When God's word enters a person's heart, the Holy Spirit is able to use that word to draw them to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus. Do you agree with that? Are are you with me this morning? And so these these these booklets represent Tools, soul-winning tools for the missionary. They they represent seed for the Holy Spirit to work in that person's heart and life to draw them to Jesus Christ. The third thing it represents is souls for the Savior. Jesus died on the cross to save sinners. Paul said he was cheapest of sinners And uh the Lord saves sinners. You can't come until you recognize you're a sinner. And and once you recognize that, you you start looking for a cure for your sin-sick soul. And Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, the life. No man comes to the Father but by me. And so these scriptures are tools, they're seeds. They are souls that are going to be reached for the Lord Jesus Christ. And so from the bottom of our hearts, we thank you for those that were here this week. Uh stayed Wednesday night after the service and worked on the scriptures and those that were here on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon and Thursday night and Friday morning and Friday afternoon And we closed up shop with fifteen thousand seventy-one completed, the trailer loaded and ready to go, except for these boxes, and we'll be doing that right after the service is over. Looks like we've got some healthy Strong, well-abled bodies here this morning that can help get that job done as soon as the service is over. But uh we certainly appreciate everything that you've done, the prayers and the support and the work that was done this week. What a blessing. What a blessing. And it does work It does work. We sent a million scriptures down to Nicaragua earlier this year. A million scriptures last fall, early spring. And as a result of that, souls are being saved in that country. They're distributing them door to door, reaching people The last email that I had, 15,000 of them were distributed, and of those 15,000 that were sent out, 9,000 plus people come to know Christ as their personal Savior. Uh the following Sunday, 3,000 of them were in church and and made public profession of faith uh in in that church service. So we certainly thank the Lord that the entrance of his word gives light and draws souls to the Savior. Here on Friday afternoon I took on another project. We had a call. The Mesquite Indians in Nicaragua, just a small group of people uh a tribe that is in that country. Uh we sent uh uh John and Romans down to them and now they need New Testaments and we took it on as a project to send ten thousand New Testaments down to them, mesquite in their language, so that they can grow in the good things of the Lord. So continue to pray. God is at work. Oh, I do have a special, special prayer request Also had another phone call on Friday. There's a possibility that we've been sending scriptures into Burma, New Testaments into that country, the Book of Romans into that country. And uh we sent a hundred thousand New Testaments over there. We had a call on Friday that there's a possibility someone might like to invest To help us send a hundred thousand more into that country. Now we we can produce a New Testament for Burma for about a dollar. So I want you to pray earnestly that that individual would really be moved in their heart to help us and that we could do another hundred thousand for Burma as that door remains open that we might reach those people for the Lord. Preacher, thanks for having us. It's always a delight and joy to be with you. I get enthusiastic when I'm around you. He's bounding with energy, and I'm praying the Lord lets me live long enough to see him turn 70. and see how much energy he has then. If you have your Bibles this morning, I'd like you to take them and turn to the book of 2 Peter. For those that have come this morning anticipating and expecting to hear Dr. Leatherman preach, I share in your disappointment. The book of 2 Peter, chapter number 3, would you stand with me for the reading of God's Word? 2 Peter chapter 3. I'd like to begin reading with verse number 11. 2 Peter 3, verse 11. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness? Looking for and hastening onto the coming day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent, that ye may be found in him in peace without spot and blameless An account that the long-suffering of our Lord is salvation, even as our beloved Paul also, according to the wisdom given unto him, hath written unto you. As also in all of his epistles, speaking in them of these things, in which are some things hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned and unstable rest as they do also the other scriptures unto their own destruction. Ye therefore, beloved, seeing ye know these things before Beware lest ye also being led away with the air of the wicked, fall from your own steadfastness, but grow in grace and in knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ To him be glory both now and forever. Amen. I want to use this passage of Scripture this morning and Bring a message and a challenge to each one that's in this auditorium. Are you living the leading life? Are you living the leaving life? Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Our loving Father, as we come to you this morning, we thank you for the bright prospect of our Lord's return. We look forward to that day. We anticipate that day. We anxiously look to you, dear Lord, to help us in these days in which we live, to serve you, to live for you, to bring honor and glory to your name. That we might look forward to that day when we are in heaven with you forevermore. We thank you for the blessings that you've bestowed upon us this week. We thank you for each scripture book that has been put together and what that little booklet is going to represent and how souls can be saved as a result of that, how missionaries can be equipped with tools to reach their area with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I pray that through it all you'd receive the honor and glory Bless this service this morning, I pray. Save the lost and encourage and bless your children. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, may be seated. Everyone sitting in this auditorium this meet this morning is going to leave this life. Sooner or later, if you stick around long enough and the Lord carries his coming, you're going to leave. You'll either go by way of the undertaker or you're going to go by way of the uppertaker. And I'll be honest with you, if I had my choice, I'd just as soon go by way of the uppertaker. I I believe the Lord is coming soon, and that day is hastening on And we look with anxious anticipation to that day when we're with him throughout all the ceaseless ages of eternity. There be no more pain, and there be no more sorrow, there be no more suffering, there be no more wickedness, there there be no more trials, there be no more tears. Those days are are going to be past and gone forever. And we're going to enjoy heaven forever, evermore. And the truth of the matter is this morning, you're either on a launching pad to glory Or you're on a trapdoor that is going to open and you're going to be engulfed in the flames of hell. One of those two things is true this morning And I'd ask you to prayerfully and carefully consider your relationship with the Lord and your eternal destiny and where you're going to spend eternity. And for those of us that know the Lord as our personal Savior, God has interest in the life that you and I live. He's carefully written in his word that we're to walk in the footsteps of Jesus, that we're to be careful and we're to live a life that is honoring and pleasing to his name. And I believe in order for that to happen, there's priorities that are needed. There are steps that we need to take. There are things that we need to major on, and let those other things fall by the wayside As I look at this passage of Scripture this morning, I believe it's very clear that the Lord is telling us and instructing us and encouraging us and helping us to see those things that are important to Him. Not just important to us. And one of the first things that I I notice here is that those are that are living the leading life Pursue holiness. Oh, by the way, that word holiness is not a bad name. It's not a bad word. It's a Bible word. It's a scriptural word. It's what the Lord anticipates of your life and my life as a born-again bloodbought believer in Christ Jesus. He expects us to live a life that is patterned after Jesus and its embodying holiness of life. The Bible tells us in verse number 11, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, things are going to change around here. And it's not the election of twenty twelve that is going to do the changing. When when Jesus comes Things are going to change. Things are no longer going to be as they are. And I I look forward to that day when He's ruling with the rod of iron in the city of Jerusalem, and this old world in which we live is going to be a different place. His grace is going to be everywhere. His mercy is going to be everywhere. His long-suffering is going to readily be recognized in that day. And we're going to enjoy that season of uh of peace that engulfs this world. And so seeing that those things are going to come to pass The writer of this book says, What manner of persons ought ye to be? What kind of life ought you to live? What kind of life are you living this morning as you anticipate the Lord Jesus Coming again. It certainly ought to be a life of holiness. A life of holiness. The Bible tells us in 1 Peter chapter 1. And in verse number 15, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. That word conversation there means the manner of your life, the life that you are living. Let it all be characterized and embodied in holiness of life. That means that there's some things we better be careful our eyes pierce upon. Say amen or only. Then that means that we better be careful what kind of thoughts that we entertain in our mind. If it's going to be characterized by holiness, molded in the shape and form of holiness, then our eyes and our minds and the manner in which our feet are walking all needs to be characterized By holiness. We we live in an ungodly, wicked world. It's hard even to drive down the highway without Seeing billboards and things that try to appeal to the lust of our flesh. And we have to crucify that. We have to stand in opposition to that. We've got to refuse to think on that. We've got to refuse to let our eyes dwell upon that Because as someone that is living the living life, and one day we're leaving, it needs to be characterized in holiness of life. When you read the letter that Paul wrote to the church at Thessalonica, he said, make it a priority. Make it top drawer in your life. Chapter 4 and verse 1. Furthermore, then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus. That as ye have received of us how ye ought to walk and to please God so that ye would abound more and more. If we're going to live right, we need to abound in that right living. And yet I I I see some corners that are being shaved today. I see some things that are being forgotten today. I see things that are being accepted today that in days gone by and according to the Bible were denounced and rejected and refused to be embraced by people that called themselves Christian. The Bible is very careful in telling us, make this a priority. I believe he also says that In light of that, we're to follow the principles that He's given us in His Word. Verse number two, for ye know what commandments we gave you. By the Lord Jesus. This book that we hold in our hands called the Bible is not a suggestion book. God is not just inviting us to perhaps entertain thoughts of taking some and rejecting others. He's put it before us as his mandate. There's not something that you and I read and try to decide whether we want to embrace that and follow that and live that. Everything from Genesis to Revelation has been written for your learning and my learning, and we're to incorporate the truths and principles of this book in the manner of life that we live. You'd not struggle with what you ought to do on a Sunday morning if you live by the principles of this book. You'll not struggle with what you ought to do on a Sunday night or a Wednesday night when you live by the principles of this book You'll not struggle as to whether you ought to try to win souls for the Savior if you live by the principles of this book. We need to live by God's holy word. He says in verse number 3 of 1 Thessalonians 4, for this is the will of God, even your sanctification that ye should abstain from fornication. We've been set apart by the Lord. We've been sanctified by the Lord. We are his. I think sometimes we struggle with that. I've been purchased. It'd get I mighty upset, extremely upset, if I went out on the parking lot this morning and decided to pick out the best car. The biggest car, the shiniest car, and just claim it as my own. And wiggle the keys out of your hand And drive home in your automobile. I guarantee you it wouldn't take you two shapes of a rat's tail. To call the police and send them out to rescue your automobile. Now say amen or owe me. Am I right on that? If if uh you think it would be okay, put your keys on the altar this morning and we'll decide which one we'll take today. I wonder how the Lord must feel when He's purchased us. We're His property and we belong to Him. And the devil comes along, the flesh comes along, the world comes along and attracts us and allures us and draws us into its schemes and its ways and It's enjoyments. And the Lord sits in heaven and says, but wait a minute, I I purchased that. That's mine. I shed my son's blood for that. You can't get by with that. And he sends the Holy Spirit to bring conviction upon us. Oh yeah, we're Looking for Jesus to come again. And those that are on the launching pad to glory pursue holiness of life I would rather come down on the side of shaving it a little bit too thin than to come down on the side of being a little bit loose and liberal and have to face the Lord that way. All God's people said, Amen. There's something else I see here. Not only those that are living the leading life, and are standing on the launch pad to glory, pursuing holiness. That I believe they perceive his coming. They perceive it. They understand it. The Bible tells us in 2 Peter chapter 3, back to the passage of scripture that we read this morning, verse number 12 and verse number 13. Looking for And hastening unto the coming of the day of God wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved and the elements will melt with fervent heat. Nevertheless, we as uh according to his promise look for new heavens and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. Those that are on the launch pad to glory perceive that Jesus is coming again. Now now we know that his coming is in a twofold manner. Number one, there's the rapture of the church, and I believe very clearly the Bible teaches us that that's going to occur before the tribulation begins. I I'm not looking for wrath. I've been delivered from wrath. And I'm going to be rescued by the Lord before that dreadful dark day of tribulation begins to unfold in this world. And then the other part of that coming is when he comes back to the earth at the end of the tribulation period when we're riding on horses with him. If if you fear jumping on a horseback and taking a trip from heaven to earth, saddle up, you're going to do it anyhow. I I've always loved being around horses and I I look I look to that day when we can really we can really ride. But that day's coming and and the Bible says those that Know he's coming. Perceive that day as a day of delight and joy. He says we're looking, we're anticipating, we're expecting Jesus to come again. It's not a blind thought and a wishful thought. It's something that absolutely I feel a shout coming on right now. It's absolutely positively going to happen. He's coming again, and those of us that understand that are anxiously watching and waiting and longing for Jesus to come again. The angels announced this same Jesus But Jesus being taken up from you shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go. Jesus said to his troubled disciples, Don't let your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions, not rooms, mansions. Not some little nookover in glory land. Mansions. And I believe the mansion that He builds and He prepares and He avails us to that, I believe it's going to Be far greater than any mansion royalty has lived on in this world. He's coming again. Revelation 22 repeatedly tells us, Behold, I come quickly. Are you anticipating that? Are you expecting that? Are you longing for that? I wish I had time this morning to really get into that last chapter of Revelation and and and and begin to unfold some of the glorious things that are there in wake of his coming again. Jesus is coming. And those that are living the leading life Are perceiving that. There's a third thing that I'd say to you. We not only pursue holiness and we not only perceive his coming, but we proclaim salvation. The Bible tells us in 2 Peter chapter 3 and in verse number 15, an account that the long suffering of our Lord is salvation. Even as our beloved Paul also, according to the wisdom given unto him, hath written unto you. Those that are on the launch pad to glory and are pursuing Holiness and perceive that Jesus is coming again are those that are involved in proclaiming the glorious life-transforming gift of salvation that is found in Christ and Christ alone. The answer to this world's dilemma is not money. The answer to this world's dilemma is not more of what this world has to offer. The answer to this world's dilemma is Jesus and Jesus alone. When he said I'm the way, he meant I'm the only way. There's not a multitude of ways to get to heaven. There's not a Methodist way, there's not a Pentecostal way, there's not a Catholic way, there's not a Mormon way There's not a Presbyterian way, there's not a Baptist way, there is one way, and Jesus is that way to heaven. And those of us that live that leading life are proclaiming that message of salvation to others. You know why Jesus has waited as long as he has waited? How many, if we were to take survey this morning, think that We're worse off now than we were ten years ago. That's one of the catchphrases of this year's election. You believe you're better off now than you were four years ago? I'd ask you, do you think you're better off now? This world is better off now than it was ten years ago? Things are not progressively getting better. Things are not looking better Things are not having a a glorious sunset ahead of us on this journey of life. Things are getting dark. Satan seems to have the upper hand and the grip. But thank God there's a message that changes that there's a message that builds hope into the hearts and lives of people that think this life is filled with hopelessness And that's the glorious gift of salvation. The only reason our Lord has tarried and waited and prolonged his coming is that another soul can get saved. I I I don't want to wait five months or ten months or a year to get these scriptures to Mexico. They need to be there now. And God's people need to be on their faces before God praying. I I know this morning, preacher, and I've heard you talk about that country over there, and my heart Uh my heart aches to think that even having a Bible can can cost you a lot of money as far as being fined. But God put a burden on my heart to pray daily that God would open the door that we can flood that country with the glorious message of salvation and give scriptures there. That's what the world needs. And if we really believe that Jesus is coming again and we're living our life in relationship to that We want to proclaim the glorious message of salvation to as many as we possibly can. The Bible says in Acts 1:8, Ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall Positively, unmistakably and undeniably, be a witness for me. I think we need to be a visible witness. Everywhere we go, people need to see Jesus in us. Would you agree with that? In in the marketplace, in in the dealings of life, uh in in in even the difficult places of life. People need to see Jesus in us. That's a visible witness But we need to go even further than that. We need to be a verbal witness for the Savior. Lifting our voice and telling others about the wonderful gift that we have in Christ Jesus. I know we've got a lot of hunters and fisher fishermen in this congregation. And I joined ranks with all of you. I can't remember the last time I caught a fish. You have to go fishing in order to catch fish. And it's been a while since I shot a deer. You gotta go hunting in order to shoot a deer. And one of these days, I trust the Lord will allow me to do that again. But if I were to describe The longing of a hunter's heart. That perfect rifle that you've always wanted, mounted with the best of scope And and all the ammo that you're going to need to get the job done. And I'd say, Jerry, come forward. I got it for you this morning. I want to give it to you. I n no no no strings attached. I just want to give it to you. It's the expression of my heart to my brother. Here you go. I'm sure that he would walk out the door, not show it to anybody. Not say a word to anybody about it. Connie would be in the absolute dark about that gun that he's longed for and wanted and wished that he had. I don't think it would happen that way at all. He would be standing here and the rest of you would be standing in line. To take a good look at it and wet your chops and want one of those as well. And he'd be talking about it. And then let him go shoot a deer And I guarantee you, I guarantee you, the next service the guys are together, he's going to be talking and bragging about how accurate that gun was. How clear that scope zeroed in on that deer. And how quick one bullet. I only carry one shell to the woods because it only takes one. That's what my granddad told me one time. I said, Granddad, where's your clip? He said, I don't need a clip. I got one shell. Said, you don't have any more? He said, No, it only takes one Jerry be telling you how accurate, how good, how precise that gun did the job. Why are we so silent about the very thing that has changed and altered our life? I can tell you this, folks, when you walk the deep waters of life, and you find yourself in the darkest, deepest valley that you've ever been through. And your heart is being ripped apart. And the weight seems to be so heavy upon you that you don't know how you'll ever see the dawn of another day. You can be mighty grateful that you'll find Jesus there as a child of God. That he'll walk with you. He'll carry you through. And I I I don't care how dark your valley might be, how deep your valley might be, if you know Jesus this morning, he's got you by his hand. Oh, do I feel the shout coming on right now? He's able to do far more than what we could ever ask and what we could even think. Those of us that are living believing life want to proclaim that gift of salvation. I look at this passage of Scripture, and I've got to hasten on. Those that are living the life, the leaving life, not only pursue holiness and not only perceive that He's coming. And not only proclaim the gift of salvation, but they protect the scriptures. Do you hear me? They protect the scriptures. The Bible says in verse number 16. As also in all his epistles referring to Paul, speaking in them of these things in which are some things hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned and unstable rest As they do also the other scriptures unto their own destruction. You see that word rest there? That word rest means to twist and mutilate and carve and shave and change the scriptures We have that going on in the day in which we live. They're called NIVs. They're called Good News for Modern Man. They're called RSBs. And any other VPs you want to put on that. They abound. They abound, and people are accepting them and endeavoring to legitimize them. And God says they're doing it to their own personal destruction. You don't fool and temper with God's word without Him intervening. You don't change and you don't alter. If there's something that seems to be difficult and hard to understand, come to Sunday school. Come to Sunday morning service. Come to Sunday night church. Get get in on Wednesday night prayer meeting. Sign up for the Bible Institute. Study your scriptures daily. Just don't gloat in the fact that you've read through God's Word this year. Get into the book and study the book. And those things that seem to be dark and hard and are difficult to understand, all of a sudden the Spirit of God begins to put light on it And you're able to grasp and understand and lay hold of what the Bible is saying. It takes study to get that done. Not only would I encourage you to study the scriptures, I'd encourage you to stand for the scriptures. Don't join with this crowd that's trying to change this book. Stand with the Word of God. Don't accompany those that are distorting the truth and those that are manipulating the truth and those that are twisting the truth. You can prove just about anything you want to if you take things out of its context. Those that are living the leading life are people that protect the scriptures. This crowd that is distorting them and manipulating them and twisting them are guilty of propagating false doctrine. Are you with me? They are guilty of promoting a faulty lifestyle. They are guilty of producing fashionable scriptures that appeal to to modern man's mind rather than delving into the heart. There's a big difference. Those that are twisting and mutilating the scriptures are promoting a fiery destruction on their own heads. And then I'd say this to you this morning: those that are living the leaving life prevent stagnation. You don't sit around and you're duff and do nothing. I don't know about you, preacher, but I'm I'm just about sick to the pit of my stomach of lazy Christians. Lazy Christians. I said, preacher, we just got done doing all these scriptures. This is like a trip to the chiropractor's office. Preventive medicine I can see you really like that one. Those that are living the leaving life don't have time to sit around. Don't have time to indulge in worldly pleasures. Don't have time to let things slack off in their Christian life. And by the way, Just because you've reached the sunset years does not mean that you take a permanent vacation from the Lord. I'll tell you another thing that rubs me the wrong way. Let the new generation, the younger generation take over. Bologna. You gray here, you older folks, you senior saints, I've learned that these are not really sunset years. Things are rather getting dark in this day. And we need to stay busy in the work of the Lord. We don't dare uh stagnate. We don't dare let our zeal go. We we must not. We must not side with laziness. You've got to keep at it. Keep working. Be steadfast. That's what the Bible says in verse 17. Ye therefore beloved, seeing you know these things before Beware lest also being led away with the air of the wicked fall from your own steadfastness. There there's there's something encouraging when you when you see an old duff uh uh uh uh uh uh a ragged individual someone that's been through the battle and and they're losing their hair and and and it that which they do have is gray like brother Schofield uh Old and worn out and on the last lap of the journey. I I think we called him a lame duck the other night and the He told me that his wife gave him another name, but I dare not say that this morning. But isn't it encouraging? And uh and I'll come back to Brother Schofield on this one. Isn't it encouraging to see someone still in the battle, still in the fight? Still standing for the Lord, still working for the Savior, still in that race. And I'd challenge all of you to take up that banner and take up that flag and take up that march and take up that walk and live the living life and don't allow stagnation to set in. I I I look at old brother Paul Harvey, bent up and twisted up and can hardly walk and get around. Guess where he's at on a Sunday morning like this? In the house of the Lord When some lazy, no good for nothing teenager is still in bed at noontime because they're tired They just couldn't get up today. They couldn't move their lazy, dilapidated bones. I thought I was coming back, but I'm not sure anymore. To stay steadfast y you've got to stay alert To stay steadfast, you've got to be on guard. To stay steadfast in these days in which we live, you've got to be spiritually discerning To be steadfast, you've got to press on and stay in the race and not allow things to fall by the wayside. And do you know what the end of it all is? Those that are living the living life, praise God. They just praise God. That's what the Bible says in verse 18. But grow in grace and in knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be glory, both now and forever. Amen. We just praise the Lord. Are you living that leaving life? If I were to ask every one of you individually, personally, this morning, are you on the launching pad to glory? Are you standing on the trapdoor that's going to open one day and send you to hell? Where are you? You're one of those two places. And those that are on the launching pad for glory, are you living the leading life? Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed this morning. Every head is back