Well if I'm one of you, does that mean I'm on the payroll now? Well, amen. Good to see everybody here tonight. If you have your Bibles, turn over to Proverbs chapter 13. Proverbs chapter 13. Good to see everybody here. Are you all ready for spring? Man, I'm about ready to go out there and take a blowtorch of that snow, amen. Man Proverbs chapter 13. Let me just say this before I begin. Sometimes when you preach messages. Somebody, people can legitimately say, well, you know, it doesn't apply to me. But uh let me just say this: what what I'm gonna preach tonight, it applies to all of us. It applies to me. I have to battle it. I I'm just thinking, I I'm not saying this in the wrong, I'm just thinking if I have to battle this, then surely, probably a lot of other people have to battle. Am I not right? And so I hope you'll listen close tonight. Proverbs chapter 13. Here's the title of the message. Are you rich but poor? Or poor but rich. What is it tonight? Let me ask you again. Think about this. Are you rich but poor? Does that sound like a contradiction? Where are you poor but rich? Proverbs chapter thirteen, and look at verse seven. This is exactly what it says. Verse seven. There is that maketh himself rich. What is that? Are you rich, yet have nothing but poor? There is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches. What's that? Or are you poor? But rich. Let's pray. Father, I pray tonight that as we go through this message. That all of us would be honest enough, honest enough to evaluate where we're at in the subject. If the truth be known, this is an area that probably plagues almost everybody in here tonight. It's an area that probably most of us have to battle. And if we don't win that battle God will never be number one in our life, and we'll end up living a worthless spiritual life. And so, Lord, as we go through this simple message, I pray again, Lord, help us to be honest with ourselves tonight. And if we need to make a decision, Lord help us to do that tonight. Work in Jesus' name we pray. Amen What's another way of saying Proverbs chapter 13 and verse 7? I think here's another way of saying it: that there are some people that have great riches, but not much money. And there's others that have much money, but not great riches. You know what's interesting? I I uh sometimes I'll preach and th this is this is not this is not what you might call a financial message. Everybody got that? But you know, I've got financial messages. And it's always interesting that whenever you start talking about money, you get everybody's attention. Huh? Somebody one time said this: the most vital nerve in the body is the one that runs from the heart to the pocketbook. Huh? You know, whenever I think about that, I I think of the poem, it goes like this. I once knew a Baptist. He had a pious look. He'd been totally immersed, except for his pocket look He placed a dollar in the plate and sang with might and mane, When we asunder part, it gives me inward pain. You know, I think that little poem describes many, many, many a Christian. Outwardly. Come on now, outwardly. We say all the right things. Oh, I love the Lord. God's number one in my life. Outwardly we say all the right things, but inwardly there's another love. The love of money And all those things in the world that money can buy. And what's so sad? Is that today, especially today, for the average Christian in our churches, our lives revolve around money and things and just a little bit more And uh we're living, I'm talking about us tonight, folks, we're living in a day and age where the pursuit of pleasure has become more important than the pursuit of God. Now let me just say this here. We're all like this. Come on now, all you even the Pharisees right now do this. Come on. We're all like this. You know what? Listen, it is easy. Come on, it is easy to get caught up in the pursuit of things. I'll tell you why. Because from the time you get up in the morning to the time you go to bed, we are bombarded. Are we not? Radio, TV, billboards, newspaper, internet. We are bombarded with, oh, you've got to have this and you've got to have that, you've got to buy this. If you don't have this, if you don't buy, you're not going to be happy. Happens to all of us over time. Over time. If we are not awful careful, God drops from number one in our life, and things of the world become more important than things of God. And because of this, there are many Christians tonight. Who are wealthy in money. They have a lot of things, and yet they're poor and they're bankrupt in the sight of God. Now, we might say this, preacher, why is this happening in our churches? How how is this happening among good people? Now I'll tell you I I'll tell you why I believe it's happening. John eight forty-four. You know what that verse is? John eight forty-four says this that the devil is a liar. And he's the father of it. Now, we all know, listen, we all understand. The devil is a liar. Am I not right? But listen, the devil also listen, the the the devil's a lot smarter than we give him credit for. The devil also he understands that every meet me too He understands that everyone, we the flesh has a great, great, great weakness. The devil knows this. You say, Preacher, what's that weakness? Are you ready? We like things. Come on. We like things. We like possessions. We like this. We like that And so the devil starts to sell us a lie. What's the lie? You'll never be happy. Until you have things. You'll never have peace. You'll never have content until you own this, until you own that. And as a result of that, folks, tonight, tonight, we have lost an entire generation of Christians. Because we've made things our God instead of making God our God. I believe I believe that there are three lies. I could give you more, but I'm talking about three main lies. That as we go through life, that the devil tries to sell every one of us. If he can just sell one of these lies to you, he's got you. He will cause you to live an empty, worthless, wasted spiritual life. These three lies that I believe the devil tries to sell us makes the difference Whether all of us in here tonight are rich or poor spiritually, or whether God's number one in your life tonight. Or whether God's at the bottom of your list of important things in your life. Let me give you the three lies here real quickly. And by the way, let me tell you something, listen, I'll guarantee you, as we cover these three lies, they're probably familiar to every one of us. Amen. Amen. Don't make me start over. Come on now. Hey, I guarantee you, they're familiar to all of us. First of all, I think the first lie that the devil tries to sell all of us is what I call the satisfaction lie. The satisfaction line. You say, Well, preacher, what's that? Hey, here it is. If I just had this, come on. Any come on, anybody ever say that? If I just had this, if I just had that, uh I would be happy for the No, you won't! Why they won't break it. If I could just if I could just I mean I'd be satisfied. No, you won't. Look, let me tell you something. When your life revolves around me, me, me. When your life revolves around what you can get out of life, in other words, what I call the pursuit of pleasure, you are poor indeed. Proverbs chapter thirteen, verse seven. There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing. Let me ask you a question. This is just common sense. If things and money will satisfy you And make you content, then why do those people that have all these things, why are they so unhappy? You ever study you ever think? Hey, listen, you cake, think about this, UK Hollywood. Take the entertainment industry. Take uh the athletic industry. These people make more money in six months. than you and me make in a year, in a in a lifetime. Maybe him in a year. Amen. But listen, they make more sick than I'll make in in two lifetimes. But yet listen, and and listen, you you can see this in the paper all the time. And yet this group, the one I'm talking about, this group, they have the highest rate of divorce, they have the highest rate of suicide. They have the highest rate of drug usage. They have the highest rate of alcoholism. Why? Because money and things they never have and never will bring you happiness. You know, I don't I don't remember when it was. It was like January or February. I I get a I get a paper almost every day. But you remember back in January or February, whenever it was, when they when they had the Oscars? Come on, remember that? Now let me put a disclaimer here. I don't watch that garbage. Just so you understand that. I saw it in the paper, but I don't watch it. They had the Oscars. And you ever Do you ever watch these people stroll back red carpet? They they they said that there was there was one lady that that had an eighty thousand dollar gown. Do you know what you could buy with $80,000? I guarantee a lot more than an address if I'm spending it. There was another lady, there was another lady that had on a pair of shoes, ladies, that was worth over a million dollars. The jewelry the limos and then and then you w here they come, they come down the red carpeters I do pretty good imitation, don't I? Behind all those smiles is poverty. Behind all those smiles is tragedy and heartache and misery. Behind those smiles is more sadness and more loneliness than you and I will ever know. Folks, listen. These people, they have everything the world says will make you happy. But I'm going to tell you something. I'll tell you something they don't have. They don't have any peace. They don't have any joy. There's no happiness or contentment in their life. I've got a friend that's a builder. But he's a custom builder. He the only type of houses he builds Is houses that are worth a million dollars or more. Hmm? I stopped by to see him. We were visiting. And uh we got to talking about people that could afford to live in million dollar homes. And he looked at me and he says, uh, do you want to see something about these people? I said, Yeah. He says, Come on. We went outside, he had a Jeep. Got in the Jeep, and we went to the development. I saw this. We went to the development where he had built these one million, two million dollar houses. We parked the Jeep. We walk up to the first house and he said, Look in the window. I looked in the window. There was nothing. Nothing. And I said, uh, his name was Joe. I said, Joe, I said, uh, are you trying to sell the? He said, no, he said, this is already sold. We went to the next house. He said, Look in the window. All of a sudden I realized there's actually people living in these houses, and he's having me, you know, peeping Tom. He said, look in the window. And uh he said, there's nobody home. I looked in the window, and there's just crates. Crates in the living room. Listen Hey, what's up? He looked at me and he says, Brother Barns. He says, These people that buy these houses, that's their God. And he says, both the husband and the wife Oh, it's a great thing when they buy the house. They like to brag about it. Then they have to work 70, 80 hours, both of them 70, 80 hours a week. just to make the payment. And he says, I'm going to tell you something. He said, I see this from experience. Every one of these marriages lasts no more than two or three years. Why the breakup? You think they'd be happy living in a million dollars. I'll tell you why the breakup, the pursuit. Of things, and money, and pleasure. You know, Solomon learned that lesson the hard way Ecclesiastes chapter 2 and verse 10 And whatsoever mine eyes desired, think about that, and whatsoever mine eyes desired, I kept not from them. I withheld not my heart from any joy, for my heart rejoiced in all my labor, and this was the portion of my labor. Now, I'm going to tell you something. If things would satisfy you, if things would make you happy, Solomon had it made. But you know what? All you have to do is read one more verse down. And here's what Solomon says about having everything. Verse 11 Behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit. There was no prophet You know what Solomon found out? Solomon found out that money could buy wives, but couldn't buy them love. Solomon found out that money could buy him possessions, but couldn't do anything for the person. And I remind you, Luke chapter 12 and verse 15, a man's life, your life, a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of things which he possesseth. You know what your life ought to consist of? Serving God. Making God number one in your life. But we've left that today, folks. And so the first lie the devil is going to try and sell you is what I call the satisfaction lie. Well, if I if I could just have, man, I would be, no, you won't. The second lie. That I believe the devil tries to sell all of us is what I call the stash lie. Did you get that? Let me say it again the stash lie. You say, preacher, what What's that? That's where people all they care about is getting this and getting that and getting this and getting that. You know, there's a lot of people that put a lot of money in the stock market and they lost it. There's a lot of people that stashed A lot of things in the housing market. And they lost it. And I asked you something tonight. Here's a question you need to ask yourself if you're saved. Where are you stashing your treasure? Can I get a little bit more personal? I'm gonna do it anyway. Listen if you died tonight if you died tonight, where would your treasure be? Is there anything up there? If you have no treasure in heaven, Then you're poor. You're bankrupt. You're destitute. I like Proverbs chapter twenty-three and verse five. Wilt thou shut thine eyes upon that which is not? For riches certainly make themselves wings. They fly away as an eagle towards heaven. Preacher, what did I say? Can I give you the Baron's commentary? Here's the Baron's commentary in that verse. Now you see it, now you don't. Somebody one time, somebody one time said, remember the remember the the commercial somebody one time said money talks? You know what it says? Bye bye. We laugh. But I dare say, listen, I dare say in a crowd this size there's some of you here tonight, you make that your God. Your life revolves around that I I I was preaching a meeting and uh I had Marley with my wife, I had Marley with me. And uh We went. There was this there was this big uh there's this huge sporting goods store uh in in the town that I was preaching in. And so Marley and I, we we left during the day. We we went to this this the the sporting group it was like seven stories tall And so we went there that day, and and uh as we uh as we were walking, we parked a couple blocks away, and uh as we were walking towards the sporting goods store. We went by a nightclub. Now understand, get this here. We didn't win the nightclub, amen. I want you to understand that. We were going to the sporting goods store, but we walked by the nightclub. And right there at the nightclub. Was a uh which what you might call a bell you know what a a bell hop? He had one of these zoot suits, huh? All dressed up like a you know like a clown. And uh he was opening doors for people. He just opened the doors. And uh when we walked by him, I just I went like that, and he nodded back, and I turned to Marley and I said. I know him. And Marley says, Well who is he? I said, I don't know, but I know him. Got a little bit further down the street, and I'm looking back. I said, Man, I know him from somewhere. We got a little bit further, and I'm looking at Marley finally, Marley Sharp. She says, I'm not going to put up with this all day. She said, you just need to go back and find out who he is. So we went back. And I walked up and I shook his hand. And I said, I said, I I said, you look familiar. I said, for some reason I I I think I know you. And he looked at me and he smiled And as soon as he smiled, there was a big gap in his teeth. I mean, about that wide. But as soon as I saw the gap. I knew who he was. I looked at him and I said, You're Leon Sphinx, the former heavyweight champion of the world. I said, You're Leon Space. He says, Yes, sir. Real nice guy. Yes, sir. I said You're a doorman? Yes sir? I said it was it You made you made something like a hundred million dollars. You look at me, he says this, sixteen million dollars my last fight I said, then we got to be friends. I said, Leon What happened? That's exactly what he said. Easy come, easy go. He summed up what a lot of us never learn in a lifetime. Matthew chapter six, verse nineteen. Here's what God wants to remind all of us about tonight. Lay up, what's another word for that word lay? Stash. Lay not up, stash not up for yourselves treasures upon earth. Where moth and rust doth corrupt, it goes away. And where thieves break through and steal, but lay up, stash up. Lay up for yourselves treasures and where? And this is God. He's giving you advice today. Great financial advice Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moss nor rust doth corrupt and where thieves do not break through nor still. What's God saying? Hey, God saying, hey, you need to remember something tonight. Don't believe the lie of the devil, you can't take it with you. If, listen, if you don't tonight, as you sit here, if you don't have treasures in heaven, you're not rich. You are as poor as a skid roll bum. Bill Gates, the president of Microsoft, one of the richest men in the world, a multi-multi-billionaire, lives in a $40 million house Oh, wow, boah, woo. In fact, God says he's on his way to hell because he's not even saved. You're here tonight and you want to know, you want to know how rich or poor you really are? I'll tell you how you can know right now. I can tell you how you can know whether or not you're rich or poor. Add up right now, add up everything you have that money can't buy and death can't take away from you. In other words, what you've sent ahead. And that will tell you how rich you are. Are you a soul winner? You know why I asked that question? Because if you're not a soul winner, you're not Shannon Treasure Head. Do you have a ministry? Are you serving the Lord right here in the local church? Answer that. Not out loud. But do you have a ministry? You see, if you don't have a ministry, listen, you're not sending treasure, you're poor. You're destitute, you're bankrupt in the sight of God. You know what's so sad? Most Christians tonight, most Christians tonight are in what I call the junk business. We're getting this, we're getting that, chasing after this and that, and we're not sending anything ahead. Way back in nineteen forty five. Japan surrendered at the end of World War Two. Right after Japan surrendered in World War II in nineteen forty-five, two young Japanese men combined all the money they had. To start an electronic firm and part of a burned-out building in Japan. They incorporated the firm in May of 1946. With a grand total of $522. That's what they started the building with in that burned out building. They went around, saw family, friends, whatever, anybody they could, and they asked them, Would you would you just consider investing? $100. That's all. Just a hundred dollars in our electronic firm. People laughed at him. People said they were crazy. They named that company Sony, which went on to become one of the single largest electronic companies in the world. If those people had invested one hundred dollars in nineteen forty seven, today, right here, tonight That $100 would be worth over $18 million. Let me ask you something Do you think just maybe there were some people kicking themselves? Huh? Do you think, do you just think just maybe just maybe there were some people saying, oh, oh, if only That's gonna be some of you someday. When you get to heaven And there's no crowns. There's no rewards. And all of a sudden, you realize the importance that God placed on making him number one in your life. But instead, we pursued things. And I think there's going to be a lot, someday, a lot of us we're going to look back and say, oh, if only, oh, if, oh, oh, I'd give anything to turn back the club. But it's too late. It's too late. Can I suggest something? It's not too late. You can still make God number one in your life. First lie the devil's going to try and sell all of us is the satisfaction lie. The second lie he's going to try and sell every one of us, no exceptions, is the staff lie. And then real quickly, I won't take long on this one, but the third lie I believe the devil will try and sell us is what I call the smoothness lie. The smoothness lie. If I just had this, all my troubles would be over. Huh? If I could just get this Life would be so much better. Come on, have you ever had somebody say that? Life would be just so much smoother if I had this and I had that. Now folks, I'm gonna tell you something. You go ahead and chase after money and things and stuff like that, you make that your goal in life. And God says, hey, you turn your back on me and you make mammon the God of your life. And God says, this: you're not going to have a smooth road. It's only going to bring more trouble and trials and toils into your life. That's what it's going to do. Proverbs chapter 15, verse 6. In the house of the righteous is much treasure, but in the revenues of the wicked is trouble. Proverbs chapter 15, verse 16, better is little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure and trouble therewith. Listen, you ever stop and think the world has two types of people: givers and takers. You say, what's the difference Takers eat better. Givers sleep better. For God so loved the world that he gave. You know what that is? That's a pattern for you and me. If you're here tonight and you're saved, you know what God wants you? God wants you to give. Give what, preacher? Give of yourself. Give of your life. God doesn't want you to take, He wants you to give. He wants you to spend your life serving him. Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verse 12. The sleep of a laboring man is sweet. Whether he eat little or much, but the abundance of the rich, those that just chase after things, but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep. Oh boy, if I just had this, I'd be happy. If I just had this, I'd be satisfied. Oh, I'm gonna put a little bit more on my credit card. I'm gonna I'm gonna get another credit card to pay off this credit card. And rather, listen, you know this, and rather than make you happy, it makes you more miserable and more depressed. In fact, it's almost like a curse. Kind of like the man sitting on a train. And when he looked across the aisle, there was a woman sitting there. I mean, she had this huge, I mean, this huge diamond ring on her finger. And he looked at the woman, he says, ma'am, he says, Pardon me, he says, I don't mean to be nosy. He said, but that is the biggest, the most beautiful diamond ring. that I have ever seen in my life. He said, can you tell me a little bit about it? Lady says, well, she said, uh, this ring right here, this diamond, is what we call the Klotman diamond. He said, What? She said, it's called the Clotman Diamond. He said, Well, is it anything like the Hope Diamond? She said, Well, it's not as big as the Hope Diamond. She said, but this ring is just as clear and just as pure As the Hope Diamond. And she said, just like the Hope Diamond, this diamond also has a curse on it. And the man looked at her and he said, Well, what's the curse of the Klotman diamond? And she looked at him and smiled and said, Mr. Klotman. Folks, why are some of you ladies glancing at your husbands right now? Don't do that. Listen, I'm only kidding. Much of what people possess has a curse on it. Rather than bringing them happiness, rather than bringing them satisfaction, rather than making the road smooth for them in life. It brings more misery and more sadness. And you know what they tell you? It's just not worth it. 1 Timothy chapter 6. God commands us. God commands us to be content serving God. God says if you're content serving God, if you're content making God number one in your life, you'll be happy. Can I ask you something tonight? Where where be honest, where's God in your life tonight? Is God number one? Or has he listened or has he over a period of time kind of slipped down the list? I'll say it again. We wake up every day of our life and we are bombarded. You gotta have this, you gotta have, and listen, it happens all it happens to me. All of a sudden you wake up one day and all of a sudden you realize, hey, God isn't number one anymore. Things are starting to become more important. You know what we gotta do? We've got to rearrange the list. You see, this is what the devil wants to do in your life tonight. And if the devil, if the devil can sell you one of these lies. You will end up with a worthless, wasted spiritual life. He wants to sell you the satisfaction lie He wants to sell you the stash. He wants to sell you the smoothness lie. You know why? To drop God down in your life. To where he's no longer God of your life. But for every one of us sitting here tonight, do you know what God's saying? Matthew chapter 6 and verse 33, and we're done. Here's what God is telling you tonight. But seek ye first, putting God back up and talk tonight. But seek ye first the kingdom of the. And his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. Folks, listen, let's take a hard, brutal, honest look at where we're at in our spiritual lives tonight. We're all affected by this. And I'm gonna tell you something. If we realize that God has dropped down that list, The most important thing that we can do tonight is just say, hey, you know what? I'm putting God back number one again. I am not going to allow the devil to sell me one of these lies. I am not going to allow the things of the world to run and rule my life. I'm going to have God run my life. It would be one of the best decisions you ever make. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Every head bowed. Every eye closed. Folks, let me just say it again. What I just preached on tonight, it affects me. Did you get that? I'll say it again. It affects me. Man, I'll see an ad on TV, I'll I'll I'll uh I'll get a uh you know uh man it might even be a Cabela's magazine or I'll get something, I'll say, wow man, I you know man that if I had that, I'd be happy. Even if I can't afford boy made me happy. And then I gotta remember. I gotta remember, you know what? If I start chasing after these things, If I allow to do that, it's going to lead me to ruin. God's going to drop down in my life. He's no longer God of my life. But things begin to run and rule my life. And it's the same with you. Simple question, real simple question. I'm wondering how many we have here tonight to say, preacher, you're right. You're right. It is so easy to allow things and possessions and money To become important, more important than God. And Brother Barron, just like you said, every once in a while, every once in a while We've got to take stock of where we're at. And if God has dropped down that list, we've got to move God back on the throne again. Brother Barons, as you preached that tonight. God once again reminded me that treasures in heaven are more important. And treasures down here. Would you pray for me tonight that I would either make God number one or keep God number one? In my life. Would you pray for me about that? Would you slip your hands up tonight? Thank you. Just amen. Well, thank you. Probably more hands tonight than the other night. I appreciate that Anybody else? Anybody else? Now's the time. Hey this all you gotta ask you, hey listen, this will tell you what you need to do or what you don't need to do. Right here, this question right here. If you died right now, if you died right now, what do you got up there? What have you been sending up there? That will tell you what you need to do. You're sitting here and saying, Boy, preacher, you know what? If I die tonight, I don't think there's much up there for me. That tells you, you know what that tells you? You need to put God number one in your life tonight. Anyone else, real quick? Slip up your hand, put it back down, I'll pray for you. Thank you. Anybody else? Just slip it up, put it back down, and I'll pray. Anybody else? We had a ton of hands the first time. Is there anybody else real quick? Anyone else? Thank you.