And that began a period of time like no other, and the Word of God has been distributed around the world like it had never before. This church, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, from its inception back in 1962, downtown Oakland, as First Baptist Church of Oakland down by the where the old track side used to be, till this very day, has used only the King James Bible. for a number of reasons, some of which some you could say were just a little bit hard-headed, maybe, a little bit stubborn, resistant to change But uh I believe and I'm convinced we have m greater reasons than just stubbornness and hard-headedness and and uh but we have biblical reasons logical reasons, historical reasons for using the King James Bible. And we've been kind of, I've been trying to honor the King James in a little series of messages About the Bible and about different things like that. And tonight I want to continue that. As I mentioned this morning, I want to try and answer this question. Are there mistakes in our King James Bible? Are the mistakes? I posted that on a little thing on the internet, and uh boy did I get response back from that. That stirred up a hornet's nest. And um this morning, by the looks of some of the people, when I announced tonight's message that I'm going to show you some mistakes in the Bible I thought, man, if we had a vote for my continued pastorate here, I would not have got that vote. Look at 2 Timothy 3, verse number 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction of righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. All scripture is given by what? Inspiration of God. It is given as if it was the very words coming off the lips of Almighty God. is what we have in this Bible. Now the question is, are there mistakes? Let's pray and I'll try and answer that for you. Father, we ask now that you would bless our study of your word. Probably very few other subjects of more importance to our lives and our world than the subject of the Word of God. I yield myself to you now. I pray that you would teach and preach through me And help us, Lord, to understand clearly the question and the answer. And so we can operate correctly. Fill me, I pray again, dear Lord, with your Holy Spirit in Jesus' name. I ask it, Amen. You've heard perhaps the story of the four blind men who were introduced to an elephant. The first blind man stepped up, and the first part he, the the first thing he came in contact with the elephant was its trunk. And he examined the trunk and felt it. And he walked away. And he says, I know what elephants are like. Elephants are like powerful snakes. That's what elephants are like. Second blind man stepped up and first thing he felt was the huge ears flopping back and forth in the wind and he felt the texture and their movement and the flexibility of it. And he walked away and he said, You are completely wrong. An elephant is not anything like a snake. An elephant is like a large leafy plant. The third blind man stepped up to the elephant, and he came in contact, first of all, with the legs of the elephant. Big round. And he felt them and tried to put his arms around them and as they went down and where they touched the ground. And he walked away and he said, Both of you guys are wrong. An elephant isn't anything like a snake. It isn't anything like a plant. An elephant is like a large tree trunk. That's what elephants are like. The fourth guy stepped up and he came in contact with the elephant's tail. And he felt that narrow tail swishing back and forth. And he says. None of you three guys know anything what you're talking about. An elephant is not like a snake. He's not like a leafy plant. He's not like a trunk. An elephant is just like a rope. Every one of these fellows had information about an elephant that was true. Is it true that parts of an elephant are kind of like a snake? Yes. There's an aspect of an elephant, the trunk is like a snake The ears, yes, the ears are kind of like a leafy plant. The legs are kind of like a big tree trunk. The tail is like a rope. But they had incomplete information Which produced an incorrect conclusion. You follow what I'm saying? Because they didn't have all the information about the elephant, their conclusion was wrong. Now, that's the same way it is with a lot of people's conclusion about the Word of God. They don't have all the information, thus they come to wrong conclusions. For instance We'll be out knocking on doors, go door to door, meeting different people, and I enjoy that. You get all kinds of responses, overwhelming uh number of people are very positive, very friendly. The uh the unkind people are very rare, far and in between Far and few between. And uh, but you'll have folks say something like this. I had a young man not too long ago, uh, probably within the last two years, a young man, and uh he said this to me He goes, he says, I don't believe the Bible's true. He says, it's just written by men. Now question, is the Bible written by men? Yeah, in in an aspect it is. It's God used men to record it. We say the men they're the penmen So, in a sense, he was correct. Yes, the Bible is written by men, but he came to the wrong conclusion because he didn't have all the information. It's written by men, but it's inspired by God. And he missed that part. In fact, that same fellow in the conversation made this statement. He said, uh uh, he says the Bible's, and later on in the conversation he goes, the Bible's full of mistakes. I said, how do you know that? He goes, I saw a TV show about it once. I said, oh well that settles the whole issue then, of course, if there's a TV show about it. Bible is man's writing. Some people will say this. Knock on the door, they'll say, oh yeah, he says, you know, my problem with the Bible is uh it's full of contradictions. Now let me ask you a question. I'm going to word this very carefully. Are there some apparent contradictions in the Bible? Sure there are. In Proverbs it says, answer not a fool according to his folly. The very next verse says, answer a fool according to his folly. How can you do both? Uh so yeah, that feels kind of like a rope. Yeah, the Bible has contradictions in it. Yeah, but you don't have all the information. You've come to a wrong conclusion. The Bible's full of mistakes. Now, my question is this: Are these people correct? Question: Are there some apparent mistakes in the Bible I'm wording it very carefully. Are there some apparent mistakes in the Bible? On the surface, they appear like a mistake. Yeah, there are actually apparent mistakes But they don't have all the information about that situation, that apparent mistake, and they come to the conclusion, oh, there are mistakes Because they don't have all the information, they come to a wrong conclusion. The fact is, now this is where you're going to have to be a little bit patient with me You're gonna get really mad and then you're gonna be very relieved. I wasn't gonna say anything, but I'm gonna I'm uh I want to protect I want job security here. You're going to get mad at me, but you're going to be very relieved. Alright. I have two points tonight. My first point is this: proven mistakes in the Bible. I will prove that there are mistakes in the Bible. My second point is, how many folks are feeling swelling up a little bit there? My second point is apparent mistakes in the Bible. So nobody has walked out yet, so you trust me a little bit here. I want to give you some proven. My first point is proven mistakes in the Bible. I will prove to you. that there are mistakes in the Bible. Now, turn with me, if you would, to Genesis chapter 3 I'm going to show you the first mistake I find in the Bible. Genesis chapter 3. I'm going to begin reading in verse 2. Genesis chapter 3 and verse 2. Now we know the story here. Adam and Eve. They're in the Garden of Eden. Let's start in verse one. Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden? And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, Ye shall not eat it, neither shall ye touch it. And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not su uh oh ye sh neither shall ye touch it lest ye die. And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die, for God doth know That in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be open, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, look at this She took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat Here we have the first proven mistake in the Bible. This is it. Eve made a tragic mistake when she listened to the devil and disobeyed God. Am I right or wrong? Was that not a mistake for Eve to listen to the devil and disobey God? Amen? How many people are? But it's true. That is a mistake. Now, the record of that mistake is correct. The Bible's recording of Eve's mistake is correct But there is a mistake in the Bible when Eve disobeyed God and listened to the Satan. Hey, anytime you and I disobey God, we are making a tragic mistake. We can justify it in our minds, we can anticipate a positive outcome, we can go through any logical reasoning we want to, but when it's all said and done, to disobey God is a tragic mistake. So when you're witnessing to your co-worker, when you have that unbelieving family member, when you're out knocking on doors, and some smart alley comes and answers the door and says, Yeah, the Bible's full of mistakes. You can agree with them And say, you know you're right. Let me show you one in Genesis. Eve made the mistake of listening to the devil and believing his lie, doubting God's word, and disobeying God. Let me give you another mistake I found in the Bible. It's kind of fun now, isn't it? How many folks say, boy, he caught me completely off guard on that? Anybody be honest enough? Four people. Genesis chapter 12 and verse 1 through 5. Another mistake in the Bible. Now I wish this was original with me, but I gotta be honest, I got this from another fellow. Genesis chapter 12 and verse number 15. This first part anyway. And now the Lord had said unto Abraham, Get thee out of thy country, look at this next phrase, and from thy what? What's that mean? Get away from your relatives. Leave them behind. Get out, get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto the land which I that I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee, and indeed shall all families of the earth be blessed And verse 4, so Abraham departed as the Lord had spoken unto him, and what happened? Lot went with him Mistake. You agree with me? God said, you leave your kindred behind. And Abraham, Lot, apparently his daddy was dead or abandoned, whatever, and Abraham's raising Lot. And I can or uh and I can hear Abraham raising, say, I can't leave Lot behind Wait a minute, what's he going to do? I've got to take care of him. He's got to come with me. And what did Abraham do? He leaned on his own understanding. Rather than trusting God And he brought Lot along with him. Question, how many people agree with me it was a mistake for Abraham to bring Lot along? Good night, looking back, Lot did nothing but cause problems Lot brought horrendous difficulties into the life of Abraham, put Abraham's life at risk And so it was a mistake for Abraham to take Lot with him. Now, we're not going to look all these up, but Numbers chapter 20, verse 7 through 13. Moses made a mistake when he lost his His temper and struck that rock instead of speaking to it. He never was able to enter the promised land In uh Judges chapter 16 verse 19 through 21, Samson made a tragic we have another mistake in the Bible. Samson made the mistake of falling in love with a woman God forbade for him to fall in love with. And boy, it cost him his life, brought shame on the name of Israel and the God of Israel. He fell in love with someone whom was not God's will for him to fall in love with. Terrible mistake. Another mistake in Judges John chapter 1 verse 11 and 12, the Jews made the mistake of not receiving Jesus as their Messiah. Costs them dearly. Anybody who does not accept Jesus as their Savior is making a tragic mistake. So, preacher, are there mistakes in the Bible? Yeah, there's heaps of them. And when somebody comes to you and says, Ah, that Bible's full of mistakes, why don't you take them to John chapter 1? Verse 11 and 12 and say, yeah, you're right. Right here, the Jews made the mistake of not trusting Christ as Savior. Don't you make the same mistake? Follow what I'm saying? So these and and by the way, you can go through. We can talk about Abraham and Hagar We could talk about the mistake of Judas betraying Jesus. We could talk about the mistake of the rich man not trusting Christ and ending up in hell. So there are some proven mistakes in the Bible Now let me get back to the subject at hand. That was kind of fun. I had probably more fun with that than what you did. Mistakes in the Bible. Second thing I want to consider is perceived mistakes in the Bible. Now this is where the critics come in. This is where folks who like to find fault with our King James Bible, and they point out what they call errors. In the manuscript of our Bible, what they call as mistakes in the record of the Word of God. Now here's the sad thing about this. Generally, these critics of our Bible that come up with these Mistakes in the record will almost always target young college students preparing for the ministry. You get in some liberal college, Bible college, you get in some college that doesn't hold strong to the Word of God and the inspiration and preservation of God's Word. And they love to get those young college students just out of high school and fill their mind with this false concept that there are errors in the Word of God. So they target, they like to target young college people, and they use these apparent mistakes to justify rewriting the Bible. And so, oh, the King James Bible, and they'll use some of the things I'm going to show you here in a moment. They'll say, see, there's a there's these are mistakes here in the record. We've got to rewrite it. We need a new version that corrects these mistakes. You need this study Bible And in the margins of the study Bible, it will tell you where these mistakes are and what the correction is. I reject that. There are no errors in the record, the recording, the manuscripts of God's Word. It is infallible, inerrant. We come across terms like this, and you'll find them in most study Bibles. And I'm not against study Bibles necessarily. I you know I I like the old Schofield. I've used it for years and I'm I'm promote it But you've got to understand those notes, those marginal writings are not inspired, those are Dr. C. I. Schofield's thoughts. And so if you'll look at my Scope of the Bible, I don't have it here now, I have it here at the house, I use it for study. If you look at mine, you'll find a whole lot of his notes where I have a black marker. I went through and crossed them out. I disagree with them And you'll find these comments and margins and in your liberal writings and folks who are critics of the King James, they'll write things like, they'll say, well, this is a copyist's error. Or they'll use this term. This is a scribal error in your Bible. This is a textual mistake. And as I said, you often find them in the style. So let's, and there's a number of these. But I want us to, and I'm trying to do this as quickly as I can, I want us to look at one in particular. I'll mention a few others And tell you what they say and then offer a, what I believe, a scriptural explanation. Turn with me, and you're going to need your Bibles here. Turn with me to 2 Kings chapter 24. Second Kings chapter 24. Now while you're finding that, 2 Kings 24, I want to point out to you 1 and 2 Samuel and 1 and 2 Kings record the history uh for the most part of the kingdom period of Israel, from King Saul until they're taken into captivity, and while the kings were there. And then you have 1 and 2 Chronicles. 1 and 2 Chronicles, without I'm oversimplifying here a little bit, but 1 and 2 Chronicles kind of condense What 1 Samuel through 2 Kings, those four books, the history they have, you have in 1 and 2 Chronicles kind of squished together. And it recaps, restates what 1 Samuel through 2 Kings says. So when we come to 1 2 Kings chapter 24, now you're going to have to Pay attention. I kind of set this up a little bit this morning in Sunday school. You've got to make observation when you're reading the Bible. Ask yourself questions. Look what's being said. 2 Kings 24 and verse number 8. And Jehoiakim was how old? Eighteen years old When he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem three months. Now keep your place there. We're going to come back to that. Turn over to 2 Chronicles. Chapter 36. Ah, that Bible has textual errors, copious errors, scribal mistakes Ah, we need to rewrite it and fix all these mistakes in that old King James Bible. 2 Chronicles 36, verse 9. Are you looking? 2 Chronicles 36, 9. I want everybody to see this. And Jehoiakim was what? Eight years old. What did Second Kings say he was? Eighteen years old. Second Chronicles says he's how old? Obviously, there's a mistake here. Obviously, the scribes that copied this over made a tragic mistake and they left the one off and they made it eight instead of eighteen. Uh, the copyists, those King James translators missed it and made a terrible, terrible mistake. Is that correct? Was he eight or was he eighteen? Which was it? You know what the easy solution to that question is? Oh, it's a mistake. Oh, the easy solution is, well, uh they uh they miscopied over when they were writing that. Instead of writing 18, they just wrote eight, and it's just a mistake came in there That's the most common solution. I have a question with that solution If it was actually a mistake, it was written wrong, how does that fit in with God's preservation of his word? Did God preserve a mistake? Did God miss it? The answer is to simply say that a scribe made a mistake that does not fit in with the biblical teaching of preservation. If this is a mistake, then what the Bible says about preserving his word, what God said about preserving his word, is wrong. Are you with me? I'm gonna suggest to you that that common solution, well it's just a c I'm curious. I'm I'm curious. Now I looked this up in uh Schofield's thing and I don't think he comments on that Is there anybody here that has a s has a Bible that has has in the margin or in the notes anywhere said something about a copyist error or anything like that? Does anybody have something like that? No? Okay. Good. The common answer, the easy answer, is well this is just a mistake. I think there are two reasons somebody comes up with that solution. They just say, oh, it's just a mistake. Number one is they do not, either they are ignorant of or they do not believe the doctrine of preservation. They reject the idea that God would preserve his word perfectly for us. Or, and I think this is probably more true, they're just downright lazy. And they won't make the time, they won't take the time or make the effort to really study it out and figure out what the solution is. The fact of the matter is, there is a biblical solution to this apparent mistake in the Bible. In fact, there's three possible ones. Biblical solutions that completely eradicate the idea that there would be a mistake involved here. First solution is, and this is very real possibility, they would have in the years of the kings, they would have what were called co-regents In other words, a father, before he died, would declare his son to be king And they would serve together for a period of years, sharing the responsibilities, depending on the age of the son. He became king at that age when the father made him king, but they were co-regents. is the term, until the father would die, and then the son would step in, and he would then become sole acting king. David did this with Solomon. Remember before Solomon died before David died, David's other son uh tried to get the throne. What was that guy's name? Bob or something like that. He was going to take the throne and and uh uh Nathan comes and says, Ah, did you make Bob the king in your place? And Dave says, Bob, I don't even know anybody named Bob. No, it didn't go exactly like that. But uh he goes, no. And so he anointed Solomon to be king before David was dead. And so he was co-regent. It is very realistic, very easy to come to the conclusion That all that happened here with Jehoiakim was when he was eight years old, his father perhaps anointed him as king. They served as co-regent for ten years until his father was taken captive to Israel and then uh Jehoiakim began to reign at age 18. And thus you would have Second Kings talking about the 18 year uh age when he began to reign solely as king. Second Chronicles would deal with the eight-year-old range. Do I have that correct? The two things? Eight-year-old, and uh, and that was when he was appointed. How many folks say, well, I can see that. Does that make sense Sure. But you know the problem is you've got to think a little bit. You've got to do a little research. You've got to look at some other passages and scriptures and look at other things. Rather than assuming the Bible's wrong. Why don't you assume it's right and look for a solution within that framework? But they don't do that. That's why they're called biblical critics. Critics. There's another possible solution. Some have suggested Bible believers that hold to that this is not a mistake. It's simply we need more information to come to the correct conclusion. Others have suggested that the father perhaps was deported at the age of eight. We know his father was taken by Nebuchadnezzar, one of those guys, uh, before Jehoiakim uh was dead, uh his father was deported. It is possible that his father was taken when he was eight years old and he served as co-regent with his mother for ten years. Many times if the father was killed and the child was small, the mother would be acting as queen, but because of uh various reasons they would be in the background. They would not get the the recognition they claim It's very possible, for whatever reason, the Bible didn't record that the fact of his mother there with him helping him reign. And then when she passed off the scene at age age eighteen, then he began to reign on his own as an individual and that's where 2 Kings picks it up. You see, the problem is if all we're going to do is feel just the tail And don't have the rest of the information, we're going to come to a wrong conclusion. This says eight. This says eighteen. The Bible must have mistakes in it. The Bible's obviously wrong here. Wait a minute. All you're feeling is the tail. There's a whole lot of other information out there that may explain this. So it's possible that he reigned as co-regent with his daddy. He may have reigned as co-regent with uh uh with his mother. Um 2 Chronicles chapter 36 verse 9, look at the next verse. Well Jehoiakim was eight years old when he began to reign And he reigned three months in Jer and ten days in Jerusalem, and he did which is evil in the sight of the Lord. Come back to 2 Kings verse 24, where we were initially. Verse 8 says 18 years old, but come down to verse 12. Of 2 Kings 24. Are you there? And Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, went out to the king of Babylon He and his mother, all right, she's on the scene, and his servants and his princes and his officers, and the king of Babylon took him in the eighth year of his reign. Oh. Some Bible believers have suggested that what 2 Chronicles is talking about is not talking about eight years Of being alive, but eight years old in his kingship. And eight-year-old administration as king So if we put a little bit of effort into it, if we give a little bit of thought to it, if we do a little bit of research, we find out There are a whole lot of other possibilities to this rather than coming to the conclusion, oh, the Bible's wrong. But if somebody thinks they know more than God does, it's very easy to come to the conclusion, well, God's word is wrong and I know what the answer is. It's just a mistake. You follow what I'm saying? And so here's one, this is a classic. This is one they like to use to say, oh, there's mistakes in the Bible. And we find out there's a whole lot more to an elephant than just a rope-like tail. It's a whole lot more to an elephant than just a snake-like chunk. And there's a whole lot more to this apparent mistake than just two records of two different ages. There's a whole lot more to it. So that's one. A little brain work, and you find a solution. There actually is a solution to this. Let me give you a couple others real quickly, and we're not going to turn to them Exodus chapter 24 and verse 10, the Bible says Israel saw God. They saw God. In John chapter 1 and verse 18, Jesus said, No man hath seen God at any time. The Bible's obviously wrong. Well, knucklehead, give it a little bit of thought first. I told my wife I was going to quit calling people knuckleheads from the pulpit. And there I went and did it again. You idiot, I won't call them knuckleheads, I'll call them idiots. Uh why don't we give it a little bit of thought here? Maybe what the Israelites saw when they saw God, do you think it may be possible that rather than it being a mistake, maybe they simply saw a manifestation of God? Maybe they saw the pre-incarnate the Lord Jesus Christ. Maybe both statements are actually true. Maybe there is no contradiction. Maybe there is no mistake there. Lo and behold, maybe God's word is right. In Numbers chapter 25 and verse 9, the Bible says 24,000 people died in a plague. In 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 8, and I wish we had time to go to these, but 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 8, it says 23,000 people died in the plague. Uh-oh. But 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 8, if you read on, says that 23,000 died in the plague in one day. Whereas numbers just says the total amount who died was 24,000. That solution is not. Well, it's obviously a mistake. No, think about it. Maybe 23,000 died in one day, but the total death toll, maybe over a period of days following, ended up being 24,000. And lo and behold, the Bible's correct. Um in Acts chapter uh Acts chapter uh seven In fact, let's go to this one real quick. This one won't take long. And I think I think Schofield addresses this one I may be wrong, but I think he does. In Acts chapter 7, and I had a fellow on the internet when I posted that I was going to preach on this subject, he wrote back and asked, What's what about this situation? Acts chapter 7 and look at verse 44. Here you have Stevens preaching. He's about to be killed. I mean, he's just blasting the Jews. And oh no, the Bible has a mistake. Look what it says in verse forty-four of chapter seven. Our fathers, this is Stephen speaking, had the tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, as he appointed, speaking unto Moses, that he should make it according to the fashion that he had seen. So they're talking about the tabernacle out there Which also our fathers that came after brought in, what were they bringing in? The tabernacle, they're moving the tabernacle, which also our fathers that came in after brought in with Jesus into the possession of the Gentiles, whom God drave out the what in the world? Jesus brought the tabernacle into the promised land after Moses made it after the fashion? Then Jesus brought it in? What are you talking about? Jesus wasn't even incarnate then yet Oh, obviously a mistake. Those stupid Bible people, they just made a mistake. That's not supposed to be Jesus. It's supposed to be Joshua. How could they be so dumb and make a mistake? That solution's so easy. Joshua and Jesus are the exact same name. Joshua is the Hebrew version of Jesus. Jesus is the Greek version of Joshua So it is not a mistake at all. It's simply he's using the Greek version of Joshua, which is Jesus, God's Savior with us. Jehovah's salvation is Joshua, is what Jesus means. It's kind of like the Greek form of the word Dennis is Dionysius. And the English form of the word named Dionysius is Dennis. And so you could say, hey, where's Pastor Dionysius Leatherman at? You idiot! You don't even know our pastor. Yes, I do. I know that that's the Greek form of his first name. Which Dionysius, just by trivia, is was the god of wine So sip on that for a little while It's not a mistake at all. It's just the legitimate right to use a different language form of the same name. It's not a mistake. Um, one more, chapter twelve of Acts Chapter twelve of Acts. Look at verse four And when he had apprehended him, he put him in prison and delivered him to four quaturions of soldiers to keep him, intending after Easter. To bring him forth to the people. Easter? That's not. There I use that word again. That's not the right word. They used a they made a mistake translating this Bible. Good great. Hey, if that's not the right word, they made a mistake translating it, then how does the preservation of God fit into this thing That word, I think Schofield addresses this, that word supposed to be what? Passover. You know what? There's a problem with that. Look at verse 3. And because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further. Take Peter also. Then were the days of unleavened bread. You know what it means? That means that there were days of unleavened bread? Passover was already over. Passover was done. This couldn't be referring to Passover. This was a holiday, a day in that day that was known as Easter. We took the term, I think the Catholics probably took it. from that and applied it to the resurrection of Christ. But that's not a mistake. It's not Passover. Passover was over. It was done. So here's the conclusion. And we could go on, and you can get a list of these. And I'm telling you, every apparent error in the Bible has a biblical, logical answer to it. God's word is true. God has preserved it. It is inerrant. It is infallible. It is the word of God. And for thousands of years. People have been attacking it and trying to criticize it and tear it down when all you have to do is believe God. Study that book, think a little bit, and the answers become very obvious. So this is my challenge. When someone when let's see, it's not Peter Jennings on TV anymore. Who would it be? Who would be a TV, a news guy? Brian Williams. Who else? When Bill O'Reilly Gets on there and he says, Well, scientists have discovered there's a huge error in the Bible. Don't freak out Alright? Oh no! Finally, they proved the Bible's wrong. Here's my advice. Just give it a little bit of time Trust God, think a little bit, and you wait and see. And that thing will work itself out, and the Bible will come out on top every single time. Every single time. Oh, mistakes in the Bible. Hmm, let's think that through a little bit Let's look at the context. Let's compare other scriptures. Let's find out what other situations were on the same thing. The easiest, laziest thing to do is just say, oh, the Bible has a mistake. Don't freak out. If you're witnessing to somebody, they say, yeah, that Bible's full of mistakes. Have a little fun. Say, hey, you know you're right. Let me show you one. John chapter one, those Jews made the mistake of not trusting Jesus their Savior. They died and went to hell. Don't make that same mistake. mistake. Don't be intimidated. Don't get rattled. Hey, when somebody comes and starts telling you all the all the things wrong with the Bible, don't get mad Don't blow your top. Don't freak out. Just say, all right, show me one. Huh? Yeah, here show me one. Oh, I know they're in there Show it to me. Well, uh it's there. Alright. And you just go right on. The truth is on our side. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for the Word of God. And I pray, Lord, you'd help us not be rattled. Lord, help us not to doubt. God, I pray these great men have years gone by that were burned at the stake because of their confidence in the veracity of that book, help us, Lord, to learn from them and not be so easily shaken. I pray that we would get beyond the cover, that we would take this old King James Bible, incorporate it into our hearts and lives, make it the manual of our life, the authority of our life, and live our lives by this infallible book. With our heads bowed and eyes closed. I don't know how God would deal in your heart. I don't know how God's working in your life. But I do know this: God wants you and I to commit ourselves fully to the Lord Jesus Christ. He wants us to be dedicated to Jesus Christ and his cause. And the Word of God is our manual And let's step up in this old unbelieving, critical, Bible-denying world. Let's step up, plant our feet, and say, no, we're not going to be moved. We're not going to be shaken. We know God's word is true. Let's ask God to help us. Give us a holy boldness, a holy confidence. Hey, let's just start reading it. Let's start there. And then memorize it and obey it. Father, as we go into the Lord's Supper here in just a moment, I pray you'd search our hearts, use your word To examine us as a mirror, show us where we have need. The changes that need to be made. The ish areas of our life need to be addressed. Holy Spirit of God, do not leave us alone. Help us to go forward, to step forward in our Christian life, be more like Christ, be more effective in our witness, be more committed to the cause. And have your way, we pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bad.