This morning I've entitled it, Are You Praying for the Lost? Are You Praying for the Lost of This World? I trust the Lord will use that to stir our hearts. And see the great need of evangelism and reaching others with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Before we get into the word, let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Father, we do love you and thank you for loving us this morning. We're thankful for the privilege of being here and sharing in this conference and I know, Lord, that your hand of blessing has been upon it over these thirty years. Many a preacher has been stirred, and his heart put a flame in a fire to win the loss to Christ And I thank you for Brother Latherman and the good work that he's doing and the faithful service over these many years. We thank you for each and every one that is here today. And I pray, Father, that this Sword of the Lord conference will have the crowning blessing of God upon it, and the fires of revival and soul winning will be stirred in our hearts Bless the preachers to come. And I pray that you'd receive all the honor and the glory. And we'll thank you for it because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. If you have your Bibles, I'd like you to take them and turn to the book of Psalms, chapter number 67. I want to read two verses of scripture in this psalm and then bring the message the Lord has laid upon my heart. Psalm chapter 67, and beginning with verse number one, the Bible says, God be merciful unto us. There's not one in the house this morning. that could not stand and give an arousing testimony of how merciful God has been to you. We are recipients of the mercy of God The mere fact that we could get out of bed this morning, the mere fact that we could gather in this church house this morning is all because of the mercy of God Almighty. The very fact that we're saved by the Lord Jesus Christ and kept by the power of God is because of the sheer mercy and love and grace of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. So this psalm begins calling our attention to the mercy of God and the fact that God has blessed us and caused his face to shine upon us. The Lord was in this passage of Scripture. When it talks about his face shining upon you, it's talking about the Lord's favor being upon you. The Lord's blessing being upon you. I I don't know anybody that doesn't want the blessing of God. I feel a shout coming on right there. When I think about the blessing of the Lord and how he blesses us and how he meets our many, many needs. How can we not but shout the praises of the Lord? And then in verse number two, why does God show his mercy? And why does his face shine upon us? Verse number two: that thy way be known upon the earth, thy saving health among all nations. Do you see the concern in that passage of Scripture? That all of the earth, not just certain parts of this world, but all of the earth, all of the world. May know about our God and know our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now certainly there are people that bow down to gods. The mere creation tells us there's a God And that's why people make their gods. They know that there was a maker behind all of this, and so they'll carve and shape out something that they can attribute to the creation of the world. Creation will tell you there's a maker. But creation does not tell us how to know that maker. We need the scriptures, the word of God, in order to reveal to us the Savior and the love that He had for us. And so there's a great concern, a great burden that is presented in this passage of Scripture. It's about caring for lost souls. Whether they be down the street or next door or across town or around the world, God's people ought to care about souls. We ought to be broken and burdened about souls. And I believe coming from that verse of Scripture, the Lord wants everyone to know all across this world about the saving-keeping power of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. You think about over eight billion people in this world, and most of them in spiritual darkness and spiritual ignorance and blindness. Oh, how it ought to break and burden our heart to realize our responsibility to tell them about our Savior, Jesus Christ. They tell us that the world is growing, the population is expanding at about 83 million people every single year. And the sad part behind that is over 4,000 churches will be closed this year. Close their doors when this world is on its toboggan slide to hell. What's happened? Why are churches closing? Everywhere I go I hear Preachers talking about, I'm sure you have them in Georgia, you have them in Tennessee, we have them in Pennsylvania, churches that are without a pastor. Churches that have closed their doors, and yet this world lies in the lap of the wicked one? If anything, we ought to be increasing the number of churches. We ought to be increasing our outreach to the world We ought to stop playing with this and touch this world with the gospel of Jesus Christ Much of this world, this world in which we live, is in spiritual darkness and blindness. They're children of the devil You sit in this house this morning, and you're either on one side or the other. There's no middle ground on this. You either are in the devil's camp. Or you're in God's camp because you come to know him through Jesus Christ, Lord and Savior. The Bible tells us ye are of your Father, the devil. You ask yourself How could these things that are such wickedness that we see and we experience in this world, how can such things happen? I'll tell you how. The spiritual blindness and ignorance and darkness of people's hearts, that old nature that is controlling them and leading them down this path of sin. This world is in spiritual darkness because they're under the control and dominion of Satan himself. The Bible tells us in the book of Acts 26 and verse 18, the testimony that is given there to open their eyes. If there's anything people in this community and across this state and around the world, they need their eyes open to their need of a Savior. It's our job, our responsibility, our commandment to go and tell them and reveal to them the love of God that drew salvation's plan. That love that brought it down to man, that great gulf that was expanded and overcome because of what Christ did on the cross of Calvary. That opening their eyes and delivering them from darkness and bringing them into the kingdom of light. That's what soul winning is all about. Every soul that gets saved has been redeemed from that spiritual darkness Has been grasped in the love and mighty power of our God and brought into the kingdom of light and into the very body of Christ because of what Christ did on the cross of Calvary. Talk about this world being in spiritual darkness. They're children. They're children of the devil. They're held captive and under the authority and dominion of the devil himself. What is really said, they're blind to the gospel. They're blind to the gospel. The Bible says the gospel be hid, it's hid to them that are lost. It's blinding them. It's keeping them from coming to the glorious light of the gospel. Unfortunately This spiritual darkness, this blindness that they're in, this ignorance that has engulfed them, has brought them to the place that they think the gospel is foolish. How many people do you talk to about the Lord and they just simply said, I don't need that. I don't want that. I don't believe that. I don't see it that way The natural man receives not the things of the Spirit of God, their foolishness to him. When God uses that word foolish in that passage of scripture is simply revealing the fact that this unsaved world on their way to a Christess eternity looks at the gospel as being stupid Unnecessary, unneeded, foolish, foolish, distasteful That's the attitude that a lot of people have in this spiritual ignorance and blindness that they're in. They're dead in sin. Plain dead in sin and need to be rescued. We sing about that. Rescue the perishing, care for the dying, snatch them in pity. Are we rescuing the lost? It's not just good enough to sing about it. We we gotta put a little shoe leather to this. Uh we we gotta roll up our sleeves and get busy about this. It's not a matter of just singing about it. It's a matter of doing something about it. So in this passage of Scripture, I see a call to prayer Are you praying for the lost? Whether it be a family member, whether it be a next-door neighbor, whether it be somebody that you work with? Some relative, family member, somebody that you're burdened about, that you're bringing before the throne of grace, earnestly contending before God's throne of grace for the salvation of their souls Are you praying for the lost? Every one of us ought to have a list of souls that we are praying for Many, many times, when you pray for an individual to come to know Christ as their personal Savior, God opens that door If they're nearby you and someone that you're capable of reaching and talking to, the Lord will open that door and give opportunity to tell them about Jesus Christ A lot of my wife's family is lost. They they w they weren't a religious family. They were not a church-going family. Oh, occasionally on Easter and maybe Christmas time, a few other times during the year they might darken the door of the church. But most of the time they never cared about the things of the Lord. And many times when we tried to witness to them and tell them about The love of God and the salvation that they needed, uh, they would spurn you and laugh at you and didn't want to have anything to do with that and told us we don't want to hear that And oh, how we prayed and asked the Lord to open the door that we might tell them about Jesus. The Lord opened that door. Dad died. And guess who they call to have the funeral? There they all were sitting in front of me. The very people that we were praying for, the very ones that our heart was burdened for. Sitting one by one, two by two, family members all there, gathered together. Now, I believe when you preach a funeral, you ought to preach the gospel. How many a family has walked away from a funeral service Because some deadhead backslidden preacher gets up and tells them about the flocks and the birds and the bees and doesn't tell them about Jesus and the plan of salvation. I believe in giving an invitation at a funeral as well. We had the opportunity to present the gospel to every one of them. No one got saved. Kept praying. Kept praying. Led her mother to the Lord. Led her brother to the Lord. Led his wife to the Lord. Let one of her twin brothers to the Lord. Let her sister to the Lord. And then Mum died. Guess who they asked to have the funeral? It was in the Methodist church, too. You'll forgive me for that, won't you? Was in the Methodist Church. I didn't say, well, you gotta move it to the Baptist church in order for me to preach. I said, clear the way. Open the door. Set them down. And the walls of that church reverberated with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Her whole family once again sitting there. Some now saved by the grace of God, saved by the grace of God, kept by the power of God. They're going to hear it again. Same old fashioned message Oh boy, were they disturbed that day. One of them was a Mormon. They couldn't get out of that church fast enough. I think some of the folks that had come from the community that were Methodist and members of that church, they couldn't hardly wait to get out of there either. God opens doors for you when you're praying for the lost and asking God to reach them with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And you know what else I found, preacher? Maybe they live a far distance away from us. She has family members in California. God can send somebody there to reach them. Knocking on doors. If there's a church in that community, a faithful church in that community, a soul-winning church in that community God can direct them to that very door, to that very house, to that very family, and the door is open once again. One sister wrote to us and said, we had someone at our door today. Did you send them? They talked just like your husband talks They said the same thing your husband said. I knew that was a good church then. Lord, stir their hearts, open their eyes. Why? Because they are ignorant to the gospel of Jesus Christ. They're blind to those things that we owe dear and precious to our heart. Are you praying? Are you praying? Earnestly praying for lost souls to be saved. I like that passage of Scripture in the book of Isaiah, chapter 41, and in verse number 1, produce your cause. That's where you can put the names. Here's my cause for it. I want to see this one saved. I want to see this one saved. I want to see this one saved. I want to see this one saved. I remember when we first started our ministry, we were in a little Sunday school room with our first Ryobi printing press and we were printing gospel tracts and one of the fellows that that came to deliver supplies to us Oh, he was a wicked, vile, lost sinner needing salvation. And just because he was in a church house didn't mean that he would not take God's name in vain. We had to corner him on that. Stop him from that. Presented him the gospel. He stomped out of that building. He wouldn't come back. He always sent somebody else. I've prayed to this day for that man to be saved. My hope, my prayer, oh God saved him. Present your cause. Present those names to the Lord. If we were to go down this side and down this side, I'm sure every one of us have family members that need the Lord as their Savior. Every one of us have family members that that we're burdened about, care about, and want to see saved. Are you praying for them, earnestly contending before the throne of grace? It's a spiritual battle that we are engaged in. Satan wants to keep us from our knees in prayer, but those names need to be presented to the Lord, called out before. Present your cause. And then I like the latter part of that verse where it says, Bring forth your strong reasons. Why would I pray for a soul to be saved? There's some strong reasons. If they die without the Savior, they go to a Christeless eternity where the worm never dies and where the fire is never quenched. Where just as I am will never be heard, where a gospel preacher will not be proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ. They won't be heard there. What will be heard is the agony, the sorrow, the suffering, the regret, the cries, the moaning, the grief. Oh, present your cause, but at the same time, give your reasons why you want them saved if they die without the Lord. It's a certain hell and suffering forever and forever. I think sometimes we lose sight of that. We need to start seeing the fact that if people die without the Lord, it's a sure doom for all eternity. I'm glad I'm saved by the grace of God. I don't like worms, do you? I can't imagine living with worms forever. Just makes me shiver. We're coming into that season where those furry little critters crawl across the the the sidewalk and you step on them, they crackle and pop, just like Rice Krispies Can you imagine having nowhere to turn to be free from the worms? Nowhere to turn to be free of the grief The pain, the sorrow. I think sometimes fundamental churches have forgotten it's a real hell that we're trying to keep people from. We've just kind of gone soft on that. We need to get back to that fire and brimstone preaching and telling the truth about hell and about heaven and about salvation, about the devil. About life, about death. We need to get back to that and proclaim that from the pulpit in power. Under the moving of the Spirit of the Living God. Present your cause. Why do you want me to save them? I think we ought to pray boldly. I think we're called upon to pray effectively I think the Bible is very clear when it says we're to pray continually and fervently, calling upon the name of the Lord, contending before the throne of grace for the salvation. Are you praying? For the lost of this world to be saved. I believe there's compelling reason for such prayer When you pray for a lost sinner to be saved, you're pleading for the very purpose of God to be fulfilled. God wants people saved. Now say amen or owe me right there. That's something else I think we've lost too, preacher. We've lost our ameners. We just kind of settle down and feel kinda cozy and comfortable and I wish we had a button right there. I might as well just stand here and hold it uh the rest of the service. I think I told you before I was in the church they were so sour. I mean Brother Smith they they had frowns on their face And I said, if they didn't, if they didn't get some joy in their heart, I I I'm not sticking around here. And so the next night in the meeting I I brought a bottle of joy And I said it on the pulpit. And I said, either you folks get a little happy here tonight, or I'm going to squirt you with a bunch of joy right now God's people ought to be filled with the joy of the Lord. Praying for the lost. Why? When you pray for lost sinners to be saved, you're pleading for God's purpose to be fulfilled. Luke 19, 10, I'm come to seek and to save that which was lost. That's the purpose of our Savior. That's why He came into this world. That's why it becomes sin for us who knew no sin That we might be made the righteousness of God. And when we pray for a lost mom, a lost dad, a a lost grandparent, a lost son, a lost daughter A lost relative, a lost next door neighbor, a lost person that we work with or we come in contact with down at Walmart when we pray for them and ask God to save their soul. We're asking God to fulfill the very purpose He sent His Son into this world. You pray for lost sinners to be saved. You're claiming the promises of God You're not only praying for God's purpose to be fulfilled, but you're praying for the very promise that God has given us in His Word to be fulfilled. For God so loved the world. Do you believe that? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever Oh I I like that word, don't you? That means Jew and Gentile can be saved. That means you and me, we can be saved. He loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. That's the promise of God. Whosoever, doesn't say whosoever joins the church, whosoever is baptized, whosoever does the best that they can Whosoever produces enough good works to merit them, the portals of glory. Oh no, it doesn't say that. It says, Whosoever believeth. Salvation is such a wonderful gift from God. When you pray for the salvation of souls, you're asking God to fulfill the very promise that he has given. As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. I can't save myself. I can't save anybody. I've seen some of my converts. They don't turn out so well. They they go back to the same hell holes and Junk of this world, but oh boy, when God gets you. I I feel the shout coming on right there. When God gets a hold of you Oh, when you dip in the fountain of his precious blood and you come up a saved sinner by the grace of God, there's something to shout about and get happy about Brother Allison was saying about rejoicing in the Lord. He came through the door just a smiling and bubbling and and I I guess that's the way we ought to be all the time. Even when we come to church. I'm not talking about sitting down to a a a baked potato and the filet mignon, I'm talking about coming to church And and and letting God spread the table and we sit down at that banqueting table and feast from the manna from heaven. It ought to produce a shout within you. It won't hurt you to be a little Pentecostal here today. Won't hurt you a bit. I was preaching in a church on Sunday and I'm telling you what, it was hard to get an amen. I wished I'd have had that I might just take this with me. I said, just try it one time, just say amen one time. And they say amen. I thought The rafters, those chandeliers, they're still where they used to be. The ceiling didn't fall in. I wish we had a little button to push every once in a while that would prick a pin in our behinds. It would just raise us up a little bit, you know? Help us a little bit there Some of you are so glued to that pew you couldn't move an inch. We'd have to have double pushes. I'm thankful that God is able to do a marvelous work and fulfill his very promise when we pray. For souls to be saved. Pray. Pray. When you pray for a soul to be saved, You're not only asking God to fulfill his purpose and to stay true to his promise, but you're also asking the Lord and you're expressing to him that you're trusting in his power His power. He's able. Hebrews 7. 25. To save to the uttermost. We had a fellow in our church, he was a an ex-marine He was about six foot four. He he weighed about three hundred pounds. I mean he was a big b he carried one of those Oliver Green Bibles, those great big things, you know, that I mean it looked like an encyclopedia for sure And uh if you sat behind him, you better be prepared. Uh because he'd get happy in the Lord and he'd just slap you across the back. Well, when you got slapped by Harry. I mean you better be buckled down because it would move you about three or four pews for forward. And I I remember old Harry when uh he'd get happy in the Lord and you'd be preaching away, he'd just jump up That six foot four frame of his, he'd just jump up where he was, hold up that big Oliver Green Bible that he had, and said, Bless God! He saves to the uttermost, from the gutter to the uttermost. God saves people. That's a time to give an invitation now. When you pray for lost sinners to be saved, you're trusting the power of God to do in that person's life That you can't do. We might have the fancy phrases and all the right words and whatnot, but if it's not anointed with the fire of God The anointing of the Spirit of God, it doesn't pierce the heart. We need that power in order to reach lost sinners for Jesus Christ. There's some contributing factors in the salvation of a soul. Four things that I'm done Number one, people need the scriptures. Being born again Not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God that liveth and abideth forever I I think sometimes we key in on the latter part of that, that it abides. And bless God it does But but how about the power that is involved in that word and the need of that word piercing? Aren't you thankful that God's word is like a flaming fire a dart that is able to pierce the hardest and coldest of hearts and draw them to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. People need the scriptures. People need the word of God. It's not our fancy phrases and psychological manipulation that is necessary. It's the pure, unadulterated word of God that people need to be confronted with and shown so that it pierces their hearts and opens their blinded eyes. People need the scriptures. That's why we produce those little book of Romans. We produced millions of them over the years. Sent them to different parts of this world. Reports come back that people get saved. Praise the Lord for that. And I'm also convinced there's a lot that we never hear from. We're seed sowers. That's all we are. That's why this church is involved in their fingerprint ministry. One of your fellows told me here this morning, they're trying to hit that 100,000 mark this year. Praise the Lord for a church like that, that has a burden not only for their community, but for the world. And we send them to those missionaries at no cost to them. The only involvement they have is to show them, to get them out. 7:30 this morning, my phone rang from Guatemala. We need more Bibles Now you can imagine what I said. What it what uh why are you calling me at seven thirty in the morning? Um Are you surprised that I'm up at 7. 30 this morning? No, I didn't say that. How many Bibles do you want? Well we could use twenty-five thousand as soon as you could get 'em here. Oh we don't we we we wouldn't do that. You you think that's what I said, brother Matt? I've been thinking all the way down here and praying. How can we do as quickly as possible twenty-five thousand more Bibles to get them to Guatemala We sent about 150,000 of them this year. And I want more. One of the saddest pictures I've ever seen Brother Carlos Dante sent it to me. He was standing on a platform, multiple people all around him, handing out Bibles to him. People with their hands up like this. And the inevitable was about to happen. The box was empty. And still People standing gazing at the missionary didn't get a Bible. Aren't you thankful for yours? People need the scriptures. And if you believe the entrance of his word brings light, And we want to make sure we get that word out. Second thing that's needed for a soul to be saved is the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit. He has more coaxing power and convincing power than you and I have. He's able to pierce that heart. He knows the right button to push. He knows the right time that that button needs to be pushed. And when he has come, he will convict the world of their sin, convince them of their need of righteousness, and compel them to understand. Judgment is sure to come if you don't have Jesus in you. We need the Holy Spirit of God. I realize in our day we're just a little shy of the Spirit of God. A little fearful of emphasizing too much of Holy Ghost power for fear will be attributed to the Pentecostal Assembly of God, people of this world Why don't we forget that? The Holy Spirit has been given to us not to deny him, not to suppress him, not to quench him, not to hinder him. But allow him to work through us and with us to reach lost souls for Jesus Christ. People need the scriptures, people need to be confronted by the Spirit of God in order for them to come to know Christ as their personal Savior. There's a third thing that's needed. We need serving servants. That's where you and I come in Serving servants. Little knock on doors. Serving servants. Pass our gospel tracts. Serving servants that will have an altar of prayer for lost souls to be saved. What good would it do to send thousands and thousands and thousands of Bibles and Scriptures around the world if there were not servants' servants there to distribute them? We just accepted a challenge to place a John and Romans in the Spanish language in every home in Panama. We've been taking part in the project in Canada. We're going to do it in Panama. We've placed Bibles and continue to place Bibles in every home in Samoa. Why? Because God uses his word and he has serving servants there that will distribute it and reach the loss for Christ. But there's a fourth thing that's needed in order for a soul to be saved. We need the scriptures. I'm just about done. I told the preacher I don't preach as long as I used to. Age has caught up to me, Brother Smith. I had my 80th birthday, Monday So I I'm I'm on the eighty mark now. And getting ready for the next eighty. Amen Thank you. If we're going to reach sinners, we need the power of the Spirit of God. We need the power of the Word of God. We need serving servants that are willing to distribute the word of God, and we need believing sinners that are willing to embrace what God has said and believe in their heart that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. Shall be saved. Not hope so, not maybe so, but grounded in the foundational truth that when God saves, He keeps and empowers you to do the same thing for somebody else. So I ask you, are you praying for the lost to be saved? Make a list. Start praying for lost sinners to come to Christ. Father We thank you for the Word of God enlightens our souls, fires our souls. Many cases, Lord, disturbs our souls from indifference and complacency. I pray that you would take this simple message Bear testimony to the heart of every saved, born-again, blood believer here today. Stir their hearts to pray for the lost and reach out to this world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we'll thank you for that. In Jesus' name. Preacher.