The book of Joshua chapter three. If you start at Genesis and turn left and turn left a little bit more Turn left a little bit more, you're going to arrive at the book of Joshua, chapter number three. And if at all possible, when you find your place, if you would stand with me for the reading of God's Word I want to begin reading with verse number one. Joshua chapter three, and in verse number one. And Joshua arose early in the morning. And they removed from Shidam and came to Jordan, he and all the children of Israel, and lodged there before they passed over. And it came to pass after three days that the officers went through the host, and they commanded the people, saying, When ye see the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God, and the priest the Levites bearing it Then ye shall remove from your place and go after it. Yet there shall be a space between you and it, about two thousand cubits by measure Come not near unto it, that ye may know the way by which ye must go. For ye have not passed this way hitherbefore. And Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yourself, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. Joshua spake unto the priest, saying, Take up the Ark of the Covenant. Pass over before the people. And they took up the Ark of the Covenant and went before the people. Now drop down to verse number 13. And it came to come to pass as soon as the soles of the feet of the priests that bear the ark of the Lord, the Lord of the earth shall rest in the waters of Jordan That the waters of Jordan shall be cut off from the waters that come down from above, and they shall stand upon a heap And it came to pass when the people removed from their tents to pass over Jordan, and the priests bearing the Ark of the Covenant before the people, and as they that bear the ark were come unto Jordan And the feet of the priests that bare the ark were dipped in the brim of the Jordan. I want you to notice that particularly. They dipped their feet in the water. For Jordan overfloweth all his banks all the time of harvest. I want to use this passage of Scripture this morning and bring a message the Lord has laid upon my heart. Are you willing to get your feet wet? Are are you really willing to get your feet wet? After we pray, we'll bring the message the Lord has laid upon my heart. Father, we thank you for the grace of God. We thank you for the salvation that is found in our wonderful Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for every saved person in this building this morning. We pray for those that aren't saved. Lord, that you would touch their heart. Open their blinded eyes. And help them to see that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life, and that no man comes to the Father but by Him. I pray, Lord, that you would use us this morning to deliver the message that you've laid upon our heart And may it resonate in the hearts and lives of your people. May you be honored and glorified and help us on this special day of faith promise giving That your will might be done in each of our lives. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, may be seated. Israel has arrived at the place where God wanted them to be about 40 years prior to this. You know, there's three primary big locations that Israel finds and tumble in. One of the first is down in Egypt, and that's the place where Folks are lost. It's the place of the world. It's the place of uh ungodly living. It's where every one of you and every one of everyone that is gathered here this morning found themselves in before they come to Christ. You were down in Egypt. You were lost and blinded to your need of a Savior. But then the second prominent place in the life of Israel was in the wilderness. They were there because of their disobedience. They were there because of their disregard to the word of God, the command of God, and the will of God as to what the Lord really wanted them to do They cried in Egypt that God would deliver 'em, and he did. They came to Kadesh Barnea, and it was the will of God for them to go in, but they rebelled and refused. You remember the story about the spies that went in and searched the land and They come back and ten said it's a wicked place, it's a terrible place, but it's everything God said it was. And then there was two spies that said, we need to go up and conquer the land Their disobedience cost them their life, and they spent 40 years in the wilderness till every one of their carcasses died there. Now they're back at the place where God wanted them to be. They're at Jordan, ready to enter the promised land, looking forward to the abundant blessing of the Lord. But God said you're not going in until you get your feet wet. You're not going to cross the Jordan until the priests get into the water. And then I'm going to do a supernatural event That is going to amaze you. When you cross over Jordan, it demonstrates the fact that we are laying down the carnal life, the worldly life. The ungodly life and the self-centered life and getting into the land of promise where God wants to use us for his honor and for his glory. It's a place where we move forward by faith, trusting and believing God that He's able to do far more than what you and I could ever ask or think. When you have faith in the Lord and in the promises of the Lord, it gives you faith and confidence to face today But it also gives you faith and expectation on what's going to happen in the days to come. Faith is built upon the Word of God. Your faith will amount to nothing if you're not in the Word of God. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of the Lord. And the reason that we have weak faith and desolating faith is because we're not spending time in the precious, precious word of God. You see, faith lays hold on the promises of God and enables us to do the impossible. So I ask you this question this morning. What's standing in your way and preventing you from serving the Lord That's a question that every one of us need to ask ourselves. What's really hindering me, preventing me? What has become a great wall, a great obstacle that is keeping me back from doing what the Bible says God wants me to do. And I want to ask you this question. What's preventing you from taking part in faith promise giving? What's preventing you? Is it some habits that you can't give up and you're not willing to give up, and as a result of that, you can't trust God and believe God and give to faith promise missions? Is it because of some lack of faith or confidence in the promises that God has given to us in His work, and so it prevents you and keeps you back? What's really hindering you? You see, you'll never go forward. You'll never experience the impossible without getting your feet wet He said, preacher, what do you what what what what do you mean by that? You gotta get in. You you can't get the job done without getting in And once you get in, the heavens open, the blessings of the Lord begin to fall, and the impossible is done for the honor and glory of the Lord. You gotta get in. So I ask you this question. Are you really surrendered to the Lord? Are you following his word? And are you willing to take that step of faith and get in and take part in faith promise giving that missionaries might go and reach the world for Christ? There's two things that I would say to you this morning on that. You either go, or you enable someone to go on your behalf. I think the preacher brought it out this morning that every one of us are called to go. It's whether we want to respond to that call and obey that call. Not everybody is called to go to Guyana. Not everybody is called to go to Europe or South America or some other part of this world. But but but if God doesn't call you, He's called you to send those on your behalf. If I understand the Great Commission, it's our responsibility to go into All, A double, L, all the world. How do you fulfill that? How do you meet that command that God has given to us? You either go Or you enable someone else to go on your behalf. You see, unbelief says it can't be done Unbelief says I'm too pressured with financial responsibilities. I couldn't give to faith promise giving. It's all I can do to tithe and support the church. I can't take that step and believe that God is able to do that in me and through me. Unbelief says it's too hard, it's too difficult. There's other things that I want to do, there's other places that I want to go, there's other possessions that I want to buy. You know when it's all said and done, you ain't taking it with you. It's not gone with you. I have yet to see a hearse going down the highway with the U-Haul trailer filled with stuff behind it because they're taking it on to the other side. It doesn't happen that way. The only thing you and I can do is send ahead souls, precious souls that know the Lord as their Savior. You see, unbelief says there's no use. It won't work. I've tried this before, and I can't keep faithful to it But you know what faith says? Faith says, let's do it. Let's get our feet wet. Faith comes to that point and says, I can. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. That's what faith says So you're either listening to the voice of unbelief that says it can't be done, or you're listening to the voice of faith that says, I can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth me. Faith says I can finish the course. I can stay faithful to the battle. I can accomplish what God has sent me to do. Faith says I will keep the faith. I'm willing, I'm willing to get my feet wet. I'm willing to get in and see the hand of God and the blessing of God because I know God is in it all of the way. Verse number 13, the Bible says that they needed to go down to the water, and they needed to get their little pinky in the water, and then God was going to do the rest. Of need what needed to be done. Are you willing to get your feet wet this morning? Some of you have been giving to faith promise. You could increase that if you're willing to get your feet wet Uh some of you haven't participated in the faith promise giving program here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist. You can get your feet wet this morning. You can step in and get wet and see what God is able to do. And I can attest this morning, I can attest this morning that God does miraculous things when you follow him. Now say amen or on me right there. I've told you before, you might have forgot, five years is a long time. If I have to do the amen and then the preaching too, it costs twice as much The priests had to get in the water. They had to get their feet wet. And then God was going to do what they could not do. The Bible says that they dipped in the brim of the water. All God is asking us to do is take a little step of faith. And do you know what I've found? What I've discovered? When I take the first step, The next step gets a little easier. And the next step gets a little easier. And the next step gets a little easier. And you know what is really miraculous about this whole story? Nowhere mentioned in that portion of Scripture Nowhere has it been recorded that the mud was still where the waters were split. My Bible says it was dry ground. That's a miracle in itself, too. If you know anything about a river, you know anything about a creek, you know anything about where a body of water has been laying for years and years and years, and you That creek dries up. It takes a long time for the crust to form and the hardness to develop. But I'm telling you, a little step of faith here A little step of faith here, a little step of faith here, all of a sudden you're standing on pretty solid ground that you can't sink. Faith enables us to do that because we trust in the promises of God Almighty. There's no victory without getting your feet wet. There's absolutely no blessing without getting your feet wet. There's absolutely no conquering without getting your feet wet. There's absolutely no going forward until you get your feet wet. There is no possibility of the impossibility until you get your feet wet. So my question is Are you willing to step up church and get your feet wet? Are you willing to get busy church and get your feet wet? Are you willing to step forward? Get your toes in. And let God do what seems to be impossible. Are you willing to get involved in faith promise giving? Are you willing to continue on for the next six months if the Lord Tarries is coming. Are you willing to increase that a little bit if the Lord Tarries is coming? Won't happen till you get your feet wet So why should we do that? Why should Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church even be involved in faith promise giving. Is this just nothing more than a creation of your pastor? Is is it nothing more than just a flimsy passing thought in his mind that I'm going to lead our church in faith, promise, gift. Why should we even do it? Why should we be involved? Why should we listen to the call to give? Why Well, I think first of all, we ought to be willing to do that because there's a savior that needs to be promoted. Do you like to talk about Jesus? Oh, there's just something special and precious about that name, isn't there? Just just Jesus. Jesus. I think the songwriter wrote, Jesus, Jesus, there's just something about that name. Oh to me, it meant from passing out of darkness into the glorious light For me, that that name Jesus means that my sins have been dealt with and taken care of and are under the blood. But to me, that sweet, precious name Jesus, means that he's gone on to prepare, I feel a shout coming on right now. He's gone Ed to prepare a place for us that where he is we might be also. To me, that sweet, precious name of Jesus tells me he's coming back to receive us unto himself that where he is, we might be with him forever and forever. There's just something sweet about that name. Don't you just love to praise the name of the Lord? When when you read the Bible, the Bible is filled with praise and adoration and exaltation of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. I was thinking about Psalm 22. The Bible says, My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation. Now, I I've said that one of the great churches of our day is Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I think one of the great pastors of our day is Dr. Dennis Leatherman. I I I love him and I appreciate him and the fellowship. You're you're privileged to have him this morning Now say amen right there. That's a good place to say amen right there. There's a bunch of charlatans, a bunch of fakes, a bunch of impostors standing in the pulpit this morning that have no business being in that pulpit. But you've got a good man of God that loves the Lord and is leading you into green pastures and enjoying the blessings of doing so. You're privileged to have them And our great praise of our Savior ought to be done right here in the congregation. We praise Him. But you can't just keep it here. That praise and the promotion of our Savior, the Lord Jesus, needs to be broadcast around the world. I I was thinking this morning of your radio station. Wish I could get on that thing. We have a daily radio broadcast as well. We're on seven, I think, eight stations now But you're broadcasting and reaching into places that you don't get to go. You get to go into those nursing homes. You you you get to go in to those homes that won't answer the door. You get to go to that trucker that's driving down the highway. that happens to stumble across the radio station. That family that's driving down the highway and tuning in like Brother Ray Boltz did and Got a message from the Lord. God uses radio. I think his phrase this morning was tracks work, radio ministries work, church ministry works, missions works. We need to promote our Savior to the entirety of this world. I'm thankful that we can praise him because of who he is. We can tell the world who he is. He's the Messiah, the anointed one. He's the Son of God, the seed of David, the Lamb of God, the Savior of the world. That's what we need to promote and tell the world about. And we do that in places that we don't go. We can't go through our faith promise giving. He's the one that says, I'm the great I am. Boy, what a series of messages that can be. So why promote them? Why even tell the world about it? Because he's the one that saves the sinners through repentance. Did you get that? He called sinners to repentance. All we can do is plant the seed. We we can't save anybody. I've seen a few of my converts. They don't turn out too well. They can go back to the beer joints. They can go back to the house of ill repute. They can live on godly. But oh boy, when Jesus gets a hold of their heart, that's a different story. Different story. And we ought to promote him and tell the world about him because he's the one that calls sinners to repentance. Matthew chapter 9 and verse 13, but go ye and learn what that meaneth. I will have mercy and not sacrifice, for I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners To repentance. Not only does he call sinners to repentance, but he saves people from sin. That's why we need to promote them. Where would you be? Without the forgiveness and the cleansing blood of Jesus right now, where would you be? He can take us out of the muck and mire and put us in the choir, can he? He can take us out of the hogpins of life and bring us up to Main Street America and walk the streets and praising him and promoting him and telling other people about him. He can type take the shy and the backward that seems that I could never pass out of track. I could never tell somebody about Jesus and all of a sudden that infusion of power That comes and knowing Christ as your Savior enables you and gives you boldness to carry on what the Lord has commanded us to. All you and I can do is plant the seed And someone planted the seed for you. They promoted Jesus to you. And we ought to promote Jesus to others and people around the world because he's the one that calls sinners to repentance. He's the one that saves people from their sin. He's the one that prays for them before the throne of grace, according to Hebrews 10 and verse 25. He's the one We ought to promote him because he's coming back. Promote the name of Jesus everywhere. So why? Faith promise giving? Because it enables us to promote Jesus in places that we will never get to go The second thing that I would say to you this morning, if you're going to get your feet wet, and the reason that you ought to get your feet wet, and the reason that you ought to take up the card and fill it out and get involved in faith promise giving, is because there's a salvation to proclaim. Not only a savior to promote, but a salvation to proclaim. All the love that drew salvation's plan I feel another shout coming on right now. All the love that Planned it all and brought it down to man. That grace, that marvelous grace, that gift of God in giving us the Savior, the Lord Jesus. There's a salvation that you and I need to promote to this world Proclaim it. It was planned by the Father. Do you know that? It was planned by the Father. Before you were born. Before there was an earth, before there was people that walked the face of this earth The eternal counsel of God met and drew the plan of salvation out. The Father planned it. Planned it well. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. And aren't you thankful that not only did the father plant it, but the son purchased it. There on Calvary's tree Becoming sin for you and for me. The one who knew no sin, the one that could not sin, the one that did not sin, took upon himself the sins of all of the world. You know, I I I I know the weight of personal sin. We all do. It's a terrible weight. It's a horrible weight. Unconfessed sin will keep you up at night. Uh unconfessed sin will trouble the waters of life. Unconfessed sin has a way of eating away at you and body, mind, and soul. It causes an eruption of emotional disturbance in a person's life. But oh, the joy. That comes when we confess sin and forsake that sin. And the only reason that you and I can do it is because Jesus purchased that on the cross of Calvary. I can't imagine the weight that our Savior carried to the cross when all the sin of the world was placed on him. Your sin, my sin, the sin of the entirety of the world, Jesus carried to the cross. Oh, it was planned by the Father. It was purchased by the Son. And it's procured in your life and my life. The faith in Jesus. For by grace are ye saved through faith. That's your church membership. For by grace are you saved, it's not through your baptism. For by grace are you, it's not through your good works. For by grace are ye saved through faith and that none of yourself It's a gift of God. That message needs to be proclaimed and brought to the world. It's the message of salvation. And so we ought to be involved in faith promise giving because there's a Savior to promote. There is a salvation to proclaim. And could I give you a third one before we go to the house? There's a service that you and I are to pursue. You ought to be involved in faith promise giving because it's a service that we render to the work of missions around the world. We represent the Savior here. I heard a message here not too long ago by David Gibbs, the legal mastermind behind G keeping the church doors open and keeping our Christian schools operated without governmental inference and whatnot. Was preaching a message and he was giving an illustration that One day during the days of COVID he had to catch a plane. He had to be at a meeting. It was very important that he get to that meeting. If he didn't get on that plane, uh the it could be disastrous. He had to be on that plane. He had to go to that meeting. And the airport sent him a message, you need to come two hours early because of the conditions of our day, so he decided to go four hours earlier, and when he got there there were two lines, and they were the length of a football field He jumped in line and it moved very slowly. He could see the time of departure of the plane. He was getting nervous. He was getting anxious. He was getting perturbed. None of us can relate to that. When it doesn't go our way, we never get perturbed. We never get upset, we never get agitated. But he was getting agitated and upset and wasn't sure if he's going to make the plane, and all of a sudden another preacher appeared and he said, Brother David, good to see you this morning And he said, I gotta get on that plane. I don't have time to talk. I gotta get on that plane, and it looks like I'm not gonna make it. He said, but look at the opportunity that we have. Look at all these people that we have right here. What would we ever do if the plane went down? What would they ever do if the plane went down? And all of a sudden people had the attention of that preacher, and they were coming up to him because he said, I have the solution to it if the plane goes down And they started coming to him and he passed out tracks. He said, David, David, you're not serving the Lord right now. I got a plane to catch. He said, but what if the plane goes down? And the preacher looked at David and he said, David, you need to change your face. What? You need to change your face. Our job is to make Jesus look good. And you're not doing a very good job of it right now. You know how convicting that is When I go to Walmart, I need to remind myself, I need to make Jesus look good right now. If anxiety, frustration, agitation is going to set in, it's when I go to Walmart. And sure enough, every time I go, someone in front of me, price check. I've got a job to do. I've got a ministry to run. I got a meeting that I gotta keep a price check. I'm not making Jesus look very good right now. Everywhere we go, there's a service that you and I perform. And it's all about making Jesus look good. I want to make him look good to the world, don't you? I want to make him look so good to the world that they will want him and desire him and want to invite him into their life. Let's make Jesus look good. It's a service that you and I are to perform. Not only do we need to perform that service in making him look good, but we we need to resign to the will of God. Now let me ask you this question. Is missions the will of God? If he said, It's not my will that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Then it's the will of God that everywhere the gospel is to go. We were talking a little bit about Guyana and Venezuela this morning, We sent uh a container down to Columbia, South America, and one of the things that they were doing is funneling and and and smuggling some of that scripture into Venezuela The country is closed and don't want the gospel. The gospel will change people's lives. And so the government there and the people of power there don't want the gospel Smuggling it. Is that the will of God? It's my will that none perish and that all should come to repentance. We represent the Lord. We're to get the message there. If you can't go to Venezuela or you can't go to Guyana or you can't go to Columbia and South America, how are those people going to hear about Jesus? Well, we'll send the Ray Bolzes of the world down there to do it on our behalf. Well, how's he going to go? Faith promise giving. Faith promise giving. You take him on as one of your supported ministers. He goes representing Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and the people that make up Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, you're sending him to represent you in that part of the world. It's very simple, church. We get involved simply because there's a savior to promote. We take part in faith-promise giving because there's a salvation to proclaim. We take part in faith-promised giving Because there's a service that you and I are to pursue. So, church, are you willing to get your feet wet? Step up church. Take part church. The world is sinking in despair, lost and on their way to a Christeless eternity. And Jesus said, Will you promote my son? Will you promote the salvation that I've purchased Will you pursue the course that I've outlined for you to go into all the world and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ? Stay faithful in your faith-promise giving. Step in and get your feet wet and take part in faith-promise giving and the blessings of God. Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Every head is bowed and every eye is closed. We'll have a song of invitation. I wonder how many here this morning can say, preacher, I know that I'm saved. I know that I'm on the way to heaven. No question and no doubt about it. I could take you to the place where it took place. And show you the transaction that happened. If that's your testimony this morning, could I could I see your hand? Amen. God bless you. Thank you. You can put your hands down. Maybe you're here this morning and you couldn't raise your hands with the others and you say, Preacher, I'm not sure about that. Please pray for me. Please pray for me. Could you slip up your hand and say that? Pray for me. I'm not saved. I'm not sure about heaven. I sure want to go there. Please pray for me. Please pray for me. Maybe you're here this morning and you're not obedient to the Lord as a Christian. You're not serving him the way that you should. You're not making him look good. You're not taking part in faith promise giving and making him look good on the other side of the ocean You see, I want to do my part, preacher. Pray that I will. Can I see your hand if that's your desire? Man, thank you, thank you, thank you. God bless you. This is an important, important day in the life of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. The world stands in the balance. The majority of them are on their way to hell. We must reach them. Father, I pray that you'd bless the invitation this morning. Speak to our hearts. While her heads are bowed and her eyes are closed and the pianist is playing