1 Peter chapter 4, I want to read the first two verses. 1 Peter chapter 4. And the Bible says, For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, Arm yourselves likewise with the same mind, for he that has suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin. That he no longer should live in the rest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will of God. I want to just look at verse one, and I know what time it is, so I'm going to try and just get my thoughts out as quick as I can But I want to speak tonight on being armed with the mind of Christ. Did you notice that there? This is what caught my attention in the middle of verse 1. He says, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind, the same mind that Christ has. And so being armed With the mind of Christ. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak. Father, we thank you for a good day. Lord, we thank you for a good report and what you're doing in our young people's lives, our ministries there. We pray you would continue to work And we ask that you would help us as a church body to be everything you intend for us to be so you can use our church to reach the next generation. Now, as we look in our in your word, I pray that you would speak to our hearts, open our hearts and minds, prepare us, Lord, tonight to live for you this coming week, to be a witness for you this week I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me and challenge and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This past summer my wife and I took vacation. We were down at the National Sword Conference. We took the week after we took vacation, went down to Alabama, down on the Gulf Coast there, and um Uh we had a wonderful time. On Saturday night of our vacation, we went to a real nice Italian restaurant and uh got a nice meal. But when you walked in there, I don't know if you've ever Um uh anybody been to uh a fancy restaurant? I don't mean Burger King. I mean something fancy like Denny's or something like that Uh if you go to a fancy restaurant, a lot of times the lights will be real dim. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's very romantic. There's a candle, there's a little candle on the table. It's very nice setting Uh and uh we just enjoyed it. Went in there, got a great meal, had a wonderful time together. But the thing is when you got in there, and I know many of you have been in this situation, get in there And the atmosphere is so dim, the lighting is so dim, it's hard to see the menus. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You can't hardly see that. But here's something I noticed. In that darkness, in that dim light, if you just give it a little bit of time, your eyes get used to the darkness. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And before long, you don't even realize how dim it is, how dark it is, because we've become accustomed to the darkness. Peter is writing to these new believers and are under intense persecution, and he is warning them about getting accustomed to the spiritual darkness around us. And I tell you, that is a real danger for you and I as Christians. If we're not careful, if we're not careful, we as Christians living in a sinful world, here's my point: is we get used to the dark We get used to the dark. Slowly. We're not careful. We don't keep ourselves armed with the mind of Christ, as I'm going to try and point out here in a bit. If we're not careful We slowly start seeing things the way the world sees it. And we slowly start valuing things the same way the world values things. We start we start adopting and uh we start adopting for ourselves the priorities that the world has. If we're not careful, we'll start enjoying the things that the world enjoys. What I'm trying to say is we get used to the darkness around us. And it's easy, it's easy for us as Christians, and I touched on this a little bit this morning's message, but it's easy for us the Christians if we're not careful to get used to the sin That we find ourselves saturated around us. Everybody with me? Everybody follow what I'm saying? How many people here? Who would be honest enough to say, preacher, I know exactly what you're talking about Sure, it's easy. If we're not careful, uh foo uh if we're not careful, I s I've seen it, I've seen it happen. If not careful, first thing we start doing, we start excusing the sin around us. Well, you know, you can't help it. Well, what are you gonna do? Ah, you know, that's just the way it is, huh? We start excusing it. And then the next stage is we start justifying it. Oh no, no, no, no, no. It's okay. It's not here we s when when we catch ourselves saying something like this, well it's not really that bad. Or we start catching ourselves saying something like this, well what's wrong with it anyway We start justifying it. We get used to the darkness. We get used to the sin around us and we begin seeing it The way the world sees it, the unsaved world sees it, or the Gentiles, as it refers to them here a little later on. We excuse it, first of all, and then we start justifying it. And you know what the third step is? We embrace it. We embrace it. There's nothing wrong with that. It's shocking to me, and it's disappointing. To see churches that one day, not real long ago, stood for what was right and what was true and what was pure, and now they've embraced so many things of the world They've they uh got used to the darkness. And so uh uh Peter is cautioning these persecuted believers, these dear folks that he's writing to, and they've paid such a heavy price for their faith And uh they've lost so much uh things of this world as far as material, and uh uh beaten and imprisoned and run out of their homes and family rejecting them Because of their faith in Christ, because of being disciples of the Lord Jesus. Now he's writing in chapter 4, he's transitioning over and he's cautioning them To be careful that they do not allow themselves to be seduced into living in this world the way the world does. And I'm telling you, that is a caution. I feel a tremendous responsibility on my shoulders as a pastor to keep our church from being seduced by the philosophies of this world. And by the appease by the things that appeal to this world, we are to be distinctively Christian. In every way. And Peter's writing to them, and he's cautioning them, listen, don't embrace the values of this world. Don't adopt the principles and the priorities that this world has. And he's writing to caution them. Now I want us to notice three things real quickly in verse one. that he states in this caution to them, and we'll see it in the coming weeks as we look at the following verses. But the first thing I notice when he's writing to them with With this idea in mind is uh number one, I put this down, we have an ultimate example in our Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse number one. For as much then That word forasmuch has the idea of because of all that was said before. Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh Arm yourselves likewise. So what's he saying? He's using the Lord Jesus Christ as an example for you and I in this world that is saturated in sin In this world that is saturated with darkness, spiritual darkness, he says, likewise, in the same way that Jesus Christ suffered in this whole sinful world You adapt that same thing. He uses the word as there for as much then as Christ. It has the idea in the same way. Then he goes down, arm yourselves likewise, in the same way. Jesus Christ is the ultimate example of unjust suffering. He he he su you say, well, preacher, I'm taking a hard time at work, I'm trying to do right. They're giving me a hard time at work. And I praise God that you stand for that, and that's going to happen sometimes. We have to pay a price. But I'm telling you, nobody suffered unjustly as much as the Lord Jesus Christ did. Look, look with me if you would in chapter one and come over to, I'm sorry, chapter two, look at verse 21, 1 Peter, same book. Just go back a page there, maybe. Verse 21. For even hereunto were ye called. Look at this. Because Christ also suffered for us. He didn't sin, we did. The just for the unjust. You talk about unjust suffering. Here's an innocent, perfect, sinless son of God, and he suffers hell. For something he never did. He suffers the judgment of God for sins he's never committed. He takes upon himself the sins that you and I have committed. He takes responsibility for our sins. Is that fair? No, that's not fair. But he loved us, and he was willing to do that. Look with me, if you would, in chapter 3 and verse number 18. We looked at this not too long ago. For Christ also hath once suffered for sins. Now look at this. The just for the unjust. Question, is that fair? Is that fair that a just son of God would suffer for you and me? No, that's not fair He's saying, look, Jesus is an example in a sinful world, somebody that did right and stood for right and suffered unjustly. The sin that our fallen nature longs for is what Jesus Christ suffered for. The sin that this world entices us with That's what Jesus Christ suffered for. The sin that Satan wants to try and sell to us. That's what Jesus Christ suffered for. We will never fully comprehend the degree of suffering that Jesus Christ endured for you and I. We'll never do it. So he says, take that as an example. Just like Jesus had this mind, I'm going to do right, I'm going to fulfill God's will, going to cost me dearly, I'm going to do that. He says, take that same mind. Here's my second point, and I'm trying to rush through this a little bit too fast. But number two. I put this down. We must arm ourselves with the attitude of Christ. Again, look at verse 1 there of chapter 4. For as much as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, Arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. For he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. He says, You take the same mind as Christ. Now, somebody talk to me. Y'all seem a little lethargic tonight. Everybody doing all right? Is there anybody out there with me? All right, good. Pastor Max down here. Praise the Lord What does it mean to have the mind of Christ? Somebody talk to me. What does he mean by that? To have the mind of Christ. The think the way Christ thinks. Who said somebody said something over here? What'd you say? To think as Christ thinks. Yeah. It's to have the mind of Christ. I put it this way And that's true, to think the way Jesus thinks. I put it this way, to have the same attitude about things Jesus has. What is an attitude? An attitude is a way of thinking An attitude is an approach, a perspective on things. Anybody here ever have a bad attitude? I don't mean right now, I mean at some point, have a bad attitude. What does that mean My my thinking's sour, right? Nothing looks right. Nothing is alright, nothing right around here. Can I get a witness? I know some of y'all have never been that way But that's our thinking. And he says, listen, we need to have if we're not gonna if we're gonna If we're going to avoid getting used to and adopting the mentality and the sinfulness and being a part of the darkness of this world as a child of God, I need to have the mind of Christ. I need to have the attitude of Christ. I need to see this world the way Jesus sees it. I need to value this world the way Jesus values it. Look what he says here. I love this terminology. Has suffered for us in the flesh Arm yourselves. I looked that word armed up, arm yourself, and it means what you probably think it would mean. It means this was the one definition I came across, to weaponize yourself. To weapon up. Did you ever anybody here ever watch cartoons when you were little? Saturday morning cartoons. Anybody remember that Saturday morning cartoons? And Yosemite Sam. Brother Vern loves Yosemite Sam. And if you ever watch those cartoons or Bugs Bunny, anybody remember Bugs Bunny and uh uh what was the what was the pig? But he was always trying to shoot the rabbit. Well was it Elmer Fod. I didn't think Porky sounded right. But you ever watch them? And it depending on the situation you're in, they start pulling weapons out of everywhere. Anybody ever see that? I mean they're just stacking them up. By the time they're done pulling them out, they got a stack of guns and knives and machine guns and bazookas stacked up. They're just pulling them out of everywhere. That's the idea of that worm word arm yourself. Just weapon up. Arm yourselves. Now, what is our weapon against sin, the world, the flesh, and the devil? What is our weapon? According to this, it's the mind of Christ. It's our way of thinking. It's our attitude that we have. I want to adopt. Here's spiritual maturity. Here's spiritual growth. When I start thinking the way Jesus thinks, then I'm growing spiritually. When I start seeing things and seeing people and seeing situations and uh start valuing things the way Jesus Christ sees it, the way Jesus Christ values it, his perspective on it, then I'm starting to grow in Christ. Then I'm being conformed to the image of Christ. You see, spiritual battles. Now here's my message. If you don't get anything else, get this. Spiritual battles are won and lost in the mind. That's where the victory is won, and that's where the battle is lost in my mind, in my attitude. I start leaning on my own understanding. I start looking at things from my own perspective, and I am fixing to be defeated. But when I adopt the mind of Christ When I look at Christ and I start seeing things the way he does, I start valuing things the way he values. His priorities become my priorities. Then I'm armored up. I'm arming myself with the mind of Christ. And so spiritual victories and spiritual battles are won in the mind. Jesus resisted sin. He was angered by sin. Remember when he got angry when they were using uh the the the temple to make money and they were ripping people off? Remember when he got angry and Threw the tables over. How many people remember reading that in the Bible? I'm telling you, unrighteousness, it was a holy anger in the heart and mind of our Lord Jesus Christ. That was his mind towards sin. He resisted it. He uh condemned sin in the flesh. He suffered and died for our sin. If you would take your Bible real quickly and turn over to Hebrews chapter number 12 with me. Hebrews chapter 12 and verse number one, and when we came here in 93, I adopted a little phrase out of here as our church's motto. Now tried to live by this is what we tried to go by. Verse number one, wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is before us. Now look at this. Looking unto Jesus The author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him, here we get a little idea of his attitude towards sins. He endured the cross. And before him, endure the cross, despising the shame. You know, for Jesus Christ to take on our sins. Now he did not become a sinner in the sense that you and I are sinners. But when that sin was placed upon the holy Son of God, And he took upon him the things that you and I have said, and the things that we have thought, and all the wickedness that our heart produces in our lives. And all that Jesus Christ took upon himself. It was something he had to endure. It went against his grain. It was repulsive to him. It was shameful. For him to take upon him the sins that you and I bore. You look on the cross and you see God's attitude towards sin You look on the cross and you see God's attitude towards rebellion and rejection and the wickedness of this world. And he says you've got to have that same mind. You know what our problem is? I'll tell you what our problem is. Our problem is we like sin too much. Huh? We just like it. There's a part of us that, yeah. I want that part of us that likes that. And we need to put that mind aside. That's the old man. That's the old mind. We need to adopt and develop it within us the mind of Christ, and we see the sin in this world the way Christ is. Everybody with me? Everybody know what I'm saying? And so we arm ourselves, spiritually, we arm ourselves with the mind of Christ. The battle with sin is won and lost in the mind. The battle with the world, the flesh, and the devil is won and lost with our attitude, the way we think. My attitude, my mind, is a weapon, a spiritual weapon And it can be used for good or it can be used for evil. And my mind gets out of whack, my thinking gets out of whack. I start leaning on my own understanding. I start looking at things from my own values and not Christ's. Man, that's a bad weapon. I tell you, a Christian living in sin is a powerful weapon in the hand of Satan to do damage. To do damage. And so he says, arm yourselves with the mind of Christ. Can I get you to write a little phrase down? Would you jot this down somewhere just real quick? I think it would be helpful for you. Give you a chance. Get a little pen out. Get a paper down. Drop this little statement down. It's very simple, but I think it's tremendously profound. Ready? Here it is. Here's a little statement I want you to write down. To live right, to live right, I must think right. If I'm going to live right, I've got to think right. If my thinking's wrong, my living's going to be wrong. But I get the mind of Christ. I get the attitude of the Lord Jesus Christ. I start thinking the way he does, then my living is going to be affected. You say, preacher, give me some scripture for that. I'm glad you asked. I just happen to have some here Romans chapter 12, listen to verse 1. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly, acceptable in God, which is your reasonable service. Now listen to verse two. And be not conform to this world. Don't get used to it. Don't become like this world. Don't start thinking the way this world does. Be not conform to this world, but be ye what? Transformed by the renewing of your mind. Getting that old thinking out, getting that old perspective out, getting those old values and old attitudes out. And I start having the mind of Christ. And I see that old lost sinner standing in line at McDonald's. I see that person sitting on the on the sidewalk by sheets there, all drunk and hungover. And the old old self says, pfft, what a waste, what a failure, loser. But I get the mind of Christ. And I say there's somebody that God loves so much he suffered and died and suffered hell for. See the difference? This old world, something comes on TV or something's happening, and the old mind says, oh, that's interesting, oh, that's appealing, that's enticing. But the mind of Christ says, you know, Jesus Christ suffered hell for that sin. He paid an awful price. And so the mind of Christ, to live right, I must think right. What does Matthew 6:33 say? Somebody help me. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things will be added unto you. That word seek has to do with our thinking. I think I decide, all right, this is what I want. This is what I want to go after. Let me ask you a question. What do you want most in your spiritual life? What do you want? You want God's blessing? You want God to use you? See soul saved through your witness? You want to be a testimony of the righteousness and holiness of God? It's a reasonable service. I gotta start thinking that way. I've got to decide. That's what I want. That's the way I want to be. I want the mind of Christ. I want to be an accurate representative. An accurate, I want to be a good ambassador. For my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So we have to arm ourselves with the mind of Christ. And last of all, let me go with this real quickly. Just come back there if you would to 1 Peter. He says, For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind And he makes this statement, and we don't have time to expound on it, but he says this, for he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin Now that bothered me a little bit. I looked at that and said, I'm not sure what he's saying there. I had to work on that a bit. And the word feast helped me understand what he's saying here. He's saying that word cease means this. It means to let loose. It means to be released from or set free. He's not saying those that do right and have the mind of Christ and they pay a price for it and this world turns on them, oh, they're going to be sinless. He's not talking about sinlessness. The Bible does not teach that we live sinless lives. If somebody tells you they are sinless, ask their spouse what they think about that. He's not talking about sinlessness. He's talking about being free and having the ability to have victory over sin. To be released from it. Romans chapter 6 says that we are no longer under the dominion of sin. We're not controlled by it. We have the ability to have victory. When a believer suffers unjustly with the mind of Christ, it produces a holiness in our lives. Suffering and adversity in the Christian life can be a great purifier. For years we had well water here at the church. And we had and from the church it went over to the parsonage and the well had a lot of iron in the water. Anybody here have well water, has iron in the water? And all our shirts were all our white shirts were yellow You know, and all the water fountains had stains and the saints had rust stains. Everybody know what I'm talking about? And so we got a purifier, a water purifier. We had it back here and we paid a pretty good bit of money for it. What that water purifier does, the water is forced through a series of filters. I think there's charcoal in there and various things. And it's forced through that. And as that water is forced through these filters, the impurities are filtered out. And the idea is when it gets down, and when it's finished going through those filtering processes It comes at the bottom. It's pure. One day I was in my office and I heard something. I went over to the water filter and I could hear the water talking as it was going through And the water was saying, oh, this is so hard. We're being squished in here. We're suffering. Oh, it was terrible. And I felt so bad for the little water going through there. I mean people agree with me. That's a stupid illustration. But when that water come out, that process, hey, when the water came out of that filtration process, that suffering, boy, that was pure water, it's clean. You know what suffering is for the believer that has the mind of Christ? It's a purification process. And God puts us through Psalms chapter 119 and verse number 71. And I always think of Paul's signs every time I read that verse. So Paul's with the Lord. One day I preached on a verse. It says, It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may seek thy testimonies. I preached on that one Sunday morning. I don't know if you remember, Charlie. And by the before I was hardly done the message, Paul was coming down the altar. I mean, I wasn't even given the invitation that he was coming down and he knelt there. And afterward he told me, he said he'd been having a lot of problems with his liver and different things. And he said, I've had such a bad attitude, and God showed me today he's allowing me to go through this so that I can be a better Christian, so I can be stronger in my faith. When we have the mind of Christ, and he's telling these believers all this persecution going through and all this adversity you're facing. If you adopt the mind of Christ, it liberates you from that sin that is a bondage. It sets you free. It gives you the ability to have victory in your life. I wish we had time. Job. In chapter 42, I think it's verse 5 and 6, he says, I heard, he's speaking to God, and he says, I heard of you before with the ear, and I'm not quoting verbatim here, I've heard of you before with the ear. He says, but after all I've been through, how many people know what Job's story? Anybody familiar? He said, all I've been through, now I've seen you with my eye. What was he saying? He's saying, I have a clearer perspective of the Lord. I'm stronger in my faith. I have a better understanding of who God is and what his plan and purpose for my life is. And all that suffering. Purified Job and made him stronger in the Lord. When we have the mind of Christ. We could go to, and we don't have time, but Hebrews chapter 12, where he talks about no chastening for the moment is joyous. And he says, our fathers chastened us for their own profit. They disciplined us. They took us out to the woodshed. You know what I'm talking about? For their own pleasure. He says, but God does it for our good. For our good. God puts us through adversity. God allows us to face persecution and hardship and adversity. Why? So because he's hateful and meeting. No, no, no. to purify us. And if we have the mind of Christ, we come out with a purer heart We come out with a stronger faith. You say, Bracer, what if we go through hardships and we get unjust suffering and people turn on us unfairly, and I don't have the mind of Christ? I'll tell you what happens then we get bitter. They get angry. This ain't right. This ain't right. You know the interesting thing is Jesus never raised his fist. To any of his persecutors, saying, This ain't right. What did he say from the cross? Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. I'm falling in love with Romans 5. 8 more and more all the time. But God commendeth his love toward us. That while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. What a testimony. The mind of Christ. The mind of Christ. Father in heaven, please take these thoughts. I rush through them, Lord. But I pray you take these thoughts and help us this week to adopt your mind, to be renewed in our mind. And see things from your perspective and value things from your value. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need God to renew my mind. I need God to change and keep working on my thinking that I can adopt the mind of Christ, develop the mind of Christ and his attitude, and be armed. For this old simple any like that, preacher, I need that. I need Christ to renew my um. God bless you. Hands all around, it's a lifetime endeavor It's a lifetime thing. Maybe an old altar on a Sunday night, we go into a new week, a new work week. Maybe we want to kneel on an altar and say, Lord, renew my mind this week. Help me to see things that come up from your perspective Help me to adopt your attitude. I believe God will do it if we want Him. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed