And a concern and burden for children. I'm so grateful for our Our uh King's Kids program goes on Sunday mornings, and then our master clubs on Wednesday nights will recognize them tonight and our teens alive. And uh I believe that is vitally important. I believe a church that does not focus on reaching children, that church has no future. Because the children and the youth are the future of our church. And uh my prayer is if the Lord does not return uh in my lifetime or for some time and I pass on My prayer is that for the next hundred or two hundred years, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, will we still be here, standing on the old King James, preaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, running buses Maybe in a hundred years they'll have drones picking up kids, I don't know. But uh we want this thing to go on. This is God's work, this is God's church, and um God loves these children Mark chapter ten, and I would like to uh for us to read together verse number fifteen. Mark chapter 10 and verse number 15. Do you have it there? Let's read that together in unison. Verily, verily, I say unto you Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein. It's actually only one verily there But uh let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. I want to speak this morning on as a little child. Let's pray. Father in heaven, again, Lord, we express to you, and Lord, I believe I speak on behalf of our church in this prayer, Lord. That we are grateful for the privilege of having a part in a children's ministry, of reaching out into our community and surrounding communities. And trying to bring children to the Lord Jesus Christ, trying to implant the Word of God in their hearts and minds. And I ask now that you would use these thoughts from this passage To challenge us, to renew our vision, our burden, our love for you, Lord, first of all, and then for others that we can reach with the gospel I present my body this hour anew to you, Lord. I yield my will as best I know how, Lord, to your will. And Lord, I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Spirit, and it would you be you speaking to us our hearts. your word through me. And so please answer that prayer I ask, Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. I personally believe one of the greatest hymns of the Christian faith Goes like this. Jesus loves the little children. All the children of the world. Red, yellow, black, and white. They're all precious in his sight. Jesus loves the little children in the world. Goes on, we add this. Jesus died for all the children. All the children in the world. Red, yellow, black, white, they're all precious in his sight. Jesus died for all the children in the world. Is that a wonderful truth? Goes on. Said Jesus rose for all the children. All the children in the world. Red and yellow, black and white, they're all precious in his sight. Jesus rose for all the children in the world. The last verse, as I know the song, goes like this: Jesus comes. For all the children. All the children in the world. Red and yellow, black and white, they're all precious in his sight. Jesus comes for all the children in the world. What a tremendous truth That the creator of the universe, the God that spoke this incomprehensibly immense universe, just spoke it into existence. That God loves these children so much. A tremendous thought. Jesus loves the little children Our passage here in Mark chapter number 10, the context of this passage is Jesus is leaving his home area of sorts, he's leaving Capernaum. It's where he had spent a lot of time. The Bible mentions a lot about Jesus Christ in Componum. It's the home of Peter, Andrew, James, and John. And so it's a very dear place to him, no doubt. And Jesus is now leaving this area. He's leaving Capernaum. And anybody want to guess where he's heading to? He's heading to Jerusalem. This is his final journey. He's leaving his home area. He's leaving people, no doubt, that were very dear to him growing up. And he's heading to Jerusalem. It's his final journey to Jerusalem on earth here. And he is about to go through the darkest valley That any human being has ever gone through. Jesus Christ, the man, is about to face the rejection of his very own people His own nation. He came unto his own and received him not. They rejected him. And he is about to face that head-on. The people that once were crying out his praises, the people that once were talking about how wonderful in a few short days are going to be screaming out, crucify him, crucify him! Rejected. He is heading to Jerusalem to face betrayal of those who are the dearest in the world to him humanly. His his disciples, Judas particularly, but they all forsook him. They all forsook him. I tell you, it's one thing for someone to turn on you, but it's something else for someone very, very dear. And very close to turn on you, the heartache of that. And so he's leaving those where he grew up, a very familiar, no doubt, a very uh a dear place to them. He's going to Jerusalem. He knows what he's facing there. This is what he came for. It's the whole purpose of his entrance into humanity. He is about to be rejected by his whole nation. They're all going to turn on him. Those that are dearest to him, that he's invested his heart and life in for the last three and a half years, he's poured his heart out to them. They're about to betray him and forsake him. He is about to be tortured and executed by what may have been the most brutal regime ever on planet Earth. The torture, the physical torture that Jesus went through is hard for you and I to imagine in this day and age. The beadie, the the catanine tales, and all that he went through. I did a study on that years ago, and uh they had mentioned that Many times, perhaps most of the time, the prisoner that went through that preparation for crucifixion, many times they never survived that. It was so brutal. And then the crucifixion, the most inhumane, perhaps most violent form of execution man could come up with. And then you add all on top of that, the emotional turmoil, the emotional uh effect that would have. Of people rejecting you, betray, torture, execution, the physical violence of all of that. And then you put on top of that the judgment of Almighty God of every sin that has ever been committed. Poured out on Jesus Christ. I believe, and I don't know how this all plays out. I don't know the logistics of this, how this works out. But I believe the Bible teaches that on that cross, in that darkness that settled down, Jesus suffered the eternal judgment of God. He suffered hell, an eternity of hell for every individual in those moments on that cross in that darkness. I'm telling you, there is no way in the world you and I could ever fathom What that is like. The horror of what he went through. So that's where he's heading. That's what's up ahead. This is what he came to earth for: to suffer for our sins, to pay the judgment of for our sins, the rejection of man, the rejection of God. The rejection of everything that is good and right, and suffer for our sins. Of course, he was buried and rose again. And God honored him, rewarded him in a great way, we read in Revelation for that. But that's where he's head and that's where he's gone. That's the context of our this passage on children Now, let me back up here a little bit. As he is en route to Jerusalem, he's leaving Capernaum. He's en route to Jerusalem. As he is en route to Jerusalem, He is being confronted relentlessly by the Pharisees. They are questioning his every statement. They are challenging his every teaching. They are criticizing every word he says They are using everything at their disposal. They've got lawyers, they've got scribes, they've got their whole team out to take Jesus down, to catch him in his words. And their words to destroy him. So he's leaving his home area, he's heading to Jerusalem and go through that, all that. En route, he is, it's like, it's like, do you ever outside and you have a deer fly flying around you? How many people that drives you nuts? And those things are relentless. They're pretty dumb because then you just swat them. But uh can you imagine about 500 of them just swarming you constantly? That's the picture I get. Of Jesus Christ. These Pharisees are just constantly, constantly, constantly. His face is set like a flint for Jerusalem. His heart is breaking. When he gets there, he prays, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. But he's facing that. And you have these Pharisees just challenging them like uh like flies. And then on top of that, you have what I picture just the chaos of the crowds around. My wife and I right now in our evening devotions together, the two of us in our evening devotions, we're reading through the Gospels. And the other night we were reading, and uh it was just a record, uh we're in uh Mark somewhere, but it was just a record where people were pressing on him on every side. Insomuch you couldn't turn around. Uh several places in the gospel it says that he retreated out onto a little ship out from shore, pushed out from shore, because the multitudes were so great he couldn't speak to them. The Bible says people were pressing on him with their sick and uh and those that were demon-possessed and all this just pulling at him. I mean at one point it was so chaotic they were ripping the roof off the top of a house To try and get down to him. And when we were done the other evening with our devotions, I was done reading that. I thought, man, alive, this guy was surrounded by chaos. I mean, Josh, you couldn't even turn around. So put all put all of this together. What he's leaving. What he's facing, the Pharisees are relentlessly trying to just get after him, criticize every word, accuse him of everything. Then you have these well-meaning people. They're just, it's just chaos. Everywhere he goes. And then you have one of the sweetest, dearest, most tender events, I believe, in all of his earthly ministry. When he is approached by some folks and they have little children, and in the midst of all of this, they want Jesus. But touch our children and bless them. Bless them. As I said, I believe this is one of the most precious, tender moments in all of Jesus' earthly ministry. Look at it again. Let me read it again And they, in the midst of all of this, they brought young children to him, that he should touch them Isn't that precious? How many people like me feel like that's awfully sweet? Anybody? Man alive If anybody in the world could have said, listen, I really don't have time for this. You know, really, seriously, look at this. But Jesus didn't do that. This event that we read here in Mark 10, verse 13 down through 16, that event is actually recorded three times. It's recorded in Mark. It's recorded in Matthew, I think, chapter 19, here in Mark, and then Luke chapter 18. You have the same event recorded three times. How many time how many parents here ever told you kids ever told you kids you said something like this? I'm only going to tell you one time. Anybody ever anybody get that Yeah. My parents never said that to me because I was never an issue. I was just a wonderful one. I'm telling you one time You know, God really only needs to tell us something one time. Just say it one time. That's all it takes. He's God. But when God takes his eternal word and it's going to exist for eternity And he places into that one event and he puts it in three different times. I don't know what that means to you, but to me, that means this must be awfully important. The fact that it's in the Bible is important. That it's in the Bible three times. Tells me something we ought to pay very close attention to this. This is something very important that God wants us to understand. Now I want us to notice three things. Number one, I want us to notice the concern for these children. The concern for these children. Somebody cared about these children's spiritual well-being. Look with me if you would at verse number 13, just the first part. And they brought young children to him. Somebody thought it was important that these children be introduced to the Lord Jesus Christ. Somebody thought it was important that these children Be exposed to their creator, their savior. Somebody was concerned enough about these children, they said, you know, these children have spiritual needs. These children are spiritual beings. They are sinners like everybody else, and they need the Lord Jesus Christ. And somebody was concerned enough to bring them to the Lord Jesus Christ. In the midst of all of this chaos going on, somebody made an effort to get through the crowds. It passed the Pharisees. They just had a big argument with the Pharisees. Jesus corrected them. But the Pharisees are all worked up over divorce and remarriage. And so somebody sees all this chaos and all these debates going on, and everybody worked up, and the Pharisees are so angry And they got these little children, and they push their way through the crowd, and they make the effort and say, we want to make sure these children are introduced to Jesus. Somebody invested a lot of time and energy in bringing these children to Christ. I venture to say somebody went way out of their way, inconvenienced themselves. It cost them time. It cost them effort. It costs them inconvenience. There's no doubt about it. To get into the very presence of Jesus Christ, past the crowds, past the chaos. They want to make sure Jesus, these children, these young children, were brought to Jesus. In fact, it's interesting, he doesn't just say, verse 13, he doesn't just say they brought children to him, they brought what Young children in Luke, in Luke chapter 18, it doesn't say young children. It says infants. These are very, very small children. Uh and so, you know, it's not like uh no doubt some of them maybe were toddlers and they're holding their hands, maybe some of them would have been primary or junior age. Maybe there was some that were junior high, maybe some teens involved in this. We don't know the number. We're not given exact age, but we are sure of this. Some of them were very, very small. And that's not an easy feat. How many people found out that your life was changed more drastically than anything else when children showed up in the home? I found that, you know, even more so than marriage, as life-changing as that was, more so than marriage. Children in the home change everything. I mean before we had kids, Kathy and I say, oh, let's go to Dairy Queen. Say, okay, we hopped in the car and went to Dairy Queen. And the kids showed up, let's go to Dairy Queen. Fifty minutes later we're loading the car and this and strapping them in and all of that, backpacks, luggage, we gotta go to Dairy Queen. Right or wrong? So the point I'm trying to make is this: getting these children through the crowds, past the chaos, to Jesus Christ was not an easy feat. Somebody cares a lot. Somebody said getting these children to the Lord Jesus Christ is more important than whatever else I had planned, my convenience and my ease. I am they are These people are determined. My point is this, they care a whole lot about these kids. And we want them to come to Jesus Christ. We want them to become Jesus Christ. Now here's my next question, this concern. Uh they're concerned about them. They're investing a lot of time and effort and energy and perhaps resources into getting these children to Jesus Christ. And then the question comes up, who are these people? Now our first assumption is what? That are bringing the kids to Christ. Our first assumption they would be who? Their parents. That would be the first assumption. And I I'm telling you right now, uh I I'll just say it, any parent worth their salt is going to do everything they can to get their kids to Christ. I I I don't mean to be unkind, but I'll tell you this: I have zero respect for a parent that doesn't care about the spiritual well-being of their children. So no doubt parents, that's the first thought comes to mind. I want to make sure uh my kids come to Christ. I want to make sure my children are saved. I want to make sure my children uh are blessed of God and and they know the Lord and their spiritual needs are met and their spiritual well-being is taken care of. I tell you, I wouldn't give you a wooden nickel for a daddy who doesn't pray for his kids or a mama. Kids are vital. But I got looking at this and I noticed it doesn't say their parents brought them. Did you see that? I would think if it was only parents bringing their kids, and that would be that's that's important, that's right, it would say their parents brought them. But it doesn't say the parents, it says who? They. Who's they? We always say that. Well, you know, they say it's supposed if the towels are all facing north, it it means this. Anybody ever hear something like that? The other day I went up, I was visiting uh Jack the Witt, Jackie and uh Roxy's daddy, and I went up and all the cows were laying down. I looked on my compass there on my phone and uh they were all facing north. They were laying down and facing north, and I got researching that, and you know what that means? No, it meant they were tired. And um, They who's they I got thinking about that. Who is it? I mean obviously parents would fall under that category. But who who would there be that would care enough? Who would it be that would care enough to invest so much time, effort, but be so inconvenienced? To get these children to Christ. Uh, parents, obviously. I thought maybe it's extended family Maybe it's an aunt or uncle, grandparent, somebody extended family that has come to know the Lord as Savior. They've heard Jesus teach. They've seen him perform some miracles. Maybe they've met some folks that used to be blind and now see, and they told them about Jesus, and they got thinking, you know, man, my nephew and niece. Hey, could uh they called him up on the ancient cell phones. Hey, could I come by and get the kids? I just want to take them over and meet Jesus Christ. Sure, that'd be fine. I I don't know. I'm speculating. Extended family. Hey, I think a child that maybe their parents aren't saved, maybe their parents aren't Christian, maybe their parents are You know, just have little or no concern for their spiritual well being. Maybe an aunt or uncle that cares enough about them would bring them to the Lord, bring them to church, bring them to Bible time, bring them to King's Kids Bring them to something. Why? Because they know who Jesus is. They know what Jesus can do. They know the needs of mankind, particularly children, and they say, hey, listen, we'll step in and we'll get them there So perhaps extended family would be concerned enough for nieces and nephews or grandchildren, whatever, say, hey, we want to get these to Christ. So maybe parents, maybe extended family. I got thinking they, who in the world is they? Who are they? I wondered if it wasn't some neighbors It's all the little yard yard rats running around in their neighborhood. That's it. It's kids is what I'm talking about. And uh kids are running around getting in and uh tearing up the garden and all that. Think, you know what, I don't know what these kids need. How many people ever thought that? I know what those kids need. Can I tell you what those kids need? They need Jesus. And maybe it's a neighbor. And all the kids run in the neighborhood and doing stuff and they see them out there. And they say, you know what? I heard Jesus preach here a couple weeks ago. I've got some friends at work and folks that, man, their lives have been changed because of this Messiah. I know what I'm going to do. I'm going to get the I'm going to get the chariot. I'm going to go through the neighborhood. I'm going to load up all the kids I can. Little ones. Uh tall ones, short ones, skinny ones, but not skinny ones. I'm gonna bring them all And so maybe the day is just a neighbor's, uh somebody that got burdened for the neighborhood kids. Somebody thought these kids need the Lord Jesus. And loaded them up, fought through the crowds, all the chaos going on, the fighting, the people mad, people excited, pushing their way, and they worked their way in and said, Hey, I got a bunch of my neighborhood kids. I need Jesus to touch them. So maybe it was parents, maybe it was extended family, maybe it was some neighbors that rounded up the kids, uh, maybe it was some friends of the family. He was a co-worker with some of the kids' dads or moms or somebody, their friends, say, hey, would you mind if I I'd like to get your kids and take them out there and meet Jesus I got thinking about it. I wonder if they, who the they was. I wonder if the they wasn't some who at once were halvied up. And couldn't walk, maybe sat on the roadside begging. Maybe in Jericho or somewhere, Jesus came by and spoke to them and Made them well. They found not only healing in the body, but they found forgiveness of sins. Maybe they decided, I'm going to get as many kids as I can to the Lord Jesus Christ. I got thinking, maybe there's an old drunkards. Some folks that grew up in a rough home and they were exposed to strong drink as a child. And daddy didn't care, and mama didn't care, and they grew up in debauchery and sin and drunkenness. But they heard Jesus preach. God took that old drunkenness and turned it into soberness. God took the emptiness of a life lived like that way and filled it full of the Spirit of God and the joy of the Lord. And maybe they got a burden, they said, you know, I don't want any child ever to grow up and be what I was. I don't want any child ever to grow up and experience the horror of the consequences of drunkenness. I want these children to come to the Lord Jesus Christ and find eternal life and have Him bless them Maybe somebody whose life was changed tremendously by the Lord Jesus Christ got a concern for kids. I tell you what the children in our country and every country though that they need is they need some folks that God has touched them, God has changed their life, and get a burden for young people and say, I don't want the next generation to be. What I was before I came to Christ. I got saved. I said this so often. The whole motive for my salvation was I did not want to be the man I was becoming I knew God had something better than what I was living and what I was becoming. I sought the Lord and I found forgiveness of sin, eternal life, and a changed life. And from the moment I was saved, I was pardoned that other children come to Christ. Children have been my heart. You know that. All these years. These and I'll tell you, these little children, I know many, if not all of you, feel the way I do, but not a one of these children ever to smoke cigarettes I don't want any of these children ever to taste what liquor is. Never, their whole life, not one time. Experience the consequences of what liquor does in the life of a person. Drugs, fornication. We want and you know how you keep them from that? You bring them to Jesus. You bring them to Jesus Who were who's they? We're not told. Doesn't say they're parents. I have no doubt it would include parents, surely. Extended family, neighbors, friends, maybe folks who were saved out of out of sin. Maybe folks that were delivered of Demon possession, maybe folks that were healed miraculous ways by the Lord Jesus Christ. Their lives were changed. And they were very, very concerned for the next generation, very, very concerned for these children. Maybe it was, to put it in our context, maybe it was some bus workers. Say, yeah, I'll take a bus route. I'll take a little neighborhood. I'll take Heralda. I'll take Deer Park. I'll take Kitzmiller, Oakland, Mountain Lake Park, Accident. Grantsville, Friendsville. Say yeah, I want to bring these children to Jesus. I read that they brought them to Jesus. Day. You know what comes to my mind, my bus workers that worked so hard out yesterday for several hours, knocking on doors early this morning. When you and I are done eating lunch, a couple of these buses just be coming in and out dropping them off. They brought them to Jesus. They brought them to Jesus. They brought them to Jesus. In a month we have Bible time. We're gonna have people all over filling our cars, vans, our buses, everything, every vehicle we have, we're gonna try and fill it up and bring kids to Jesus. kids to Jesus. I don't believe there's now children have a lot of needs. There's no doubt about it. I'm just not discounting that. But I'll tell you the underlying greatest need of every child is to know the Lord Jesus Christ is Savior. The Lord Jesus Christ is Savior. And so I see a tremendous concern here. And that word, they captured my imagination. Second thing I notice first of all is the concern. Second of all, the correction of the disciples by the Lord Jesus And he says, and look, notice how the disciples responded. And his disciples rebuked those that brought them. I don't know about you, but that made me mad when I read that. I thought, those knucklehead disciples. You know it's a great sin to keep others from coming to Christ. That is a great sin Jesus is the only Savior from God's judgment on man's sin. The only way to escape hell, the only way to escape the judgment of God on our sin is through the person, the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. The only way And for a disciple or for anybody, you or I, to stand between those who need the Savior, those who need salvation And the one that is the Savior and provides salvation to stand in between them. To me is a horrible, horrible sin. Horrible sin. God forbid that we would ever do anything to hinder or keep somebody from coming to Christ. And the Lord rebuked them. The Lord rebuked them sharply when the Lord saw it, verse number 14, when Jesus saw it. He was much displeased. That word much displeased, I looked it up how it's used. It means this. He was indignant. It means he was very upset. I mean, this got the Lord upset. It's interesting, you read the Gospels carefully, you find those who were rebuked the most sharply by the Lord Jesus Christ. Was not who you might think it was. Those rebuked the most sharply by the Lord Jesus Christ were his disciples. There's many times it says he was angry with them. I don't know about you. God tells us that we're to put off anger. God is the only one that is righteous enough that can be legitimately angry. And when Jesus gets angry, that's not good. How many people here would want the Lord Jesus to be angry at you? I wouldn't. And so the Lord Jesus, the people that Lord Jesus rebuked the most in the Gospels, as I see it, is his disciples. And he rebuked them for two things. One was for their lack of faith. Their lack of faith. What? He's in the boat. We read this last night in our devotion. He was in the boat and the storm came. They said, Lord, we perish. And the Lord looked on him with anger and said, What? Why are you faithless? You know, when we don't exercise faith in God, when we don't trust him, that displeases the Lord. We ought to trust him. And the other thing he rebukes them is this here for interfering and hindering others from coming to Christ. A lack of love on their part. And so he rebuked them. The kid says, Don't bring the disciples said, Don't bring those kids in here. Years ago when I first came. Now the church had bus ministry previous to me arriving here back in the 80s and I think 70s ran a great bus ministry And then for whatever reason through a series of events there was no buses. So we started winning souls. We had people coming in, 1993, going in ninety-four, and folks were getting saved and baptized and Things were going, people needed rides. I was out picking up kids, uh folks in my car, some families couldn't drive, we were picking them up, I'm running around. Then I had a couple others here and they would run and help pick up people And I was the from the day I showed up, I thought, I want a bus ministry, I want a bus ministry, I want a bus ministry. But I just wanted to do it right and in the right timing and let the Lord lead And so I've been praying. And so we had like five four or five cars picking up people, bringing them in. I'm saying, Lord, we need a bus ministry. Lord, tell the people we need a bus ministry. You lay on the heart. Because if I do, then it's just cause the preacher we just do it because the preacher wants it. I want that And finally one of the fellows came up and said, Brother Latman, Pastor, we're running all these cars. What do you think if we'd get a bus? That's a great idea. You're a genius. So we bought one the next day. No, no. We started a bus ministry bringing them in. And I had somebody, this was a couple years into it, a few years into it, I had somebody come and they met me over here after one of the services. They were a little upset. He said, Pastor Leatherman I found gum in the carpet. No way. Those kids coming in here, they put gum in the carpet. I said, well, show me where it is. I'll get it out. I tell you what, I'd rather have gum in the carpet with kids than spotless carpet and no kids. I'd rather have little They're tearing up the pew! I know it, and if I catch them, I'll tell them to stop it But I'd rather have a little pew tore up with kids in church being introduced to the Lord Jesus than spotless pews and no kids around. I don't want to stand between. I don't want to do anything to hinder or keep or stand between children or anybody And the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't be bringing those kids here. Can't you see the chaos? Don't you see the fussing going on with the disciples? Have you no idea? I mean, with the Pharisees, don't you know what we're facing? We don't got time for this. Get out of here. Jesus says, don't you be that way. Oh, that was very displeasing to the Lord. Who is it? How are people kept from the Lord Jesus Christ? Now I'm out of time. I wanted to rail on this, but let me just do it anyway. Liberal preachers Liberal preachers keep people from coming to Christ. See what do you mean by liberal preachers? Preachers who put doubts in children and people's minds about the Word of God are hindering people coming to Christ. Listen, it is absolutely true. It must be absolutely clear. This book is God's holy, inspired, preserved, perfect word. And I just say this, as long as I'm pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we are not leaving the King James Bible. I mean just mark it down. Unless I lose my mind. If I do Sh uh deal with me. We are going to preach and teach that Jesus Christ is God. Any liberal preacher that denies the deed of Christ, denies the inspiration of the Word of God, denies the fundamentals of the faith, is standing between people and Jesus Christ. Am I making sense? Did I make that clear? We're not changing our doctrine. We're sticking to the Word of God. Who else keeps people from coming to Christ? I put this in, I'll abbreviate this. I put this down, loose living Christians that have poor testimonies. Some person claims to be saved, and they're out living in sin, carrying on. They don't look, act, smell, talk any different than the unsaved world does. You know what you're doing? You're hurting people from coming to Christ. We had a guy in visitation. I mentioned this a number of times years ago. We were out visiting. He showed up for visitation. I was glad he was there. We had some names. I said this guy's unsaved I want you and you, if you guys go visit that guy, try and share the gospel with him. The fellow spoke up. He says, I can't visit him. So what do you mean you can't visit him? Why not? He says, my testimony with him is terrible. I can't go talk to him about the Lord. So you've got to be kidding me. If there's anybody in the world that my testimony is so bad that I can't share the gospel with them, I'm in no better shape than those disciples were when they were keeping those children from coming to Christ. A loose living Christian, a worldly, a fleshly Christian stands hinders others from coming to Christ. I put this, light-minded churches. That are not serious about reaching the lost. Now I don't I don't mean to be critical and listen, everybody has to answer to God for themselves. But I'm just of the mind that rock and roll good time Christianity is not bringing people to Christ. It may be religious, it may be fun, it may be attractive But only the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ is going to save souls. Amen or not And so this light, this Christianity light is what I call it, playing church Uh and then I put this down, little and selfish Christians, not willing to invest time and effort and resources to reach the lost or standing between I am absolutely convinced, and I know I'm sounding maybe a little mean, a little mad, and uh and and I'm a little mad, but um But I I'm telling you this, I am absolutely convinced that there are people in our community that if somebody would go this coming week with an open Bible and show them from the Bible how to be saved, they would be saved. The problem isn't finding people who need to be saved or want to be saved. The problem is getting Christians to go out to them and tell them how to be saved. And God have mercy on any church or any Christian that had the ability and the opportunity to share the gospel with the lost and does not do it, and that person dies and goes out in eternity with Christ. I'm telling you, there is blood on our hands. When we don't do that. And so these disciples are keeping these children away from Christ. And Jesus was very upset. And he rebuked them. He's very displeased. And I don't want to be in that position. And I'll be honest with you. I'll just share my heart as your preacher this morning. My heart stirred up. I'll be honest with you. We need revival of soul winning in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We need it. There are people without Christ all around us. And then let me give you the last one. I've got to end. I'll just throw it at you. The compassion of the Lord. I love verse 16. It says, and he took them up in his arms. And he put his hands upon them and he blessed them. Boy, if I could have one snapshot Of the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ, I would love to have a photo of Jesus with these little children. Up in his arms, he's holding them, he's gathering up in his arms. And he's touching them. He's blessing them. The God that created all this spoken into existence. Holding these little children, blessing them. Blessing them. And then he makes this statement, and I am with this. He says, suffer, verse 14, suffer the little children to come unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of God. Whosoever, verse 15, shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child. Look at this. He shall not enter in. You say, preacher, how do I get saved? Preacher, how do I get eternal life? How do I know that I go to heaven when I die and not to hell? How can I have my sins forgiven? There's only one way. And that's to come to Jesus Christ, listen, as a little child. As a little child. Nobody struts up to Jesus, save me. That ain't gonna happen. That ain't gonna happen. We're saved one way and one way only. We come to Jesus very humbly, very dependently. As a little child, Jesus, I trust you, and trust you completely. Forgive me and save me. I have nothing of my own. Do you notice these little children? Dave says, all right, y'all come on over here. Y'all did exactly what he said. Most of them did exactly what he said. They trust them. That's what salvation is. I'm a sinner lost under God's judgment on my way to hell. He says, I come to you like a little child. I'm depending on you. I'm trusting you to forgive me and save me and change me and make me what I ought to be. We come to him that way, God responds with grace and mercy and salvation. Amen. Read about a preacher, was out, he had a little daughter. And it was late at night, I guess they had services or whatever. It was kind of late at night, and it was a nice night out, and it was warm. He said, let's go for a walk. And it was dark, it was night. And they went out and they're walking down the road to the sidewalk holding hands. And he got thinking, they went through a kind of wooded area, it was a little dark, and he got thinking, and he said down, said to his daughter, he says, sweetheart, it's dark out here. Are you scared? Are you afraid? And he said the little girl responded without hesitating. She says, of course not, Daddy. I'm with you. You know what these little children need? They need to know that Jesus is their Savior. And they can go into this old wicked, dark, scary world, say, I'm not scared because Jesus is with me I have Jesus my Savior. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to challenge us in this matter of reaching the lost, and then particularly reaching children for Christ. Today, we've honored those that have been in the program and have worked hard. Or in the next few weeks, we're going to be working hard to try and get all the children in our neighborhood, all the children in our community in here We're going to do our best to give them the gospel, Lord. I pray it would be true, not just for a month out of August, and in the summer, I mean, in June and July, but I pray it would be true throughout the year That we would do all in our power, everything we can, to do everything to try and reach the lost and bring them to Christ. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I don't know. God speak to your heart this morning. The Holy Spirit of God touch you and say, you know, are you doing all you can to bring others to Christ? Is there something in your heart and life, your testimony that's keeping others from coming to Christ? Oh, let's deal with that. Let's yield that to the Lord and say, Lord, here I am. Take me, use me, stir me, help me to put feet to what you've spoken in my heart. I wonder if there'd be something this morning, would you be willing to kneel an old-fashioned older? Start praying now that God would save children. We'd see a revival of soul winning in our church. Here in the old altar and just church folks saying, God, please revive soul winning in my heart, our church. Help us see many children saved. I believe God would bless that. How many are like that? You're praying with me. Maybe some would say, yeah, there's some areas in my life I need to get in tune. I can bring others. How about it? Uplifted hands, all around. God bless you. God bless you. Maybe God dealt with some issue that needs to be addressed in your life. I urge you, make that right, make that right. So someone here this morning said, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I'm concerned about it. I don't want to go to hell. I need that settled in my heart and life. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God would help me settle that. And those doubts would be dealt with. And that concern would be settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I am concerned. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. I want to know I've trusted Christ, as the Bible says. Any at all? Any at all? Now Father, bless our invitation. You know our hearts. Have your way, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.