Chapter one hundred and three. I'm excited about neighborhood Bible time. It for most of you know or aware, but uh back when I was in Bible college, I traveled two years as the Bible time evangelist, what these guys here are doing. And um and I tell you I see them doing the booster chair and everything, my mind goes back, my body's my body says, No, you're fifty-eight, my mind says you're twenty-four, and um so I'm doing the booster chair in my head. But uh we're excited about this week. And I hope you're praying and help us every way you can to help us uh reach these young people For the Lord Jesus Christ. We're looking forward to a great crowd. Get my mic turned on here, and I think we're good to go. If you would. Notice with me verse number 12. I'd like for us to read this together in unison Uh by the way, I was at the library the other day. I told a lady, I said, I would like a book on paranoia. And she leaned up and whispered, It's right behind you. And so uh I thought that was funnier than that, but um I thought that was a pretty good one. Alright. Verse 12, let's read this together in unison. Ready? As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. Boy, what a great verse, huh? I want to speak about as far as the East is from the West. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now you bless us this morning. Lord, we've got a big day and a big week ahead of us And Lord, I just pray that maybe you could help us in the next few moments to refocus on what the Christian life is all about, what the gospel is all about. It's going to be our emphasis this week. So I pray that you'd stir us and prepare us. Lord, I pray that those of us that know you as Savior would rejoice in the truths presented here. I pray you'd stir our hearts to share that with others. Lord, maybe there's some that do not have assurance of sins forgiven in a home in heaven. I pray that maybe you'd use your word. And stir that one and draw them to Christ that they would find salvation and cleansing from sin. So please fill me with your spirit, Lord. I present my body anew. I yield my will and pray that you would speak through me, Lord. In Jesus' name I ask it. Amen. The message of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, if somebody comes and says Pastor Leatherman, what is Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? What is it all about? What are you guys all about? The answer to that question is very simple. We're about the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is our message, whether it's from the Sunday school classes, it's the message of our songs that we sing. It is the message of our radio broadcast. Last evening we uh took the uh uh the evangelists that are with us. We were working around here getting ready, and we went out to um uh Safa tickers down here to get some ice cream and um uh we're down there and uh by the way these guys are all from California. So they were sitting there outside sapphatickers like this. Eating ice cream. And um they're freezing to death. I said this is they said this is winter in California. I said, this is summer in Garrett County. But while we were there, we had the church van, and while we were there, a fellow came up to me and says, You guys have a radio station we had on the side of the van. I said, Yes. He says, My daughter works in a Christian station down in Miami. She's a DJ down there and she helps do whatever DJs do. And uh so we got talking about it. And uh I said, really our radio station is very simple. We're just old fashioned uh traditional conservative gospel programming. And that is the message of our church, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We support 80-some missionaries all around the world. You know what their message is around the world? It isn't social change, it isn't government revolution, it isn't uh hygiene, it isn't all that. The message is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ That is the message of our church. That is the purpose of our church. That is the uh that is the mission of our church To take the gospel to every single person. The gospel is a simple message. It is not complicated at all. The gospel is simply the fact that we as mankind have sinned against our Creator. We have broken his law. We have violated His holiness. As a result of that, the consequences are we are under God's judgment. We are under our Creator's judgment. We have rebelled against his instructions. We have rebelled against his will and purpose for our existence. And that puts us under our holy God, our holy creator's judgment. But God loves us. And he loves his creation dearly. And he does not want to judge us. His holiness requires it, but his love desires that we not be judged. So God sent his son, his only son, the Lord Jesus Christ. and gave him to be judged in our place for our sins. He was our substitute. And he paid in full the consequences of all of my sins against God. Every thought I've ever had that violates God's holiness, every word I've ever said, every deed I've ever done. That has been sin against my God and my creator. Jesus Christ took responsibility for and paid that price for me in my place. He was buried, he rose again. Today is at the right hand of the Father, and the gospel is simply this. If I will accept what He's done for me, if I will realize the price that He has paid for my sin And turn to him in repentance and faith, trusting him as my personal Savior. He will forgive me of all sin. He will cleanse me, and he'll receive me to himself and eventually dwell with him forever in heaven. That's a simple little message. We're sinners. God died for our sins. He was buried and rose again. And he says, Whosoever believes on him shall be saved. Simple little message. Now, it's very simple, but it's not always easy. It's not always easy to be received. For whatever reason, we struggle with that. I would say May seventh, nineteen seventy-nine, as you well know. But I tell you, God, it was working on my heart, and I knew I needed to be saved for many months leading up to the night that I finally accepted Christ. Now here's my question. Why do we struggle so hard with something that is so wonderful? Why do we struggle so much? Why do we resist so much against receiving something that is such an amazing gift? To be forgiven of our sins. So the message of our church is a very simple message. The gospel is a very simple message. Not always easily received. But a very, very simple message. I put this down by way of introduction. It is a stable message. And by that I mean it does not change. The message of the Lord Jesus Christ as given in the New Testament is the same today as it was the day Jesus Christ rose from the dead. The gospel is unchanging. Here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we are not interested in new theories about salvation. We're not interested in new ideas about how a man is made acceptable to God. We're not interested in a lot of new things, to be honest with you. But the gospel is unchanging. The gospel is uh uh is timeless, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. A number of years ago I was out visiting on Fingerboard Road and uh I was making some visits out there and a visit with a lady, she lived in a trailer there, and uh sweet lady, an older lady. Um I noticed older folks aren't as old as they used to be, but um. She was an older lady And uh we got talking a little bit. My wife was with me, we're sitting in the living room there and introducing it, just making some small talk and chatting a little. And uh finally I asked her, and we talked a little bit, and I said, well, let me ask you a question Do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven, not to hell? And she says, hold on just a second. And she jumped up off the sofa. She went running back the hallway into the back of the trailer there. She was back there just A few seconds, not long, minute maybe at the most. And she came walking out with a little paper in her hand and she says, I have something here I want you to see. And she handed it to me. You know what it was It was a little gospel tract called God's Simple Plan of Salvation by Dr. Ford Porter. It was yellowed and obviously it was very, very old. And she says The founding pastor of your church, Brother Ed Wilt, gave that to me downtown Oakland one time, and she says, I've had this on my dresser by my bed all these many years. That was like 40 years she had that gospel. You know what? We had that exact same track 40 years later we have in our track rack. The point I'm trying to make is this. The message doesn't change. The gospel doesn't change. It doesn't need to be updated. It doesn't need to be revised. It doesn't need to be re Britain that simply needs to be declared as it is, as it has been given all these many years, the gospel is stable. It doesn't change. It's simple. It's not a complicated message at all. A little child can understand that. By God's grace and Lord willing, I know the Lord's willing. By God's grace We're going to see a lot of young people uh trust the Lord Jesus Christ and receive the gospel this coming week. We pray and work very hard that they sincerely understand and accept Christ. A little child can be saved. Why? Because it's a simple message. It's a stable message. It's unchanging. I put this down. It is a certain message. And by that I mean this: the gospel will do exactly what it's designed to do. The Apostle Paul said in Romans chapter 1 and verse 16, he says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. What was Paul saying? Paul was saying that that gospel is very certain. It can be trusted. You can rely upon the gospel to do exactly what it's designed to do. And the gospel is designed to take a poor lost sinner, cleanse them of that sin, make them a new creature, and impart to them eternal life that they can dwell with God forever. And the gospel will do exactly that when it is received by faith. And so the gospel is a certain message. It is a stable message, unchanging. It is a simple message. Thinking about the gospel, it is impossible to preach the gospel to the wrong person. Every single person in the world needs the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Doesn't matter what their financial status is. Doesn't matter what their uh uh educational level is, doesn't matter what their skills may be, doesn't matter what their nationality may be, doesn't matter what their background may be, doesn't matter what their home life may be. Doesn't matter how badly they are sinned or how righteous they may think they are, it is impossible to preach the gospel to the wrong person. It is impossible to preach the gospel in the wrong place. Every place needs the gospel Uh, when I first showed up down at Tennessee Temple back in 1981, that was a previous century for you young people. It was a previous millennium. Uh I thought that was interesting. But it was a long time ago. 1981, I showed up down there. Chattanooga, Tennessee. How many folks have ever been to Chattanooga, Tennessee? Anybody here? Back then it wasn't as fancy as it is now. Uh it's not real fancy now, but um they used to down there, they used to tell us that Chattanooga was the armpit of Tennessee, so I don't know But uh there was some rough areas there. And uh I was there about a week or so and a couple guys came up, brother Leatherman. We just got to know them, and he said, Hey, we're going downtown and we're gonna go street preaching downtown where all the bars are and all the uh liquor is and drugs and all that. It's gonna be great. I said, are you sure that's the right place we should go to preach the gospel? You know what I found out? That's exactly the right place to go to preach the gospel. You know where else is the right place to preach the gospel? In the highfalutin, self-righteous churches of our country. They need the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. So whether it's a bar, a street filled with bars, or a self-righteous church, there's no wrong place to preach the gospel. You follow what I'm trying to say? There's no wrong place to preach the gospel. There's no wrong person to preach the gospel. There's no wrong time to preach the gospel. Um I heard Curtis Hudson years ago tell a story. He said he couldn't sleep at night and uh he was laying there just kind of tossing the turning, so he thought, well, we got an idea. He had a deacon that said, anytime you want to go soul winning, just give me a call, I'll go with you. So it was 2 o'clock in the morning, and he was laying there, and he thought, I got a great idea. I'm going to go get my gas can. I'm going to drive around the beltway around Atlanta, whatever that road is, and I'm going to look for people that have run out of gas And alongside the road, I'll go fill their tank up and I'll witness to them. He said, but my deacon said he'd go with me anytime I'm going to Soul Win. He said he called him up two o'clock in the morning. He said, hey, I'm going Soulwin. You want to go with me? Guys said, what are you crazy preacher? He says, you said any time. He says, alright. So they jumped out, two o'clock in the morning. They're driving around the s the the bike the Beltway around Atlanta and lo and behold here's a guy alongside of the road with his gas uh thing open and just standing there and they pull over and um Uh Dr. Hudson says, hey, uh, what's the problem? He says, I ran out of gas. He's uh Dr. Hudson said, I've been looking for you. The guy says, you ain't looking for me He filled his tank up and he says, By the way, before I go, here's a little gospel track. And he said he was able to sit down beside his in his car there, two o'clock in the morning, and that fowl belled his head and trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior What I'm trying to say is this, there's no wrong time. I had a lady says, if I ever get saved, it'll be at church at the end of the service. I'll go forward, get church. There's no wrong place, there's no wrong time. I said, no, you need to get saved now. You might never make it to church. And so the gospel, it's a simple message, it's a stable message, it's a sermon. a certain message. It'll do what it's designed to do. You cannot preach it to the wrong person. You cannot preach it in the wrong place. You cannot preach it at the wrong time. And you cannot preach the gos For too often Somebody says, ah, you go out there in Mountain Lake, all they ever preach is salvation. All they ever preach is the gospel. All they ever preach is salvation. Well, it's not all we ever preach, but it is a lot of what we preach He said, why do you preach the message of salvation to people who are already saved? I found that those who love it best seem to love to hear it most. Those who know it best love to hear it most. I tell you that old, old story, it's hard to get old. It's hard to get tired of that thing, hear how we're saved. And so it's a blessing to those of us who are saved. We preach it. Another thing is when I more often I hear the gospel, the more I feel confident in sharing it with others. It helps me go out and share with others as I hear reminded over and over again. And the other thing is not everybody that's a church member is saved. Right or wrong. Just being a church member doesn't make a person saved. And he said, Oh, well, who do you think is unsaved? I don't know, but God knows. And God knows. And so we preach the gospel. You can't preach it too often. You can't preach it in the wrong place. You can't preach it to the wrong person. You can't preach it at the wrong time. Mankind's greatest need is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. To know that his sins are forgiven more than we need government reform, more than we need stronger militaries. More than we need a cure for AIDS, more than we need to stop terrorism, and those no doubt are all legitimate needs, but more than that, greater need than that, is a man to be forgiven of his sins. To be saved from the wrath and judgment of his holy Creator, and to be restored in his relationship and fellowship with him, and to receive eternal life. The greatest need of mankind is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I said all that to bring us to our message, to our text here this morning, Psalms 103. I believe Psalms 103 is one of those passages in Scripture. Where the mercy of God is displayed in a beautiful way. Psalms 103 is a phenomenal chapter where we have the compassion of our God Expressed to us so clearly and so powerfully. Psalms 103 explains and expresses to us how fully and complete God will forgive. Those who turn to Him and trust Him as their Savior. A few thoughts this morning. Number one, this is my first point. Number one, I notice, I want to give first of all an explanation of our text, verse number 12 An explanation of this passage. Look at verse 12 again with me if you would. As far as the east is from the west. So far hath he removed our transgressions from us. Now just a simple explanation. He uses that phrase as far as. Now he's illustrating something. He's comparing something here. When he says as far as, he has this idea, to the same extent as So he's about to illustrate how thorough and how complete God's forgiveness and cleansing of sin is. As far as the what? What's it say? As far as the east is from the somebody tell uh uh do we got any truck drivers here? Any present or former truck drivers? A couple. We have a couple highly intelligent fellows here Um uh anybody here trout anybody here err uh fly overseas? Anybody here ever fly overseas? Few folks. Anybody circum circum Circumvent the planet. Anybody uh go all the way around? Andrea, have you been all the way around? Any others uh around there a little bit? I've been just about, I got a little section about that long I haven't been completely around Anybody here tell me how far is the east from the west? You can't measure that, can ya? Did you sometimes I told the fellows in prayer breakfast yesterday morning, I said, sometimes you can learn as much from the Bible by noticing what it does not say as you do from what it does say. Now think with me, verse 12 here, think with me a minute for what it does not say. God doesn't say as far as the north is from the south. But he says, as far as the east is from the west. Now why would he do that? Why wouldn't he say the north from the south? What's the difference? Because if you and I would travel north and we would keep traveling north and we would keep traveling north, we would eventually hit what? The North Pole. And at that point, we would no longer be traveling north, we would begin traveling what? South. And we could travel south for however many thousands of miles that is. We would travel south. And at some point we would hit the what? South Pole. And we would cease be traveling south and we would start traveling north. In other words, from north to south on our planet and our you have a measurable distance You have a beginning and an end. You could say. And he doesn't say as far as the north is from the south. Now that's a long way. And if my sins were put on the South Pole and I was on the North Pole, I'd be a long way from my sins. But he doesn't say that. He says, as far as the east is from the West. If we'd get in a car or a boat or a helicopter or an airplane, we'd start flying west, and we kept flying west and we kept flying west and we would kept flying west, would we ever stop going west? It's indefinite. As far as the east, and if we went east, we would just keep going east and keep going east and keep going east. And he says, as far as the East is from the West, actually it's like this, as far as the East is from the West, He says, so far hath he removed our sins from us. What's he saying? He's saying they are gone. They're gone. They're absolutely removed. I may be talking to some folks that's trusted Christ and are saved. You've genuinely trusted Christ. You've been born again. You're saved. You're a new creature. You have eternal life. And you're still dwelling on something that God says is so far away you can't even measure the distance from it. And we keep that in our head, and we keep that in our mind, and it drags us down. So he says, as far as I'm comparing something here from the distance of the east from the west, so far hath he removed Our sins from us. That word removed is interesting. It means to separate from or to put a distance between. Alright, I'm down here. I'm right beside Sandy. What a pleasant woman to be beside. And I'm going to remove myself from her. I'm putting a distance between myself from her. I'm not near her anymore. I'm being removed from her. And he says that is what God does with our sins. When a person, little child, an old drunk, a self-righteous uh upstanding citizen Regardless, a sinner before God, when he accepts Jesus Christ as his personal Savior, God says, I forgive his sins, I forgive him those sins, but I remove those sins from him as far as the East is from the West. They're gone. Gone, gone, gone, gone. Yes, my sins are gone. Buried in uh the deep sea. Now my soul is free, and in my heart, so so I'm buried in the deepest sea. Yes, that's good enough for me. I shall live eternally, praise God. My sins are G-O-N-E gone. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That is a fantastic song. And when I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, my sins are gone. They're gone. As far as the East is from the rest, so far has He removed them from us, removed them from us. God, now get this, God does not ignore our sin. He doesn't ignore it. God does not pass over sin. He doesn't just overlook it. Well, there's Dennis. He's a sinner. I'll just ignore his sins. I just won't pay any attention. I'll just disregard his sins. God always deals with sin. Mark it down. God always deals with sin. Here you have a person, they're unrepentant, they never trust Christ as Savior, they never turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. They're in their sins, Jesus describes that. They're in their sins. They are dead in their trespasses and sins, Ephesians chapter 2 tells us. God deals with our sins. And if a person dies in their sin, as Jesus said, if they die in their sins, if they die unforgiven. God's wrath and judgment is poured out for all eternity. In a horrific place, Jesus described hell, eventually the lake of fire. Now listen, we touched on this recently in a message. There is nothing in the world funny about hell There is nothing about hell that is to be joked about or to be taken lightly. It is the most horrific thing that could possibly happen to a person. For someone to die in their sins and be under the judgment and wrath of God for all eternity. Listen, don't think for a minute that God overlooks sin. Don't think for a minute that God does not deal with sin. He does deal with sin. It is very serious. Now, what about a believer? What about a person that trusts the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior? They come, they recognize their sin, and they turn to the Lord and say, Lord, I need forgiveness, I need cleansing from my sin. God deals with that, the believer's sin, by doing this, by removing it. As far as the East is from the West, He removes our sin. He removes sin's payment. May 6th, 1979. It was a Sunday. It's my birthday. Mark that down. May 6th, Pastor's birthday. May 6th was my birthday, 1979. I was in my sins. I was under the wrath and judgment of God. If, God forbid, if I'd have died in a car wreck or something would have happened, I'd have died. I would have died in my sins. And right now, July 8th, 2018, right now, I would be burning in a devil's hell. Without any hope of escape. But May 7th, 10:30 at night, I turned to Christ. I wanted to be forgiven and cleansed of my sin. I trusted Jesus, Christ as my Savior. And you know what God did? God removed my sins from me. He removed that punishment, that judgment from me. I am no longer under the judgment and wrath of God. Isn't that a good thing? There are some teenagers today that are in their sins. They would die in that condition. They will be separated from God for all eternity. Now, our prayer and our effort and our work this week is to get those young people to turn to Christ and trust Jesus Christ as their Savior so that their sins and its judgment can be what? Removed. Taken off of them. I was telling evangelists about Brandon Dillsworth. We all love Brandon. Got a year of Bible college down, heading back here in a few weeks. You pray for him. He's out helping with the teens. I think it was two years ago he came to Bible time. Lost, quiet, timid little guy, never said two words. He got saved. Now he says three words. But um As quiet as can be. And on Sunday night, I believe it was two years ago, maybe three, uh, Sunday night, by Bible time, he was out there in the rally, and God began dealing with heart. He came under control The fact that he was a sinner, he needed to be forgiven, and he trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. You know what God did? God removed that judgment of his sins from off of him. And so when he says here, so far hath he removed, God always deals with sin. If a person dies in their sin, they never turn to Christ and find forgiveness and cleansing. then God deals with by eternal wrath and judgment in hell the lake of fire. If a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, they turn to him, trusting him He removes that payment, that punishment of our sins from us, but he also does this, he removes sin's power from us. Here's the fact of the matter is though after we're saved, we still have a sinful nature and we still do sin. How many people have been saved and found that out since you've been saved? We still struggle with it It's still there. But the point is this, we don't have to sin. We can have victory over sin. Nobody can ever look sin and temptation in the face and say, all right, I have no choice. I have to commit this sin. I have to give in to this sin. Temptation. We don't have to. God has removed the power of sin over us. We have the presence of the Holy Spirit, and we can have victory. Now we blow it constantly. Can I get a whip? Y'all look at me like you don't know what I'm talking about. We blow it constantly. Amen? Or not? But we don't have to. We can have victory. Christ has removed the power of sins from us, though it's still there. And praise God, this is my favorite thought. Praise God, someday He's going to remove the presence of sin from us. We talk a lot about heaven, don't we? We're excited about heaven. We sing songs about heaven. Heaven is a wonderful place. Filled with glory and grace. I want to see my Savior's face. Heaven is a wonderful place. But you know there's something about heaven that stirs my heart as much as anything. Of course, seeing the Lord Jesus is going to be the ultimate. But there's something about heaven that stirs my heart, and that is this. When I get to heaven, I'm going to have a glorified body, and this old sinful nature of mine will no longer exist. Now think about what that means. That means I will never have an internal struggle with sin ever again. No more temptation. No more impure thoughts. No more selfish desires. No more uh outbursts and sharp words and oh why'd I say that no more of that at all. Every thought, every desire, every action will be perfect and pure and good and holy and righteous. Oh what a day that will be When we're removed from the very presence of sin. How many folks here ever get frustrated with yourself? Yeah. I didn't ask your spouse, I said yourself. Get frustrated with yourself. Did you ever look in the mirror and say, you are a knucklehead? Anybody here? Oh look at me. Yeah, thank you. Somebody help me. Did you ever do this? What was I thinking? Huh? Someday we're going to get to heaven. If we know the Lord Jesus our Savior, we're going to get to heaven. You know what we're never going to say? Oh, what was I thinking? Why did I say that? Why did I do that? What an idiot. Every thought, every word, every pure, every every every thought, every word, every action is going to be pure and holy and righteous. Ah, as far as the East is from the West, so far hath he removed our sins from us. He removed sin's punishment, since judgment. He removes sin's power, and praise God, a day come and sin's presence are going to be removed. So that's an explanation of the text. He's going to remove our sins from us. Inmeasurable descent. It's gone. But I want us to notice this is an exclusive text, and this is a very important thought here. Again, look at verse number 12. As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed, what's the next word? Our sins from us. So far hath he removed our transgressions from us. He says, our us. It's a specific people. Under the inspiration of God by King David. David was a saved man. He was a child of God. Listen, not everybody in the world can claim this passage. It only applies to people who have trusted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. He is not saying, I have removed all the sins of all mankind, universal salvation of mankind, everybody's sins ever given. No. The removal of sins is a gift that God gives to us. It is a gift that He offers to us This forgiveness and this removal of transgression. It is a gift that He offers to us. He paid a horrific price for you and I to be able to have our sins removed. And he offers that to us as a gift. And he gives to us the free will option of either accepting this gift of our transgressions removed or refusing it. And this passage only applies to those who have received that gift. Those who are, to use Bible terminology, those who are born again, those who are the new creation, those who have been saved. We must never presume upon God's mercy. We must never presume upon God's salvation. I say this often, but I'm out knocking on doors this past week. Uh uh I I talked it was two weeks ago I talked to a lady and uh down here in Mount Lake Park. And I introduced myself and she goes, I was actually out to your church many years ago one time I came in, I was in your church one time. I said, Well that's wonderful, we'd love to have you come back. She goes, well maybe I will and she told me all this stuff And we're out on the porch and uh I said to her, I said, well, you know, church is important. It's really important. God designed the church. It's very important. I said, but more important than that Is knowing for sure your sins are forgiven that when you die you go to heaven you go to heaven and not to hell. And her sins are given. I said, do you ever think about that? She goes, oh yeah. I said, do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? She goes, Oh, I believe I would I said, well, how do you know? What makes you sure? Well, I just I just think I would. I think God would God would do that for me. You know what that is? That is presuming that I'm saved. That is assuming that I'm saved. I said, well, what do you base that on? What gives you that makes you think that you would go to heaven. Well I just think God would. Listen, don't ever approach salvation that way. I can't walk into the bank and say I'd like to withdraw $15,000. They say, well, do you have that in here? Well, I think I think it'd be fine. I think so. You know how much money you'd walk out with? Nothing. It's presuming And listen, salvation of a person's soul is far more valuable than $15,000. I said, her name was Karen. I said, Karen. Did I show you from the Bible how you can know for sure based on God's Word that your sins are forgiven? She said, yeah, I'd like that. I was able to go through the Bible and she prayed with me and professed to trust Christ as her Savior. Now what I'm trying to say is this, as far as the sin, as far as the East is from the West, so far as he removed our transgressions from us. That is not something that applies to everybody. That is a gift that must be received by faith. And unless you've, if you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior in sincerity, turning to him, trusting him as your Savior. We cannot claim that promise. And I'm to be very honest with you, if that is the case, the Bible's very clear, you are still in your sins and under the judgment of God. And you desperately need salvation. Looks to me that this message of the gospel should be on every TV station every day in every country of the world. Amen or not. This is vital. Every government ought to be blasting this out to all their people. You need Christ. Turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the only hope of salvation. He is the only way. He is the only truth. He is the only life. No man comes to Father but by Him. It's vitally important. We must never presume upon this. So this is an exclusive text. Notice he recognized the fact that he is a sinner. In verse number 8, he says, Lord, be merciful. A plea for mercy is an acknowledgement of guilt. He says, be merciful. Slow to anger. Why would God be angry? Because we're sinners. He does not always chide. He has not dealt with us after our sins. David is saying, I'm a sinner. I'm guilty before God. But he put his faith and trust in God's mercy, and God said, because of that, his sins are removed. It's an explicit text. Number three, an explicit text is so far as the East is from the West, so far hath he removed. That's something that's already done. It hath already moved. My wife says, make sure you get the chicken for the evangelist for supper tomorrow night. And I say, I have already done it It hath already been done. That means it's already taken place. That was a pitiful illustration I was trying to But if I say it hath already been done, that means what? It's finished. No more need not I don't have to get more chicken. It's already got. In fact, we already ate it. And he says, so far hath. This is very explicit. This, I mean, it's already done. It's certain. So far hath he removed. That's past tense. I think the thing I'm trying to get at here is this. When a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, we are saved. We know we're saved. It's a settled fact. It's no longer an issue. 2 Timothy 1:12, Paul said this: I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. Paul was saved. He knew he was saved. It was settled. 1 John chapter 5, 12 and 13, he says, He that hath a son hath everlasting life. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that you have eternal life. I'd hope so and wonder and think so But know it. Know it. It's a settled thing. He hath removed our sins. And then last of all, it's expressive text. It's very expressive. This whole chapter is a psalm of praise. Look at verse number one. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is in within me. Bless His holy name. Look at the last few verses of the chapter, verse 20. Bless the Lord, ye his angels that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of the Lord. Bless the Lord, ye his hosts. Ye ministers of his that do his pleasure. Bless the Lord all his works in all places of his dominion. Bless the Lord, O my soul How many people think that sounds like David's happy? Man, this guy, David, is ecstatic. I've been forgiven. God has removed my sins. The night I got saved, I was so far in debt financially, it was terrible. I had squandered all my money on drugs and drinking and wickedness My body was in terrible shape. I can honestly say, as far as this world is concerned, by our American standards anyway, I had nothing. I came to Christ with empty hands. Morally, physically, financially, socially, I had nothing But I'll tell you what, when I realized that God had forgiven me and taken all that sin away from me, I was the happiest man in Philadelphia that night I'm telling you, salvation brings joy. I may be talking to some folks and everything may be falling around. You may say I've failed in every area of my life, but if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, you are a success as far as God's concerned. As far as our salvation is concerned, and we've got something to praise God about. Oh, I'm so sad my Cadillac broke down. Well, I'm sorry your Cadillac broke down, but if you're no Jesus Savior, you've got a home in heaven. Your sins forgiven. You got something to praise God for. Success, God, I think, I mean we want to be successful. I I read this quote this morning. I was reading a little uh little article on the Christian life, and I read this quote this morning, I think it was Billy Sunday said it. He said this. God doesn't call us to be successful. God calls us to be faithful and obedient. And after I read that, I thought, you know, if I'm faithful and obedient to God, I'm successful. I'm successful. And when we know Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, we have the greatest gift that has ever been given How many people, I'll end with this. How many people, if when we were going back there, I was shaking hands and I'd pull you aside and I'd say, I'd say, uh Let's see, John, I'll say, uh, uh, come here, I got something for you. Don't tell the others. I reach in my pocket. and pull out twenty-five thousand dollar bills and I give it to you, say, here I I came across some money, let me give this to you. How many people, if that was you, you'd be happy How many people walk out there and say, bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me. He'd be happy. Hey, what about when we get our sins forgiven? We have a home in heaven. We're saved from sin in hell. That's better than $25,000. Amen or not? And we can walk out here, bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me. As far as east from the west. I don't know how great a sermon this was, but I do know this. The truth of the message is wonderful. That we can be forgiven. And it's our prayer. We've been praying. Ed and I have been praying. We've been sharing it with others. We're praying that God sends us 200 kids this week. I'm praying that those kids hear the message of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, they understand it, that they will turn to the Lord Jesus Christ in genuine, sincere, humble faith. They will find eternal life and forgiveness and cleansing of sin. And if you're here and you don't have that, the invitation is open. It's available. All you have to do is receive it. What must I do to be saved? Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved in thy house. If you're here and you're down in the domes and you think everyone hates you and the whole world's falling apart, but if you have Jesus Christ as Savior, get up out of that slough of despon. And start praising and rejoicing God for what he's done for us. Amen? Father, I pray you'd bless now. And help us, Lord, to see this and grasp this and then share it with others. I pray there'll be souls saved this week, genuinely born again. But we need your Holy Spirit. We need your word and your power. So please help us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, before we give the invitation, how many would say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it I keep getting my eyes on everything around me, and I let those things get me down. And I need to do like David did and get refocused on what Christ has done for me. And start blessing him and rejoicing in him and giving him the glory. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? I just need to rejoice in my Lord today And what he's done for me. God bless you. Hands all around. How many folks would say, Preacher, I know someone that needs this? I'm not trying to be judgmental, but they need Christ. They need forgiveness. You'd say, Preacher, pray with me that I'd be a good witness. I'd like to see them come to Christ. Any like that, I know someone. My heart's so burdened for them. God bless you, hands all around. We pray. There's someone this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved. I can't honestly say that I know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. Trust me, you don't want to go to hell. And you'd say, pray for me that I God would help me get this settled in my heart My soul's salvation, my eternal destiny. Is there any like that of the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need this settled. I need it And maybe there's Christians here. Maybe you're not living for the Lord like you should. I invite you to come. Make that right. Maybe you've been saved, not been baptized. We invite you to come. Let's get that settled. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing our invitation song. You raised your