Bible says, Now therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in truth, and put away the gods which your father served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt, and serve ye the Lord And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve, whether the gods which your fathers served which were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Let's pray. Lord God, I thank you so much for this day and the opportunity to serve you. I thank you for the opportunity you've given me to I thank you for these people, what I pay you'd open their hearts, that your spirit would work as I preach. Give me the words to say, help me to be your mouthpiece, and above all, help everything you've done to your honor and your glory. I love you and ask all in your precious name. Amen. As we come into Joshua chapter 24 here, they have finally finished conquering the land. The promise of God that was made almost 600 years before this has finally come to fruition. And God promised Abraham, he said, Abraham, I'm going to give you a nation. He said, I'm going to give you this land. It's the promised land. And through a series of events, they left the land, and for 400 years They were slaves in Egypt. God finally brought them out of Egypt, and after uh a little bit of time they messed up and for forty years they wanted the wilderness and finally they got to go in. And for a few years they battled and they fought. And now at the end of the book of Joshua, Joshua, who is an old man, is standing before the people And he says, listen, you finally have your land. You finally have what God has promised you. You're here, and you have a choice to make. He said, you can serve the gods of your fathers. You can serve the false gods that your fathers served back in Egypt. You can serve the false gods of the Amorites in this land that you've taken over. You can serve those false gods. Or you can serve the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob You can serve Jehovah God. And then Joshua says something that's very interesting. He says, You choose who you're going to serve. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. And that's what I want to talk to you about tonight. Every one of us is part of a house of some sort. Now, I don't mean a building with walls and stairs and so on. That's a house. I mean a household. You may live in an apartment, you may live in a townhouse. I live in a townhouse. You may live in an apartment, you may live in a trailer, you may Live in a tent in the woods, you are still part of a household. And parents and grandparents, you have a responsibility to like Joshua say, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. God, when he gave you children, gave you a responsibility. And this weekend, I have had the great privilege of ministering to some of your children. And some of you have children that are young, and some of you have children that are teenagers. But each and every one, most of you have children, and the Bible says that you have a responsibility to those children. And the Bible says that like Joshua, we as parents and grandparents need to stand up and say, as for my house, we're going to serve God. I preached on Friday night and and and uh I believe it was Cain, maybe it was Robbie that mentioned it. He said that he talked about having to do right even when no one else is doing right. And that's what Joshua was saying. He said, I don't care what you guys do. He said, it doesn't matter if every other single family in this entire country does wrong, my house, my family, we're going to do right. And parent, tonight I encourage you to stand up and say it doesn't matter what the kids at my child's school are doing It doesn't matter what the other families of church are doing. It doesn't matter what the people in my neighborhood are doing. As for my house, we're going to serve the Lord. And we're going to put God first. Because we have a responsibility to our children. I believe the Bible teaches that as a parent you have three main responsibilities that I want to go through Tonight. Number one, the Bible gives us the responsibility to instill character in our children to instill character in our children. It is your job to make sure your kids grow up with character. Now, not as a character. Although, if that were the goal, many of you are doing a great job. I've met most of your kids this weekend. We've got some real characters in this church. But to instill character in their life. And that comes, you say, well, how do we do that? The Bible gives you two ways. Ephesians chapter 6, verse number 4, the Bible says, And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. The Bible says, in order to instill character in your children, you need to admonish them. Now admonish is a good word. I like the word admonish. Because admonish can mean a lot of things. Admonish can be a positive thing. If your child does a good job, does something right, you can admonish them in that and say, hey, that was great. I appreciate that. You know, some of you, your children made decisions this week, and that should be encouraged. You should go home and say, hey, you know, what what how did the Lord speak to you? How did the Lord speak to your heart in the preaching? And when they tell you, you say, hey, that's great. You know, praise the Lord. Let me help you. Do you know what else admonished can mean? Admonish can also mean a negative thing. Admonish also means to spank. Now, the Bible is very clear that as parents You need to spank your children. Now some of your children might be too old for that. I remember the time when my dad's spankings stopped hurting. That was about twelve Now they didn't really stop hurting, period. They just didn't hurt bad enough for me. So I would fake cry until he stopped beating me. Not really. My dad didn't beat me. Uh he was a very he's a godly man. He's he's but he spanked me And he would keep spanking until I cried, until I learned that if I cried, he would stop spanking me. And so I cried very quickly You know, I'm not I ain't no dummy, okay? I wanna you know I know what I'm doing here. And so so so at some point my parents had to come up with different punishments, if you will. And they ha got very creative with that and took things away and all that good stuff. But the Bible says you need to admonish your children. That means encouraging them when they do right. That also means discouraging them when they do wrong. But it is your responsibility to make sure your children are doing right. And if they're doing wrong, it is your responsibility to God to punish them. Okay? It's not just so that your kids won't scream in the middle of the store. A lot of parents spank their kids or smack their kids around because they want them to behave in public. That's not the goal. Now that is a a goal. It's good. Your kids shouldn't run around like crazy people in public. But that's not the goal. The goal for raising children and admonishing is not so your child won't embarrass you in Walmart The goal for raising children and admonishing them is so that God that your children won't embarrass God in life. That's the goal. When you're admonishing your children, you need to teach them to live for God. That's part of instilling character. Not only do we need to admonish, number two, we need to train. The Bible says in Proverbs 1:8, my son, hear the instruction of thy father. And forsake not the law of thy mother. Chapter 22, verse 6, train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. The Bible says we're to train or instruct Now that goes beyond what's right and wrong. You praise them and do right, punish them when they do wrong, that's great. But there needs to be some instruction also Okay? Because a even unsaved parents know how to tell their kid they did a good job when they do when they make them proud and beat the tar out of them when they do wrong. Okay, that's that's not something that comes natural. Okay? It's the teaching part that's not so natural. It's the teaching. And as a parent, it is your job to instruct and train your children Okay? That means not just saying, hey, you know, you shouldn't lie. But why shouldn't you lie? Brother James Pastor James was talking about the movie we watched. And the main point of the movie was that one guy was saying it's okay to just tell your children what the difference between right and wrong. You don't need to use Christ's name. It doesn't matter as long as they know right from wrong, and that's not true. Your children need to know that they shouldn't lie, not just because you said so, but because it is a sin Because it displeases God, and that comes from teaching. And you know what? You say, well, I don't know all the answers. I don't know how to teach them. That's why we have church. The church is to come alongside you. The Greek word is paraclete or comforter is to come alongside. It's to come alongside you and to help you raise your kids, help you train your kids. That's why we have a weekend like this. Pastor James brought me in not just so we could run around like crazy people and play games, so that we can help you train your kids That's why we have King's Kids. That's why we have Sunday school. That's why we have all these things with neighborhood Bible time in the summer. And all these things that we do for the children is to help you train. But it is not the church's job to raise your kids. It is not the church's job to to punish them, it's not the church's job to do all the instructing. And a lot of parents feel That it's the church's job to raise their kids. And when their kids go bad, they blame it on the youth pastor, or they blame it on the Sunday school teacher, they blame it on the pastor. If your kids go bad, you can't blame it on anyone but yourself It is your job to train your children. So that's the how. We admonish, we train. But what are we to teach them? What is it our job to in how do we instill character? That's how. But what? Number one, God's word. You need to teach them God's word. Isaiah 55, 11. So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth. It shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please And it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it. The Bible says God's word will not return void. That means that when you're teaching your child the Bible, that's the best thing you can teach them. Because that's the thing that's not going to return void. Math is great, English is great, science is awesome, history is terrible, but all those things All those things are not as important as God's word. Because God never promised that if you hide science in your heart, that you'll not depart from him He never promised if you hide the English language in your heart that you won't sin against God. He said to hide his word. in your heart. He said his word would not return void. Joshua 1. 8, this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. If you want your child to be successful, teach them the Bible. Because that's God's definition of success. And by the way, God's definition of success has nothing to do with how many zeros are on their paycheck. Okay? It has nothing to do with whether or not they drive a nice car or live in a big house. Not that there's anything wrong with those things. Having money and things is not sin. The Bible never says that money is the root of all evil. The Bible says the love of money is the root of all evil. Okay, so it's okay to have if your child turns out to be successful in a human way too, great. If they're godly. We have men in our church that make a lot of money, drive nice cars, jaguars and BMWs, great, good for them. Praise the Lord. It doesn't matter if they're not godly men. And that's what you need to teach your children. You need to be teaching them God's Word. But too often we are pumping our children's heads full of television And music that is not God honoring, and books that have nothing to do with God. And all the other things, and there's nothing wrong with television, if it's used right, there's nothing wrong with books, but when we are not putting God's word in our child's mind. There's something wrong there. Now, Brother Byron Fox might have said this already, but the reason he made Bible songs for kids is so that we can put scripture in children's minds. Okay? My daughter knows exactly four songs. She's only three. She knows four songs. She can sing four songs. They are all scripture songs. I don't teach her any other songs. Because knowing Mary had a little lamb is not going to help her in her spiritual life. But knowing a song from Bible Kids will. And listen to me, if all you're ever pumping into your child's head is television and these commercials and this wickedness, then you wonder why they turn out that way. We need to be putting scripture in our children's minds. You need to be reading your the Bible to your kids. You need to be telling your kids Bible stories. You need to be talking about the Bible in front of your kids. Your children should see you reading your Bible. The Bible should be the forefront of their lives. They don't need posters of Barney and Dora the Explorer on their wall. They need scripture and Bible pictures on their wall. They don't need, I mean, those things nothing wrong with Dora, there's nothing wrong with with these cartoons, but they are not going to help them get close to God, and that's the goal The being being you know speaking the second language is not going to help him get close to God unless he calls them to be a missionary, maybe. But those things are great, but that is not the focus. The focus is God's word. And when God's word is not the focus in your home, then you are not choosing to serve God with your home The Bible needs to be the focus. Not only does it need to be God's word, it also needs to be God's way. We need to teach them God's way. 1 Samuel 12 23. Moreover, as for me God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you, but I will teach you the good and right way. God says we need to teach our children the good and right way. Not only we need to have God's word in front of them, but then we need to teach them how that translates into how we need to act on a daily basis. You need to teach your children how to act and how to live for God and the direction they should go. Okay? Because your children are not mature enough to make decisions for themselves. That's why God gave them parents. Okay? We are not birds. You don't wait eight weeks and kick them out. Okay? God gave you 18 years for a reason. Okay? And all kids are definitely not saying that. But listen. If you're allowing your child to make the college decision all by himself, that's not a good idea. Okay? You need to be part of that decision. Now I'm not saying you have to come in, you know, and you're going where I tell you to go. But you're their parent. Until they are out of your house and gone, you are responsible to God for what they do. And so you need to teach them the right way. And by the way, that includes going to church. I told the teenagers every almost every message I preached There are three foundations for living the Christian life. And if you're not doing any one of these threes, you're not right with God. Read your Bible, pray, go to church. Those are the three. If you're not doing those three things, you are not right with God. Now on top of those three other things, there's soul winning and there's, you know, all service and all those other things. But those are the bases. That's how you start. When you are a baby Christian, that's how you start. Read your Bible, pray, go to church. And on top of the one the rest of those things. And if you're not teaching your children to do those things, then you're not teaching them to go the right way. And you're failing as a parent. And so we need to teach them not only God's word, we need to teach them God's way. Number three, we need to teach them God's work. Deuteronomy 4:9, only take heed to thyself and keep thy soul diligently. Lest thou forget the things which thine eyes have seen, and lest they depart from thy heart all the days of thy life. But teach them thy sons and thy son's sons. When I say God's word, give it to teach them about what God has done Okay, Moses is saying here in Deuteronomy, he said, listen, don't forget what God did for you. He said, tell your children and your grandchildren all about what God has done in your life. That's part of teaching them. How do your kids going to know how great a God they have if their parents never tell them A lot of kids, the only thing they ever hear out of their parents' mouth about God is how bad the preacher is, or how upset they were about something that happened at church, or how God didn't do what they needed him to do And by the way, your kids can tell when you're mad at God. If you think your children are stupid, you're foolish. They can tell. They can tell when you're not doing right. They can tell when you're not happy with God. And when you are only teaching your children that God had failed you, or that the preacher isn't doing what you think he should do, or the church isn't spending the money the way you think, and you're always criticizing the church and the pastor, that's how they're going to see God. Because to them, to a child, church is God. That's where they learn all about, that's where they see who God is. And when you're criticizing everything about God's place and God's church and God's family, then you're putting down God. And we need to show them what God has done, the great things He's done in our lives. And every one, if you've been saved for any amount of time, you have stories of the great things God has done for you. I mean, I I've only been a parent for three years, but I could tell my daughter all kinds of stories of great things God has done for me. And I'm not I'm not I I'm young compared to many of you And so, but you have stories and you need to be showing your kids God's word. That stuff needs to keep going. These stories that we heard tonight about uh when we pray for God places like Kazakhstan and we pray play pray for things like the radio station and God answers these prayers. That's what these kids need to hear. You need to be sharing with your kids what when God answers prayer But so often, and this is kind of off the problem, but so often we make prayer requests and never praises. I heard a story about a pastor who got up in the pulpit on the first Sunday of the new year. And he got up and he said, he said, I have some bad news. And he pulled out a piece of paper, began to read. He said, last year we had 900 and some people die in car accidents. And we had four hundred or something people die in airplane crashes. And we went through all these lists. And everybody's like, And they're like, what do you mean, Pastor? And he said, Well, he said, I went back through the Wednesday night prayer bulletin. And I all the times that you asked us to pray for a safe trip on a car or on an airplane, all the times you asked us to help you get pray that you get better and you never told us whether you did or not. So I just assumed you all died. And it's true. We like to pray, we don't like to praise. If you ask for a prayer request and God answers it, tell somebody. And if you ask for a prayer request of your family and God answers it, tell your kids. I remember, of course, I had it nice. My dad started a church, so he prayed a lot. Okay, we lived in New York just outside of New York City. And not the good side of just outside New York City. We lived in the bad side of just outside New York City. Okay, I lived in Long Island. I lived in the ghetto And my dad started a church there. First night we were there, the air conditioner was stolen out of our church. First night. It was bad. So I remember all the time my dad praying for things and seeing those things answered. And I remember at a very young age, my dad encouraged me to pray for even small things. I remember when I was eight years old. I was thinking my dad was I don't know if he was out of town or if he was out on visitation, I don't know, but I know it was dark. And I was getting ready to go to bed and the power went out. And I remember I prayed because I was scared. Because right outside of my window was a cemetery. I don't know what my parents were thinking. But I so it turned out the way I am. Uh right outside my window was a cemetery. And so I remember praying, Lord, please let the lights turn on. I remember I had my eyes closed and I was praying, Lord, please let the lights turn on. And as soon as I opened my eyes, the power had come back on. Now, you can say what you want. God answered my prayer. And I eight years old, I remember thinking, I had the I and I all I remember is that I had the ability to pray for that because my parents had taught me, no matter what, you can ask God for it. And parents, you need to be teaching your kids what God will do for them if they'll trust Him. So, number one, we need to instill character in our children. Number two, we need to illustrate Christ-likeness. And this is kind of where it hits home a little bit. 2 Timothy 1, verse 5, the Bible says, When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, this is Paul talking to Timothy, uh a young preacher boy who's just taking a church in Crete. And he says to him, He says, When I call to remembrance the unfaith faith that is in thee. In other words, when I think about how the faith you have, how godly you are, and how great you turned out He says, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also. He says, Timothy, whenever I think about how great you turned out and how godly you are and the faith that you have, I remember that it's because of your grandmother and your mother teaching you those things. Paul says in Philippians 4 9, those things which you have both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do, and the God of peace will be with you. Paul said, I want to be the example. He said, You look at me. And they of course were only spiritual children. He had not any actual children. But he said, You look at me and do what I do. God says in Proverbs 13, 20, he that walketh with wise men shall be wise. Parents, if you're not living for God, your kids probably won't either. The Bible says we need to illustrate Christ's likeness to our kids. It's not enough to just tell them what they should do. It's kind of an old joke where you say, do as I say, not as I do. And that's a joke, but it does it doesn't work that way. I remember when I was a kid, I had a friend, his name was Carmine Carmine Montefort. He was Italian, by the way. And uh Carmine was, I guess, a year or two older than me, and his mom had gotten saved in our church and she was growing and so on. But she smoked like crazy. And I remember one time we were in the car and she's smoking and she looks me in the eye and says, don't ever do this. And I was only like nine or ten years old. But to this day I remember thinking, what are you talking about? You're sitting there smoking in the car and you're looking back at me and say, Don't do this. If I shouldn't do it, why are you? You know, and I understand now that that's not the point. My point is: if you're going to raise your kids properly, you need to be an illustration, an example of what Christ is. If you're not going to live for God, why should they? If you're not going to put God first in your life, why should they? If you never do your devotions and they never see you reading your Bible and they never see you praying and you're hardly ever in church, why should they? The Bible says we need to do what we want our kids to do. Because the Bible says that he that walketh with wise men shall be wise. Your kids spend time with you. And if you're wise men, they will turn out to be wise men. You will rub off on them. Kids turn out a lot like their parents. And I'm not saying that every child turns out perfectly. you know, uh every time. What I'm saying is you cannot expect your children to make right decisions, if you are not making them yourself. I see parents, I have preached in dozens of churches to thousands of teenagers, and nothing makes me sadder than when a parent sends his teenager to church and stays home. And I understand. I guess it's better than nothing. They want their teenager to be in front of God, but they need to get in church. Because it is so hard, it is hard enough for a teenager to turn out okay without having their home life be terrible. Without having a home life where they're turning back and getting the other the other side. Pastor James has enough trouble getting teenagers to do what's right when their parents are on his side. Let alone if he's sending them home and you're saying, oh, don't worry about what he says. It's fine. And you say, well, I've never said that, but you act it Pastor James says, don't listen to wicked music, and they go home and their parents are blasting it on the radio. Pastor James says, don't watch movies that aren't pleasing to God, and they go home and their parents are watching wickedness on television Pastor James says, don't have the wrong kinds of friends. And every Friday night their dad's going out with a bunch of drunks and having a party. And you wonder why your kids are not turning out right. You have to be an illustration. There's three ways you have to be able to illustrate three ways. Number one, in word. You need to talk like a Christian. You need to talk as a Christian. As a parent, when you're talking to your kids and around your kids, you need to talk the way you want them to talk. It may it frustrates me because I see parents who use filthy language and then punish their kids when they do. Because it's an adult word. If a child shouldn't use it, neither should you. If it's a curse word, it's a curse word whether a five-year-old says it or a 45-year-old says it. And when we talk, your conversation, your talking, should be an example of Christ. Now I'm I'm bragging on my parents a little bit because they're not here and they were incredible, they didn't do anything perfect, but they were great parents But you know what I never one time heard out of my mom's mouth her disagree with my dad. Not one time. Now she did. My mom's a very opinionated woman. And I only learned that after I was out of the house. She's very I always wonder where I got it from. She's very opinionated. But never one time the kid did she now they they had arguments I'm sure and they disagreed, but never in front of us You know what else I never I never ever saw my dad purposely embarrass my mom. I never saw him put her down, I never saw him embarrass her, I never saw him uh uh call her wrong names, I never saw him yell at her And by the way, men, if you are humiliating your wife in public, stop it. I never saw that out of my dad. Most of what I know about how to treat my wife I learned from watching my dad love my mom. And parents, when you talk in front of your kids, you need to be an example of Christ to them. And if all you ever are is negative, then that's what your kids are going to be. And if all you ever are is putting people down and saying things you shouldn't say and talking about things you shouldn't talk about, that's the way your kids are going to end up You need to illustrate Christlikeness in Word. Not only in Word, but in deed. You need to do things. The way you act should be Christ-like. The way you act should be Christ-like. The things you do, the places you go, the people you go there with should be Christ-like. Because a lot of kids, a lot of teenagers are very confused. Because they come to church and they see their dad in a suit and tie, and maybe he's a deacon or he's a trustee or he's an usher or he works in the sound booth or he's teaching a science school class and they see him on Sunday and he acts one way to all those kids and all the people and he's smiling and shaking the pastor's hand and then when he gets home he's a jerk When he gets home, it's more important for him to watch the Steelers game, or to watch the baseball game, or to watch the NASCAR race, or to watch the Indy race, than it is to spend time with his kids. And all they see is their dad treating everything else more important than them, and everything else more important than God. You need to be an example in the way you act in your deeds. And then thirdly, you need to be an example of Christ-like illustrate Christ-likeness in your attitude. In your attitude. Now, I don't have any scientific evidence of this, but I've been around a lot of teenagers and their parents in my life. And I'll tell you one thing. You show me a teenager with a bad attitude, and I'll show you at least one one parent with a bad attitude almost every time. You look at your teenager, you say, my teen has a bad attitude. I don't know what to do about it. You need to inspect your attitude You say, well, I don't have a bad attitude. My attitude's great. Leave me alone. Nothing but smiles. But seriously, your attitude should exude Christ-likeness, especially when things go wrong. Well I had the teens read James, the whole book of James, for devotions yesterday. And the first part of James, I believe it was verse number four, it says, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Count it all joy when you fall into that verse temptation. In other words, be happy when bad things happen, because it will teach you patience. And parent, are you illustrating that attitude? Are you illustrating an attitude of joy even when things don't go your way? Or are you illustrating an attitude of, I'm going to react to whatever emotion comes over me? Parent, you need to be the to illustrate the kind of Christian you want your kids to be. You need to prioritize Christ's likeness in your life Listen, serving God is not a hobby. The Bible says in Lu in uh Revelation chapter 3 He's talking to the Church of Laysia. He said, Because you are lukewarm, because you are neither cold nor hot, but you are lukewarm, I will spew thee out of my mouth. Lukewarmness is hobby Christianity. Hunting is a hobby. You don't do most of you, I don't think any of you do it for a living. It's a hobby. You do it when it's in season, you do it when you can, but it's not it's a hobby. And a lot of you treat God the same way. If you have time, if you're in the mood, and it it's not interfering with anything else And there isn't a good game on, and you didn't stay up too late Saturday night, well then you'll go to church. And and if you don't sleep in too much Monday morning, you'll get up and do your devotions. Maybe You know, if if if the news doesn't get your attention first, or the newspaper isn't more important. And your entire life you're showing your kids that God is not your priority, but that you are your prior. And maybe money is your priority or having nice things is your priority. And then you wonder why they don't turn out the way you want it. Parent, you need to illustrate to your kids Christ's likeness. Because Pastor James and Pastor Leatherman can preach so they are blue in the face, and your teenagers will only come as far as you will allow them to. So not only do we need to instruct them, we need to illustrate, not instruct character, uh instill character and illustrate Christ's likeness. Number three, we need to increase a caring relationship. The Bible says, and ye fathers provoke not your children to wrath. Now this was interesting to me. I I have I studied when I studied for this message. I looked in every book I could find. We have a whole library at our church. We have a whole bunch of children raising books. And I looked And I looked for a verse. I looked all over the place. And I looked and looked and looked. And you know what I did not find in the whole Bible? I did not find in the whole Bible anywhere where it tells parents to love their children. Did you know that? It's not anywhere in the whole Bible. So it must not be necessary. Well, of course not. A lot of people say that. Well, if you don't have a verse, then I'm not going to do it. Well you don't need a verse to do it. You're born you are made to love your children. You start that way. But loving your children is not the same thing as having a real caring relationship with them. And listen, you can be the best Christian in front of them, but if you don't show love to them, you'll lose them. You will lose them. You need to get the heart. The Bible says in Luke 6. 45, a good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good. And then he goes on an evil man, if the evil church of his heart bring it forth that which is evil. The point is, if you get your child's heart, you can mold that heart to be godly. But you have to have their heart Can I tell you something right now? The only reason I am standing here today is because I love my dad. Because at eighteen years old I told my dad I am going to the army. I'm going to go to the army, I'm going to become I'm going to go six years, go to college, become a police officer, and make lots of money. Which if you're a police officer, you know that's ridiculous But that was my you know I thought and actually the county I lived in, highest paid police officers in the country. And so I said my I'll make my go be a police officer. I want to, you know, and I I wanted to shoot people. And I want to be a police officer. I was a dumb teenager. And I but I told him I said, I'm going to the army. And he said, No, you're not. I said, Yes, I am, and you can't stop me. He said, want to bet? He said, okay. He said, you're going to go to Christian college for one year, and then you can go anywhere you want. He said, whatever you do after that, I will support you. I said, I don't want to go to Christian college. He said, one year. Go to Christian college for one year. Or you can't come home. And parent, a lot of teenagers would have said, fine, I won't come home. But throughout the years, even though I had had times of rebellion and I was wicked, rotten, dirty, despicable teenager I loved my dad, and the thought of never seeing him again was too much for me. And it was because of the relationship my dad had formed with me over 18 years that I said, fine, I'll go to Christian college for one year. And it took about six days at Christian College for God called me to preach. And I got right with God, and God called me to preach, and here I am today, and it's because I loved my dad. It's because throughout the years, even though he had to be my father and he was strict with me and he had rules for me, he loved me and I knew it No matter what, no matter when he spanked me or punished me or what he had to do, I knew that my dad loved me. And the relationship we had, he had gotten my heart. And in the long run, that is what saved my Christian life. And parent, if you want your kids to turn out right, you have to get their heart. You have to get their heart. You have to love them. That doesn't mean you're their best friend. They don't need more friends. They need parents. But they need parents who love them. She needs to get their heart. If they do not see Christ's love through you, they will fail. A lot of teenagers failed because all they ever knew about Christianity was the rules their parents put in place. And so that's how they saw Christ as a God who is nothing but rules. And although God has rules, that is not all he is. And you need to try to emulate Christ the best you can. so that your kids see that not only are there rules, but the rules are what's best for them, and it's because God loves them and you love them. Because when they're three years old, because I said so is a good answer. My daughter has taken the saying, why? I don't like it No matter what comes out of my mouth, why? So now I just say, because I said so. You ask the teenagers, I don't answer questions All weekend. What are we doing next? I don't answer questions. I do the same to my daughter, because I said so. Because I said, and that's great when you're three years old. But when she's 16 and says, Dad, why shouldn't I date this bum? Because I said so is not going to keep her from doing it She's got to know that you have her best interest at heart, and she has to know, or he has to know, that you love them so much that what you're doing is what's best for them, not what's best for you. Because that's the only way that you're going to get them to do what you need them to do when they're 16, 17, and 18 years old. When they become bigger than you. I remember the first time that I was able to beat my dad in wrestling. Now my dad was a college wrestler, and he most of the time he still beats me. But I remember when I got taller than he is. And I got bigger than he is. And I became stronger than he was. And if you don't have their heart, you're not going to be able to force them to do things. She have to get their heart. You show them God's love and through you instilling in them character and teaching them when they're young and then illustrating that Christ-like and showing them Who God is through you, and then loving them to a point where they love you and there's a relationship there. That's how you raise your kids. And if you want your children to turn out right, if you're going to say, as for my house As for my house, we're going to serve the Lord. That's what the Bible says you have to do. You have to teach them. You have to show them. But today you have to say, as for my house, it doesn't matter what the family next to you is doing, it doesn't matter what the pastor's family is doing. Or the deacons' families are doing. What matters is what's happening in your house. And tonight, parent, you need to say, as for me and my house, we're going to serve the Lord. And some of you need to get with your teenagers and apologize for not being the godly example you should have been, and for not loving them the way you should love them. In a minute, I'm going to give an invitation, and I encourage you, parent, don't be so proud that you can't apologize to your kids Some of you need to get your teenager, wherever they're sitting, bring them down to this altar and kneel down and get things right with your kids and say, from now on It doesn't matter what we've done in the past. It doesn't matter how because from now on, our house is going to put God first. Our house is going to put the Bible center stage. Our house will serve the Lord. Let's pray. Well God, I thank you so much again for the opportunity to preach. I thank you so much for your word. I thank you that everything we need for life is found in this book. Lord, I pray for every parent in this room. Well, there are some here that need to get things right tonight. They need things right with their teenagers and right with their kids because they've not been raised in the way they should. There's some grandparents here that have not been the example to their grandchildren and children that they should be. And Lord, I pray as the invitation goes forward that your spirit would work. That you would not let one person leave this room, not right with their family, not saying, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. With every head bowed and every eye closed, I'll ask one question. No one's looking around. I'm not trying to embarrass anyone, but I want to pray for you. You stay you stay, Mr. Shad You say, I have not been the parent I should be. Whatever area it is, whether you're not teaching your children, you're not being an example, you're not loving them, probably say, I have not been the parent I should be. I have not been serving the Lord with my house the way I should, but I want you to pray for me that I can make that decision tonight to start saying for as for my house. We will serve the Lord. Would you raise your hand? You say, pray for me. I've not been the parent I should be, but I need to be. All around, thank you. I see those hands, maybe put them down. Anyone else, thank you, maybe put it down. Anyone else Thank you before that. You say, I am not the parent I should be, but I want to be. In a moment I'm going to ask everyone to stand. When I do, the piano's going to begin to play. And when it does, if you raised your hand No one's looking around. I'm not trying to embarrass one, but you need to get you either down your knees here at the altar or bring your family down and get it right. Take care of that thing Don't leave this place because you'll walk out of here and you'll get in your car and you'll turn on the radio, you'll go home and turn on the TV, and you'll forget everything. And before you know it, you'll be right back where you started. You need to put a monument here at this place tonight that says, as for my house, we are going to serve the Lord from this point forward, from October 2nd. 2011. From this point forward, we are going to serve the Lord. Every head bowed and every eye closed, would you stand with me as the piano begins to play? If you come, get on your knees here at this altar, get your knees there in your pew, and get it right with God. Get it right with God. Get your family back on the right track. There's nothing more important, there's no bigger responsibility God has given you than your kids. Get it right tonight I would like that you're a parent of it. Go grab that tea, come here to the altar, and as a family, just gather together. Now here's the thing. We have some young people, some teens here, whose parents don't attend for w other re whatever reason. I think it'd be a good thing if we had some adults From the auditorium just come up take one of these young people and say hey I'll pray with you. I'll be somebody with you. How about it? Could we have a couple of our folks do that? We've got a couple three teens here. They need someone from the church that would say come And just kneel down with them and take them and pray with them. How about it? Thank you. God bless you. We could use a couple others. We got some fellas up here, maybe a hug husband and wife be willing to come and just say, listen, we'll be your parents for this invitation here. How about it? Can we get one more, one more couple would be willing to come, one of our young men. We're not asking anything more than just come and put your arm around him and say we'll pray together. How about it? So Amen. Amen. All of our teens need to know there's folks here at church that love them, care for them, pray with them. Now those of us, maybe some of your kids have grown. We need to commit ourselves to be much in prayer, be an example and be much in prayer for all the young people. The next generation has to be more than fun and games. It has to be spiritual input. Well, While folks are praying, let's just softly sing this I have decided to follow Jesus. I have decided to To follow Jesus, I have decided to follow Jesus Jesus. No turning back. No turning back. Thank you, Father. Thank you, Father, for young people and the great opportunity you've given us. to invest in their lives. We thank you for our children. And Lord, you challenged all of us tonight and uh to be do better and uh take this more seriously and give more attention. We ask you to help us now to carry through. And Lord, just to be everything you'd have us to be. I pray for our teens. God, I ask you to hedge them about, give them wisdom and the decisions they make. Help them, Lord, to grow in faith and be strong in the Lord. And we ask this bless your blessing on them in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you.