Uh how how good the Lord's been to them. And then a word of personal testimony in verse three he says, The Lord hath done great things for us, whereof we are glad. And whenever you see the mighty hand of God work, uh, and you know that God has worked in your midst, it always makes you glad. And he said, We know And so he prays again, Lord, turn again our captivity. Some of my brethren are still there. Dear God, we want you to work that thing again where you create deliverance, and where you get them out of that mess. And get them home. And he said, turn again our captivity as of the streams in the south. They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth and weepeth bearing precious seed shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. Now Israel had these multiple captivities, and those almost every time they came about as a direct result of the nation turning a cold heart toward God. You would think that a nation so especially chosen, so especially blessed Uh so especially the recipients of God's goodness on so many counts, you you would you would you would think that they would just find ways to cultivate the warmth of their heart Toward the Lord. But there were these periods of time when they would just get cold and crazy things would happen in the nation. You read the Old Testament and uh I mean there's there's just king after king and leader after leader that that is just I mean you say how in the world did that guy get in office I don't know whether you've ever heard of anything like that or not, but it does happen. Now I think we make a mistake sometimes and I've got the microphone, so please tolerate me here. I think we make a mistake sometimes. I hear Christians say, well, you know, whatever is to be will be, and you know, uh the whoever gets in office, well, God put them there Have a hard time with that. You might want to just look at Hosea chapter 8 and verse 4. Where God says they set up kings, but not by me. Sure. Now that'll that'll cause some of your Calvinistic theology to crash. You say, well, how do bad dudes get elected? Folks vote unwisely. And it really is a cry and shame for us to throw the blame on God for something we did stupid. You say, Well I didn't vote for whoever. No, but somebody did. And when we get enough cold hearts, enough dead hearts doing the wrong things, bad leaders rise to power. And when bad leaders ride to power, the nation goes into a funk. I mean it goes into a swoon. It goes downhill like a rock. Every time. True in Israel, true in the US, true wherever. And so we wind up in these in these pits of despair. Whereas the heathen, like the Babylonian, they they come marching into town. They sometimes call themselves the ACLU. They sometimes call themselves the Freedom from Religion Foundation They sometimes call themselves the Americans United for Church and State. They sometimes call themselves a lot of things. They're the abortionists. They're the atheists. They're the The the progressives, they're the um whatever, but they come marching into town. They invade our nation And at first there's a few of them, and then there's more of them, and they are persuasive, and they pull some other people in, and they're never happy to just go do their own thing. But they start looking inside the church door and inside the schoolhouse door and inside your door. And they having made their invasion and gotten in and set themselves up, then they start saying, Hey you guys, why don't you all come and play our game? Why don't you come and do what we want to do? They're never content to just do what they do and have their way. They want us to nod, to give assent. They want us to get in and play the game their way and leave off doing things the way that we want to do it And whenever they give those invitations to us, then they start instructing us. And the first thing you know, if we listen to them and their instruction, we'll start living as they live We'll start leaning where they lean, and we'll start looking like they look and getting the results or the lack thereof that they get. And guess what? We wind up so ensnared, so tangled up, so captivated. So tied up in knots that what we once could do we can't do, and what we want to do just somehow cannot be produced. Because we are, in effect, in captivity because of our alliances and our associations with The captors who came in to totally change our nation. Now, what we need, I think is once again for us to begin to pray like the prayers made in this verse when he says, Oh God, oh God Turn our captivity and turn again our captivity and turn it again like the streams that are flowing in the south. Now, this little phrase as streams in the South is a absolutely, oh, what a what a blessing. You see, in the nation of Israel, the south part of the nation is desert. They call it the Negave. And it is a desert. Not a lot of water there. But there are little rolling hills in that negave. And uh even from a distance you can see the little winding, they they're just little dry streams. You can see them. They call them, we'd call them here, we'd call them creeks Or streams, they call them wadis. And those little wadis most of the year are dry. And that desert soil is dry. Very little lives out there. But if you get water to it, that desert soil will grow anything. They've proved that north of town in the valley of Jezreel. It just has become the breadbasket of Israel because it grows so much. Now There's some times in the year when the water does come, the rains fall, and especially in those hills at a little higher elevation. And the water fills up those little wadis, those little streams, and it comes down the stream and floods out into the to the plain of the desert. And those shepherds and nomads, those Bedouins who live out there, they will sometimes they will hollow out some places, bevel out of place. in the sandy soil so that when the water comes down those streams they can save a little bit of it to water their herds and to use for irrigating and other such things as that And what he says here is, oh, deliver us, turn our captivity, get us free from all of that mess, get us out of that, and let it come with the same abundance of those streams flowing in the south. Let it provide for us what that fresh flowing water does when it comes down those little slopes to the desert. You know, the streams fascinate us. Whether you're talking about the mighty Mississippi that uh virtually divides the North American continent. Or you're looking at the whitewater rapids of the winding Snake River in the western states. Or if you're looking at the majestic beauty of the Potomac over here, or if you're just at some little stream like the. like the calm, the the placid little duck river in Tennessee. Whether some little river or some mighty one, streams fascinate us. I mean, how many of us have it sometimes just found ourselves a place, just sat with a stream and watched for a little while? I met a couple yesterday, in fact a couple had moved over into Frederick area and they joined yesterday from Idaho Falls, Idaho. I told him, I said, Oh, I've been to your city. Two years ago, Betty and I were there part of our vacation. It was a day in June. It was cold, it was windy, it was bitter cold, and it was snowing in June And uh those waterfalls in the city of Idaho Falls are absolutely awesome and beautiful. And my dear wife wanted a picture of every drop of water coming over those falls that day I thought I would absolutely freeze to death before I could get her out of there. We're all fascinated by such things. And when those little waddies run to the full, ah, we put our eyes upon it and we say, oh, we've looked for that, we've waited for that Because, see, when though when those streams flood, we not only are fascinated, but all at once it begins to fill up our need and meet the need that we have. And out of that we feed ourselves And those streams provide the nourishment that we need. And we can allow ourselves. I'm talking about dear fellow servants, saints of God, we can allow ourselves to be captivated by all kinds of things that that tear us off into worldliness or head us down the path of the flesh Or put us in collaboration with the devil. We can have all of those things happening. Saved, born again. We're washed in the blood and heaven bound. But we can get ourselves in such a mess, in such a fix And all at once we're tied up in knots, we're captivated, we used to run bush routes, we used to uh get out and invite people to church, we used to teach Sunday school, we used to sing in the choir We used to walk with God. We used to do our devotions. We used to tithe. We used to be in the business of honoring God and serving God and walking with God. But something caught hold of us. That ensnared us and took us away. And now then we're starved, we're barren, we're we're ragged, we're threadparent. I mean our shoes have holes and we're not fed. The supply is not there. Our baptistries are empty and rarely used And and the and the pews, I mean there there's enough vacancies in so many of our churches that you can lie down and sleep and not bother a soul And whenever that captivity envelops any one of us, or any group of us It is time once again for us to cry out and say, oh God, oh God, turn our captivity, deliver us, oh God, and fill us to the full once again. Like those streams flowing down those little hills into the desert. Fill us up, fill us up. Fill us up. You know Whenever you get back from captivity. I mean I like what he says here. He said, Man, those other folks over there, they're looking over and they said, Well, God's done something great for them. And he said, Hey, this is in the Hebrew. He says, Hey, bud. I'm telling you what. They're right. I'm telling you, I'm over here. I'm telling you, God did something great for us. I'm gonna tell you, when you get back from one of these respites into captivity, When you get back from having been in that bondage and you begin to taste the good things of God again, it won't be any trouble for you to say, man, I know what I've been missing. There'll be no trouble on your part to say, well, man, we're we're enjoying the good things of God again, but we listen, we've seen how the other half lives. And and and and what we get when we're with God is so far ahead of what the other crowd has. I'm just kind of aggravated, to tell you the truth Don't look for that in the dictionary. But I'm a little agri-fretted when I hear folks talk about how much we give up and How how you know I mean we I mean we serve the Lord and you know I mean we could go out and I mean if I went out and worked for the devil, man, I could make a whole lot more money and man we'd have a whole lot more things if we just went out and lived in the world. Hey listen, who wants to live in a trap? Who wants to live in a garbage dump? Who wants to live where that half the crowd has hangovers half the week? Who wants to live in that? And I love getting up in the morning with a clear head. And uh and remembering what went on the day before. I like that. But we get back from captivity, we've seen the other half, and I'm telling you, when you've seen what it looks like over there, you're going to appreciate being home. You won't have any trouble expressing your delight. I get home from a trip like this, and invariably Betty will, I mean, she'll be talking to me on the phone when I'm when I'm driving back or flying back and getting back home. She'll be talking to me before I get back and say, Now you're we're gonna have to lose some weight and we're gonna have to diet. And I walk in the door and look what that girl has got prepared. I mean just the two of us. And she still cooks sometimes like like she's cooking for an army. I say, you didn't have to do a bowl of it that big. A bowl that big would have been enough. And she said, Oh, it's just she thinks I'm a garbage disposer. Just a little bit less. You can eat that, and you need that and you need that But I'm gonna tell ya, when I walk in the back door and she's got the good stuff. I mean I can smell the cornbread and the turnip greens and Oh, I uh just a bunch of other good stuff I haven't eaten yet, so I'm thinking about all the sweet stuff. I'm yeah. I walk in and I smell all that stuff, the odors emanating through the laundry room out into the garage when the door comes open. And I'm telling you what, I go in and put my feet under that girl's table, and I eat those good vitals, and that I'll you know get done eating, just get up and walk away and say, Hey girl I'm gonna go in here and take my shoes off, blah blah blah blah. No sir. When I get done with that, I say to her, I say, Oh my, my, there's nothing like, nothing like, nothing like being home, nothing like eating the food that you put on the table. I mean I I mean even sometimes if she's you know over boils something or overcooks it or whatever, I mean I still brag on it. Whenever you get the sweet blessings of God, you won't have any trouble with your mouth. But those streams overflow into your life. God fills you up to the full, it'll just bubble out. It'll bubble out. And you I mean, I mean, Sunday morning comes You say, well, I I got a little got a little hitch in my gide up, and I don't know I don't know whether I'm going to be able to get up and go and I I'm telling you there'll be something in you that'll drive you. It'll drive you when those streams have filled you to the full. You've experienced the good deliverance of God, it'll get you rolling again. Now, we do testify like he did here, and we do rejoice. Because we can thank him for what he's done for us when he fills us up to the full. What he says is, all at once, The tears that you have in your eyes will sow, and it'll provide what's needed, so you'll reap in joy. And he says, therefore, he that goes forth and weepeth. Bearing precious seeds shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. I know it's an Old Testament passage, but I like to claim it with New Testament application. He said, what does that really mean? Oh, that that he that goeth forth, I'll tell you what it really means. I I I knew you'd ask So I dug out my old Hebrew Bible, I looked it up in the Hebrew text. You know what it's what it really what it really really really means? It means he that goeth forth. That's what it really really really means. You say, no, what does it really really really mean? Let me tell you what it really means. It means he that gets out of his lazy boy, goes through his storm door, gets in his car, goes down his driveway, goes down his street to somebody else's street, drives in his driveway, knocks on his storm door. goes inside when invited, gets that guy out of his lazy boy, and the two of them sit down together. That's what it means, he that goes forth. Bearing precious seed. That means you don't go in there to talk about the weather and the politics all night. The Bible says when we do that, we'll doubtless come again with rejoicing. And we'll have harvest to show for it, bringing his cheese with him. Now, all of this hinges, I think, on that precious verse that is the text for what I'm saying tonight, where he said, Oh God, turn again our captivity. We found ourselves inserted. Dear Lord, we can't help ourselves. We're just a little guy. We don't have the power. We don't have the energy. We don't have the strength. We can't make it But if you if you'll deliver us, if you provide for us, oh God, and listen, dear God, if you'd be so kind, if you'd be so kind, let it be like when the streams flow in the south and whatever it irrigates the desert. Listen, when those streams When those streams run to the full, you know what happens when they're dry, all kinds of trash collects in 'em. Things run dry in the church. A lot of trash collects. Things run dry in your life. You get some trashy stuff going on in your life. But you let God flood it to the fold, and it'll flush all of that trash away and clean it up. So clean that you can drink from the stream. That's what we need in these days to have that sweet flooding that God can give. Let it become the order of the day for us because it's that water, that fresh filling that God gives that brings life even to the desert. Vision becomes reality. And I cannot produce when the springs are dry. Say, well I can read, so I can I can figure it out. No, it's not enough. So I went to school, I learned a few things. Well, good for you, but it's not enough. You say, well, well, well some somebody somebody's going to pay the bill. Well great, but it's not enough. You say, well, listen, there's a bunch of us. Well, great, I'm glad, but that's not enough. You say, well look, I know some people and I'm connected. Well good for you. Hope you don't get unplugged. But even if you are connected, it's not enough. What I need, what every preacher in this room needs Whatever mama needs, whatever daddy needs, whatever in-law needs, whatever little boy and girl needs. is to let the great God of heaven soul fill you like flooding of those streams and fill you up with his mighty spirit every day. When you get that feeling running fresh in your life, all at once your character will take shape like it should. And you'll find yourself doing what you should and taking delight in it. Because that God flooded you to the full like the streams in the south. And I pray That you'll capture this verse and let it live and breathe in you. And remember that God, God, God, can take some little body like me, some little body like you, and do some pretty sweet and special things But he's got to flood us full so that it's not just us, but it's him empowering us. That's what gets it done. Turn again our captivity, O Lord, as the streams in the south. Wow, I want God to flood my streams. I was thinking, Brother Smith, when a Baptist streak dries up