32, we'll get right into it. And uh verses one through four. Stand with me if you're able as we read God's Word this morning. I'll read verses one through four. We'll pray and we'll have you to be seated. Deuteronomy chapter 32, starting with verse number one. Give ear, O ye heavens, and I will speak and hear, O earth, the words of my mouth. My doctrine shall drop as the rain, my speech shall distill as the dew, as the small rain upon the tender herb, and as the showers upon the grass, because I will publish the name of the Lord I want you to pay attention to this phrase. Ascribe ye greatness unto our God. Verse 4. He is the rock. His work is perfect for his ways or for all his ways. Our judgment, a God of truth And without iniquity, just and right is He. I want to speak to you on this topic for a few moments today. Ascribe greatness unto our God. Ascribe greatness unto our God. And let's pray. Father, Thank you for this great church, for this pastor who has been so faithful. And Father, I pray that you'll meet with us this morning Your word says, if we've gathered in your name, that you'll be amongst us. And Father, I pray for your sweet spirit to speak to hearts More than anything in the world, Father, we need you. And God, I pray you'll bless in Jesus' name. Amen. You can be seated Of all the things that we can do as a Christian, the greatest is to ascribe greatness to our God. The word greatness in this passage of Scripture is a word that means magnitude To give magnitude to someone is to make them big in our eyes and in the eyes of others. The Bible says in Psalm 34 verses 1 through 3. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. The humble shall hear thereof and be glad. Oh magnify the Lord with me and let us exalt. His name together. We are to magnify the Lord so that we can see him properly. I remember as a as a kid going to grandma and grandpa's house and grandma would be reading something and she'd take out, even with her glasses, she'd take out the magnifying glass. And she would use that magnifying glass to make the words bigger in the book that she was reading, and me and my brother would take the magnifying glass out back and we would pop ants with it And uh uh uh that's what I thought magnifying glasses were for. You take the sunshine and you get it just right and you put it on an ant and you fry 'em. And uh uh I'm sorry I know this is Sunday morning, but that's what we did. But to magnify the Lord is to make him bigger. If he's small in our eyes, we'll not see him. in the way that he needs to be seen. Those who do not magnify the Lord or those who don't think that he is a big deal. And I want to help us this morning just for a few moments Think big of God and make him magnified in our eyes. Psalm 95, the Bible says, Oh come, let us sing unto the Lord, let us make a joyful noise to the rock. of our salvation. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving and make a joyful noise unto him with psalms, for the Lord is gr a great God, a great king above all gods. In his hands are the deep places of the earth. The strength of the hills is his also, the sea is his, and he made it, and his hands formed the dry land. Oh come, let us worship and bow down and let us kneel before the Lord our maker. Our God created everything that we before us we we see before us today. He's a great king and a great God. He's everything and he is powerful hands. He knows what we do and why we do it. His plan for our lives and for our country and for the world is in place, and he has everything under control. We think this morning what's going to happen to America, what's going to happen to the world, and I tell you this morning, God's got it all figured out Listen, I've got four grandchildren, and then as I hold them in my lap and I hold them in my hand, I think, what kind of world are they going to grow up in? And then I'm reminded that God is in control And he's got it all under control. Hey, listen this morning, let me assure you that God's agenda is more important than our agenda And God is putting everything into place for the second coming of Jesus Christ. See, He's more powerful than any country on earth and can wipe them out with the sound of his voice. See is more powerful than any uh nuclear bomb and more loving. than a most wonderful mother. He has in his grasp the ability to make anyone powerful and to bring anyone who is powerful down to nothing. We need to ascribe greatness unto our God. Psalm 145, verse 1, I will extol thee, my God, O King. I will bless thy name forever and ever. Every day will I bless thee, and I will praise thy name forever and ever. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. There will never be a pro there will never be proper words that can describe the greatness of our God. There's no preacher, evangelist, doctor, scientist who has ever lived or whoever will live who will be able to describe the greatness of our God. Our minds cannot fathom the depths of His great power. This side of heaven we will never understand all that he does to hold the universe together and to supply all that we have today We will never really be able to understand what the Lord does and how he does things. We cannot think the way that he thinks, and we cannot do things the way that he does them. All that we can do this morning is ascribe greatness unto our God. Psalm 150, verse 1, praise ye the Lord. Praise God in his sanctuary. Praise him in the firmament of his power. Praise him for his mighty acts. Praise him according to his excellent greatness, praise him with the sound of the trumpet, praise him with the psaltery and harp, praise him with the timbrel and dance, praise him. Whoops. And dance. We're Baptist Praise Him with stringed instruments and organ, praise Him upon the loud symbols, praise Him upon the high-sounding symbols, let everything that hath breath Praise the Lord, praise ye the Lord. The best thing that we can do and the best way that we can ascribe greatness unto our God is to praise Him for who He is and what He's done for us. We're doing the Lord and those around us a disservice when we don't praise the Lord and ascribe greatness to him. See, he gives us everything that we have. He allows our lungs to work and our hearts to beat. He has supplied us with the way to heaven and has given us the grace to accept it. He's given us the ability to think about, to speak about, and to hear about how wonderful and how glorious our God is. Even those who are handicapped with the inability to hear, the Lord has provided sign language. To those who cannot see, he has given braille, so that they can read about our wonderful God and his magnificent works To those who cannot speak, he has given others who can speak for them to proclaim the goodness of God. The Lord has not left anyone out. And those who have different difficulties in life were given those so that the Lord can receive praise and honor and glory. Noah and and Nora, our piano player, and Noah uh helped begin our deaf ministry at Grace Baptist Church and and uh and the Lord's building that thing and and and we're seeing great results in our deaf ministry, and they use their hands and their fingers to interpret for the preacher. And you've had Dr. Jenkins here before, right? And he speaks fast. And sometimes he uses big words that they don't know how to sign. So they skip it. And uh just like you do the words in the Bible that you don't know how to read, you skip it. And uh uh but they do the best they can, but those people they need Jesus too. And God has provided that for him. In John chapter 9, the Bible says, And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth, and his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did send that this man or his parents? This is a great passage of Scripture, verse three. Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned nor his parents but the works of God, but that the works of God should be made made manifest in him. This man's blindness wasn't for any other reason other than the fact That the Lord was going to do a work in his life. Say, well, preacher, why do things like that happen so God can get glory? Just like he can get glory from your life and my life We don't have time this morning, nor nor uh would we take time, but everyone in here has a story of how you came to Jesus Everyone has a story of how you've made it to where you are today. And uh if you were like me, it's a wonder we made it through childhood and teenage years alive. Amen. Come on now. Don't look at me so pious. You guys, I'm a man. I know some of the stupid things I did, and I can only imagine in your lifetime looking at, no, I'm kidding. But the fact of the matter is this, we're here. And God's good. Amen. You say, preacher, you don't know what's going on in my life. That's okay. God's still good. He's still good and he's still great and there's nothing that gets by God. If you're going through a financial difficulty, God didn't wake up this morning and say, Whoa, how'd that happen? You're going through an emotional difficulty. God didn't wake up this morning and say, Boy, I wonder how that happened. God knows everything about you. He knows everything that's going on in your life. And he is a great God. And he's got a plan. And there is a purpose. And sometimes we just need to wait to see what that purpose is But we do serve a great God. When we come across difficulties, we need to remember that the Lord just wants to do a work for us and through us so that we can ascribe greatness unto Him. Somebody wants to hear your story. You're here in this great town. County, area. I don't know where you live or where you come from, but listen to me this morning. There is God created you and gave you your life so that you can help somebody else. So preacher, I don't know who that is. Look for him. Now don't be a creeper. Hi, what's your name? You want to hear my story? That'd be a little weird. But look for them. God's going to bring them to you. He didn't save you and leave you here just to be here He saved you and left you here to influence somebody else for him. That's why we're here. So that we can help people, and most of all, so we can bring him glory. So we can bring Him glory with our lives. When we walk out of here this morning, I hope we realize what a great God we serve. Look back at Deuteronomy 32 and verse number 4. Deuteronomy 32 and verse number 4. The Bible says this, he is the rock, his works is perfect. For all his ways are judgment, a God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he. First of all, I want us to see this morning that he is our rock. He is our rock. We have we hear people say how that this person or that person is the rock and they d they wouldn't know what they would do without him. Growing up, my dad was the alpha male at my house. I mean he was in large and in charge. And uh uh he was the guy to whom we looked, and he is the guy that guided us and taught us, and and and my mom was a great lady. We got saved. They got saved when I was uh going into or just starting junior high school and uh then our lives changed forever. My dad got in the book and we started living by Bible principle. And I want to tell you, as a kid, my dad, my rock. It's my everything. I remember as a little kid. We I grew up in Toledo, Ohio, and we get tornadoes. I don't know you get tornadoes here Yeah, we get we get we got tornado we don't get 'em in Gaylord either, but we got 'em we got 'em in Toledo and man when those tornadoes came and and uh uh uh dad wasn't home, I was a basket case. I don't know what to do. My mom could have tried to do anything. But man, when dad was there, everything was okay. Everything was alright. But we we all understand what we say when they're saying it and what it means. But if we're constantly making man our rock, we're going to be forever disappointed. My dad's in heaven, has been for 15, 16 years now. Let me tell you something. Our God is great because He is our rock and we need Him the most. He is our rock when financial problems come, He is our rock when personal and emotional problems come. He is our rock when we don't even know. But he is our rock. First Samuel chapter two, verses one and two, the Bible says, And Hannah prayed and said, My heart rejoiceth in the Lord, mine out horn is excellent. in the Lord my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies because I rejoice in thy salvation. There is none holy as the Lord, for there is none beside thee, neither is there any rock like our God. When Hannah was discouraged because the Lord hadn't given her a child, yet she still realized that the Lord was her rock. She was praying and begging the Lord for a man child so that she could give them back to him. But she still thought that the Lord was her rock. See, we often turn from the Lord during emotional and difficulties. In trying times to find a rock, maybe someone or something. We often seek out the world and ask them to be a rock for us. But the only one to whom we should turn in a trying time is the rock of our salvation, and that's Jesus Christ. He will be that foundation on which we can stand to keep us uh and sustain us in a trying time. He is the rock who will be able to help us uh stand when everything and everyone around us is is is crumbling. Psalm 18, verses 1 and 2. I will love thee, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my strength, in whom I will trust, my buckler and the horn of my salvation and my high tower. Our God is great because He's our rock. He'll be there when we need Him the most. I don't know what your difficulty is. I don't know what the what burden you're carrying when He came into church But let me just tell you, you give it unto the Lord. He's the one who will sustain us. He's the one that will keep us through those burdens and those difficult times. Somebody just buried a dad the other day, yesterday. Let me tell you something. If you're in this room this morning, Christ is our rock. God is our rock, and he's the one who will sustain us. My first year of Bible college. I went off to Bible college and and was excited about the Lord and serving the Lord and and I got a call, preacher, about uh almost to at the end of the year. And I got a I got a call from home saying grandpa was in was in uh uh the hospital. And to this day I don't know why he was there I don't remember. I don't even know if I was told. Now my sister, my younger sister, she's the historian of the family. I could call her and probably find out. But how many of y'all have a sister like that or somebody in your family? You don't know nothing, but you call them and it's all good, yeah And uh I've gone to family reunions, they gotta sit next to her. Now who's that? And who's that? Because they all know, you know, they know it. Who's I don't know who I don't know who that is. But uh we uh I got a phone call that grandpa was in the hospital and they asked me to come home and my mom said it was my mom's dad. She said she said He I don't know if he's saved and you're the preacher boy and he'll listen to you. I thought, okay So I drove home four hours and and uh on a Friday or Saturday, Sunday after church, mom took me up to the hospital and grandma was there and grandpa was there and mom looked at her mom and said uh uh said let's go get a bite to eat And left me there with grandpa. That was a two-room hospital room and I took the curtain and I pulled it all the way shut and I said, Grandpa, I don't know what's going on. I don't even know why you're here. I said, but I'm a little concerned that mom called me and asked me to come talk to you. I said, Grandpa, do you know for sure that heaven's your home? And he said, no. And I went through the plan of salvation with tears streaming down his face. He prayed and asked Jesus to save him there in that hospital room Well we were excited that Sunday night. We were excited. Excited about what the Lord had done. And I uh uh after church on Sunday I jumped in the car and drove back to college and that's of course, preacher, that's before cell phones and answering machines and you know, so you could ignore people And I got back to the college and I got a over the loudspeaker. They said I had a message waiting for me at the information desk. And I went over to the information desk and said, call home. So I went to a payphone, called Collect, young people, Google it. Find out what that means. Don't have time, but I called collect and my dad answered the phone and I said, Hey, what's going on? He said, Well grandpa grandpa passed away this morning. Less than 24 hours after he had gotten saved, and he was my mom's rock. And I remember at the funeral home with mom at the casket Crying, Daddy, Daddy. Tell you, it's not easy life sometimes What I found out and what a man in our church says, and you've probably already heard, getting hold ain't for sissies. It can be trying, it can be tough. But when God is our rock, and He's the rock of our salvation, He's the rock of our life, He's never going to let us down. He's always going to be there for us. Always going to take time for us and help us. Look back at verse number four. He is the rock. His work is perfect, for all his ways are judgment, a God of truth and without iniquity, just and right. Not only is he our rock this morning, but he's the God of truth. He's a God of truth. You know what I found out to be true? One thing we can be sure of life is people lie. People lie. You lied this morning. You say, what are you talking about? Guys, when you looked in the mirror and you said, Man, you're good looking Now, ha you know, l ladies, you force your husband What ladies, you put it you put husbands in a lose-lose situation all the time. What did you think of this meal? Now, my wife has only offered up burnt sacrifices a few times in our married life. How do I look in this outfit? What are you gonna say? You're gonna what? What are you gonna do, preacher? You're gonna lie How are you today? We had a lady in our church growing up. She has special needs. You didn't ask her. Because she'd tell you. And she'd want to show you scars. And it wasn't good. Men will lie to you. Men will let you down. I'm talking about man. I'm talking about humankind. Well let me tell you something. We have a book right here that's truth. This is truth And you can trust the Word of God. And you can trust the God of the book. Every story is true. Every principle is a true principle. Every philosophy is a true philosophy. We never have to be afraid of doing what the Bible tells us to do, the way the Bible tells us to do it, because the Bible is truth. Here's what I found out. If I just live my life according to Bible principle, then it's God's responsibility to take care of the rest of it. Decisions have to be made, and sometimes they're not easy decisions. Sometimes they're difficult decisions to make as a human being because we don't want to hurt anybody and we want everybody to like us. Look, I'm a preacher. I want everybody to like me. But sometimes as a Bible college administrator, you gotta make tough decisions Sometimes, as a parent, you've got to make tough decisions, and you're worried about whether they're going to like the decision. But let me tell you something: if it's based on Bible principle, then it's God's responsibility to take care of the rest of it We've got to stand on truth. We've got to stand on the truth of the Word of God. We never have to wonder if we're rearing our children correctly, if we're rearing them. according to the Bible because the Bible is truth. We never have to be worried about the blessings of God in our lives if we're living according to the Bible because the Bible is truth. Everything that has to do with God and everything About God is truth. Exodus 34, 6, and the Lord passed by before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious long suffering and abundant in goodness and truth. John 1 14, and the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and uh uh and we beheld his glory as uh the glory of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace. And truth. Every word spoken by Christ was truth. Every thought that Jesus had was truth. Every action that Jesus performed was truth. John chapter 8, verse 44, ye are of the Father, the devil. The lust of the Father will ye do. He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth, because there was no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar. and the father of it. Every word that the devil speaks is a lie. Every thought that the devil has is a lie. Every action that the devil performs is a lie. When Jesus said that we can go to him and his yoke is easy and his burden is light, we need to believe him because it's truth. When Jesus says that if we abide in him, that he and he will abide in us, we can believe him because it's truth. When Jesus says that if we call on him for salvation, that he will save us Uh we can believe on him because it's truth. And when Jesus says that if we pray that we will get an answer, if we have faith as a grain of a mustard seed, we can believe him because he's truth We need to ascribe greatness unto our God because He's truth. What are you praying for this morning? What need do you have? What miracle do you need to have in your life? I'm telling you, don't quit. Don't stop praying. Don't stop asking. Don't stop seeking. Don't stop knocking. Because the Bible says that if we keep on going and we keep on praying, He'll give us an answer. Sometimes, preacher, I think we settle. Because it doesn't happen in our time period Doesn't happen in our little in our little bitty time period that we want. I said before, God's agenda is more important than our agenda. And if the Bible says it, we can bank on it because it's truth. It's truth. And we can believe it. Young people look at me. Teenagers look at me. The Bible is true, and the devil is a liar. The Bible is true and the devil is a liar. You stick with the book. You stick with the Bible because it's truth. Finally, this morning, look at Deuteronomy 32 and verse 4. He is the rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are judgment, a God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he. Not only is he our rock this morning, and he is a God of truth, but he is just and right. Every decision that the Lord makes is a right decision. Now we have a problem with that sometimes, don't we? But every decision that the Lord makes is a right decision. My junior year of high school, we had a junior senior banquet every year. I went to Christian school and uh at that time and we went we had a junior senior banquet and and we took dates. That was an exciting time. Because ever all the girls wanted me to ask them. As rough picking, it was hard. My dad used to say, There's no pride in my family, son, you have it all. And uh Bue Jr. Senior Banquet and we got a I uh mom and dad wanted to buy me a new suit. And uh my brother's two years older than me, so he was he was already out and I was the I was the you know upperclassman in the house Well I was that way anyway, but but uh uh they wanna they wanted to buy me a new suit and so it came after school, mom was going to take us preacher to to the pennies or somewhere to get a new suit in uh uh suit with a vest. Three piece suit and and and I had a a a a watch with a chain on it, you know, to go in the little pocket thing, you know, that you and it flipped on I was styling But there was something off about mom. Just something off in the car. She's kind of short with us and she let me get the suit that I wanted and and we got back home and a couple days later Dad sat us all down in the in the uh in the living room, so we need to talk. Oh my mom had cancer. Had a massectomy. This is 1978. And they've they've made advances today than they did then. And if you had the surgery and went through therapy and and went through a lot of physical and emotional things and Senior year of high school was great. First year of college was great. Second year of college preacher, I got a call from home that mom's cancer was back. And it was back hard. It's back hard with a vengeance. We uh went home for Christmas and mom had lost her hair again and Wearing wigs and scrolling through stuff. But this time it wasn't just breast cancer, it was everywhere Last day of college, second to the last day of college, I got a phone call. Again, got a message. Had to use the payphone, call collect. Hopefully somebody would answer the phone. They said, if you want to see mom, you need to come. This time my sister was in college with me, so literally, folks, I went back to my room. I got my suitcases and took my Pulled out the dresser drawer and dumped just dumped clothes into the into the suitcase and my sister loaded her we loaded our stuff up missed graduation. I don't even know if I told anybody You know, we were Bible college, so you gotta get passes and go. I don't even know if we did that. We just left. Drove straight to the hospital. And uh that was a Friday Spent the night Friday night in the hospital. Went home Saturday. Went to church Sunday. Spent the night Sunday night in the hospital. Early Monday morning, Memorial Day that year. Early Monday morning, they came and got us and she's flipped off into eternity. I said, man. What in the world? I'm a preacher. My mom, Sunday school teacher. Why does this stuff happen? Why does it happen? I don't know I know, preacher, you've asked the same questions, I'm sure, about your life and the life of your church members. And as sure as I'm standing here this morning, I wish there was a magic wand. That we could just wave, and we would know everything. Why these things happen. I don't have an answer. I do know this. I know I've been able to help some people. I know I've been able to have compassion with people. I know I've been able to sit in the hospital room and tell people it's going to be okay, because it is. And I trust God. That he is just and that he is right. Job 34, 10. Therefore hearken unto me, ye men of understanding. Far be it from God that he should do wickedness, and from the Almighty that he should commit iniquity. God doesn't do things. Just because. There's nothing that God does that is just because. The men who went through more, the man who went through more than any other man realized that the Lord was just and right in what he was doing. Psalm 119, 175, let my soul live and it shall praise thee, and let thy judgments help me. A judgment is a decision. You made a judgment today to come to church. You made a judgment as to what to wear to church. You're going to make a judgment after church of whether you're going to go home and eat or go out to eat. Ladies, if you're going home to eat, you made a judgment today. Or you're going to make a judgment what you're going to make for dinner this afternoon. You're going to make a judgment as to whether you're coming to church again tonight. We make judgments all the time. It's a decision. And the Bible says, in Psalm 119, 175, Let my soul live and it shall praise thee, and let thy judgments help me. This should be something that we pray every day, that the Lord's judgments will help us. The Bible tells us what is memory verse in everything. Give thanks. Here's what I know. I know that God loves you more than anything else you can ever imagine. He loves you. And he wants a relationship with you And anything that the Lord allows to happen is to draw us closer to Him, not push us further away. Now, I don't do that as a parent, do you? Do you do things to your children, or if you have grandchildren, do you do things to your grandchildren to push them away from you? Even if you have to discipline them? Is it to push them away from you? How many of you here want your kids to hate you? Or your grandkids to hate you? Nobody does. Then why do we think God's a worse parent than we are? Everything he does, everything he allows, every judgment that he makes is so that it will help us and it will draw us closer to him. No matter what those decisions are, no matter what those judgments are, God wants us to be closer to him. He wants us to be closer to him. Let me assure you tonight or this morning that we serve a great and wonderful God. And his judgments are right and just. When we realize that his judgments are to help us, then we can realize what a great God we have. We've heard many statements about how great different men are, and we have some great men, and have had some great men who have lived. If you've served our country in wartime or peacetime, I count you as a great person. Because you've served our country and you've allowed us to have the freedoms that we have today. There are some great men who have given their lives for our country. We'll hear many statements in the future about great men. I'm not here to tell you this morning about how great man is. I'm here to tell you this morning how great our God is. And He's a great, big, wonderful God. And He's here to help you today. He's here to help you. We have a great God. Let's pray. Father, I sure do love you today, not as much as I should, but you are a great God. And I do thank you, Lord, for the good times, what we think are good times, and Father, what we think are difficult times. I thank you for this place and for these people and for the opportunity to bring your word to them. And I pray, Father, you encourage their hearts Now with our heads bowed and our eyes closed, with no one looking at all, I don't know you, and you barely know me. But I just want to ask a couple of questions this morning before we go I've talked about a great God. And our God is great. He loves us so much that he sent his son. To die on the cross for our sins. Was buried and rose again the third day and conquered hell in the grave so that we can have a home in heaven. If you're here this morning and you do not know 100% sure that heaven's your home, let me pray for you this morning that God will open your eyes to that. I don't know you. If you raise your hand, I'm going to ask you to raise your hand in just a moment. I don't know you. I'm not going to call your name. I wouldn't do it if I knew it. I'm not going to come to you. I just want to pray for you. Say, preacher, I'm here today, and I am not 100% sure if I died today I'd go to heaven. But preacher, I sure would like to know that. Would you pray for me? Preacher, I'm not 100% sure. If I died today I'd go to heaven, but I sure would like to know that. Would you pray for me? I'm just going to ask you to slip your hand up real quick. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed, I'm the only one looking Who's like that this morning? Preacher, I'm not 100% sure if I died today I'd go to heaven, but I sure would like to know that. Anybody like that this morning? Anybody like that at all Maybe you're here this morning and you say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. I've trusted Christ as my Savior. But something you said this morning spoke to my heart And I'm going to do something about it. Preacher, something you said spoke to my heart this morning. I'm going to do something about it. Would you pray with me about it? Just slip your hand up real quick. Slip it up. Put it down. Amen. I see those hands. I see those hands. Folks, we serve a great God. We serve a great God. We need to be witnesses to others about how great God is. Father, I pray you'll bless this invitation. Lord, I pray as the pastor comes that you will work in our hearts and help us to have the testimony in our community about how great you are. Father, I pray that you bless it this time. Spoke to your heart And uh imitation time is when we respond and we just bring that to the Lord. I found that when times are overwhelming, I'm in a valley. Just refocusing on who God is and what he is helps me so much. And so we invite you to come. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And as the piano plays, imitation song, why don't you slip on out, find a place this altar? And whatever it is God has allowed into your life, whatever it is God is allowing you to uh deal with and and maybe even struggle with. Let's just come this morning, remind ourselves of who God is. And as she plays, why don't you come up