And we're working our way through here. Just a little testimonial is the last two days actually I spent in Atlanta, Georgia. Uh in Neighborhood Bible Time we had our annual board meeting and I missed it the last two years because I've been out of country on mission trips and so it was pretty neat to be back down uh on the at the board meeting and see what's going on. And the Lord is blessing Bible time in a great way. Really excited about this coming year. And um and so uh Uh it was just a real neat to get in the Bible time mode. But one thing we did not do, I got to get on Brother Koontz, the director, we did not do the booster chair at the board meeting. I can't believe it. It was terrible. The place has gone liberal And so but uh no it was good. So I appreciate those that were praying for us. Let me get turned on here. We're gonna read verse number seven down through eleven. As I said last week Um my intention is, and things don't always work out the way I intend, how many people ever planned something out and it didn't even go close to what you planned? That could very well be the case, but my plan is at this point is to spend a good little while here. on uh these verses and uh spend some time preaching and thinking about studying prayer. And so I hope you'll get on board with me with uh on board with me on this. And uh maybe we could see God send a revival of prayer. Wouldn't that be something? Verse number seven says this. We're all familiar with this. Ask, and it shall be given unto you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. And he elaborates. How many people agree that statement right there from the lips of Jesus is profound? That's a great thing. Just him saying that is tremendous. Now he elaborates Just so we don't miss what he's saying, he expands on it. And he says, this for everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. Or what man is there of you whom, if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him There is a ton of information in these few verses here on this matter of prayer. And so let's pray and uh I'm gonna Again, just kind of give some general thoughts about prayer this evening before we start really digging into this. So let's pray together. Father, we ask you to bless now our time in uh this portion of Scripture. Lord, I pray that you would challenge us in prayer. I'm asking for revival in my own heart and life, a revival of prayer Lord, I pray that we could see you in the coming months and years teach us to pray effectively and that we could see situations, circumstances, lives changed. As a result of us claiming your promises of prayer and us getting in tune with your teaching on prayer. So Lord, I ask you tonight that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. Please be our teacher I ask like the disciples did many years ago, Lord, teach us to pray. And so please do that from your word, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember, I believe it was last week, this is what I got as I first started really to delve into this promise that the Lord gave these verses. And um when I when I first started digging, this was the impression I got, prayer has consequences. Prayer, when we pray, they have consequences. Now, we gave a little caution last week, if you remember. Sometimes if we insist on something, even though it's not God's will, we keep insisting on having it sometimes God will give us what we want, even though it might not necessarily be the best thing. Anybody how many people remember us talking about that? We gave a few illustrations. If you remember the nation of Israel God wanted to be their king. God set the whole nation up to be their king. But they saw other nations had kings. And they said, We want kings too. Everybody else has kings. All the neighbors have kings. We want kings And the Lord says, no, I'll be your king. It'll work better. It won't work out. He's going to take your money. He's going to take everything. And uh he's going to send your kids off to war. He says, uh just be content, I'll be your king. And they said, no, no, no. We want to have a king. So what did the Lord do? He gave them their king and he says, All right, you want it, you got it. And um, you know, of course, uh Saul uh brought uh terrible failure. And now God took that and turned it around, and David came out of that, and some great kings eventually did, in the lineage of the Lord Jesus. But the point is this It was not what God wanted them to have. And they insisted on it, and God says, All right, I'll give it to you. And there's another instance in Psalms where Uh if you remember, he says, he gave them the desires of their heart, but he sent, does anybody remember he sent what? Leanness to their soul. So they got what they wanted, but boy, it cost them spiritually. So my my point is this. Prayers have consequences. And my I started out I I I suggested that when we approach this subject of prayer, if we're going to take it seriously, and I hope you are, uh I certainly am, uh, if we're going to take this study of prayer seriously, and we want to more than just know what God says in proud prayer, but we understand what it means and we apply it to our lives, we need to begin with a spirit of humility, a spirit of submission. The classic prayer, classic prayer challenges me all the time, is the Lord Jesus Christ in Gethsemane in the Garden of Gethsemane, and he prayed this. Are you listening, young people? He prayed this. He said, if it be possible, let this cut pass from me. But what did he say next? Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. And you see, the very basis of the Lord Jesus' prayer was submission. Submission, Lord, this is what I want. And it's fine. We'll study this in more depth later, but it's fine. God tells us to bring our requests unto Him. I like there's a passage in Psalms chapter 80 something, I think, and we're going to end up looking at this also, but he makes this statement. He says, open your mouth wide. And I'll fill it. And the idea there, what he's teaching is don't be afraid to ask for big things. Don't be afraid to ask for great things. Let your requests be made known unto God. But underlying all of that, we must have the attitude of submission. When he gives us these tremendous promises here, he is not just giving a blank check, hey, whatever you want, you can have it. Name it, you can claim it. As not what he's teaching. And so we need to approach it this way as fantastic as these promises are And as true as they are, and absolutely as they are, we need to come with a submissive spirit. So we may said this passage here is no doubt one of the greatest prayer promises in all of Scripture, and there's a bunch of them This is greatest, uh one of the greatest. Uh how many people recognize the name Jim Elliott? Jim Elliott, great missionaries to uh um The Alka Indians down in South America, and remember they were martyred. Him and Jim Elliott and Nate Saint and a couple other fellows were killed and became very, very famous Anybody recognize the name? Elizabeth Elliott, very famous lady, speaker, right wrote she wrote some tremendous books. I think she passed away here just recently. But that was his wife Jim Elliott made this statement. I like this. He said, God is still on his throne, and we are still at his footstool. And there is only a knees difference between the two. Did you get that? God's still on his throne. We're at the footstool. And there's only a knees difference. In other words, he's saying, listen, when we pray, we're approaching the God of gods, the king of kings. And uh tremendous thing. John R. Rice uh made this statement: all our failures are prayer failures. Now think about this. John R. Rice wrote a tremendous book on prayer, prayer, asking and receiving. How many folks have ever had that book? How many folks people have that book in their library? Wow, we ought to get that and give that out to everybody. It's just a little paperback. It is a classic on prayer. He said, all our failures are prayer failures. He went on to say this, and I've quoted this often over the years. He said, with much prayer, there is much power. There is much victory. There's much blessing. He said, with little prayer, There's little power and little victory and little blessing. Then he added this on to it. And with no prayer, There's no power and there's no blessing. The importance of prayer. There's another author that I enjoy reading. I read his books through about every couple years. I'm about halfway through. He has like a five-volume set on prayer, and I have it in all in one volume, all five in one volume, and I'm about halfway through it. E. M. Bounce. How many people ever read anything by E. M. Bounce? Boy, E. M. Bounce. Do you find anything EM Bounds? tremendous, tremendous writer. Uh he was a Methodist uh chaplain during the Civil War and that guy had a hold of prayer and he wrote books on prayer. He made this statement. He said He said, uh the church does not need better machinery. It needs better men. The church doesn't need better programs. It needs better people. And I'm not quoting verbatim here now, but it but he went on to say this. And by better men and by better people, I mean this: men and women of prayer. Men and women of persistent prayer, of humble prayer, of earnest prayer. So when we think about prayer, and again I'm kind of just making some general statements to begin when we start digging into this. But when I think about prayer, I think about the two men that influenced me the most as far as coming to Christ. Anybody want to guess who one of those two are? My dad, uh you say I say it every Sunday. Um but uh my dad profound that uh before I was saved And that that five-month period in the beginning of 1979, I was under such phenomenal conviction, and I knew I needed to be saved, and God, it just like every day went by, I realized how much more of a sinner I was, how much more of a sinner I was And I attribute one of the factors in me coming to that point was there was many occasions when I would come home Friday night, Saturday, sometimes Sunday night, two, three o'clock in the morning, now not every time. There was a number of times when I would come home and the light on in my dad's room was just the two of us together at the time, and uh there'd be a light on my dad's room and I would just kind of go by in my messed up state. I'd look in and dad be on his knees beside his bed praying for his son, that God would keep his son safe, that God would save his son. As far as I know, and the other man that had a profound impact was my dad's father. My grandfather, old Sam Leatherman was his name. Uh man, tremendous man of prayer. I remember young And uh you've maybe experienced this with a family member, but we'd get together at Christmas. We'd all sit around the table, you know, for the big Christmas meal or Thanksgiving. And my grandfather was a quiet man. He didn't say much at all. He'd just kind of be there. But when it came time for family prayer, he meant business. There's no horsing around. Dennis! Listen, we're going to pray. I'm telling you when when we we called him Grandpa Leatherman, uh Papa Leatherman we called him, and uh I tell you when he prays, all right, let's bow our heads, we're gonna pray. I'm sitting there, a little boy, and he would start praying, Our Heavenly Father. I'm telling you, it was like the presence of God was there. You know, I I I think I'd have to look up and see if God's standing here somewhere. And he would pray. Now, as far as I know, neither of those men ever stood behind a pulpit and preached the sermon. Neither of those men, I'm sure of this, ever had anything printed, any articles printed in any national magazines. They never wrote any books. My grandfather was a deacon uh in the church he was at uh for quite a extended period of time. But the what I'm point I'm trying to make is they were never up front, they were never real well known. They were never highly recognized nationally or even locally recognized, but I'll tell you this, they knew how to get a hold of God in prayer. And they affected, they had a profound effect on a messed up teenager that God in his mercy saved. And so what I'm trying to say is this prayer is powerful, powerful thing. When we get a hold of it And we understand what it is and how it works and how God responds to prayer. I remember two Two placards or little sayings my grandfather and grandmother had up on the wall. And by the way, they were on a honeymoon till the day they died. They were married forever. And you go there, if they were in within arm's reach, zeek They're holding hands, you know. And uh they were just in love till the day they went to heaven. But they had two placards on the wall. Uh one of them said this. It said, There's no power shortage with prayer I remember that hanging on the wall. And the other one, right over going into the kitchen, just this little thing, it says this: prayer changes things. Prayer changes things. I think that is what the Lord Jesus Christ is telling us here. Prayer changes things. Now, to be technical, it's really God changes things, right? But prayer prompts God to respond and make those changes, to give the things we ask for, to show us the things we're seeking, to open up the opportunities we're knocking for. And so prayer has a profound, a profound impact. Prayer has consequences. All right, on your prayer list there, on the back, you have a place for notes. Let me give you a few thoughts to jot down about prayer. I'm going to try and uh give these a little quickly. A few jot things to jot down about prayer. Number one Prayer is, and you can put this in your own words obviously, but prayer is first and foremost an act of faith Prayer is an act of faith. When Jesus says to us, Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. He is instructing us to do something by faith. Listen to Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 6. He that cometh to God That would apply to prayer. When I'm praying, I'm coming to God. He that cometh to God must believe that he is. Look at this, listen to this, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. So he that cometh to God must what? Believe that he is. So I've got to believe in the existence of God. I've got to be convinced of that. By faith, I'm convinced. That God is, must believe that he is, but you've got to believe something else. That he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. In other words, he will answer that prayer If I ask, he will give. If I seek, I will find. He'll make sure I find it. If I knock, he'll open it. Why? Because everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and he that knocketh on the door openeth unto him. And so I've got to come by faith. I've got to believe that God is, and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him. Listen to Mark chapter 11 and verse 24. What things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them. Believe, believe, believe. To pray in faith. If I believe what the Bible says, I really believe it, that means I'm going to pray unceasingly. I'm going to pray and pray and pray and pray and pray. And God, I am not going to let go of the horns of the altar, so to speak, until you either change the desires of my heart or until you meet this need and you answer this prayer. Remember in 2 Corinthians 12, Paul said that he had a thorn in the flesh. Anybody remember that passage? We don't know what it was. To me, it's obviously physical. It's a thorn in the flesh, so it was some physical issue. It's a thorn, and thorns don't tickle. Thorns hurt. So that tells me it was apparently of some physical pain he was experiencing. And he says he sought the Lord. He doesn't necessarily say I sought the Lord that he would take it from me, but he says what? I sought the Lord what? Thrice, three times. And I got studying that, and I mentioned this many times in previous messages, but I got studying that, and I come to the conclusion it doesn't just mean the la uh that Paul made three brief requests. But I think he's referencing three periods, three seasons of requests. I just sought the Lord and sought the Lord and sought the Lord and sought the Lord Nothing. And then he comes back. I sought the Lord and sought the Lord and sought the Lord and sought the Lord in the season of intense prayer. He didn't take it away. And I came back the third time. And if you remember, what'd the Lord say? He says, basically, I'm putting my own words, he says, I'm not going to take this thorn in the flesh away from you. My grace is what? Sufficient. But when I'm weak, he's strong. And God taught Paul that this thorn in his flesh kept him dependent upon God and God says, I'm not going to take it away. I'm going to let leave it there for you. And I'm going to show you that when you're hurting, when you're struggling, when this hurts then I step in and I become strong on your behalf. And you'll see me do things that could not happen if I took this thorn in the flesh away. So uh and then what happened? Paul says uh most what does he say, most gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmity. He says, that's when he says, for when I'm weak, I'm strong. And God changed not his circumstance. He didn't change the thorn in the flesh. It was still there. But he changed Paul's attitude about it, Paul's perspective on it. But the point I'm trying to make is this: Paul believed with all his heart that God would answer his prayer. And he refused to give up. And he kept praying, praying, praying three times. And that is faith. That is faith. So, uh prayers, and I'm I reference my dad all the time, but man, for eight years he prayed, refused to quit praying for his son to be saved. I thank God for that. And so uh I don't know what your prayer request is. I don't know what it is you need God to do. I don't want you I don't know what your thorn in the flesh is I don't know what the situation is that you need God to do something, but I'm confident of this. I've been your pastor long enough to know that every one of us has something we need God to do. Every one of us has some need, and we need God to work on our behalf. And so we've got to come to God in faith. In faith. So it means To pray in faith, pray as an act of faith, it means I keep on praying, and we're going to talk about that. The Lord teaches us that in this passage here. It means to pray surrenderedly. That's a word. And we touched on that last week Just uh surrendered to the Lord. Nevertheless, not my will, but thy wills be done. Dr. Lee Robertson, uh when he first started out, uh pastored a small little church. I'm going to say it was down in Alabama somewhere And just a tiny little church. In fact, it was so small they couldn't give him a salary. I mean no income. He had to figure it out one way or another how to pay his bills. And he stayed in a little boarding house or something, and he says he wasn't there too long. He's preaching and souls are blessing. And um He said, one day he got up in the morning and under his door, to the hallway where he was staying, under his door there was a dollar bill setting. And he looked, he opened up, looked both ways, nobody's around. And so he took it. And back then, a dollar bill, you know, you could buy days worth of food for a dollar bill. And so he praised the Lord. And he'd pray. And the point is he was praying and asking God to meet his needs. The next day he got up Getting ready, looked over, lo and behold, guess what's at the door? It's another dollar bill. Open door, look around, nobody's around. Met his needs that day. He kept preaching, he kept winning souls, he kept praying. Next morning gets up. This time he looked. See there, and lo and behold, there's another dollar bill there. He said, that went on, and I forget the period of time, I want to say a year or so, two years, every day there was a dollar bill slipped under his door. to meet his needs. And he attributes it to the fact that he was willing to serve God where God told him to be and simply trust God to meet his needs. Surrendered, submissive to God. And God responded and provided for him. So coming submissively, surrendered to God's will, trusting God to meet our needs. And so it means to pray unceasingly, it means to pray surrenderedly. When I'm acting in faith, praying in faith, it means I pray humbly. It means I pray humbly. Did you notice the Lord doesn't make any qualifications on who is allowed to come and pray? Now, remember he's talking to who. Who's this message, Sermon on the Mount, is preached to who? Disciples, it's not unsaved. The Bible is very clear. God does not hear the prayer of the sinner unsaved. This is for God's people. But my point is this: God does not The promises here given here are not to a certain caliber of Christian. I got thinking about this. Our vice president now, Pence, is a c as a pretty clear testimony of salvation, of being a genuine Christian. I believe he really is. Here's the neat thing. One of our little bus kids, any one of our little bus kids that knows the Lord Savior, has just as much access to the throne of God as the Vice President of the United States does. Isn't that an amazing thing? He doesn't have any more. His position and his power and his education or whatever he has gives him no more access to God than the little bus kid that trusted Jesus as Savior. In fact, I'm tempted to say the little kid probably has God's ear, maybe more, some of the big shots. And so they come very humbly. We don't come and say, oh yeah, I can I can get God to answer my prayers because I'm this great Christian. Nah, no, it's not because of anything we are. Um and so, uh the great uh uh here's a verse God gave me. When going through Bible college, this thing helped me so much. Mark 1122. In fact, I kind of claimed it as a life verse It's not as maybe as dramatic and sensational. Some of these guys have these phenomenal life verses. But to me, it's been fantastic. Mark 11, 22, Jesus answering said unto them, have faith in God. There were so many situations. I was coming up through Bible college. I didn't know what the answer was. I didn't know what the solution was. I didn't know how the need was going to be met. And the Lord would bring that verse to my mind. Have faith in God. Have faith in God. And that's what prayer is. Prayer is first and foremost an act of faith. Put this down. Number two Alright, did you get that one? Number one, it means to pray persistently, it means to pray surrenderedly, it means to pray humbly. Here's my second thought, just the general statements about prayer Prayer is focused on our needs. Prayer is focused on our needs. The whole emphasis of verse 7 and 8, actually the whole passage in Matthew 7. But verse 7, 8 particularly, and 9, 10, 11, the emphasis is on the fact that we have what? Needs. Ask. And it shall be going to be sick. Dark. Which of you having a child, you know, ask of a fish and you give him a stone? And just, by the way, and we're going to look at this a little more later on, but think about this. Take that verse, look there with me. I'm on a little rabbit trail here, but uh while I'm thinking about it, look there with me at verse number nine. What man is there of you whom his son ask bread? Will he give him a stone? If he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? Let me take a little liberty here, a little leatherman liberty And reverse that. How many come if your child asked for a serpent Well, would you give them the serpent? No. That would be bad. That would be terrible. In a good, I wouldn't give my son something to eat. It's lunchtime. What do you want for lunch? Oh, just a stone I'm not giving you no stone here. Eat bread. And in likewise, sometimes, we talked about this a little bit, sometimes we'll ask for things maybe that aren't best for us. We'll ask for stones, and God says, no, what you really need is bread Follow what I'm saying? Lord, I want a serpent. Oh, those serpents are so cool. Everybody has serpents. They're all getting stung and bit and dying. I want a serpent too Lord says, I ain't giving you no serpent. You're my child. So that has nothing to do with what we're talking about here, but I thought about that So, but fervent prayer, prayer is focused on needs. And the whole emphasis here is the fact that we have needs. We have needs. We have needs. You go through and look at the great prayers in the Bible where God responded in a powerful way. Every one of them had a specific need they were bringing to God. I don't want you to raise your hand, I don't want you to respond outwardly in any way, shape, or form, but I do want you to think right now, what is the great need in your life? What is the great need in your spiritual life? Maybe in your family, your home, finances, physical. But think about your spiritual walk with God. What is the great need? That is what prayer is. John R. Rice said this over and over and over. He said prayer is not complicated. It's not a big fancy answer definition. It's simply this. Prayer is asking and then receiving I need this from God. I need this and I come and I ask. And that's the whole emphasis through here, the fact that there is needs. A lot of stuff takes place in the name of prayer that really isn't prayer Singing praises is not prayer. Worship is not prayer. Preaching is not prayer. Hear the world talking a lot about now is meditating. Oh, you just need to get alone and meditate. Mm-hmm That's not prayer. I mean it might I don't know what it does for you But it's not prayer. Prayer is not meditating. Prayer, as we noticed earlier in this sermon, the Lord said, prayer is not just repeating something over and over and over. Hail Mary, full of grace. Prayer. Pray for sinners. Have mercy on us sinners and pray the pray the pray pray the Hail Mary twenty-five times and uh that's not praying. I told you about my roommate in Bible college was saved at Catholicism and he had that thing matters. He he changed and he says, Hail Mary, full of grace, swing those beads all over the place, swing them high, swing them low, swing those beads wherever you go. That's as much praying as what they're saying. Praying is not repeating some phrase over and over and over, it's not meditating, it's not any of that. Prayer is simply coming, God, I really need this, God, I need your help. God, I have this tremendous financial need. Lord, I've got this sickness. It's coming with needs. What are some things that we should pray for? What are some needs that we have we should ask God for? I put a few down. Anybody? Let's get a little feedback. Y'all are looking like you're a little sleepy tonight. What are some needs that we have in our spiritual life that we need God to help us? We should ask him for. Who has something? I put this down. Soul saved. We ought to pray and be begging God to save souls. One of my biggest prayers through the week is that Sunday we'll see someone trust Christ. Thursday night missing, we'll see someone trust Christ. Ladies were out today. I saw the cars there. They went out. I was praying, Lord, help them see someone trust Christ. Buses visitors are out on Saturday. Lord, pray we'd see someone trust Christ. We ought to be asking God to save souls Our friends, co-workers, family members. How many people right now somebody comes immediately to mind that's lost, they need to be saved? How many people think that We ought to be asking God, asking God, asking God. That's a need. They need to be saved. I put this down, revival. I'm just giving some general things. Maybe you have specifics in your own Christian life But the last month or two, God just stirred my heart to pray for revival. God send revival into my heart and life. That I would not lose that first love, that that would be reunited in my heart, and that my walk with God would be alive and fresh. And uh so revival. How many people agree our homes, our churches need revival? Goodness. We ought to be asking God for that. These are needs that we have. Financial needs to be met. How about wisdom and direction? We're praying about assistant coming in here and helping us. I don't want just some any guy to come in. I want God's will to be done. I want the person that God has prepared and designed to be here and help us. And so we ought to be asking God for these things, praying, needs. So we said one that prayer is first and foremost it's an act of faith. I'm coming to God because I believe that He is, and I believe the promises of God that He does hear And he does answer prayer. Then I come and I focus on my needs. I'm praying for the things. I'm asking for things. I'm seeking for something. I'm knocking for opportunities maybe And then number three, I put this down. Prayer is concerned about others. If we're not careful, now we ought to pray for our own needs. We ought to pray for that. That's fine. Pray for ourselves. It's me, it's me, it's me, O Lord, standing in the need of prayer. So we ought to pray. But I think we ought to be careful we don't get overly selfish in our prayers. And we ought to think about others, compassion for others. I found the more that my the more I am stirred about somebody, the more I pray for them. Do you ever find certain people just come to mind? How many folks here, let's just let's do a little experiment here. How many folks here of the last say 10 years There's certain missionaries just stand out in your mind that have come through here that we support. Just certain ones kind of clicked with you or whatever. You know what I'm talking about? You know what? The more we get to know them, the more we care about them, who do we tend to find ourselves praying for? Do you ever drive down the road, drive around, and some missionary comes to mind? And you think, oh, I wonder, I think that's God prompting us. We know them. Our hearts stirred, we're tender. And we ought to pray for them. So prayer is we need to keep our prayers for others and having compassion on others. When we get praying like that, I think we'll see more missionaries produced. And um and uh we talk about a lot about this for soul winning. Prayer and soul winning go hand in hand. You study the book of Acts very carefully, you find the church doing two things overwhelmingly stands out, the two things the church does. It is not having chicken fried chicken fellowships. And there's nothing wrong with that. And it's not having uh spaghetti dinners after the after track month And that's great. I love spaghetti dinners after track month. And uh not having uh cold shrimp and dip on New Year's Day. And that's fine. There's nothing wrong with that. But two things stand out. You look at the church through the book of Acts, two things scream out at us. One is they're preaching the gospel, and two is they're praying. Preaching and praying, preaching and praying, preaching and praying. Dominate it The first church that is our model that we're to pattern after. And so um uh and so prayer for others, prayer for others, concern for others. Thanking God for others, praying for their needs, and then praying for myself. Let me give you the last one here real quick. Uh what number is that? Four? We'll jot this down. Prayer produces miracles. Prayer produces miracles. The Lord said this in Luke chapter 18, verse 26. He made this statement: the things which are impossible with man are possible with God. If we pray and we don't see miracles, if we pray and we don't see answers, I'm suggesting to you, and we're going to look at this in depth that Lord will in the next message is why we don't see The results that God promises us. And if we pray and we don't see the results God promises us, I guarantee you one thing: it's not because God has failed. The problem is not on God's end. The shortage, we're coming up short on our end. And we're going to look at some reasons for that. But if we don't see these powerful answers to prayer, it's not because God failed in some way. I think a lot of times it's simply because of lack of prayer. You know, we we think we pray a lot. I want to challenge you. Think, oh yeah, I probably pray at least two hours a day, I think. Ah, challenge you to time yourself sometime. We don't pray quite as much as we convince ourselves we do, I think. And so uh maybe one of the reasons is, and we'll look at these in a little more detail, is uh maybe a lack of prayer. I think we need to be careful a lot of times, and Guilty, I think a lot of times we spend more time criticizing something than we do praying for it. We spend more time complaining about somebody than we do praying for them. And maybe one of the reasons we're not seeing the results that the Bible promises us is we're simply not We're just not earnest, like the Bible tells us. And there are certain conditions that need to be met before we can claim these promises. Are you listening, young people? And so, uh, but genuine prayer, when we understand what the Lord is saying and we grasp this and we apply it to our lives, I think then we're going to see See the the results God has promised us. And that is what I want. I do n I I'm I'm at the point now, I think, in my Christian life where I do not want I do not want my prayers to come up short from what God has promised. I want what God has promised. I want to see this. And I was talking, it might have been Brother Koontz yesterday, we were traveling to the airport, and we were talking about the Lord and prayer and different things. And uh I would like to, in my lifetime, before the Lord takes me home, I would like to see God do some powerful, obvious, miraculous things. I would like to see that. And so the burden's on my side. God's ready. God's eager. He's got the promises. Everything's in place. But I need to search my heart. I need revival in my heart so I can get a hold of God. Go to read that book, Prayer, Asking and Receiving, John R. writes. He gives first-hand testimony. of powerful, powerful things God has done. And what a tremendous man of prayer. And that's what we need. That's what we need. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would take these thoughts, challenge us. I pray that we could establish in our homes a clear, definite time daily of earnest, earnest prayer. I ask Holy Spirit you would search our hearts and that there would be nothing in our hearts and lives that would hinder or disqualify us from claiming these promises. And Lord, those are absolutely there. We'll see them here before long. And so challenge us, I pray. Holy Spirit, do not let us be content with where we're at spiritually. Provoke us to go on and grow. Our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, my prayer life needs revival? Maybe you say, I feel like you do, preacher. My prayer life really needs revival. I need God to stir me God to change my attitude, God to provoke me. Give me that motivation to pray as he instructs us. Any like that? How many people feel like that? God bless you. Now maybe tonight, Catherine's at the piano Maybe tonight with this thought in our minds and this subject before us, maybe some of us would want to find a place old-fashioned all around and say, Lord, send that revival of prayer. Lord, teach us, help us to get a hold of this. Help me really get a hold of this and see you respond in the ways you promised. And we need to get out of this lethargic apathy about prayer and really care. Be determined to see God do a work. Father, bless now our imitation, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Catherine