You can be in one is saved, I'm a believer, but then there's another is that of a disciple. And the Lord wants us to go from simply being saved. Alright, I'm going to turn this on. Ready? The Lord wants us to go from simply being saved to being one of his disciples, a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, where I get myself off the throat of my life. I'm no longer the authority. I'm no longer calling the shots, but I've yielded myself to the Lord. And now he is the authority. I'm following him. I'm living by his principles, by his instructions, by his values. and not mine anymore. And so there's a world of difference between being saved and being a believer and being a disciple. So when God saves us, he's he's He begins working in our lives to get us over to the point of being a disciple, discipleship. And so that's what this whole message is. And he's sitting on the side of a mountain. He's got thousands of people around him that have accepted him. They're believers, they're disciples. They're following him. He's saying, all right, this is what a disciple is. This is what a disciple does. This is the attitude that a disciple has. And he's going through in great length presenting discipleship. And now we get to verse number 7 of chapter 7. It's coming winding down, the sermon's winding down. If he was a Baptist preacher, he'd be saying around this point. And in conclusion, and he goes on about 50 more verses, but um it's getting to that point. Now look at verse 7. He makes this statement. Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be open. Or what man is there of you whom if his son asks bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? Now, I've entitled this, I took the first letter of the three instructions he gives us in verse 7. He says, ask, seek, and knock. A-S-K. And that is what? Ask. And so that's what this whole thing is about, asking. And so let's pray. And we're going to get into this. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now and teach us about this matter of prayer. Teach me, Lord. And I pray we'd not only know, I pray we not only know the verses and the statements and the concept of prayer. But Lord, I pray it would become a vital part of our lives, my life, and we would know from experience the power of prayer and the importance of it in our lives as disciples And so please fill me with your spirit. I'm asking, Lord, that you fill me with your spirit and that you speak through me and challenge us. And Lord, if nothing else, I pray that this pastor and this church would be a praying pastor and a praying church. So help us, I ask, in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we are very sorry to announce the passing of Mrs. Prayer Meeting. She died recently at the first neglected church on Hohum Avenue. Born many years ago in the midst of a great revival, she was strong and healthy as a child, fed largely on testimony and Bible study. She grew into a worldwide prominence and was once Monus one of the most influential members of the church family. However, in recent years, sister prayer meeting has been failing in health. Gradually wasting away until rendered helpless by stiffness of the knees, cooling of the heart, lack of spiritual sensitivity, and the concern for spiritual things. Her last whispered words were inquiring about the strange absence of her loved ones, now so busy in the marketplace and places of worldly amusement on Wednesday evenings. Experts, including Dr. Goodworks, Dr. Socializing, and Dr. Unconcerned, disagree as to the fatal cause of her final illness. They all administered large doses of excuses, even ordered a last-minute motivational bypass, all with no avail. A post-mortem examination showed that a deficiency of regular spiritual food, a lack of prayer, and Christian fellowship all contributed to her untimely demise. The death of the midweek prayer service. Now, I thank God for a church That believes strongly in the midweek prayer service. I thank God for that. And I give you my word as pastor Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. As long as God allows me to be pastor and as long as I have my mind. The midweek prayer service is going to take place at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. In fact, I would like, as I was preparing this and and um you know, going through in my heart and mind about prayer I thought it'd be a wonderful thing. Wouldn't it be a wonderful thing if prayer meeting became the prominent service of the Bible believing, Bible preaching church? Uh Sunday morning, of course, and it's understandable. It's natural. Sunday morning's the Lord's Day. Folks go to church. That's kind of the, that's kind of the uh dominating service of the church and it's probably always going to be that way, but wouldn't it be something? If the midweek prayer service was the service where most people came out to, where the big crowds were, where the excitement was, where the anticipation was. Coming out the midweek prayer service and getting a hold of God and seeing God do miraculous things. Like I said, as long as I'm pastor and I have my right mind, we want to uh We're going to keep the prayer service an important part of our church. And I say often, I believe it's the most important service. And so I'm very, very grateful for every person that comes out This is the life of our church. This is the if there's any power, spiritual power in anything we do, it's because of folks like you all that are praying. That God's presence should be here, God's power be here, and God doing a work. God has given to us some tremendous promises in His Word Can anybody, when we think about a great promise from the Bible, does anybody have a verse that just comes to mind instantly? A great promise from the Bible. I mean anything across the board. What comes to mind? I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. How many people agree with agree? That's a tremendous, tremendous promise in the Bible. Thank God for that. How about any others? Can you think of others Some great promises. Most famous, John 3. 16. God fell the world and gave his only begotten Son. Here's the promise that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but of everlasting life. Romans 8. 28. How many people agree? Tremendous, powerful promise in God's Word. Romans 10. 13. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I thank God for that promise. Can you think of others? I jotted a few down here. Have you done work? Done neat? Okay. I don't know if that's exactly a promise, but it's a great instruction, absolutely. Um how about this one? Uh the thief cometh not, but for to steal and to kill and destroy. But I'm coming you might have life. And have it more abundantly. What a great promise there. How about this one? John 10, 28. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. One of the key verses for our eternal security. I've got others written down here. Jeremiah 33, 3. Call upon me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. I want to suggest to you all these great promises. I want to suggest to you. Matthew chapter 7, verse 7 through 11 fits in with the greatest promises all through the Bible. Ask, and it shall be given unto you. Seek. And ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. I think this is a tremendously encouraging, encouraging passage of scripture If it's not underlined and highlighted in your Bible, it ought to be underlined and highlighted at least in our hearts and minds. And uh what an encouraging passage. Ask, and it shall be given unto you. How many people would be encouraged? Now some some of y'all and some of some uh your folks, your parents have passed away, but how many when you were young, you're going through a hard time? Maybe you're just starting out in life. And uh it would be in you would say it's encouraged you if your dad would come and say, son, listen, you just ask. I'll give it to you. You just come seek me. I'll take care of ya. Wouldn't that be something? Wouldn't that many of you no doubt your folks had that attitude Well, this is God saying this to us. Now look at verse 7. We're going to, and what I want to do tonight is just kind of lay uh introduction here a little bit, but look at verse number seven. He makes the statement, and we're all familiar with this But he makes this profound statement to us, this profound promise. Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock And it shall be open unto you. How many people agree with me? There's nothing questionable about what he's saying there. Right? It shall be, it shall be, it shall be. This is emphatic Promise of God. If all he gave us was the statement in verse number seven, that would be sufficient to get us through life That would be sufficient. But he doesn't stop there. He makes the statement in verse 7. But then in verse 8, he expands on it. He explains himself. He comes back and restates it in almost in greater detail. He says, for everyone that asketh receiveth. He's reiterating what he's already said. And he that seeketh findeth. And to him that knocketh, it shall be opened. I mean, uh he doesn't want us to misunderstand what he's saying here at all. He wants it to be absolutely clear that if we ask It shall be given to us. If we seek, we will find. If we knock, it will be open to us. He he's He wants to be us to be very, very certain about this. He wants there to be absolutely no doubt about what he's saying And then, if that's not enough, then he takes verses 9, 10, and 11, and he illustrates what he's saying. The Lord has gone to tremendous lengths To state, restate, and illustrate this promise that he's given to us How many people have ever, my wife said mentioned this to me occasionally over the years, but how many people, I'm preaching on something, and it's like, all right, preacher, you're belaboring the obvious Anybody ever accuse me of that? Nah, you are so nice. No. My wife says, you you just went over and over and over. Something that's incredibly obvious. And I usually do it on purpose That's what the Lord is doing here. He states it, he states it again, he states it a little differently, then he expands on it, and then he illustrates it. And to me, that's telling me that as a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I would like to think that most, if not all of us, would claim to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ That He is drilling this into our minds and our hearts. That if we ask, we will receive. If we seek, we will find. If we knock, it shall be opened unto us. He's making it abundantly clear that he is promising to us that he will answer our prayers. He will answer our prayers. I read about it's been a number of years ago, but uh apparently we had an election some time ago. Well not in the distant past, but some time ago and while the election, the presidential election was going our country, apparently Cuba offered to come up and observe our elections and make sure they were done properly and that uh you know everything was fair. And if I remember correctly, I don't think our government took them up on the offer. It was like, thanks, but uh no thanks. You know, w what would Cuba have to offer on fair elections? And you say that's ridiculous. We we would never go to them and uh for help. And that's correct. But my question is this, why don't we go to God for help? Cuba had nothing to offer us. In that area. Nothing. But I'm telling you, God has everything to offer us. And yet the Lord has to go to such lengths To get us to grasp, and we know it in our heads, but to get it in our lines, that, hey, listen, I do answer prayer, I will answer prayers. I do respond to my children requesting, making requests of me. And so The Lord just goes at lengths here. Life is, and the Bible presents this throughout Scripture. The Bible presents life as a journey Right? Anybody ever pick that up? We're on this journey. We we sing I uh we saying this world's not my home. I'm just the passing through. And so we're on this journey, and here's the thing, and I was talking to the teenagers down in Sunday school a couple weeks ago. One thing about life is we cannot control the events that come into our lives. Now we can to some extent, a few things, but for the most part, we cannot control the valleys that we have to go through in this journey We cannot control the storms that come across our life in this journey. They come upon us. A lot of times we don't even see them coming. We get hit with that. And so we can't control these the the uh events that come in life. We can't control other people saying and do things that hurt us. Right? I can't control that. I can't control the doctor coming saying, hey, we found something. Here's a little something on your lungs here, and we need to check this out I I have no control over that. But here's what we do have control over. How we respond to those things that come in our life. How we respond to those needs. I can't control a person can't control to come into work one day and out of the blue say we're shutting down the company You're losing your 401k, everything's gone, we're going bankrupt. Sorry, you lost everything. I can't control that, but I can control how I respond to that. I can't control is telling the young people and and this is somewhat parcel, I don't try to get into deal detail too much, but I can't control when a fourteen year old kid And I come home from school on a Thursday and half the furniture's gone. No, my sisters aren't anywhere around. It's like, what in the world's going on? And several hours later dad shows up and of course he's brokenhearted and he says mom moved out. I can't control that. Just a kid. What do I do? Well how I can't control that. But I can control how I respond to that. You follow what I'm saying? And that's what I believe the Lord is giving us here. He is giving us something so that when we face these issues in life, when these These heartaches come and these these uh trials come and these setbacks come, that we have a resource that we can go to To be able to deal with these valleys, these storms, these issues that come in here. You follow what I'm saying? I got thinking about Abra uh Abraham Abram at the time, but God called him to leave his home, leave his coun uh his home country, leave his family, and go out. And where did God tell him to go? He didn't. He didn't give him any destination. And he went out not knowing where he was going. He was just trusting God, just following God. So one thing no uh Abraham didn't knowah, one thing Abraham did not know one thing Abraham did not know Was what he was going to face. He had no idea what he was going out there to face. But he did know this, and this is what I'm trying to get at. He had the promise that God would be with him And that God would take care of him. God would provide for him, and God would be with him Wherever he ended up, whatever he faced, he had no idea what tomorrow helped, he had no idea where he was going to end up in a year from now. But he knew that God would be with him and God would take care of him. Now remember when he finally did get to the land that God was leading him to, Canaan, the very first thing he had to deal with, who remembers, when he first got to Canaan, the very first thing he had to deal with was what? A famine It's like, wait a minute, I thought this was going to be amazing. I thought this was going to be, you know, lots of everything. It was going to be great. Here a famine shows up And he forgot that he could ask. He forgot that he could seek. He forgot that he could knock on heaven's door and God would take care of him. He forgot all that. He took things into his own hands. Where does he end up? Down in Egypt. What happens down there? Lies about his wife. He's completely out of fellowship with God. He ends up bringing back this little Egyptian gal. Ends up committing adultery with her, having a child out of wedlock there. And so if he'd have just remembered God's promise, That God would take care of them, God would be with them. So I'm coming back to this idea of why the Lord is going to such great lengths. To drill into our hearts and minds of the disciples, if you ask of me, ask and it shall be given unto you. Because everyone that asks receives. Just like a good father gives to his kids good things. And seek, and you shall find. Because everyone that seeks finds And knock, and it will be open to you. Because everyone that knocks, it's open unto them. And he just reiterates this and reiterates this. Why? Because we have a tendency to forget. And we have a tendency to doubt. Am I right or wrong? We would never in a million years stand up in church and say, well, I don't know, you know, I don't know about that But we would never say that, but when it comes to practically living it out, it's exactly what we say. Right? And so he's, we have a tendency to doubt, we have a tendency to forget, we have a tendency towards disbelief, believe it or not. I heard uh I didn't hear uh I read John O'Rice in one of his sermons. I don't I've read hundreds of them, but one of his sermons, this blew my socks off. I mean I was sitting there, they just went flying right off. Incredible But John R. Rice said that there was periods in his ministry where he struggled with doubt. I mean, this is like one of my great heroes of the faith. And he struggled with doubt. So the Lord knows we have a tendency to forget his promises. We have a tendency to disbelieve. We have a tendency to doubt. So he goes over this over and over and over and over He doesn't promise that we'll never have needs. He doesn't promise that we're never going to be in a situation where we don't know what to do. He doesn't promise we're never going to situation where we feel all alone and completely alone. But he does promise that when we have a need, if we will ask, He'll take care of that. He does promise that when we don't know where we're doing and we're just stumbling around the dark, if we'll seek We're going to find what we need what needs to be done. He does promise if we're lonely and we feel totally abandoned, I'm the only one in the world that even knows anything what I'm going through. He says if we'll knock It will be opened unto us. I think that statement, and we'll get on this later on, but I think that statement has to do with God's fellowship with me, coming down, his presence being here with me. And so what captured me as I first started looking this and first started studying this is how he says it over and over and he just drills it in and drills it in and drills it in. He doesn't promise us we're not going to have trials. He doesn't promise we're not going to have heartaches. He doesn't promise that people aren't going to say and do things that are hurtful. He doesn't promise we're never going to be disappointed. Hey, the Lord doesn't promise that we're never going to fail. But he does promise here very, very clearly that he will be with us and he will take care of us if we trust him and follow his instructions. Trust him and follow his instructions. So what I'm going to do, I believe, unless the Lord directs other ways, but I think I uh I think This is the I think I have the mind of the Lord here in this. We're going to part on this passage for a while, and I want to start a little sub-series. That's in a part of a series that is a sub-series of another series I started earlier. But we're going to do this little sub-series on prayer. And prayer. And I'm asking the Lord to help me and us in the coming weeks and months, from the youngest, from the teenagers in here to the folks older than me. And um That prayer will become prominent in our walk with God. Now, maybe for some you already is. I'd like to think it's a key part of my life, but the more I study it, the more I realize I have not attained. And so I hope that you'll pray with me that God will send a revival of prayer. I don't think it's coincidental that we hit this passage here at this time. At this point in our year, at this point in our church's growth, and our point of us as individuals growing. And so I want to do, Lord willing, in the coming weeks, probably be a month or two or more on prayer. And here's what I want to get at. I want us to get beyond simply knowing what this passage says, because we all know what it says. How many people could quote this probably if your life depended on it? You probably could quote this. How about it? At least roughly. At least put it in your own words. At least raise your hand for some reason, for anything. There we go But I want us to get beyond just knowing what this says. This is my goal. This is what I think the Lord has for us. Is get beyond just simply knowing what this passage says, but understanding what it means There's a difference. Understanding how these promises apply to my life. I mean, are is this realistic Does this really happen? Is this true? And so that's where we want to get to. Now here's what I need to stop and make a statement. And this is not an out. This is not trying to give some exceptions to what the Lord has promised here, but it's understanding what he has promised here. If we analyze all that the Bible teaches about prayer, we find that He does not just give us, and I think you'll understand what I mean by this, but He does not just give us a blank check. Follow what I'm saying? He's not suggesting here, and we're going to look at this in depth in the coming weeks and months. He's not suggesting here that any whim, any desire, the most base, ungodly desire I want That I can come and ask it of God, and he would just say, sure, fine, no problem, boom, and take it. That is not what this is. This is not a blank check promise on prayer. Whatever I desire, God will give it to me. How many people recognize the fact that even though we're saved, we still have some sinful desires? Anybody find that to be true? Didn't take me very long after I got saved to realize there's still a sin nature here. And so it's not that blank comment, it's not what uh some circles call And we use this to deride a little bit, but uh what we would call name it and claim it. You ever hear that statement? You say whatever you want and by faith you can have it. That is not what he is telling here. That kind of thinking. And and sometimes I'll have folks tell me it's very easy either a young person or a very immature believer. They'll say something like this, well, I just asked God for something. He didn't give it to me. Well, there's a lot of factors involved in that And it may be if I'm asking for something that's sinful, of course God's not going to give it to me. If I'm asking for something that's bad for me, did you catch there in verse number 10. If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your father give good gifts? And so um so you know it's not it it's like if when my boys were small, if they come and say, Dad, we'd like to have a pet skunk. You know, oh yeah, that's not a no problem. Sure, we'll have a skunk in the house. You follow what I'm saying? And so the Lord, if you study the scripture, you find out that You know, that type of thinking is ignoring a whole slew of other uh of other verses. However, now this is what I wanted to get to, and I'll have to end with this However, I've noticed in the Bible, sometimes God gives to us something we insist on having Even though it may not be his will. Huh? I can nag God and nag God and nag God and then finally God will say, alright, you want that? Okay, you can have it. And every time I find that in the Bible, it ends up bad. It ends up bad. I'm telling the folks, maybe you've been saved a little length of time. How many folks here ever asked God for something and you just at the time you thought, I absolutely have to have this. God, I can't live without this. I cannot function. I have to have this And God didn't give it to you, then a year or so later you look back and you said, Whew, praise God, he didn't give it to me. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Sometimes if we're not careful, we can ask and insist that God give us something, and sometimes I see in Scripture, will He'll say, okay, you can have it. It's not my will This isn't a good idea, but you want it, you can have it. I'm going to make this statement at the end, but I'll make it here now. Here's what he's telling us: prayers have consequences. Prayers have consequences. Turn with me, if you would, to Psalms and verse number, chapter 106. This verse struck out at my mind years ago, early in my Christian life. And it has just got stuck in my heart and mind and The Lord has used it many, many times. Psalms 106, and I want to begin reading in verse number 13. This is talking about Israel, and God's kind of rehashing their history And how many people agree with me? Israel had a tendency to mess up. Yeah. How many people here ever read the history of Israel and saw a reflection of yourself? Yeah. Look at verse 12. 106 106, Psalms 106. Then believed they his words and they sang his praise. Alright, that's good. Events happened. They believed the Lord, they sang his praise. But look at verse 13. They soon what? Forgot, forget is the word there, he forgot his works. They waited not for his counsel, but lusted what exceedingly in the wilderness. They wanted this so bad. And tempted God in the desert. Now here's verse 15. This is a verse that years ago, shortly after I was saved, I read this, and it absolutely got stuck in my crawl. I guess is the word. And he gave them their request. But what did he do? sent leanness into their soul. He says, all right, you want it, but it's going to cost you. Here's my statement. Prayers have consequences. And so when we approach this statement that the Lord gives us, ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and you shall find. Knock, and it shall be open unto you. I think implicit in that with these other passages here, we need to stop and think carefully about what we ask for. And approach that. I want to give you another example here real quick. I've got a couple minutes. Come to 1 Samuel. And chapter number eight First Samuel chapter eight Can we hear you? Alright, got it there first Samuel, right before 2 Samuel, and chapter 8. And look with me if you would at verse number 19. Now this is Samuel is the prophet. God, let me lay a little back put a little background here. God wanted to be in Israel's king. It's called a theocracy where God rules. And they would just listen to him. They'd let him take care of them. Let him lead them. He would be their king. He would be their God. He would be their lord. No man in between, not necessary. Israel got looking around at the other kingdoms around that had human kings, and they got what? They wanted it too. Hey, they got a king. We don't have no king. All we got is God. And so they start pursuing this. Now this is what Samuel is addressing them in verse number 19. He says, Nevertheless The people refused to obey the voice of Samuel. In fact, let's back up a little bit. They're asking for a king, and Samuel says, listen, look at verse 11. Samuel told verse Sam, Samuel told all the words of the Lord and the people that asked him, and he said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you. You want a king, this is how it's going to play out. He'll take your sons and and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, to be his horsemen, and some shall run aft before his chair chariots, and he will appoint them captains over thousands 50s will set them near uh to near his ground to reap his harvest to make his instruments of wars. Look at verse 13. I underlined these words, and he will take Verse 14, he will take. Verse 15, he will take. Um, uh, verse 16, he will take. Verse 17, he will take. I'm tempted to put in the margin of my Bible he must be a Democrat. But uh I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's true, but I'm sorry I said it. And look at verse 18, and ye shall cry out in that day because of your king, which ye have chosen you And the Lord will not hear you in that day. He says, Listen, you w if you got a king, this is how it's going to play out, it's going to be terrible Now, let's look at verse 19. Nevertheless, the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel, and they said, Nay, but we will have a king over us. That we also may be like all the nations. Listen, anytime you find God's people wanting to be like the world, you've got trouble. Anytime you've got God's people wanted to function like the world, wanted to look like the world, wanted to be approved of the world, wanting to be accepted by the world, wanting to be praised by the world, anytime that's happening, you've got trouble, trouble, trouble. So he says, and Samuel heard it. Verse 21. Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of the Lord. And the Lord said unto Samuel, I don't care what they say, I ain't giving them a king. No, he didn't say that. Pity. Hearken unto their voice and make them a king Boy, they paid a price for it. It was terrible. Saul, King Saul, ended up being a terrible king. And exactly what God said would happen happened. So here's my point. When we go into this, and Jesus said, Ask and it shall be given to you. And he reiterates that and he states it over and over and over. We need to be very, very careful and understand that prayers have consequences. And I don't believe we ought to be flippant in our prayers. And I don't think we ought to be selfish in our prayers. And we're going to look at that, some of the conditions to answer prayer. But this caught my thinking as I was preparing this. Sometimes God does give us what we ask for, even though it might not be the best thing and it might not be his will. Prayers have consequences, and if we insist on getting our own way, regardless of God's will, we may regret that. We may regret that. So here's what I want to this is what I want to bring it to a head. I think the beginning point for prayer, as we look at this and we and I'm Lord willing, we're going to start claiming these promises. And I want to start living my life, I'd like to think I have to some extent, but living my life in a more practical way in light of what the Lord said telling us here in Matthew chapter seven, ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you. Because everyone that asks receives, and everyone that seeks finds. And everyone that that uh knocks it's opened unto him. Even a good father gives to the king. How much more will your father in heaven? So I want to live my life in light of that, but I don't want I want to understand what this all means And I believe this is what I'm trying to get to is I believe when we approach it this way, and we say, Alright, I want this to really be true in my life I need to begin, here it is, with a mentality and attitude of humility and submission. Follow what I'm saying? If prayers have consequences, and they do, it's very clear, then I need to approach prayer with an attitude of humility. And submission to God. Is that am I making sense? I read about, and I'll just I'll I'll I'll printed it out here and I'll I'll read this to you. Uh read year about a fellow, a Korean Christian. Now South Korea a at least at one point was very, very Christianized. And a huge. In fact, back when I was in Bible college, the coach I believe it was the coach from the national soccer team was a devout Christian. And the name of the soccer team in South Korea at the time was Hallelujah in Korean. Isn't that something? But anyway, this Korean Christian layman, he wasn't a preacher, he was addressing a big uh uh some denominational uh meeting, and there's hundreds and hundreds, maybe thousands of Christians and preachers and different people involved in their church and ministry. And it was his responsibility to give devotions one time. And he got up and he made he said this. He says, I'm not qualified to preach He says, but I have a problem I'm facing, and I would like to ask you for your advice. All right. So this was his problem that he presents. A year or two ago, he said, I received a letter from a friend of mine in Seoul. He was a young dentist and he wanted to establish himself in my city. He asked me to find a place suitable for his home and his office combined. So he could live there and do his work out of the home. Now we had a great housing shortage at the time, but I did all I could to help him. For three days I searched my city. Finally I found a place and wrote him about it, and I told him that the house was in bad condition. The wall surrounding the place was in disrepair. There was a hole in the house wall. The roof leaked badly. It was in a wretched neighborhood. Furthermore, the price was uh was ridiculous. In spite of my bad report, my friend sent me a telegram telling me to buy the house. Day or so later I received a check for several thousand yen as a down payment. So I signed the papers, purchased the house The down payment was made. The final payments were to be made in three days, at which time the old owner agreed to vacate the house. Final payments were made, but then the owner asked for a day or two more until he could find another house. I granted him this period of grace. After a week, he was still there. Two weeks? Three weeks? A month? Three months? Six months have passed. The old owner is still in the house. The man who sold the house has purchased new clothes for his family, and they're eating out at the best restaurants. The guy's living in the house. He knows I'm a Christian. And then in Korea, we Christians never go to court. with other Christians, and we try not to go to court with unbelievers. He laughs at me when I come by and talk to him about moving out of the house that he sold. Now the layman says to the great crowd there, he says, Now fathers, uh brothers and sisters in the Lord, my friend is greatly embarrassed because his capital is tied up in this house and he's in a very difficult position. What am I to do? Several members stood and responded. One pointed out that the layman was not acting on his own behalf, but as an agent, thus, he's qualified to sue. The other pointed out that he obviously was dealing with a man who was a thief at heart. And finally, they all agreed that he had the right to go to the authorities and ask for an eviction order. The speaker asked for a show of hands and all voted that he had the right to proceed legally to evict this guy out of the house. Then he said this. You say, what does that have to do with promise of prayer? Then he said this I thank you, brothers, for the way you have considered my problem. Before I sit down, I'd like to draw one conclusion. 1900 years ago, the Lord Jesus Christ came down to heaven, came down from heaven to purchase for himself a dwelling place. He bought this old shack. It was run-down condition. It was in a bad neighborhood. He bought me because he wanted to take possession of me and dwell in my heart. But I cling to my house, and I leave him outside Now if you say that I have the right to seek the help of the authorities to evict the man out of who is occupying my friend's house. What do you say of ourselves when we deny the Lord Jesus Christ full possession of his house? Isn't that profound? You say, what does that have to do with prayer? I believe if we're going to approach this promise of God, ask and shall be given me, seeking and shall we knock and shall be given. I need to get out of my house, let the Lord take charge. So that what I'm asking is in line with what the Lord Jesus Christ once asked. And what I'm seeking is in line with what the Lord once sought in my life. And I'm knocking on the things that the Lord wants me knocking on. Follow what I'm saying? So I believe this whole promise here, as profound as it is, and unbelievable as it is. We have to begin with getting ourselves out of the equation, humbly submitting to the Lord, and letting the Lord tell us what are these requests, what is this I'm seeking, what am I knocking after. Then I can be assured that the consequences of my prayer will be good. Does that make sense? So I hope you'll join me, and the Lord's really stirred my heart in preparing this and studying this. And let's ask the Lord to send a real revival of prayer into our personal lives. How about into our homes Wouldn't it be a wonderful thing if every Christian home, every home, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we let the Lord move in, take over, and He's the one that's dictating the prayers. He's the one that's in charge there. How about our church? And so I hope you'll join with me in praying for revival of prayer, biblical prayer. I've said this before. I don't believe the Lord gave us these great promises so that we can have fancier clothes. and bigger mansions. I believe he gave us these promises so that we can be stronger Christians and have a more of a profound impact on this whole world for the Lord Jesus Christ. Nothing wrong with fancy clothes. Nothing wrong with it. God gives it. God bless you. Praise the Lord. Thank him for it. But he's far beyond that in this promise. Amen. Father in heaven, I ask that you would challenge from begin with me, Lord, and throughout our whole church, that you would challenge us in our prayer life and our whole mentality towards prayer. And our whole uh approach to this thing. And I pray that in the coming weeks and months, years, that we would learn to get ourselves out of the house. Let you dwell here, Lord. Let you be the one as Romans says, the Spirit making uh intercession for us. And I pray that would be true. Our heads bowed eyes closed. I wonder how many like me said, you know, this is stirring my heart and I really, really want God To revive my prayer life and reform my prayer life and make it in line with His Word. Any like that by the uplifted hand? Let's pray tonight and ask the Lord to help us to pray. And affect our prayers. Father, we ask now. And maybe just your, we don't have a piano, so maybe just stare at our pews. That will be our altar tonight. We bow our hearts and our heads before the Lord. And Fathers, we do bow before you tonight. I'm asking that you would teach me to pray. Pray in line with your word, believing this incredible promise, humbly, submissively before your throne, seeking your face. For your will to be done in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. Amen