John chapter 14, I have a couple of texts I want us to look at here to get us started. In verse number 14, if you would notice, now when we're reading through here, I want you to pay attention to a phrase that is going to be repeated a number of times in these passages we're going to look at. In verse chapter 14 of John, look at verse number 12. Verily, verily I say unto you, he that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also, and greater works than these shall he do, because I go unto my Father. And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. Verse 14, if ye shall ask anything in my name, I will do it. Come over to chapter 15, just a page over, and notice with me, if you would, verse number 16. John chapter 15 and verse number 16. Now let me just say this about this verse, verse number 16 here. This is not talking about salvation, it's talking about service. Alright, so keep that in mind. But look at look what it says: ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you that ye should go and bring forth fruit. And that your fruit should remain. That's the service. Now notice what he says. That whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you Come over to chapter number 16 and verse number 23. John 16 and verse 23. Again, Jesus speaking, he says, In that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name. He will give it you. Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name. Ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full Did you catch the phrase that's repeated in each of these five times? There's a phrase repeated. What is it? Ask in my name. Ask in my name. Ask in my name. Five times in three chapters, Jesus instructs his disciples. To pray, and when they pray, ask, make their request in his name. Now, what I want to try and do this morning, what I'd like for us to consider is what does it mean To ask the Father for something, God the Father, ask him for something in Jesus' name And he gives a phenomenal promise here. He says, I will do it. I will do it. So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us get a hold of what he's saying here. And then also, if you would, pray with me that God will help us incorporate this and make this part of our life, praying and asking in Jesus' name. as we're instructed to here. So let's pray together. Father, we ask now you bless our study of prayer this morning. And I'll be the first to admit, Lord I do not have all the answers. I am not an expert. Lord, I I feel many times I just fall short in my prayer line. But I ask that you would help us, and I pray that your Holy Spirit would get a hold of our hearts and our minds and stir us to pray. God, just provoke us to see the potential, the possibilities that you have given to us in this matter of prayer. I've asked for a revival of prayer in our personal lives, in our homes. God, I asked that maybe you'd use a passage here, a statement, to stir homes, to re-establish that old-time family prayer time, that family altar, praying together, mom and dad and the kids. Lord, make our church a praying church. And not just going through the motions, but God pray in such a way that you would hear us And we could see you answer and know your power. And so fill me with your spirit is my prayer now. I yield myself, my will, my mind to you, and pray you'd speak through me and teach us what this means. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I pointed out, five times the Lord instructs his disciples To ask God the Father in prayer to ask in his name. Would you agree with me if Jesus told the disciples one time To do something, they ought to pay attention to what he says. Would you agree with me on that? Tell them one time that ought to be enough However, and by the way, the context here, Jesus is about to be crucified. It's leading up to, it's within that last week, he's in Jerusalem He's fixing to be betrayed by Judas. He's going to be beaten by the soldiers. He's going to give his life and suffer judgment for our sins in our place. He's going to go through all of that. But he takes this time And five times he says to the disciples, Ask in my name, ask in my name, ask in my name, ask in my name, ask in my name. He's trying to get something in their head He's trying to establish something in their hearts and minds that when they come to pray, they are to pray in his name. Now we go through the Bible. Really, I got thinking about this this week as I was working on this thought and trying putting some thoughts together. In G's name. The Bible really is a divine journal unanswered prayer You go back through the Old Testament, and I'm telling you, you could take, you could do months and years study, series, on answered prayers in the Old Testament. I'm telling you, I got looking at this. Those Old Testament saints, they knew how to get a hold of God in prayer. They saw God do some powerful, powerful things. I wish we had time to go through all of it, and we're not going to be able to go and look at all the references. But uh Jacob in Genesis 32, again, don't turn here, we don't have time, but he prayed and asked God to protect him And if we look at it very carefully, look, God took care of them. Jacob prayed, God heard his prayer, answered, and took care of them. In Exodus chapter 33, Moses prayed for guidance. He said, Lord, I need you to go with me. I can't leave these people on my own. I've got a million people, and we've got this journey. Lord, I need you to go with us. I need you to lead me. I need you to guide me And if you read, God's response was, God's response was basically, I'm not just going to guide you, I'm going to be right there with you in this whole endeavor, this whole journey. How many people here ever needed God's guidance? Anybody ever your situation is, Lord, I don't know what to do. I don't know which way to go. I don't know what decision to make. I don't know. Moses was in that. He prayed, and God answered his prayer My point I'm trying to make is this: these Old Testament saints knew how to get a hold of God. They prayed and God responded in great ways. Ah, Haddah, many of us are familiar with Hadah in 1 Samuel chapter 1. She was without a child. She prayed. She prayed and she prayed and she prayed and God heard her prayer. And she conceived and gave birth to who? Help me out. Samuel, that great prophet, given and answered to prayer. Uh uh Jacob, uh uh Moses, Hannah, study the life of Elijah. Wow, you talk about answers to prayer Elijah prayed down a drought. God, Israel was in a country. They were rebelling against God. And Elijah, as part of God's chastisement, his correction, his discipline of Israel, he prayed for a drought, and for three years it didn't rain. In response to Elijah's prayers. How many people remember last summer it got real dry on us? Anyone remember that and farmers were having a hard time and plants were drying, cattle was an issue. Uh can you imagine three years? Three years In response to Elijah's prayers. God's trying to get Israel's attention. By the way, and I I I wouldn't I I'm not spe speak dogmatically on this, but I think America ought to pay attention to the storms and stuff that are going on in our country. We ought to pay attention. I studied the Bible carefully on this. God is the one in charge of weather, not the devil, not the government. God We ought to pay attention. God was disciplining Israel. They had uh blasphemed him, they had disobeyed him, they had rebelled against him. God stirred Elijah to pray that God would withhold the rain, and in response to his prayers, God withheld the rain. Would you agree with me? That's powerful praying right there. And then he prayed uh after the point was made, uh then he prayed and God sent the rain back. In response to his prayers. Elijah prayed down fire when those false prophets were there. He told them, he uh issued a challenge to them. You pray to veil, you pray to your false God. You pray to your imaginary God and see if he sends fire. I'll pray to Jehovah, the true God, and whichever God answers by fire, that's the true God will worship him We know what happened there. They prayed and went through all their stuff there trying to uh uh cut themselves doing all this stuff, trying to get their God. And here's the thing, here's the thing you got to keep in mind when you read that. They were praying to a non-existent God. They didn't exist. It was a figment of their imagination. They're one fire going to fall from uh the baal because there ain't no bail. Right? Elijah prays. Fire God falls. Fire God falls. The Old Testament is a divine journal of answered prayer, answered prayer, answered prayer, answered prayer, answered prayer. Little boy got sick and died. Elijah prayed, came back to life. Um, Hezekiah was surrounded uh by the enemy and he prayed for deliverance and God sent an angel and destroyed all the Assyrians in 2 Kings 19 We could go through the Old Testament. We could take, as I said, months and years and study accounts of prayer and answers to prayer in great ways in the Old Testament, all through there. By the time we get to the New Testament, there was a point in time when Israel knew how to pray. There was a point in time Israel knew how to get a hold of God and see him do great things. Time Jesus shows up in the Gospels in the New Testament, Israel had lost their ability to pray effectively. Their prayers had deteriorated into just a formality, just a show. In fact, we're studying in Sunday school, and if you're not coming to Sunday school, you really should. I think this is a powerful study on Malachi. And Malachi's whole message from God to Israel was, you're just going through the motions. You're just putting on a show. There's nothing real to it. There's no life in your spiritual ceremonies. There's nothing real there, there's no presence of God. And Israel's ability to get a hold of God, their confidence in the power and promises of prayer, had deteriorated till it was just a show. It was just a farce. Then Jesus shows up and the Pharisees. If you would, turn with me to Matthew chapter 6. Now keep your place here in uh In John. But come back to Matthew chapter 6. Again, this is the Sermon on the Mound. We talk a lot about the Sermon on the Mound. I reference it often. But in chapter 6 of Matthew, he addresses this situation in Israel where they didn't know how to pray. They had power their prayer had lost its power, its life, its effectiveness And in verse number 5, Matthew chapter 6, look with me at verse number 5. This is Jesus speaking. And again, he's speaking to his disciples. He's talking about prayer He says, when thou prayest. Now, let me just stop here. I find this interesting. He doesn't say if thou prayest. He says what? When? What does that tell us? He expected them to pray. God expects his disciples to pray He doesn't say, hey, listen, fellas, if you guys happen to pray sometime, he goes, No, when you do it, when you do it. Prayer ought to be a vital part of the Christian's life. So, but notice what he says. It wasn't a matter that they weren't praying. They were. But their prayers were ineffective. Their prayers had no power, their prayers had no life. He says, when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are. Now he's referencing the leadership of Israel, the spiritual leadership, the Pharisees. The Sadducees, the priests, the lawyers, spiritual lawyers. He says, When thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are. Now look at this For they loved to pray, standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets. So if they're praying, standing in the synagogue, where all the Israel's assembled together to worship God, they're standing in the synagogue. They're out on the corners of the streets They're praying. This is a very what praying. It's very public. They love to get up in front of folks. They love to get up in front of the congregation and give these great prayers Oh, they could talk to God. They'd say all these wonderful things. And oh, the people would say, what amazing prayer. What a beautiful prayer Prayer. What oratory as they talked to God. They loved that. That was the extent of their prayer. I got look look look what he says. He goes on. When thou prayest, he says, For they love to pray, verse 5, standing in the synagogues in the corner of the streets. Look at this. Look at this next statement. Are you looking at it? That they may be what? Seen of men. That was the depth of their prayer life That was the effectiveness of their prayer life. I put it this way: they did not get answers to prayer, they just got attention to themselves. And I'll be honest with you, prayer is designed, the promises of God, the prayer promises of God are not given to us so that we can put a show on for everybody else. The promises of prayer are given to us so we can get a hold of God and see Him meet our needs and save souls and change situations and help us It was just a show. It was just a formality. It was just an outward physic. It was nothing real. There was no power. Look what the Lord goes on and says in verse 6. He says, But when thou prayest, Enter into thy what. The other guys were praying very public. He's saying, you need to pray what? Very private. Alone. You and God alone. Not a show. Not a not a performance. Not a way to get attention by people and hear how wonderful a prayer I am. When thou prayest, enter in thy closet, and when thou hast shut the door. Pray to thy father which is in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. Then he goes on and gives other instructions. He says, but when you pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do, for they think they shall be heard for their much speaking. Be not therefore like unto them, for your Father knoweth what things you have need of before you ask them. Prayer. Prayer. By the time Jesus shows up, Israel had lost their ability to get a hold of God in prayer. They didn't know what it meant to get alone with God in the presence of God and get a hold of God and see Him Change things and see him do great and mighty things. They completely lost all of that. They completely lost it. When you pray, get alone, get quiet, alone with the Lord. I like what Charles Spurgeon said. He said, when you pray in public, make it very brief, when you pray in private, spend a long time with the Lord. I like that. He said, that's where the power is. That's when the answers come. That's when the change takes place. In the closet and alone. They lost the ability to pray. They lost the power in their prayer. They lost the ability to get a hold of God and see God do great things. I tell ya, we could use a little bit of that old-fashioned power in prayer again. Amen or not. Where God's people pray and labor in prayer and strive and fight the devil in prayer and learn to get a hold of God. And see God do great things and God save souls and reclaim the wayward and meet needs. Get a hold of God in prayer. Perhaps the greatest ministry, earthly ministry of Jesus Christ, apart from what he did on the cross. Was his ministry of restoring faith in God? Over and over, he told his disciples: trust God, have faith in him. And his ministry of restoring the place of prayer, getting it back in the hearts and minds of God's people. Prayer. Prayer. His top priority in training his disciples was not how to preach. And preaching is powerful and it has a it has a part in the ministry of God and it's The focal point as far as I'm concerned in a church service is the preaching of the Word of God. You look at the book of Acts, they preach the Word, they preach the Word, they preach the Word But Jesus' primary training of his disciples was not on how to preach, but rather how to pray. How to pray. I got looking it up in the Gospels over 25 times. In four books: Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, over 25 times. We have references to either Jesus praying himself or him teaching and urging and instructing his disciples to pray. Prayer was a focal point of his ministry of training the disciples. Now, how did he teach them to pray? What techniques did he use to teach the disciples to pray? Well, one was he prayed himself They saw him. We could go into the book of Luke. I think it's chapter 18, where they saw Jesus praying. And when he was done, the disciples came up to him. They said, Lord, teach us to pray. It's interesting. They didn't say teach us to give. They didn't say teach us to preach. They didn't say teach us to be good leaders and administrators. They saw Jesus praying and they said, Lord, teach us to pray. We want to be able to pray like you do. We want to be able to get a hold of God the Father like you do. I tell you, Jesus taught his disciples to pray by praying himself as an example. I think our church ought to be a praying church, amen or not? I think the young people that we bring in here, and as we often always mention, we emphasize reaching young people for Jesus Christ. That is a huge we invest a lot of money, we invest a lot of effort, we invest a lot of time and manpower in reaching young people for the Lord Jesus Christ. But I tell you, these young people, they ought to see a church that prays. And not just go through the motion, but see a church that gets a hold of God and sees God do great things, amen or not. By the way, in our homes, our children in our homes ought to see mom and daddy praying. Not putting on a show, but a real part of our life. A vital focal point of our Christian lives is praying, getting a hold of God, coming to God in prayer. And our young people ought to see that. One of the best ways to train our young people to pray is to pray ourselves. I think a child ought to see their daddy praying. A child ought to see mama praying. Pray, pray. And so, one of the ways Jesus taught his disciples to pray was simply by being a man of prayer himself. Being a man that invested very much time and effort, uh entire nights he would be praying. Uh before he made any major decision. You study the gospels carefully before Jesus made any major decision. He spent time alone with God in prayer. Before he called the disciples, before he went to the cross, he spent the night in prayer, in prayer, in prayer, in prayer, in prayer. And the disciples saw that And they said, We want that. I want that in my life. I want that in my home. Be able to pray and get a hold of God. The other way he influenced his disciples to pray was he taught them. He in much of his instruction, we just read here in Matthew chapter 6, he was teaching the disciples to pray. Here's how you pray. When you pray, go like this. When you pray, say this. He illustrated. He said there was a w a widow woman that went to the judge and pled for that judge To rule in her favor, and she drove the judge nuts. She kept bugging them and bugging them and bugging him. Finally the judge said, All right, I'll do what you want. And he says, How much more shall your father in heaven? And he was teaching them to be persistent in prayer. Stay at it, stay at it, stay at it, stay at it, be earnest in prayer. Be real. Don't be hypocritical just repeating words. Be real. Now, I'm certainly no expert on prayer, and I would hesitate to set myself up. I've never been satisfied with my prayer life. I've always felt like I could do better. I always want to grow. And by the way, this is part of the reason I'm preaching on this. Because I need to be improving my prayer life. But one thing we tried to do with our boys, we never had them just repeat a memorized prayer. Now I'm not on a campaign against it. God bless you if you do that. I'm not on a campaign against it. But my thinking was rather than just say, now I Uh God is great and God is good, and we thank Him for this food. Or now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. Amen. God bless the missionaries. Amen Now, if that's what it is, fine. I'm not trying to be critical, but I would far rather our boys learn to pour their heart out to God. And tell them what's on their heart and what they need and thank God for what He's done for them and not just some ritualistic facade of a prayer, but a pouring of a heart out to God. That's what Jesus taught the disciples. And so one of his great ministries, earthly ministries, was to call his people to prayer. Back to prayer. And not just formality and not just ritual, but a genuine getting a hold of God in prayer. Getting in God's presence and communicating and connecting with the God, my Creator. And he speaks to me, and I pour my heart out to him. I make my requests. He was teaching us that. Three thoughts here, real quickly, I want to give you. Number one, I want us to consider the attention we should give to prayer. If what I just said is true, and it is, it's scripture. If what I just said about prayer is true, then every one of us as Christians ought to give much attention to prayer. Amen or not? Yes. We ought to give our attention to prayer. Prayer is mentioned in Scripture over 650 times. The Bible mentions prayer. I get studying the Bible, I come to this conclusion. As a preacher, as a student of Scripture. I've read it over 50 times. I've studied this book nearly my whole life. And I come to this conclusion: God expects his people to pray. Expects us to pray. God expects his churches to pray. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be a place of prayer where we pray. I believe one of the most important aspects of the Christian life is this matter of prayer. I think one of the most important aspects of our church's life is this matter of prayer. I'm thinking of this from a pastor's perspective. My responsibility as pastor, number one, is to pray myself. How many people think the preacher ought to be a man of prayer? Amen or not? I wouldn't hire a preacher if he didn't pray. I wouldn't have a church. I wouldn't attend a church that had a pastor that didn't pray. Part of the responsibility of being a pastor of a church is to pray. You read Acts chapter 6. They had they they uh called out deacons to take care of uh material things in the church So that the leadership could give themselves to the Word of God and to prayer. I say amen. I say amen. But wait a minute. The church congregation ought to be people of prayer also. God expects us to pray. God doesn't have a double standard, right? What God expects of the pastor, he expects from all his people. And that is pray. Pray. Have a regular, scheduled time of genuine, earnest, sincere prayer. So part of my responsibility is to pray myself, but also to lead the church to pray. Every pastor ought to be leading that church to pray. Pray to God, pray as a congregation. And by the way, what's true of a pastor in a church is true of the Father in the home. I'm a father. Part of our responsibility as father is to be the spiritual head of the home. We are to lead our family in prayer. Now, I'm not here to rebuke anybody, but I do want to challenge the men of our church to discipline ourselves to be men of prayer and lead our homes in this matter of prayer. There ought to be a daily time when daddy calls the family together and we're going to pray to God. My father was telling me years ago when when I first got saved, we were talking about his father, my grandfather, Samuel Leatherman. And um uh he said, Dad, remember when he was a young boy, they they they were they were in the Mennonite church, and he said, We'd go to church and all of that. And he said they were having a revival meeting at uh in town there. He said an old-fashioned tent revival meeting. He said there was uh sawdust on the floors. Uh what you would picture that old time tent meeting, Sawdust Trail. Can you picture in my mind what I'm talking about And they set up a big tent. He said, people came by the thousands in the community. They had some hellfire and brimstone preacher there. He said he preached the word of God. And he said, Dad, Dad, Daddy said, I'll never forget. One night we came home. And they called him Pop. He said, Pop called the family together. Daddy had two brothers and two sisters. And he said he called the family together. And he said, from now on, we're going to have family prayer every single day. And Dad said from that point on, every day, they gathered together as a family and they prayed together for their needs and for their family. I believe it's the daddy's responsibility to provide leadership in the home in this matter of prayer, prayer, prayer. If you and I do not have a family altar, I want to urge you as pastor I want to urge you to establish a family time of prayer. So important. So important. The attention that we need to give to prayer. We ought to have our own personal time When we pray, we have direct connection to the presence of God. Listen to Hebrews 4:16. Oh, let us come boldly unto the throne of grace. That's prayer. Let us come boldly to the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in the time of need. It puts me in the very presence of God. Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 19, having therefore boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus. When you and I, as a saved person, were born again, we have direct access in prayer into the very presence of Almighty God. How many people uh it would be how many people agree with me, it would be amazing if God Himself would be here in this present in this church right now. How many people agree with me? Wouldn't that be something? Man, God Himself is here, and we could come and talk to God and we could worship Him and we could glorify Him. Hey, I got news for you. God is here. God is a spirit. God is a spirit. He is here just as real as if there was physical presence. God is here. We can't see him, we can't feel him, we can't hear him, we can't touch him, but he's here. And when you and I get alone with God and we bow our heads, we are coming into his very presence. And we're talking to God from everlasting to everlasting, this eternal God. That's what prayer is. And God says, come, come boldly into my presence. When we pray, we have direct connection into the very presence of God. Prayer can accomplish things that we cannot accomplish. Only God can move mountains. But prayer moves God. Only God can save souls. But prayer stirs God Only God can do the impossible, but prayer moves the heart and hand of God Ian Bounds put it this way, one of my favorite authors on prayer. He said faith, and speaking the faith of praying, Faith does the impossible because it brings God to act on our behalf, and nothing is impossible with God. Did you get that? Faith does the impossible because it brings God to act on my behalf, and nothing is impossible with God. I don't know what your need is. If you don't take anything away from this message this morning, I pray you take this away. That you can get a hold of a God that nothing is impossible with him. Nothing. There's no need so great. There's no problem so complex. There's no heart that's so hard that God can't change that whole thing. And prayer puts me in touch with God. Prayer puts me in touch with God. It is through prayer that God sends missionaries around the world. He said, the harvest is great. People all around the world need the gospel. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest. Prayer brings peace to a troubled heart. Would you take your Bible with me? Is everybody with me? Everybody doing alright out there? Alright. Come with me to Philippians. Philippians chapter number four. I want to urge you to mark this in your Bible. If you don't have this passage marked in your Bible, I want to urge you. Prayer brings peace to a troubled heart. We live in troubled days. People are stressed. People are scared. People are angry. Their hearts are troubled, young and old And there's a solution to that. We can have peace in our hearts. We can have the joy of the Lord in our hearts if we will but pray. Look at Philippians chapter 4. Look with me at verse number 6. Now again, I urge you to mark this in your Bible. This is God's word. He said, be careful for what? Now that word careful means anxious, upset, fret, worried. Be careful for nothing but in what? Everything. Anxious about nothing But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. Now look at verse 7. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. You know what he's saying? That prayer will settle you down. I can testify. I can testify to you this morning before Almighty God. How many times I've been upset and I've been worried. I don't know about you, and maybe you'll be a little disappointed here, Pastor, but I have a tendency to worry. It's just part of it. I know nobody else here uh ever deals with that. But I do. Ask my wife. She goes, You worry. I said, I know. It's a besetting sin over mine But I'm here to tell you I can testify firsthand before God how many times I was anxious and worried, and I just got alone with God and get down before him and bow before him and pour that out to God. And just stay there in his presence and just stay there. And put it on God's hands. I'm here to tell you the peace of God comes over you. Get up and walk away, and just a settled peace in your heart. Does anybody here know what I'm talking about? It's real. That verse is true. We ought to give attention to prayer. It brings peace into our hearts and lives. And you know, if we learn to pray in our homes and our lives, maybe some of the tension in the home would be dissolved. Maybe some of the adversity between people would be dissolved if we just learn to get a hold of God in prayer and just humble ourselves and pour it out to God. And the peace of God rule in our hearts. Keep our hearts We ought to give attention to prayer. Number two, very quickly, and this is the point of the message, I want us to consider the authority we have in prayer. The authority we have in prayer Five times Jesus said, ask in my name. When you pray, ask in my name. When you come to God, you come to God and you make your request and you make your request to God in my name. And God will hear you. God will answer you. You come in my name. Five times. He said, When you come and pray, you stand before God. You come to the throne of God in my name. God will hear you. God will answer you. How many people agree with me? That's amazing. What a promise. Now, the question is, what does he mean by that? What does it mean to come to God's throne in prayer and ask in Jesus' name? What does he mean? Well, first of all, I can tell you what he doesn't mean. It doesn't mean that when I'm done praying, I tack a little uh hocus pocus little magic phrase at the end of my prayer and voila I'm going to get whatever I want. That is not what he's talking about. Oh God, I'd like to have $100,000. I'd like to have a new car. I need a new suit. Lord, I'd like to have all these things in Jesus' name You agree with me? That's not what he's talking about. It's not hocus pocus sprinkle dust. Puff! I get what I want. So, what does it mean to ask in Jesus' name? What in the world is he talking about? I mean, that's a phenomenal promise. If you ask in my name, God will hear you, God will do it. It's not say it's not like uh coming and saying, God, I'd like all this stuff. Please You know, we teach the kids uh they want something to kill uh the little kids come, I got a little uh candy jar in my office. How many people knew about the candy jar in my office? How many people know about it now Yeah, everybody. And the kids will come up and they'll say, Pastor, can I go in your office and get a piece of candy? And sometimes I'll say to them, What do you say? And they say Please. You know, a little kid saying, a little Ruby comes, yeah, please. You can have whatever you want. Here's all my money, everything, you can have it That's not what asking in Jesus' name is. It's not some trick, some little magical thing we say, and oh boy, that'll click God and he'll just give you whatever you want. No, no, no, no, no, no. To ask in Jesus' name means two things. Number one, it means I pray in the authority of his name. We fail to realize how holy God is. He is perfect and infinitely holy. It is inflexible, His holiness. It is absolutely the holiness of God. And you and I are awful, awful sinners, right or wrong. That's where we should say amen. We are sinners. Our hearts are corrupt. Our minds are corrupt. We have no holiness of our own. And here I am. I've taken God's name in vain. I've disobeyed Him. I've His word, I neglected his instructions, I disobeyed his commands, and I come strutting in to God's presence, and I have the audacity to ask an infinitely perfect holy God to even consider Anything I have to say. I have no right, I have no righteousness of my own, I have no merit to come into the presence of an infinitely perfect, all-powerful God, right or wrong. Right. I have no authority to come into him. Only uh I deserve judgment We fail to realize how holy God is. We fail to realize how sinful we are. Well, I'm not that bad. Yes, we are. Read the Bible. So when I come in Jesus' name, I've trusted Him as my personal Savior. I've been born again. Now, according to first, according to 2 Corinthians 5, 21. I have the righteousness of Christ on my account. When Jesus died on that cross, he took all my sins, and they were laid on him, and he was judged by God. He took responsibility for all my sin, and he suffered the wrath and judgment of God in my place. That's how much he loves me and you. And when he did that, and when I believed that, he was buried, he rose again. When I believed that, and I put my faith and trust in him, he forgives all my sin. But more than that His righteousness, his perfect, infinite, pure righteousness is put to my account. And so when I come to God in Jesus' name, I'm not coming in any merit or righteousness or goodness of my own. I'm coming before God on Jesus' merit. On Jesus' righteousness. Are you with me? You follow? It's not my own. I'm coming to you. How many times have I prayed in situations where I was desperate? I say, God, I have no right to ask this of you. I have no merit of my own to come before you, God. I'm coming to you in Jesus' name. On his merit, on his righteousness that he did for me so that I can access you. That's what it means to come in Jesus' name. We can never come to God and say, God, I deserve you to answer my prayer. Uh-uh. I come in Jesus' name. God, I don't deserve it. Jesus did this, made this possible for me In Jesus' name, it's in his righteousness. In John 11, 42, Jesus was praying And he said this. He says, speaking to the Father, he says, I know, let me quote it here correctly. He says, I know that thou hearest me always. Would you agree with me? God always hears Jesus. And he says, you come to God in my name, God will hear you. Because God always hears Jesus. And so I come in his authority. I come before God in his authority. I made the righteousness of God in Christ. So one thing he means when he says, ask in my name, one thing it means I'm coming to God the Father and the authority in the person and the righteousness of Christ, not my own. So that gives me access But it also means to ask in the Father's name, it means to pray according to his nature. Jesus is holy. Jesus is good. Jesus is righteous. And so if I am asking God the Father in the name of Jesus for something God will hear me if that request aligns with his nature. You follow me? I cannot pray in the name of Jesus and ask for something that is contrary to his nature. God won't hear me. I cannot ask, and I cannot pray in the name of Jesus and ask God for something that is contrary to the will of Jesus. He won't hear me I'm coming in the name of Jesus, and that means my requests line up with His nature. Holy and good and right and what His will is. John said that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. You know what that is? That's praying in the name of Jesus. I'm coming according, this is Jesus' will. And God, I'm coming in His name, what His will is, God, that's what I'm asking. His authority and his nature. His name and his nature. The best way I know how to illustrate this, and I've used this occasionally over the years, when I was 12 years old, my dad's cousin, Danny Leatherman. Lived outside of Philly. He had a farm. He had a dairy farm. He milked about 40 cows every day, every morning and evening. If you know anything about dairy cows, you have to milk them every morning and every evening. And so he wanted, he needed an extra hand to help him with milk and the cows and some of the farm work. He had about 40, as I said. And so uh I got the job He called my dad, he said, Do you think your boy would be interested in working a farm? And I said he said, I'll ask him, and I said, sure. And so I got this basically a full-time job, 12 years old. I worked for Danny During the school year, I didn't work in the mornings, but I worked from school. I got home from school, rode bike about five, six miles over to his farm And um then I helped with the evening milking and feeding the cows, cleaning the barn. Then this when the summertime we did everything. I was over there morning five in the morning until we're done at night and uh it was working And uh I learned to uh drive tractor, 12 years old. He taught me a drive tractor, drove, remember the old column uh manual shifting pickup truck had it on the column. How many people remember that How many people uh don't even know what a manual is? You don't even know what I'm talking about. Yeah. And so had all these things And we worked for him and it worked out beautifully. I enjoyed the job. He was pleased with my work and worked there for four years until I was 16 One day he said, I need a spot, he said, I've got a full day, I'm busy. He said, Dennis, he called me Denny. He said, Denny, I'm gonna drop you off at the feed store. I gotta go do runaround. You go in there. He gave me a list. He said, I want you to go in and order all this stuff and buy all this stuff at the feed store. I'm like 13 years old. I'm a punk I got this list. I go in the feed store. Come walk in. I have no authority. To buy anything. I'm looking at this. Like this is like tens of thousands of dollars worth of supplies. And I walk in there and I say, oh, I want five ton of this and whatever it was, just go down all this stuff here And the guy says, um, okay, well who who is it? I said it's for Danny Leatherman. Ah, okay. He went and got all that stuff. A 13-year-old kid didn't know nothing Had the authority to purchase tens of thousands of dollars worth of supplies. Not in my name, but what? In Danny's name. In Danny's name. I had authority to do that because I was coming in Danny's name. You and I come before God the Father. And we have the authority to ask him for things, not in our name, but in Jesus' name. Now, when I went into that feed store, I go up to the counter. They had all kinds of stuff there. They sold tobacco products. They sold all kinds of things. I walked in there and I say, all right, I want all this feed on this. Okay, who was it for? Danny, okay, in his name, we'll do it And then I say, uh-huh, by the way, would you uh put on there some chew tobacco and some cigars? And throw that in there. And uh let's see, you got some beer over there. Throw some beer in on that and get that. You know what? They would not have given it to me. You know why? Because they knew Danny And they say Danny would never buy tobacco products. Danny would never buy alcoholic products. We are not giving that to you. It was contrary to his nature, and they would not honor that. And when you and I pray in Jesus' name, We have authority to come to God and we can ask these great things from Him. The Bible tells us according to His will. But if we ask for something That is contrary to the Jesus Christ, God says, I will not give it. I will not give it. It's not according to His will. Are you with me? So if I pray in Jesus' name, one, it gives me great authority. But that authority is restricted to the nature and will of Jesus Christ. I can't ask for things that are contrary to his will. Now there's a lot more we could say about it. That requires faith. I've got to just believe what Jesus said. Now having faith in God in prayer, I've got to end, but having faith in God in prayer means I'm willing to wait on his timing. Sometimes we think, oh, I know this is God's will. I know this is. It's in Scripture. I know this is God's will. I've got authority. I'm coming to God in Jesus' name. This is what God, you didn't do it. God has his timing. And genuine prayer, getting a hold of God, means I'm willing to wait on God's timing. Sometimes God has to change people. God has to arrange things before that can come about. And so we just wait on him. I pray in confidence, in Jesus' name. And I wait on them. And I keep praying, and I wait on them. Jesus says, Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you. But the idea is you just keep on asking, keep on asking, keep on asking, keep on praying, keep on knocking, keep on seeking. And trust God, we need to pray. I'm glad I who knew how to pray. There's no doubt in my mind, the more I think about this as years go by, daddy's been in heaven five years now. The more I think about this, there's no doubt in my mind I would be burning in a devil's hell right now if it was not for a daddy who knew how to get a hold of God and pray for his son's salvation. We need to learn to pray. We need to discipline ourselves and get a hold of God in our homes, in our personal lives, every day. Schedule a time to get alone with God and pray in Jesus' name. And trust Him to do great things. Father, bless us. Help us, I ask. Teach us to pray in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I don't know