Let me say this while you're finding your place in your Bible. If you have stacks of gospel tracts from track month left at home, particularly the uh the uh Easter ones or whatever Uh if you can use them, give them out. Keep them, give them out. That's what we want. But if they've got stacks of them sitting there and you know and they're not going to be distributed, bring them back in, we'll put them back, we'll reorganize them and We'll make use of them. So uh we just don't want them to get tore up or whatever. We want to uh do the best we can there. So if you have some, as I said, and uh you want to bring them back in, that'd be fine And um Miss Betty will put them up and where they need to go. Um we're keeping track of our faith promise giving this past year. Uh this uh I guess today ends our fiscal year for faith promise giving and Betty's been adding that up and not counting today's offering. What did you say we're at, Betty, about 101,000 Am I correct? Right at there, a little over $101,000 in the last fifty-one weeks given to faith promise. And so whatever comes in today will be added to that. So we praise the Lord for that And we're trusting God that this coming year maybe we'll see the Lord even do greater things as we trust him and obey him. So uh I want to kind of be quick here to the point this evening because I I want us to pray for our missions conference and if you would notice In James chapter 1, I want to read the first few verses. I'm talking and didn't turn there. Notice the Bible says, James, the servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. Greetings My brethren counter all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally, and abraideth not, and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith. Nothing wavering, for he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and toss. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. Verse 6 and 7 is what I want to look at this evening. And uh asking in faith. And uh I'm not sure. Am I turned on? Is it up here, Dave, or is it back there? Alright. And I'm on up here. And so I don't know. I'll just try and stay behind the pulpit. I don't think I'm getting anything out of this. It's on down here. I have it on here. How's that? Yeah, there's nothing here. I I got nothing. Alright, I'm just gonna go away with this. Alright, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our our look in your word. And um Lord, I believe something here that we're talking about this evening that is so necessary in this matter of missions. Help us not to miss it Help us get a hold of this, dear Lord. Fill me, I pray, with your Holy Spirit and uh and challenge us in this one manner that every one of us can have an effective part in world missions. In Jesus' name, Amen. James, as you remember, we pointed out, is addressing Jewish believers that had been so severely persecuted, they were literally driven from their homes and their communities. And as he says in verse number one, they were scattered abroad And we go back to the book of Acts and we find the scattering was a result of intense persecution. Many of them had lost their jobs, had been driven from their homes. Many of them, because of their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, had uh had families reject them and uh literally drive them out of the family And so they're suffering intense persecution. Uh as I said, they've lost their homes, they're in strange lands. James is writing them to try and encourage them to stay faithful to the Lord. And he points out in verse number two and three that they are to maintain a positive attitude through their trials. Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. He gives them assurance that God knows what he's doing, that God has a plan, God is allowing this, and God is trying to mature them and develop them, and they need to keep that positive attitude as they face these trials that God is allowing in their life. Then in verse number four he pointed out, as we mentioned, that they need to be patient in these trials. Just hang in there, stay in there. Sometimes we start out pretty good. But sometimes God allows difficulties to linger and go on month after month, sometimes year after year. And though we have a good attitude, we understand God is working sometimes our patience wears thin, and we don't let patience have its perfect work. And we cut it short and encourage them. Just stay patient. Be patient in your patience. We pointed out. Then in verse number five, sometimes we need wisdom. And we get in the situation, maybe uh our faith is being tried, our testimony is being challenged, and we need God's wisdom and know how to respond and know how to deal And so he points out to them, if any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God. And he encourages them that God will give wisdom. And here's the point we tried to bring out on that You and I need the Lord to help direct us throughout life. We don't know what tomorrow holds. We don't have all the information. uh that we need sometimes to make a wise decision. So what we need to do is look to God and say, God, I need you to direct me. I need you to give me wisdom. You know what tomorrow holds. You know all the factors in this situation. I need you to give me wisdom. And so he urges them to look to the Lord for wisdom and he assures them that God will give that wisdom generously. God's eager to lead us and direct us in the way we should go. Now we come to verse six and seven. And he kind of shifting gear, although it's all tied together, he points out that how they are to pray for wisdom, how to go about praying. And that's what I want us to uh look at this evening. I'm going to give you three principles that are given here. I'm just going to give them to you real quickly. I want to urge you to jot them down, whether in the margin or a piece of paper They're very basic, very simple, nothing we haven't heard before, but something I think we need to be continually reminded. Number one is this. When we're going to pray, and whether we're asking for wisdom or whatever we're asking for, direction from God, whatever we're asking for, number one, prayers must be prayed. Prayers must be prayed. An unprayed prayer will never be answered. Look what he says there in verse number five. He says, if any of you lack wisdom, look at the next few words. Let him ask of God. In other words, if he doesn't ask of God, is he going to get the wisdom from God? Obviously not. Look down at verse number six. But let him ask in faith. If I don't ask, God's not going to give. God has established a uh re uh a necessary activity on our part. If we're going to have our prayers answered, we have to pray. How many people say, preacher, that's pretty obvious. Raise your hand. Sure, that's obvious. You don't pray? You don't get answered to prayer. Here's the problem. But we don't pray, do we? We know that. If I want God to answer my prayer, I've got to pray. We don't pray about a lot of stuff. Take your Bible, if you would, keep here. We're going to go to a couple verses in the Gospels. I want you to go real quickly with me. Now, if you'll listen real quick, we'll be done real quick. Matthew. Chapter 7, Matthew chapter 7. Now some folks, we have a number of folks, have memorized our hundred-verse memory challenge. And so you have this verse memorized. Matthew chapter 7 And verse number seven. Matthew seven and verse number seven. Notice what the Lord Jesus Christ says here. Now he's talking about prayer. This is something that is so obvious we miss it, I think, sometimes. Look what he says in verse 7. Ask And it shall be given unto you. The implication is, if I don't ask, what? It won't be given unto me. So if you're gonna if you're gonna have prayers answered, if I'm gonna get wisdom from God, if God is gonna lead and direct in my life, if I'm gonna have my needs met, if I want to see situations change, if I want to see God give me victory in my life It begins with, I've got to pray. I have to ask God to do that. Let's read on. Ask, and it shall be given unto you. Seek, and ye shall find. The obvious implication there is, if I don't seek, I'm not going to what? Fine, I'm not going to find the answers I need. If I don't see, knock, and it shall be open unto you. If I don't knock, it ain't going to be open. Now look at the promise in the next verse. For everyone that asketh Actually receives. You ask. Everyone that seeketh, he that seeketh, findeth. And to him that knocketh, it shall be open unto you. So prayers, if I'm going to have prayers answered, if I'm going to get something from God, I've got to pray. Prayers must be prayed. That's my first point. I like in Luke chapter 11 And verse number one, the disciples come to Jesus Christ and they make a request from Jesus Christ. They say this, listen to this. Teach us to pray. Now I thought it was interesting. I looked at that. They didn't come to the Lord Jesus Christ and Jesus teach us how to pray. They didn't ask how to pray. Prayer is not complicated. They were so burdened, they saw the Lord Jesus Christ burdened, they looked at themselves, they did a self-examination, and they came to the conclusion: you know what? We're not really praying We're not praying like we should. We're not bringing the needs and issues of life and the situations we face and the wisdom we need. We're really not praying. Lord, I need you to teach me to pray. And I wonder how many of us tonight sitting here, we look at our life, and we look at the needs we have, and look at the challenge God has given us Particularly in world missions, and I wonder how many of us have ever really prayed that God would lead us and direct us and use us and help us and give us the wisdom we need to carry out the Great Commission. Prayers must be prayed. I have a sneaking suspicion that most prayers are unanswered because they are never really prayed. I never came to God and said, God, I need you to do this for me. God, I need wisdom in this situation. I want to challenge Every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, in the next few days, as we go into missions conference, I challenge all of us, myself included, that's let's earnestly pray That God would show us what part we should have as individuals in the Great Commission. God, I want you to show me very clearly in my heart and mind. What I should have in the matter of faith promise, what role I have and whether to go and be a part of missions. Whatever part I have, God show me. If any of you last wisdom, let him ask of God. And shall be given him. I want to suggest to you, God is more eager to use us in the Great Commission than we are to be used in many cases. And we come and we ask God. God show. So number one, my first thought is this: prayers must be prayed. Write this down. Number two. Prayers must come from a persuaded heart. Number one, they must be prayed. Number two, they must come from a persuaded heart. Look with me back in James again in verse number six. But let him ask, now notice the next two words, in faith. In faith. Let him ask in faith. The starting point in having my prayers answered is being fully persuaded that what God has said concerning prayer is so. Now, God has told us a lot in His Word about prayer. He has given us tremendous prayer promises He has given us very clear uh qualifications to have my prayers answered. Things that must be in place if he is going to hear and answer my prayer. First of all, I gotta pray. Then he's told us other instructions concerning prayer. But if I'm gonna have my prayers answered, I must first of all pray, then I must be convinced in my heart and mind that God actually does answer prayer just as He says He will. If I don't believe God answers prayer, I'm not going to see my prayers answered. You must come in faith. I must come in faith. I must be the starting point in having prayers answered is being fully persuaded that what God said he would do, he will actually do The word faith means this, to have a firm conviction that something is true. How many of us are absolutely convinced That when we kneel before God with a pure heart, asking according to His will, that God absolutely, clearly, definitely will answer that prayer. You know why I we don't say this, you know why I think most of us approach prayer? Boy, I hope God will do what he said. Boy, I hope God will answer my prayer. I hope God hears me pray. Listen, that doesn't sound like much faith to me, huh? God says, let him ask in faith. Let him ask fully convinced that what God says is so. Now that doesn't mean that if I ask God for a new nineteen uh uh for a two thousand fifteen BMW five uh five hundred series car. Well, I really believe with all my heart I'm fully convinced God's going to give me that new car. That's not what he's talking about. What God is talking about is I am fully convinced that when I ask God for whatever it may be that I feel I need or that wisdom, God will give me exactly what He knows is best for me. Follow what I'm saying? Now I can ask specifically concerning his will. I can ask specifically on a lot of things. But I come understanding that God is all wise. I trust him. I am fully convinced that he will hear me And that God will do what's best for me. Let me ask you this. When Jesus was in the Garden of Gethsemane and he asked God, his father to remove the cup of suffering that he was about to go through, and he asked God to remove that cup from him. And then he said this, nevertheless Not my will, but thy will be done. Do you believe Jesus was asking in full confidence and faith that God would hear him and answer that prayer? Absolutely. And that same confidence you and I should have. Turn with, are you still in Matthew there? Come over to Matthew chapter 9 with me real quickly. Matthew chapter 9. Here you have a situation in verse number 27. We have two blind men approach the Lord Jesus Christ. And of course, they want to be healed. Matthew chapter 9, verse number 27. And when Jesus departed thence, two blind men followed him. Crying and saying, Thou son of David, have mercy on us. What were they doing? What were those two blind men doing? They were praying. They were asking God, have mercy on us. They were praying. Now, so verse 27, they're praying. Look at verse 28 and 29. And when he was come unto the house, the blind man came to him And Jesus saith unto them, Believe ye that I am able to do this? Oh, that's a big question. You're asking me to heal you, to make you sick. Do you believe that I'm able to do this? And what was their response? They said unto him, yea, Lord. They're saying, Yes, we do. And he touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith be it unto you. So in verse number 27, they pray. Verse 28 and 29, we see evidence of the fact that they were praying in faith. They were believing that God was able to. They were convinced that what the Lord Jesus Christ, who he was, and what he was able to do, he could do for them. They had full assurance. In fact, the Lord asked them, Do you believe this? Yes, Lord, we believe you can do this. And then notice in verse number 30. And their eyes were opened. And there's the answer to their prayers. You see the ingredients? They prayed, they believed Prayers answered. And that is what James is saying. If any of you lack wisdom, you ask of God. You need some direction in life. You need some direction in a situation. You first of all pray. You bring it to God. Then you be fully persuaded, fully convinced that God is able and willing to lead and direct you as God sees fit. So number one, prayers must be prayed. Number two, prayers must come from persuaded hearts. Every area of the Christian life, every area of spiritual development is dependent upon me having faith in God and believing his word. If I don't trust him, if I don't walk in faith, if I don't trust him, I'm not going to grow. I'm not going to be led. I'm not going to develop as a Christian. But when I get and say, you know, I believe God is who he says he is. I believe God will do what he's promised to do. I believe God knows what he's doing, what he instructs me and leads me and directs me. I'm fully persuaded. Brother, then we see God doing things. Number one, prayers must be prayed. Number two, they must come from persuaded heart. Here we are. Number three, last of all, prayers must be persistent. Come with me back to James. And uh this is the last verse we're going to look at. James chapter 1 again. And verse number 6. Notice what he says. But let him ask in faith. Now he could have stopped there But he elaborates. But let him ask in faith, nothing what? Wavering. Then he expands on that For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and toss. D'aver see a uh a boat anchored out there in the little uh inlet or whatever and the storm's blowing the wind's blowing and that old boat is just going boom Boom. Over here. Over there. Over there. It's anchored down. That thing's just moving back and forth. Back and forth. It's tossed with the wind. Uh tossed with the waves. He says don't be that way He says, uh uh nothing wavering. Now I got looking at that word wavering. I had a picture in my mind what that was to waver on something and And uh and uh it kind of fits the definition, but listen to this. It kind of came out a different way than I anticipated. The word wavering there has this idea. Get this To continually be deciding something. To continually be deciding something. Or another definition had it this way. To make a judgment back and forth. I'm always deciding. It's this idea. Does God answer prayer? Is God going to give me wisdom One time I'm thinking, yeah, he will. God will give me wisdom. Then I'm deciding again. Nah, I don't know if God will answer this prayer or not. Uh yeah, I think God will answer this prayer. No, I'm gonna make a judge. Nope, I'm may I'm I don't think he will. Uh yeah. Yep, I decided And they never get it settled. And I've seen this over and over through the years in the ministry, uh where some Christians just have a hard time Settling down and deciding God is God and He is good and I can trust Him and He will take care of me. And they're constantly going back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. They're on again, off again, hot, cold, in, out, up, down And they never just settle it. Listen, God is God. He has told me he will answer prayer if I will trust him and obey him. And that is settled. I don't have to make that judgment. Ever again. It's settled. Nothing wavering. Some people are always trying to decide whether God's good or not. Some people are always trying to decide whether I'm going to live by faith or not. And rather than just planting themselves in the Word of God and settling down and making a decision once for all, yes, I'm going to live for God. I'm going to trust Him. I'm going to pray for Him I'm going to pray for wisdom. I'm going to let him lead me and direct me. It's no longer a decision. It's already settled. I've said this many, many times over the years, particularly for young people, it applies to all of us A young person ought to decide whether they're going to be pure or not once and settle it. Ought not to be a constant decision. Well am I going to keep myself pure or not? And to wait until you get in a situation and you get out there and you're in some setting that is unchristian and you're in some environment that is ungodly And then that young person is going to decide whether I'm going to be pure or not. Listen, you make this the wrong decision every time if you wait until that situation What you need to do is get in a service where the the Word of God is and people that love and love God and kneel at an altar and say, you know My life is God's, my body is God's. It's a temple of the Holy Spirit. I'm going to be pure to the day I walk that aisle and take my spouse to be my lawfully wedded spouse. Uh that's what my wife did. Night we got married. I'm off I'm I'm I'm off the radar right now, but We got married. We got married in Phillips Chapel in Chattanooga, Tennessee at Highland Park Baptist Church. Got married one in the afternoon. Our whole marriage, photos, and reception lasted about 20 minutes. I mean we just live horse around. Let's get married. Let's go. So we got married, did all that, and we're driving off to our honeymoon in Pigeon Forge, driving up the interstate, and my wife's over there, I'm driving, and she's fiddling around. And she pulls out this little envelope. It's all faded and yellowed, sealed. She hands this to me. She is, this is for you. I said, what is it? She said, I wrote it when I was 15 years old So what is it? She goes, open it. Uh while I'm driving, yeah. See, I don't believe you ought to text and drive, but um Reading love letters and driving is alright. But anyway, we're driving up the interstate. On the front, she answered me on the front, it said this in kind of uh old right. She said, it said, to my future husband. I said, what is this? She goes, read it. I opened it up, pulled it out, just a little notebook paper like a 14, 15-year-old kid would have. Scratched on there. You can't hardly read her writing, but it's written on there. And it said this. And she still has it this day. You ask her, she'll show it to you. Said this to my future husband. I love you. I love God. And today it had the date. It's at a youth conference. She goes, I am dedicating my life and my body. to be kept pure for the for you, the one God has for me to be my husband. Sign. Kathy Michelle Schifflet. You know what she did? Nothing wavering. Nothing wavering. The decision was made. I'm going to be pure. I'm going to do right. I'm going to trust God. She made that decision, wrote on paper, signed it, sealed it, no longer a decision. Sixteen years old, seventeen years old, eighteen years old, meeting different fellows, different places, being invited asked out to go on dates. Going to these things, going to banquets, going to uh youth conferences, and uh different fellows coming. And uh I'm keeping myself pure for God and for my future husband That is a wise thing to do. Nothing wavering. We got Christians making decisions. Back and forth, in again, off again. They don't know if they're living for God or living for self. You don't know if they're on God's side or the devil's side. You don't know if they love the Lord, if they love the world back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. James says, let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. Settle that thing. If God's God, then live for him. If God's been bad to you, if God has failed you, if God has lied to you, then go ahead and run to the world. But make a decision. Make a decision. So prayers, number one, must be prayed. Number two, prayers must come from a persuaded heart that God will do what he says, and prayers must be persistent. God is good, I can trust him. Instability undercuts Christian living. Instability undercuts answered prayer. And if I'm not consistent, if I'm constantly going back and forth, if I'm if it's not settled in my heart who I love and where my loyalties are as a Christian, then I'm gonna have a hard time having God lead me and direct me. Am I right or wrong? I think I'm right. I know I'm right. It must be settled. We must strive to be consistent and stable in our faith and our obedience to God. How many people here? Anybody here recognize the name James Eads? James Eads. Anybody recognize that name? James Eades was an engineer back in the 1800s. He built the first steel bridge to cross the Mississippi River. The guy was ingenious. He had like 50 patents and things he invented. Uh a lot of stuff with railroad. I think he built designed some warships and different things out of steel for the the military. He built the first arch bridge. I'm told by one of the records it was the largest steel arch bridge in the world at the time. It crossed the Mississippi River. A lot of people in the media, a lot of influential people criticized them. They said that bridge is too big, it will collapse under its own weight. Very few people trusted that bridge to run a train across it. uh figuring was correct that that thing would stand with the arch and the uh the way it was built, it would be true. Finally the time came to test it. They had the tracks across, everything was ready. People were criticizing them. Hardly anybody believed it would stand. James E ordered 14 locomotives to go out onto that bridge at one time and stop across the thing. Fourteen of them lined up there all that weight. He was so confident that that bridge would hold. They got all those locomotives out there, and the bridge held. The bridge did what it was designed to do. And no longer did anyone criticize James Eads or doubt that that bridge would do exactly what it was built to do. Now I said that to say this. God promises us that if we will pray in faith Trusting and obeying him, he will lead us, he will direct us, he will give us wisdom, he will meet our needs and do what we need done. We can be sure, we can be more sure of that than a bridge with 14 locomotives on it. God has proven himself over the centuries that he is true. And that he will do what he said he will do. Let's pray. Let's pray. Now while we bow our heads, we go into the invitation. This is what I want to ask. We're about to endeavor this Wednesday on the most important thing our church does all year long, and that is give up ourselves to world missions. Taking missionaries on who are trusting and depending on God to use us to meet their needs. I'd like to see a good group of our church members tonight Maybe kneel in an old-fashioned order and just say, God, we're looking to you for wisdom, for leadership and direction in this missions conference. Now, maybe there's many here tonight you have personal needs. You have your own situations you're dealing with. Your own situations you need wisdom. I'm urging you tonight, why don't you kneel before God and say, God, teach me to pray? Help me to trust you. Let me help me settle it in my mind that you are God and I can trust you and obey you and follow you. And God will do it. Let's stand together, heads above, eyes are closed. Will you join me tonight? And as a church here at the Old Fashion Order as a piano plays Let's just kneel at the altar. Will you join me? And let's pray for God to lead us and give us wisdom as a church as we go into this great missions conference in the coming this coming week. Let's pray that God will lead and direct every one of us as members of this church. What our part is in getting the gospel into all the world. How about it? Now maybe there's some here tonight you say, preacher, I know, I understand that I'm burdened for it, but I've got some situations in my life personally That I really need God to help. Why don't you come and ask in faith, nothing wavering, and it shall be given him. It shall be given him. Let him, if any of you like wisdom, let him ask of God. Pray. Some of us need to come tonight, just like the disciples did and say, Lord, teach me to pray. I know my prayer life isn't what it ought to be. I know my prayers are not uh consistent and earnest like they should be, Lord, teach me to pray.