Game folks uh venturing out on a lustery cold February Wednesday night I really do believe that midweek service is the most important service of the week, at least in my mind when we pray together as a church for the ministries and for one another and people that have needs. And so I'm glad you're out this evening. 1 Samuel chapter what did I say? Alright, that's correct. 1 Samuel chapter 18. I'm going to read just two verses. We're back to our study of King David, the life of King David, and um we've looked at these two verses here, oh, it's probably a month ago now. Since we were last here looking at David and we shared a few thoughts. I want to pick up where we left off last time. 1 Samuel 18 and verse number 10. Do I sound a little bit loud? Does it sound like it's ringing? Just a little bit, Dave. I think. There. Verse ten. And it came to pass on the morrow, the morrow of what? This is the next day. What happened the day before? There was a parade. And uh it was a victory parade, and the women were singing this Very influential song that had a profound impact on the nation of Israel. What was the song? Saul has slain his thousands, and David has slain his Wow, that went over. So this is the next day. Saul heard that. Saul got angry. He got jealous. Actually is envious. He got envious. And so this is the next day on the morrow That the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house. Now this evil spirit had come upon Saul previously, back in chapter, I think, fifteen, if I remember correctly. Now this time it's It's having a greater effect on King Saul, and now he's prophesying, and we talked about that, we'll touch it just briefly He prophesied in the midst of the house, and David, as he did previously, played with his hand on the harp, of course, as at other times, and there was a javelin in Saul's hand And Saul cast the javelin, for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David avoided out of his presence twice. So let's look at this attempted murder. Let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us something from this. Father in heaven, Lord, we ask now that you would teach us from this passage of Scripture. I pray that your Holy Spirit would take the truths here and apply them to our lives as you know we have need. Pray we'd be stronger in our faith and clearer in our understanding of your will for our lives. As a result of our time in your word. Fill me with your spirit is my earnest prayer, Lord, and that you would speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you think about it for a moment, we have an attempted murder here And here you have an unlikely perpetrator, King Saul. He is the king of God's people, the nation of Israel. Anointed of God. And here he is attempting to commit murder. I don't know about you, but if I was if I didn't know any of this, I would he would be the last person I would suspect. Of trying to murder somebody, God's man. And then the person that is the victim here, the uh the um the target of Saul's attempt is King David Of all people, who in the world would want to kill King David? I mean, he's the good guy. But nevertheless, that's the case. I tell you, we have sinful natures, don't we? And sometimes the least the person you least suspect to do something like this is the one that ends up doing it. And so here we have this attempted murder. Uh we already looked at this um and I want to reiterate, I believe this is the beginning, well I not uh I know it is, this is the beginning of a transitional time, not just for the nation of Israel, but also uh for King David. God is preparing David. He is going to go through several years now or extended period of time of intense trial, intense persecution. He is going to go through things he's never gone through before, difficulties and heartaches. And so God is preparing him. God, and if you remember, it's been a little while ago, but what is it? I'm convinced God is weeding something. God is protecting David from something that would be more detrimental to him. than um than uh King Saul's wrath. And what was that? His own pride. His own pride. Remember, he's a young man He's had phenomenal success on the battlefield. He's got the women of Israel singing his praises as no one else Now I don't know, David is a tremendous man of God, he's a man after God's own heart, but he's still a man at best. And you have all that praise and all that success and all that victory He would not have been the first one to be destroyed by popularity and success. And so I believe God is allowing King Saul to persecute him now for a while to deter that pride from taking root and and uh ruining him right off the start. So we looked if you remember uh the last time we were at this we looked in verse 10, the first part of verse 10 And the first part of verse eleven where you have Saul reacting, and that was my first point. Saul was very quick to react. This was if in within twenty-four hours, David is Saul goes from placing David in one of the most influential positions in his administration. Within 24 hours, now he's trying to kill him. And Saul is reacting to the song that he heard the women singing. And our caution there was this we need to be very, very careful that we don't react How many people here ever something happened, you reacted to it, and later on you said, oh, why did I do that? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Been there, done that? And that's what King Saul is doing here. He is reacting. He's not stopping thinking this through. What would have been the best thing for Saul to do when he heard them singing David's praise He's only getting thousands. They're giving David ten thousands. The best thing for him to do would have been get alone with God and say, God, help me to see this from your perspective Lord help me to understand this. But he didn't. He got jealous, he got angry, he got envious, and it reacted. So there was a caution there for us not to react. Then he lost control. And if you remember, we pointed out that this evil spirit isn't being sent from God. God's simply allowing this evil spirit to come upon King Saul. And he is actually that when it says he prophesied there, that's not a godly thing. That isn't him preaching the word of God. This is the evil spirit of God taking possession of him And he is losing control, and this spirit is taking over. And then thirdly, this is where we want to pick up tonight. We notice Saul was quick to react. He lost control. Roman numeral three in my outline is this. I want us to notice David's extraordinary kindness. Now I want you to look with me, if you would, at verse number 10. We notice the first part in our previous study. Spirit of evil spirit of God came upon Saul. He prophesied in the midst of the house. Now look at this. And David played with his hand. Now we know from previously he's playing the harp here I think there's a fascinating study in Scripture is to study David's response to King Saul's attitude and actions. It is a textbook study in mature Christianity. David's responding to Saul's actions. It is extraordinary. He is non-typical. I find very few people in the Bible that would respond to King Saul's actions the way King David does. He's throwing javelins at them. He's going to end up chasing them all over the country. He's saying hateful things about David And over and over and over, David responds in an unusual way. Anybody here ever hear this term, thinking or acting outside the box? Anybody ever hear that? What does that mean? Somebody help me. What does that mean? Somebody's acting outside the box or thinking outside the box. Yes, non typical. And I want to suggest to you that David's response to King Saul is non typical. And can I quit make an application here right now? We as Christians ought to respond to people in non-typical ways. Because Christians are non-typical people. In fact, God refers to us as peculiar I know some people that are very peculiar, but um what he's saying is we're not like the world. We're not like the rest of the world. And as we look at David's response to King Saul, we notice he is outside the box. He is extraordinary, he is non-typical. And I think if I was going to summarize, and I don't plan these messages this way, but if I was going to summarize David's attitude and actions towards King Saul, it would be this kindness. David was awfully kind to King Saul. I preached on that Sunday, and we see it here displayed on King David. And here's what I'm getting at. No matter how King Saul acts or what King Saul says and does, David is constantly kind to him. Here he's playing the harp for King David. He is envious He is angry, and David comes in and plays the harp. I put three things about I noticed about King David's kindness to Saul. Number one, it was consistent. It was consistent. Keep your place here. Come back to chapter 16 and verse number 18. We noticed this several months ago. This is when David is first introduced to King Saul. The evil spirit of God has been coming upon him. One of the Saul's servants says, um, uh, hey, uh they're looking for somebody who can play music to calm King Saul down and calm this evil spirit down. One of the servants says, hey, Jesse has a boy that's really good at the harp. And uh let's bring him in here. Verse 18 says, And they answered one of the servants, said, Behold, I've seen a son of Jesse the Bethlemite that is cunning and playing. And a mighty valiant man of war and prudent and matters and a comely person, the Lord's with him. So they bring David in initially, this is sometime previous to what we're looking at tonight, and David plays his heart from, and lo and behold, the evil spirit departs, and Saul calms down. Now, David's kindness is consistent. Now, I want you to think with me. Let's speculate here a little bit. What do you think was David's impression of King Saul? The first time he came and was introduced to him, the first time he walks into the king's court with all its tapestry and all its majesty The shepherd boy comes in with his little harp. He's going to play for the king. What do you think was his image of King Saul at that point in his mind? Hey, he's a great man. I think you and I, as a young person coming into the king of Israel's chambers and his his uh throne room, perhaps, you would be in awe This is the man anointed by the great prophet Samuel, anointed of God And I would imagine that King David has tremendous honor and respect. Do you think that he might be a little bit fearful? To come into the presence of the king? Now, the Bible doesn't say that, and we're speculating. David was a pretty brave guy, but just the intimidation factor. Of stepping into somebody like this presence, I think it's not beyond imagination to think there would be a little bit of fear, be tremendous honor, tremendous respect As he comes into play. Now, let's fast forward to chapter 18. A lot has happened between chapter 16, verse 18, and chapter 18, verse 10. And David comes into play again for him. And I'm going to and I'm sus- I suspect that David's opinion of Saul, David's perspective of Saul, has changed a smidget. And by that I mean this. He is seeing a side of King Saul that he had not seen previously. In chapter number 17, we spent a long time with David and Goliath, and there I David saw a king that was a coward. He saw the king and all the armies of Israel cowering in fear before Goliath. Now the Bible doesn't tell us, and I know I'm speculating here. But I would venture to say, in David's mind, that would not have been the image he had of King Saul previously And I want to susp I I strongly suspect that David Sally side here of King Saul, he never imagined that would be true. That he was he was afraid He was a coward. He was afraid to go on the battlefield in the name of God and take on the champion of the Philistines. So um uh now he sees a coward. Um I want to suggest to you he saw in King Saul A man, a king that was not just cowardly, at least in this situation, but is a little bit confused Now, if you would, come back to chapter 18 with me and look at verse number 38. And we didn't I didn't really pick this up when we were coming through the first time. And again, this is speculation on my part But look at verse 38 of chapter 17. Here David is before Saul. He's saying, Listen, let me go out. I'll get the guy. David never was disrespectful, never said, Why aren't you going out there? You're the guy King, you should be leading us, you're our champion. He never says any of that. He never throws any disparaging remarks towards the king. He just says, hey, I'll go out And look what Saul does after their discussion, Saul, verse 38, and Saul armed David with what? His armor, Saul's armor. And he put a helmet of brass upon his head and also armed him with a coat of mail. Now, what do we know about King Saul's size? When he was anointed, he was what? We are told he was what? Yeah, he was head and shoulders, the Bible said, above everyone else. David is a young man. Now I'm no dummy, and I don't think King Saul was any dummy. There's he knew, he had to have known that his armor Would not fit this boy. In fact, King Saul's armor probably wouldn't have fit any of the soldiers. So what in the world is he doing suggesting that King David wear his armor? I think he didn't know what to do. I think he was just confused. Oh, you're going to go out there? Oh, well, you can't just go. Here, take my armor. And this is my imagination, but I see the other soldiers around scratching their heads. How in the world is he going to wear his armor? We could even wear his armor. What's he talking about? Is this guy nuts? And David out of respect puts it on, he says, I can't wear this, I haven't proved it. But he sees a king that's not making rational decisions. He sees a king that's that's fearful and cowardly on going out there. And now in chapter 18 he sees this king possessed of a devil prophesying under the influence of an evil spirit David's no dummy. He saw King Saul get angry a few verses before when these ladies are singing. He saw that eye, he saw, and there's no doubt about it. David observed in King Saul's countenance and his eye, he saw that envy that was there. I found that those who walk closest to the Lord and know the Lord often are good judges of other people They often are able to sense other spiritual condition. And I don't believe for one minute David didn't know that King Saul was incredibly envious of him and incredibly angry at him. So he saw a carnal side of his king. He saw a cowardly side of him, and he saw confusion. And yet, this is what I'm getting at, and yet, though his his understanding of who and what King Saul was changed from chapter 16, verse 38. to chapter 18 verse 10, though his view, his his observation was more thorough, and he saw a different man now than what he first saw before, no doubt, and yet he's still kind to him It doesn't change David's actions towards King Saul. And he comes in, he plays the heart to try and calm this guy down again. And I see consistency on David's part. How many people here agree with me? It's easy to be kind to people who are kind to you. It's easy to be kind to people you have tremendous regard for. And here's somebody I highly respect, and uh man, they're in my eyes, they're an amazing person. Boy, it's easy to be kind to them. I tell you, where our consistency and our kindness becomes difficult is then when we get around somebody who's not very respectful. Do we have little regard for? And yet to still say, hey, I'll play the heart for you and try and help your well-being. I want to invest myself and to help you in areas you have need. I tell you what, that takes consistency. And just the fact that David is in spite of all the observations that are happening in chapter 17 The first part of chapter 18, all this he sees from King Saul is negative that he still steps in and says, hey, I want to be a blessing. I want to do something to help your well-being, to help you be better off. And so I see consistency here on the part of King David towards King Saul He is consistently kind to him. But I will put something else down about King David's kindness or David at this point's kindness towards King Saul. It was charitable It was charitable. You say, what do you mean it's charitable? Ah, you have to be in the adult Sunday school class and auditorium to appreciate why I use that word. We just finished studying 1 Corinthians chapter 13. And there it says, now abideth faith, hope, and love, and charity. But the greatest of these is what? Charity, charity, charity, charity, charity, all through 1 Corinthians 13. Now, whoever is in my Sunday school class, tell me, what is the Bible definition of charity? It's quiz time. What did we say that word charity in 1 Corinthians 13 means? Bingo. Unconditional love in action. It's more than just agape. Agape is God's unconditional love, just the statement of God's unconditional love. Charity is unconditional love in action. The word charity describes how unconditional love treats people. And that's what 1 Corinthians 13 is about. And I think David's kindness to King Saul was fits the biblical definition of charity. David was being kind. David was showing love and compassion to King Saul. In spite of the fact King Saul was not showing any love back. Did you ever hear somebody say this? Show me the love. King Saul was not showing the love. But David was. David was David's kindness and compassion and concern for King Saul was not dependent upon King Saul's kindness and compassion to David. It was charitable. It was unconditional. I see no concern on King Saul's part for David's well-being. I don't see it anywhere. Um, I think even King Saul's promotion of David to head of his military was a self-promoting thing. This was for his good. Man, this guy's knocking them out. This guy's killing the this guy's killing the Philistines giants. I'll put him on my team and boy we'll look good. It wasn't for David's well-being. It wasn't any concern for that. I think David sets an example for us to be kind to those who show no kindness to us. To can be concerned for the well-being of people who have no concern for our well-being. When I was on uh no what I wasn't on staff, it was when I was traveling with Neighborhood Bible Time, I think it was 1985 And there's about 45, 50 young men, evangelists, you know how they are, and we're out in Boulder, Colorado, and at the time the training center and the headquarters and the office were all in the same place. It was this house that he had converted into a little office type uh building uh that had a training uh that where the living room was, he knocked the walls out, it was all just seats there where we did training and a little platform in the corner And so we have, now think about this. We're in a residential neighborhood. This is a nice house in Boulder, Colorado, very, very upscale. He's got 45 to 50 preacher boys that are absolutely insane and are on fire for God and have no common sense whatsoever. They're just going out attacking hell with water pistols, you know. So he'd give us, we'd have these sermons we're supposed to preach when we go out and travel, and he'd have us practice these sermons. And so it's just like a half-acre lot at the most across the roads this park And so he'd say, all right, here's your sermons, read them over, then go out, find a tree or a fence post or a corner of a building, find something, and preach the devil at it. Go out and practice preaching. So these forty-five guys, we'd all head out, you know, and we'd have sermons on hell, you know, on dedication, the second coming, Jesus is coming back again And they get out, man, they got preaching all around there, you know. I mean it's everywhere. Ah, you must be born again. They're preaching like they're Billy Sunday to a tree, you know There's a lady, there was a privacy fence along the back. There was a woman on the live behind on the other side of that privacy fence. And while all the guys are preaching, she'd be yelling, Quiet Shut up over there! She'd be yelling at us. And so uh this one day we come in and we're all in the living area there and uh Brother Homster's lecturing us and we're going through sessions on different things. All of a sudden the front door comes flying open. She didn't knock, she didn't ring the doorbell. She just threw the door open. This woman comes in and she starts screaming at us. You're a cult! This whole thing is a cult and you're invading my s and she starts screaming and cussing and yelling at us. We all just, hmm Dumbfounded, brother just watching her. She's just gone off. She was the term nowadays is she was triggered We triggered her. And finally she's going on and Brother Homer just said, ma'am, we're sorry. You know, he tried to explain a little bit what we're doing, just a couple weeks, we're out of here. And uh it didn't matter, brother. She has lost it An evil spirit was upon her. And uh she slams the door and goes out. And um, you know what we did? We all rised up, went out back, and started screaming at her and throwing stuff across the fence and yelling at her. No, we didn't do that. We didn't do that Brother Homester said he said to us, and we all felt this way, he says, boys, he said, she needs the Lord Jesus Christ. He said, now we need to tone it down. We need to be careful. But he says, we need to pray that she will come to know the Lord Jesus Savior. And he was a master at this, getting money out of people. He passed a bucket around. We raised up money and bought a huge bouquet of flowers. And sent it over to her with apologies and Bible verses and everything on it. And we never heard from her again. I don't know what happened. But he taught me a lesson. And that was this. Be concerned for the well-being of people who have little or no concern for your well-being. And don't respond to people in kind. And that's what I see with David here. David's not a dummy. He knows that Saul is angry. He's not a dummy. He sees Saul eyeing him. He knows that. But he doesn't respond in kind. He is charitable. He shows he's concerned for Saul's well-being. regardless of Saul's action, and he comes in there, he plays his harp with his hand, in order to try and help Saul Calm down and for Saul's well-being. I see a charitableness in his kindness. And then one other thing about his kindness, real quick, is it's reckless. Now this is where This is where maybe I'm reading in a little bit, but if you would come to the end of verse number 11. And it makes a little statement there that caught my attention. Now we know what happened. David's playing with his hand and uh King Saul throws this javelin at him. I'll smite David to the wall But look what it says. And David avoided out of his presence. What's the last word? Twice Now I looked up the word twice, and I thought, surely it doesn't mean twice. Guess what? It means twice. In fact, it means two separate occasions. So again, I'm speculating here. I'm taking that one statement, that one word, and I'm trying to figure out how does this fit in, and this is what I come up with. I think this happened two times to David. I think David went in, played his heart. The evil spirit of God came upon King Saul. He prophesied. The Spirit took over him. Who knows what he's saying? What would an evil spirit have you saying? And David comes in with his heart, he plays that, Saul tries to kill him. Some other occasion, nearby, obviously in a short period of time. This happens again. They said, David, you want to go back in there? It says, Yeah, I'll go back in there. Maybe I can help him this time. And boom, he does it again. Now I may uh speculation, I admit on my part, but it says twice. Yeah, it could have been the same day. Maybe David got out comes back in. We don't know any kind of time frame. We don't know any details. But here's what I take away from that. David is being a little bit I I would imagine somebody would say something like this, David, you're crazy for going back in there What are you nuts? Didn't you see what he just tried to do to you? Don't you understand? I hear David saying, yeah, I know what he did. He tried to kill me. But he needs something to help him. He needs help. This isn't right. I'm going to go back in and try again. Isn't that something? I tell you, the more I study David, the more respect I have for him. His kindness seems foolish. And sometimes people say, you know, why are you being nice to them? They're such a jerk. Why would you be nice to them? The answer is because they need someone to be nice to them. Why would you be kind? Look how unkind they are. Look what they're trying to do. I know, I know. But I'm I want to try and be a blessing. I want to try and help him. And so I see this reckless kindness on David's part. uh this charitable kindness, he's not getting anything in return. It's unconditional and it's consistent, regardless of what how he more he learns about King Saul and how awful he is He just stays being kind to him. He stays at it. He stays at it. Now my last thought, I want to finish up this section, is this. My fourth point is David's narrow escape. Now notice there at the end of verse number 10, it says this. David played with his hand as other times, and there was a javelin in Saul's hand. And Saul cast the javelin, for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. Now what caught my attention on this was the last part of verse 10, it says, There was a javelin in Saul's hand. Now why does it say that? Why didn't it just say, you know, and ja and Saul threw a javelin at him? Why does it take time to point out that it was in Saul's hand? I think that's because it was significant that it was in Saul's hand. Um, how many of you agree with me? I don't see David as a dummy. David's no dummy. Now he's just slain ten thousand Philistines. May maybe they're exaggerating, who knows? But he slew a bunch. He just slew the their champion. So David's not a dummy. He's dealt with lions and bears. I don't know about tigers, oh no, but um lions and bears he has. So David's not stupid. I think it's safe to assume David is aware of his surroundings. He wouldn't be in this position if he wasn't. So when David comes in and he has his harp and he's playing, you will never convince me that David was not fully aware that the man he's playing for has a javelin in his hand. David knows that. David sees that. Saul, and on the other hand, Saul is no novice with javelins. He has killed thousands and thousands of people with swords and spears and javelins and bow and arrows, who knows? But he is a hardened, experienced combat veteran I find it highly unlikely that somebody in the same room with King Saul, that Saul would miss that person if that person was not acutely aware of the fact that that Saul was trying to kill him. And so what I'm getting at here is this David Let me put it this way. Let me back up here a little bit. God was not going to let David get killed Right? How do we know that? How do we know that David was not going to be killed by King Saul? How do we know that? Right, God already said, God already declared emphatically, you will be king. So we know from the get-go. David's not going to be killed by King Saul. God's not going to let that happen. However, that does not excuse David from being stupid. Right? How many people agree with me? God's word promises that He will protect His children. He will protect His children. Right? God promises that. Safety is of the Lord. Every time I fly, when that thing's taken off, I keep saying to me, Safety is of the Lord. Safety is of the Lord. And I trust God with that. However, I put my seatbelt on I believe God will protect us, take care of us, but I don't play in the middle of the road And so we know God's going to take care of David, but that does not absolve David from a responsibility of being aware of his surroundings and not being stupid. And if there's a guy sitting there that you know is incredibly envious of you He's credibly angry at you, and he's holding a javelin in his hand. You're not turning your back on that guy. Right? And so David, it says, David escaped out of his hand Or actually it says David avoided. I used the wrong word. And it says David avoided out of his presence. I got looking at that word avoid. You know what it means? To do a 180 And then he completely changed direction. David's here playing, and he's his harp, however you play a harp. Whatever however you play it, I don't know. He's playing the harp. And his eye is on that javelin on King Saul. And maybe he's praying, Lord, please use this song to calm King Saul down. But I'm telling you, I have no doubt in my mind, David's eye is on that javelin. He's watching it. He knows. And as soon as he sees Saul take that move, Zing, he is out of there. The word I used to the phrase I used to define my definition, the word avoided was this. He hightailed it out of there. How many people know what hightail it means? Do you know where that comes from? I believe it comes from white-tailed deer hunting. If you're yes, if you're hunting and you see that tail up, that deer is high tailing it, you might as well forget it. Your hunt's over, it's done. Well, King Saul saw David hightail it out of there. He wasn't horsing around. God's promise of protection does not mean we should not be smart. Does anybody know what 1 Corinthians 1013 says? For there hath no temptation taken you, but what? But such as is common to man. But God is faithful, will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able, but will with the temptation what? Provide a way to escape. Whose responsibility is it to escape? Mine God makes the way. God gives the opportunity. I'm tempted to do something wrong. I'm tempted to do something in violation of the scripture. God will give me an opportunity to escape, but it's in my responsibility to make sure I escape. So David's no dummy. I see a part of David here that he is wise. He is what's the word I want? He is uh he is he is wise. And he's paying attention. And he's there. He wants to be a blessing. He's being kind. He's putting himself in danger to be kind. But he's not stupid. He's paying attention to what this guy's doing and he gets out of there Now, let me give you a few things here about when people start throwing spears at you. Here's some practical applications for you and I, some lessons here. Maybe somebody's throwing some verbal javelins at you. Somebody's out, maybe a guy at work you've been witnessing, or whatever, a family member, somebody's, somebody's Throwing this stuff at you. Number one, I encourage you to jot these down. I think they'd be helpful. Number one, remember God's in control God has allowed David to experience this. We already talked about this. David, God has to develop him. So God is allowing this to happen. How many of you agree with me? God could have kept Saul from throwing that javelin. He could have dropped it. He could have misplaced it. There's a 10,000 ways God could have intervened. It could have never been thrown. But God allowed it. Doesn't mean God wanted him to throw it, but God allowed it. God is in control. God is letting these people say and do the things they are saying and doing. So God's in control. Number two, put this down. God is molding me. And I am convinced that is the whole purpose. that David is going to go through this event right here and then the next series of events as he's traced all chased all over that countryside by King Saul. God is molding him. God is making him into the person he wants to be. He has to keep that pride from creeping in. And who knows 10,000 other lessons that David has to learn. And so God is allowing these javelins to be thrown at him because God is developing him. And God allows people to say and do things to you and I that are unkind so that we can develop ourselves as Christians. The Lord taught me something years ago, and I'm still learning it. I can't say that I've perfected this. But I found when somebody speaks evil of me, when somebody reviles me, when somebody curses me, that is giving me an opportunity to be a disciple. Because Jesus said, his disciples bless them that curse them, and do good to them that despitefully use them, and they pray for them that revile them And so when God allows us, he is developing that disciple in me that He wants me to be to enable me to respond as a disciple would Number three, put this down. Expect spears to be thrown. Expect spears to be thrown. David's having a profound influence. And that is rubbing King Saul the wrong way. And listen, mark it down. We talked about this Sunday night. Having an influence for the gospel in this old sinful world is first and foremost a spiritual battle. It is spiritual conflict And there's no way in the world devil is going to let you and I have an influence in this world without chucking some javelins at us. And so you might as well expect it Jesus said, Don't be surprised the world hates you, it hated me. They're going to hate you He says, in this world you're going to have offenses. Evil men and seducers are wax worse and worse. Listen, all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer what? Persecution, have javelins thrown at them. So if you think the Christian life is, man, I'm going to grow and I'm going to witness the people, I'm going to win other people to Christ, and everybody The whole town's gonna vote me as citizen of the year for he's a jolly good fellow. You might as well get it. They ain't gonna lift you up and sing he's a jolly good fellow. They're gonna lift you up as a target for javelins And so you might as well expect it. Number four, put this down. Guard your heart. I must guard my heart. I must not let criticism or unkindness or javelins winging by my head. I must not allow them to make me bitter. I must not allow them to make me self-centered. Poor me, they're throwing javelins at me. No, no, no. Keep my eyes on the Lord. I must not allow them to make me hate people We were down in Dominican Republic, and Noemi, this is Steve Siddler's wife, you saw her picture. Man, what a sweet lady, she for some El Salvador. That gal is a firecracker. Brother, I wouldn't want to get in a fight with her. I'll tell you that right now. She's about that tall, and I mean dynamite And uh she her and their daughter Sarah just uh I think it was last summer or last fall, she was telling me we were just talking, I think Dr. Creed might have been there, it was just a couple of us talking And uh she's from El Salvador, so she has a strong accident, English isn't her first language, and she said, these guys See, as I'm walking from the store, I come out and I hear a loud bang, and I feel something go right in front of my face. And she goes, I realized it was a bullet. The guy had shot a gun, and she said it went right. She said, I could feel it go by in front of me, right in front of my face. And Sarah screamed and she screamed. She says, I got Sarah and I pushed her in the car and I saw the guy standing across the road and she got, I got so mad. And she went over to the guy. She goes, I went over to these guys, the way she would say it. And I just told him, What are you doing shooting at me? Why are you shooting me? And she said, he said, I'm sorry, I wouldn't mean to shoot you. I meant to shoot the other guy beside you. And she goes, I chewed him out and got in the car and cried and cried and cried. And I thought, man, here she is trying to reach those same people with the gospel. The guy just about shot her nose off. But she still wants to reach them with the gospel, still wants them. Don't let people shooting bullets at you, now don't be stupid either, but uh don't let people shooting bullets at you make you get bitter at them Her heart was broken for them. And then put this last one down, and this one is important. And we notice this from David. Don't pick the javelin up and throw it back. David got out. He didn't get Jab I I how many people agree with me, David could have thrown that thing back and handled Saul just fine. I mean he just did Goliath for Pete's sake. David could have handled Saul very well. David could have, how should we put it nicely, dispatched Saul very efficiently. There's no doubt about it. But he didn't do it. Don't throw the javelins back. They cussed me out. Don't cuss them out back. Now people agree. Christians should not cuss people out. No. Don't throw the javelin back. What a tremendous lesson here from King David. Not King yet, David. And how he responds. And we're going to see that same frame of mind over and over and over and over again over the next period of time while he has to deal with King Saul. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray you'd help us to learn from David and the kindness he showed, even endangering himself, the awareness he had, not stupid, but Lord, his response was so uh godly. I pray you'd help us. We live in a sinful world, and we hear the we hear the voices from our government threatening, we see the cloud on the horizon. Perhaps a persecution and opposition like our country has never seen. And I pray you'd help us to maintain our faith in you. I pray you'd help us in a hostile society to be gracious and kind and see the needs of the people that are throwing these javelins at us. Fill us with your spirit. Give us wisdom. And I pray your love would be shed abroad in our hearts. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, I've got some javelins being thrown at me? Maybe at work, at home somewhere. Somebody's throwing stuff at you. And you'd say, preacher, I want God to help me to keep a good disposition and to keep my eyes on the Lord. Any like that by the uplifted hand, I need God to help me. God bless you. Not going to throw them back. We're not going to throw them back. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless us and help us to be disciples in the midst of a very, very sinful world. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.