Verse number 17. 1 Samuel chapter 18. I want to begin reading in verse number 17. I'm going to read down through verse 31. If you would follow along. And Saul said to Dave said to David, Behold, My elder daughter, uh Merab, her will I give thee to wife. Only be thou valiant for me, and fight the Lord's battles. For Saul said, Let not mine hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my life or my father's family in Israel that I should be the son-in-law to the king? But it came to pass at the time when Mareb, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, that she was given unto Adriel, the Meholathite, to wife. And Michael, Saul's daughter, loved David. And they told Saul, and the thing pleased him. And Saul said, I will give her, I will give him her, that she may be a what? snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Wherefore Saul said to David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law, the one of the twain Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless our study of this passage here tonight, this event in David's life. I pray and ask that you would fill me with your spirit. You'd be our teacher. Help us to glean and apply to our hearts and lives. the truths and principles given here. Lord, speak through me. I yield my will, present my body anew, and pray again that you would be our teacher. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen We pointed out previously, and it's becoming more and more obvious, Paul or Saul has uh had some sort of, I believe he's had some sort of breakdown. uh maybe a mental breakdown in uh his reactions to things and definitely a moral breakdown And I believe there's a spiritual warfare going on here. I've been emphasizing this whole passage, the last actually chapter or two. But I believe God is preparing both Israel for David's leadership, he's preparing them, but now it's veering in, and God is preparing David for the tremendous responsibility That he is going to have as king of Israel, as uh as being uh in the lineage of the Savior, the coming Messiah. And that's no small thing. And so God has to prepare him. He has the right heart. He is a man after God's own heart. That is in place. That's good. But now he needs to be developed. He needs to be um Uh what what is it when you take the steel and you you're gonna harden steel? Um tempered. David is needing to be tempered. There's some rough edges that need to be get off. There's some things he needs to be strengthened hardened. So that is taking place. But as I got looking at this and studying this, I think there's another that there's there's another side to what's happening here God is working, God is developing, strengthening David, and that comes through trials. James chapter 1 tells us that. That comes through hardships, trials, and adversity. But I think the other side of this, simultaneously, Satan, I'm convinced, is trying to take David out. Satan is trying to kill him through King Saul. He's trying to derail that lineage of the coming Messiah. And thus this obsession with killing David over nothing more than the envy of the praise of some women. And so God is using Saul and his insanity to temper David and strengthen him and develop his leadership abilities But at the same time, Satan is working trying to take Satan out. I am gl- or take King David out. I am glad that God trumps Satan. Satan has his wiles, Satan has his schemes, Satan has all of that, but like a master chess player, God can take Satan's moves and turn them around to accomplish his own will. And I think we see that here a good bit. Saul's envy over David's success and particularly his popularity has given birth to two ugly twins. These two twins are anger and fear. And we've noted that as it leads up. Saul was so angry. Look there, verse number eight. And Saul was very wroth. When he heard the praise of David. Then he eyed, verse nine, Saul eyed David from that time forward. He became envious of him. And uh these two have convinced because of his anger and because of his fear. Oh, oh, the fear was the other one, uh, verse number Verse 12, and Saul was afraid of David. So envy has produced anger and has produced this fear, and they have convinced Saul that he must be removed. He must be, the term you hear sometimes, he must be dispatched. David has to be eliminated. He has to be taken care of. And that is where I see Satan's hand in this. That evil spirit comes upon Saul. And he is convinced he has to kill David. There's been three attempts now to diminish David. The first one has been attempted murder, verse number 11. We already looked at that. I view that as Saul just reacting. He didn't stop and think things through. He had no plan. He had no scheme. He just reacted. He got mad He saw it, this evil spirit came upon him, zing, he starts slinging spears, javelins at David. So that was reactionary. Then in verse thirteen, and we've already looked at this also, but he demoted uh David. He brought him off of his staff and put him out on the field. I think the some of that behind that was trying to get David into a dangerous situation I think Saul has kind of settled down now. He's getting focused on what he wants to accomplish. He's beginning to think things through. How am I going to do this? I can't just react. And he's starting to scheme And so I think the demotion of David from the staff out into the field was perhaps to put him in a dangerous position. And now he is becoming very resourceful And King Saul is now thinking this through. He's come up with a plan. And he's going to have David killed. You know, this is Saul's plan. He's going to have David killed, but he's not going to be the one to do it. He's going to set this thing up where David is killed and he's not at and he's not the one responsible. I want us to notice in verse 17 and 18 my first point to my message tonight is the scheme of King Saul. I've mentioned that a couple times now. His scheme to eliminate David. King Saul's scheme. Look at verse 17 again. It says, And Saul said to David Behold, my elder daughter Mereb, her will I give thee to wife, only be thou very valiant for me and fight the Lord's battles So he's changing his tactics now. He's not just reacting and throwing he's got a plan in place. And I'm using that word scheme. What do we mean when somebody says someone is scheming Or Saul here is a scheme. What do we mean by that? What are we talking about? Alright, you want to take advantage. That would be the motive for having this scheme. But the scheme, what does it mean to scheme? Ah, evil intent, trying to fool somebody? Deception. Anything else? I heard somebody else say something Conniving is a good word. It has this idea. This is my definition. I've read a whole slew of them. Here's my definition. A devious plot Or plan, an underhanded plan to accomplish an objective. So the objective is, in Saul's mind, is David be dispatched, David eliminated, David killed. Um what's the word the mobsters use? Bumped off. Whacked. And so that's Saul's motive. And that's the objective. Now, how he's going to accomplish that objective, that's where the scheme comes in. That's where in devious or dishonest methods and plans, he's going to accomplish that objective. Don't tell me the Bible's boring. I read the Bible, it's boring. Are you kidding? There's espionage, there's devious schemes, people attempted getting whacked, you know? But this is a true story. And so Saul is scheming here. A scheme usually carries a hidden agenda. Scheming is very scheming is very uh common in politics. Politicians will scheme. They'll be ever hear this phrase. Watch out, there's strings attached Anybody know what that you know what that means there's a scheme. Oh yeah, they're doing this for you, but they've got an agenda. They've got something they're trying to accomplish. Be very careful. And so Solomon, or Solomon, King Saul here, he doesn't have strings attached to this. He has a noose attached to this. His whole objective here is to get rid of David. So Saul's scheme. Let's look at this scheme. First thing I put down about this scheme was it's a heartless scheme Look at verse 17 again. And Saul said unto David, Behold my what? My elder daughter. I don't know about you, but when you start bringing your kids into something like this, that's pretty heartless. That's pretty heartless. Saul's hatred, Saul's bitterness and hatred and envy for David has gotten so far greater than his love for his own children. He's not wanting Merib to marry David because it would be good for Merib. Now I think it would be good for Merib. to be married to a man after God's own heart, man of this integrity. But that is not Paul's motive whatsoever, what's good for his daughter. If you would, come back to chapter 17 of 1 Samuel. He is actually, King Saul is actually superficially fulfilling a promise he had made. If you come back to chapter 17 and verse number 25, Goliath is out in the valley there, threatening everybody and everything, and challenging everyone. Saul is cowering, the nation, the armies of Israel are cowering and terrified. And Saul makes this promise in verse 25 of chapter 17. And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that has come up, surely to defy Israel is he come up. Look at this. And it shall be that the man who killeth him, Goliath, the king will enrich him with great riches And will give him his what? Ah. And make his father's house free in Israel. Well, lo and behold, David killed Goliath. And so whether King Saul ever made his house father's house free from taxes and whether he made David fabulously rich, like he promised, we don't know. But King Saul does see an opportunity to use this promise he made to accomplish his goal of getting rid of David. And so he's fulfilling his promise, but he's using his daughter for this wicked purpose. As I said, his love for himself and his hatred for David was greater than his love for his own child. And that, as I said, is heartless, is heartless. And I tell you what's a real grief in our day and age, and we see it out in the world, and I hate to say it, but I see it even in Christianity, in Christian homes. Where self-will and self-love and my own agenda is more important to me than the well-being of my children. And we need to be very, very careful about that. That is heartless. That is heartless. Now I really don't want to discuss it because it is absolutely abhorrent to me. But this idea of how abortion is the level that abortion is getting to, that a certain lifestyle or a certain level of living is more important to me than not just the well-being of my child, but the very life of my child. That is heartless. And so Saul is here and hatred, anger Fear, envy has absolutely taken over. Can I give you a statement to write down? I think there's a good statement to write down somewhere. Put it down. Selfishness is heartless. Selfishness is heartless. When self enthrones itself on my heart, and everything becomes about me, and my whole world revolves around me. That's when we become very, very heartless. And we are willing to sacrifice even those who, under any rational thinking, would be the dearest to us. We would be willing to sacrifice them to accomplish our goals, to fulfill my selfish desires. So when getting what I want is more important than the well-being of my child, I am a heartless person. Now look here. Now let's we see a little bit. Of King Saul's thinking. He says, Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter Merib, her will I give thee to wife. Now look what he says here. Only be thou what? Valiant for me. Now he sticks that in there. David has already done, David has already met the conditions to get Merib to be his wife. He killed Goliath. Killed the champion. That was the initial contract, so to speak. You kill Goliath, you can marry my daughter. Now he's thrown this in. I don't know that it's necessarily a Condition, but he throws this challenge in there. Be thou valiant for me. I'm wondering if Saul's thinking isn't this, you know? If he's married to my daughter, he will be maybe a little more risky on the battlefield He might push himself, maybe get a little reckless, valiant. When you think of someone that's valiant, you think about charging in where others are afraid to, right? And I think Saul is very subtly putting these thoughts in this trying to provoke David, maybe, to get a little reckless on the battlefield. to take a little more risk to do some things maybe he wouldn't normally do. So this is a heartless scheme in that he's willing to take his own daughter, his oldest daughter, and use her To get rid of David. So it was a heartless scheme. But I notice also that the scheme he had hidden motives. And that's what a scheme is. But look at verse 17. He says, um Be thou valiant for me and fight the Lord's battles. Fight the Lord's battles. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him. But let the hand of the Philistines be upon him. Now I notice two thoughts in these hidden motives, and there's two things stand out when he makes these statements. The first one is, I think Saul's trying to be very, very pious here He goes, I'll give you my daughter Merib, she can be your wife, only be thou valiant for me, David. You go out and get them. Come on now. You're my son-in-law, you'll be my son-in-law. My daughter's your wife. Come on, you get out after them. And then he did you notice the next statement he makes there. Be thou valiant and fight whose battles The Lord's battles. You know what I think King's calls then? I think he's being very pious. Oh, this isn't about me. This is all about the Lord. Brother, you don't have to be in the ministry long. People start showing up putting on this pious thing. They've got their agenda. They've got all this, oh preacher, I just love the Lord. And you know, it's just because it's for the children. You know, and it put on this pie thing. Again, I'm picking on politicians tonight because they irritate me sometimes. But um Politicians will be that boy, they'll show up at a thing, they'll got their big family Bible under their arm, and they know what to say and do all that. You see it when they're campaigning You know, boy, they'll quote Scripture and uh we had a uh I'm so tempted to say who it was, but a guy was running for office And he had given me a little bit of a hard time and we were talking about uh the radio station, you know, and a lot of people had fought putting up that tower and everything. Well, this guy's running for office. And he came over, he said, Pastor, he said, Reverend Leatherman, I'd like for you to, I'd like to have your vote and have you uh endorse me for this office And I said, seriously? And he goes, listen, I want you to tell you, we were for that radio station. I listened to Christian radio all the time. And um it was Talk to the hand, you know. We were down in Dominican Republic and they have a little market there in the Santa Domingo, the capital, and every time we go down we end up going there. Well Steve Siddler, everybody that comes down from the States, he takes him there to buy little souvenirs and stuff. So and you don't just buy stuff. You don't go in and like Walmart and take it off the shelf and go pay for it. You gotta haggle for everything. Or you get ripped off blind And so I had the well this young fellow from the church there, he spoke English and Spanish, so he was helping me. But we walked in when they saw Brother Siddler, it's a big warehouse type thing, it's huge and just just little market, little shops after each other and got stuff everywhere, just hanging everywhere and all over. As soon as we walked in, um they saw that he had some Americans with him and suddenly one lady starts saying an Amazing Grace And all of a sudden all the radio stations, all the uh radio was Christian music everywhere. Oh Christian, oh we're Christian. And then the next guy came in was Hindu and it was all Hindu songs and everything. No, I don't know But that's kind of what Saul is doing here. He says, Oh, this is the Lord's battle, David. You're a guy that has a after the God, you're a man after God's own heart. These are the Lord's battles. So he's trying to be very, very pious. Watch out for people that are pious in a phony way. Watch out for that. And then also he's being a little bit more political. He says, Let not mine hand be upon him. Again, Saul is concerned about his image in the eyes of the people. What would they think of him if he killed? Their hero, their champion. What in the world would they think of Saul? And what the people thought of Saul was very, very important to Saul. And so he's being political here. He says, well, uh that way my hand's not on. I think you could you could paraphrase it this way: we need to make sure they can't pin this on me. This isn't mine. This isn't me. The farther Saul got from God, the more concerned he was about his image. Now listen, you agree with me, we ought to have a good testimony, right? And our testimony is to some extent what people think of us. Correct? They say us and then they get this our testimonies, what they think of us. However, if what people think of us becomes the most important thing in our lives, we are far from God. Because it isn't a matter of people praising us, it's a matter of us pleasing God. And Saul was not even remotely concerned at this point about what pleased God. He was concerned about getting rid of David and making sure nobody thought ill of him. You know what that tells me? If he is saying, if if King Saul is saying this, I don't want them to pin this on me. That means he knew that what he was doing was what? Wrong. He knew he was wrong. He knew this was sin, and yet he was hard and hearted, cold-hearted, and he was going to do it. It didn't matter if it pleased God or not. I tell you what, when we get to the point Or we say, I know this is wrong, but I'm going to do it anyway. I'm telling you what, that is dangerous ground to be on. That is dangerous ground. And so he's getting a little political here. I don't want him to pin this on me. So his scheming, it was a heartless scheme and had hidden motives. Then verse 18, he runs into this humble subject. This guy that he's out to whack is so humble. Look at verse 18. And so he finds out King Saul says, hey, I'll give you my oldest daughter, Merib. You can marry her. Look how David responds. And David said unto Saul, who am I? And what is my life or my father's family in Israel that I should be the son-in-law to the king? What a little window into the heart of David. What a humble guy. He just killed Goliath, the scariest guy on the planet. He's just had ten uh he just had all the women of Israel singing in a parade about him killing his ten thousand. He's chief of staff at that point. leadership. And Saul says, I'm going to give you the king. And David said, Saul says, I'm going to give you my daughter. And David says, Who am I? Well, what am I? I'm telling you, humility will win over pride every single time. In the end Humility is going to come out on top. You mark it down. I suspect that David knew what Saul was up to. I mean I'm just speculating on that, but I'm convinced David is no dummy. He's already had a javelin thrown at him twice. He knows Saul's frame of mind at this point. I suspect he knew what he was up to. And he, I believe, now this is me, I can't prove it, but I believe David was deliberately humbling himself. Because my Bible says, he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. And he that exalteth himself shall be abased And I'm convinced a man after God's own heart understood that there is safety in humility. That God, God's heart is turned. I said this often, and I I'm I I really don't want to be uh this irreverent towards God. But as I say in my Bible, it's like God cannot resist humility. Every time somebody humbles themselves genuinely and sincerely, you find God responding. You find God stepping in. And so Saul has this elaborate scheme. In his mind, it's faultless. This is going to work. He'll marry my daughter. He'll get out there. He's going to get reckless. because uh women make men do stupid things and uh he's gonna go out there and he's gonna get killed. And then David Perhaps anticipates all that's happening here and David says, I'm just going to humble myself. I'm going to humble myself. That leads me to my second he head or second point. First one is I noticed the scheme of King Saul. But verse 19, it's thrown in there, and I'm looking at verse 19, and I'm thinking, I don't understand exactly what's taking place here. So I put this down, I see the sovereignty of God Look at verse 19, what happens? Alright, it's all lined up. He's gonna marry Merib, but it came to pass at the time So everything's laid out, all the arrangements are made, all the invitations are set out, is my impression. All the invitations are out, the candle opera's in place They've got the uh caterer lined up for after the wedding. I mean it's going to be something. The hero, the champion of Israel, is marrying the king's oldest daughter. This is uh this is all the newspapers are there, CNN, everybody's there all ready to go. And at the last minute, look what happens. And it came to pass at the time when Merib, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, that she was given to who? Adriel. Who in the world is this guy? Where'd he come from? The Maholothite wife. I thought, what in the world is going on here? For whatever reason, at the last minute, the arrangements fell through, and she ends up marrying another guy. So I'm speculating here because we're not told. We're not given any more details about this than what I just read to you. So here's my thinking. I'm wondering I'm looking at this and I'm wondering, I bet you, now I don't bet, but if I did, I would bet you that Saul's behind this somehow. I think it could be that Saul is trying to get David to react He's lined up got it all lined up. Oh yeah, you're gonna marry my daughter. It's gonna be great. We got everything catered. This is wonderful. We got tech this is the best tucks you've ever worn in your life. This is gonna be an amazing thing. You're going to marry my daughter, then at the very last minute he goes, Oh nope, she's marrying him. And I'm thinking, I'm speculating. You could come to me and tell me you're wrong, and you might be right, I might be wrong But I'm thinking Saul is thinking that'll get him. He'll get mad. He'll throw a javelin at me. I can whack him. I'm justified. And my job is done. I don't know how many people think that's plausible. I don't care what people think because I just preached. Don't worry about what people think I think that's possible. It doesn't tell us why. I can see Saul doing that. David doesn't respond in the flesh. David doesn't get angry. How many people agree with me? If that was Revol's reverse, Saul would probably get angry and try and kill him. Sure, because Saul is on the throne of Saul's life, not the Lord. Saul has a heart after his own self. Whereas David has a heart after God. And so David doesn't respond the way Saul would respond And um so I I don't know if that's correct. I've got my notes here, I've got question marks all around it, because I can't say certainly that that's the case. But here's the another aspect of this I'm thinking. I know this, that God is sovereign. What do we mean by that? God is what? He's in control. God overrules everything. And so we know that God is sovereign. So we know that this This did not happen outside of the sovereignty of God. God allowed this to happen, which means he has something he can do with it. I think whether Saul was scheming here was part of his scheme or not, I don't know. But I'm pretty confident of this, that God was protecting David from something. Down the road. Do you ever get you ha you were going to go somewhere, you had to get there and there was a tree down across the road and it delayed you forever And you had to go all the way through town to get around. And anybody here at everhapen to you, and boy, you got aggravated as or ma or worse yet, you're going up 219 and there's an out of town person driving in front of you, a tourist And they're stopping at every intersection trying to find the road that they need a turn on. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And you're aggravated to death and you're ready to blow the horn and ram them or pass them on the right or something Maybe we ought to stop and think, maybe God's protecting me for something down the road of ways. There may be a deer would run out that would the antlers come through the window and kill me or something. I don't know. So I know this. God is sovereign and a lot of times disappointments or delays or changes that we have no control over I believe are God perhaps leading and directing. And I think God was protecting David from something down the road. And we have a little suggestion of that in Scripture If you would, come with me to 2 Samuel chapter 21. This is later, David is king. Now it's a little complicated here, so I'll try and simplify it and just kind of give the background here In Joshua, when they were coming into the land, the Gibeonites fooled Joshua. They had their own scheme. They made it look like they had traveled a long way and they got their old wine g uh uh um jugs And they made them look like they were old and all their bread was stale. Anyone remember reading that in Joshua? And they show up and Joshua says, Where in the world are you guys from? Oh, we're from a long way off And we came to make people they weren't from all way off. They lived the next county over. They were over in Terraldo. They weren't far away. Oh, we've come from we've come from St. Louis. Really? And we heard about you heard about us all the way out there. Yeah. We've been trawn this whole way. We just want to make peace with you and just And Joshua, and if you notice, he doesn't pray, he doesn't seek the Lord, he just makes an off-handed decision, say, okay, we'll make peace with you, we'll make a covenant with you, we will not kill you We'll will protect you and take care of you. Lo and behold, they lived over in Terra. You guys aren't from St. Louis. Oh, we're uh sorry, but you made the covenant. Annie nanny boo-boo, you're stuck. Alright? And so he made a covenant. Years go by, King Saul violates that covenant. And King Saul slew a whole bunch of those Gibeonites. And God held Israel responsible for breaking that covenant. particularly King Saul. Now that's where we pick up here in verse number chapter 21, 2 Samuel, verse 1. It says, then there was a famine in the days of David, three years Year after year, and David inquired of the Lord. And the Lord and David asked him, why is this famine, Lord? And the Lord answered, It is for who? Saul for his bloody house, because he slew the Gibeonites, he violated a covenant that Israel had made with these people. And God held him responsible, and it withheld the reign. Now come over, we could we could spend a lot of that, but come over if you would to verse number eight. So David goes to the Gibeonites and say, hey, what can we do? A bunch of your people were killed by King Saul. It was wrong. It violated. What can I do to make things right? I'm paraphrasing here, abbreviating it. And they said, uh, give us a bunch of the heads of King Saul. Give a bunch of his offspring. Kill them in retaliation. So right or wrong or whatever, that was the deal. So look at verse 8. And the king, this is David at this point, took the two sons of Rizbah. The daughter of Ah, whom she bare unto Saul, are Monai and Mephibosheth. Now look at this. And the five sons of Michael Now Michael is the next daughter. We're going to see here in a little bit that David actually did marry. The five sons of Michael, the daughter of Saul, look at this, whom she brought up for Adriel. The son of Barzili, the Moholothite. That's Merib's husband. These are Merib's kids. The one that the last second, King Saul said, Oh no, you're not marrying her. She's marrying him. She had five kids. Now, we're not told, so we're just speculating here. Apparently, she may have died early on, and the gal, Michael, the gal that David eventually did marry, she raised those kids for her. And they're the ones that are killed to appease the Gibeonites. Don't tell me the Bible's boring. Good night. This is riveting. Now, again, I can't say this for certain. This is just my thinking. But I wonder if David had married Merib, those have been his kids. And he would have been embroiled in this controversy with the Gibeonites Because it would have been his kids that would have need to have been executed. I don't know. But I see this event takes place. It's kind of ironic that it's the guy that married the gal that David was gonna this is like soap opera stuff, you know. This guy married the gal that David was gonna marry, but her dad stepped in and said, No, you're gonna marry her Then years later, his kids are killed instead of David's. So here's my here's what I'm taking away from that verse 19, that one little thing there is, I see God's hand in this. And God's protecting David from something that could have been a scar on his administration Could have hurt his relationship with other nations. We don't know. But um God intervened there. Now let me give you my last thought real quick. I got a couple minutes. And the lights are on so I can see if you're sleeping or not But what's the application from that thought? Here's my application from that thought. When something happens I have no control of that may be disappointing, that may completely alter my life, rather than getting angry and bitter and slinging stuff around like I think Saul anticipated David to do. Let's just humble ourselves and say, I see God's hand in this. I'm going to trust him that he's leading and directing and protecting me from something. The last thought is this. I notice the snare of Michael. Uh come back here. Uh let's look at this. This is gets interesting. This gets a little this gets a little steamy Here. And Michael, Saul's daughter, what? Look at verse 20. Michael, Saul's daughter, she loved David. And they told Saul, how did they know that Michael loved David? She told him. How else would they know? The way she's acting and what she's talking. Oh, David's so dreamy. Oh, I'm so in love with him. I want him so bad. And she's running her mouth this way. And the thing pleased him, King Saul. King Saul says, Aha. And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a what? snare that the hand of the Philistines may be against them. Wherefore Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law in the one of the twain. So you can't marry Marib, so I'll let you marry Michael But it's interesting, he doesn't say about Merib that she will be a snare to him. He just says, I'll let you marry her, you be valiant, you get out there, be reckless, push the limits, maybe he'll get killed. Then David humbles himself and it's like, oh all right, you marry her. Then Michael shows up and said and he gets word, Michael is in love with David. Oh, that's all she talks about. She writes little notes and hearts in the sand. I love I heart David and they're everywhere. Really? Yeah. I know Michael. I know her. She'll be a snare to him. Hmm. That tells me a little bit about Michael, doesn't it? In fact, I got pursuing that line of thought a little bit, and I found I think this gal's a piece of work, this Michael gal, who he ends up marrying. I put this down on this. I put this down. I believe she was a what the Bible refers to as a strange woman. Do you ever read in Proverbs about the strange woman? You know one of the chief characteristics of a cha strange woman is? She chases men. You read it. It is strange. She chases men. She falls in love with every guy that comes along. And I thought, well that I I got thinking of that. She wanted David. And it became obvious to those around her she wanted David. Now, the only kind of woman I find in the Bible that chases men that go around wanting men is Proverbs describes as a strange woman, and that's a fascinating study in and of itself. So she was a strange woman, I think, in this mentality that she wanted him. But I put this down, number two, she was a sensual woman. Now I get this from this word. It says Michael Saul's daughter loved David. I got looking at that word love. That's a unique word. It has it is a sensual word. It meant she loved him in a sensual way. She desired him sensually. And I looked to see how it was used other places in the Bible to see if it brought that out at all And lo and behold, anybody remember the fellow, one of David's boys named Amnon? Anybody remember Amnon? And he had a half-sister, her name was what? Tamar. And it says, and I got the reference here, it says in 2 Samuel 13, verse 1, that Absolut uh that Amnon loved Tamar. Same word, exact same word comes from the exact same Hebrew word. So the the love that Amnon had for Tamar was the exact same quote unquote love that Michael had for David. Now if you study that event with Amnon and Tamar, we see what kind of love that was. He didn't love her in the sense, I want to take care of you and spend the rest of my life with you and protect you and provide for you. His love was, I want to get you in bed. Because when he finally got her in bed, what's the Bible say? After that he hated her, he despised her, he wanted nothing to do with her. That was a sensual, selfish love. And that is exactly the word used to describe Michael's attraction for David. It was a sensual thing. It was lust. And I'm telling you, Saul knew that. He knew what kind of girl she was. Thus he said this. She will be a snare unto him. She's gonna mess him up. She's gonna get him. And that was that's my last thought under the snare of Michael. She was a seductive woman. Now I use that word probably not in the right sense that we normally would use it, but I get it from the word snare. The word snare there means this, to bait. To lure? It's interesting, some places it's translated as a hook that a fisherman would use. You would put the bait over that hook. And be a snare. You'd snare that fish and pfft, got him. So she is seductive. She is debate To lure David out of the will of God into a place of danger. Now, I think King Saul was using her as that bait. But she was any do we have any fishermen here? Anybody here ever fish with live bait like a little minnow or something? What's that minnow do when you're trying to get it on the hook? Trying to get away. I never you know or the worm. Give me your worm it's squirming all over. Back years ago, Kathy used to go fishing with me. She really did. Except she would never put the worm on I think with squirm everywhere. I have never had a worm that jumped up on the hook say, ooh, I'll go on the hook But that's what Michael's doing. She was willing to be the bait. Now whether she understood all that King Saul was doing or not. But she simply was the bait that Saul used to lure David into losing his life. Now, a couple other things, and I've got to quit. But here's a thought I have. I wonder. Now David marries her. I mean he's he's no dummy. I could be completely wrong, and I would acknowledge it. I wouldn't fuss for one second over this. I could be completely wrong. But I'm wondering if there wasn't the physical part of David liked it. That this woman was so uh maybe isn't the right term, so hot for him. He wanted him I wonder if that didn't appeal to David's flesh. And I'm wondering if this isn't an early indicator of a problem that David was going to have with women. One in particular. And I even got thinking this, and I may be in left field, so I'll grant that with you. But uh made me think this. I wonder if Bathsheba didn't maybe feel towards David the way Michael did and thus just happen to be on a roof bathing herself when David's right there. Far fetched, maybe. Am I throwing blame on Bathsheba? No, David's the one held responsible totally for it. But I just think it's ironic that this woman's attitude, this Michael's attitude towards David, I'm just wondering if this isn't an early indicator of a weakness, a chink, so to speak, in David's armor. Where he's going to get hit later on. And then his son Solomon takes it to a whole nother level. So I don't know. But I know this. I know this. God is working in David's heart. And David's life to develop him for a phenomenal responsibility he's going to have. And simultaneously, Satan is working To destroy and kill David. And here's what I want to end with. Satan knows where our chink and our armor is. Satan's no dummy. He knows where our weakness is. He knows, can I put it in the terminology of our text? Satan knows our what is our snare. Knows what our snare is. And so we've got to be diligent, we've got to be vigilant, we've got to humble ourselves. Now I'm not saying David was wrong with Mary. Mary Michael Michael she gives him fits later on. But um Uh and I I I may I'm speculating on so much of this, I I I I'll grant you that, but uh I do want to say we need to be very, very careful We need to be wise. See God's hand. Humble ourselves. Be aware of Satan's snares. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray we can learn from this. Lord, I I stand before you tonight and I say, Lord, I know I speculated a lot tonight. Maybe if I'm off, Lord, I pray you would correct me. But I pray that you would help us. To learn from David, to learn from King Saul, to learn from Michael and Merib, this whole sorid event. Help us to trust you and follow you completely. That you could keep us from these snares of the devil. He knows our weakness, Lord, so we need you to help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And maybe there's some tonight, boy, Satan's been working you over. Maybe there's some tonight that snare has been hanging out there and it's just there, and boy And maybe just tonight you need to stop and say, Lord, I'm going to humble myself before you, and I want you to have your way. Jane's got the piano going there. She's going to play. Maybe just at an old altar say, Lord, protect me from Satan's snares. Lord, help me to see your sovereignty in my life and how you lead and direct and protect us. And God will help us. God surely will