If you can find your place, we're going to start in verse seven. Our church this year is going through this book, 1 Peter. Our theme for the year is the trial of your faith that comes out of the first chapter. And as basically a parallel theme to the trial of your faith, we're looking at living well in troubled times. Living well in troubled times is kind of is our theme. So tonight we're going to look at two critical attitudes for success. in troubled times. Two critical attitudes for success and troubled times that the believer needs to have. And we're going to start in verse 7. I'm going to read down through verse number 11 here tonight. So 1 Peter chapter 4 And verse 7 begins, but the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Use hospitality one to another without grudging As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. If any man speak, Let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ to whom be praise and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Number one tonight I want us to see that we're working at two critical attitudes. The first attitude is The Christian must have an expectant attitude towards Christ's return. And it's going to come out of verse number seven. An expectant attitude towards Christ's return. It says, But the end of all things is at hand. It's important to remember who said it and when that was said. That's striking, isn't it? This is the first century, probably somewhere around 50 AD. And Peter writes that the end of all things is at hand. Now, Christians in the early church, they expected the Lord to return in their lifetime. It's hard to read the New Testament and not have that come out to you very clearly. First Corinthians chapter 15 and the latter end of that chapter Paul said, but we shall be changed. He was expectant that he would be in that group, that would be caught away in the rapture. Alright, but that of course did not happen for them. We know that. We can look back, we can see that. Now, does the fact that it did not happen for Paul and Peter make it void today? And I think that's the question that we need to ask ourselves on a regular basis. Of course it didn't But we need to make sure that we're not living in doubt of his return just because he did not return and some past generation. I think that'd be easy to do. We'll say, well, they expected him to come. Here's the great apostles Peter and Paul expecting him to come, but he didn't come in their time. Oh, so that means, you know, well maybe he's not going to come, or maybe they were wrong about the expectation of him coming in their lifetime. No, they were not. Let's turn over here to 2 Peter chapter 3 real quick. 2 Peter chapter 3 and verse 4. And Peter basically now is going to go ahead and explain why perhaps Christ may not come back in your lifetime or in our lifetime. What is holding him back from returning? This is Peter's explanation. He begins in chapter 3. This is the second Letter now, chapter three, verse four, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation. And he says, For this they Alright, now they are the scoffers, the mockers, the unbelievers, that they are the ones who are making fun of you or for me for believing in the second coming. Okay, so that's who they are. Look in verse 5. For this they willingly are ignorant of that by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water. Whereby the world that then was being overflowed with water perished, but the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. Now here he starts this encouragement. Verse eight. But beloved, a very tender term, obviously referring to believers. But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day The Lord is not slack concerning his promise. What promise? That is the promise of his return. That's not some generic promise. This is the specific promise. So God is not slack concerning that promise Alright, as some men count slackness, but as long suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And we get a little bit of an insight here about why the Lord might choose to not return immediately so that more people would come unto repentance. Alright? And that's a very great thing. So we must all make the faithful choice. in our lives to live in expectation of Christ's return, knowing that others have lived with that same expectation, but he did not come in their time. And this is an attitude that every one of us is needs to have if we're going to have success in troubled times. If we're going to start living in these troubled times in which we find ourselves and start doubting whether he's he could or whether he's even going to return. probably not going to live very Christ-like lives. We're probably going to turn ourselves over into the things of the world, other pursuits and other activities. This keeps our focus on living well That's what Peter's all about. First Peter is all about how to live well through difficulty. So in the rest of this chapter, if we go back here to chapter four and 1 Peter, Peter reveals a lot of different things about how to live a balanced life. How to how to live in light of Christ any day return, but not neglecting responsibilities that you and I have as whatever our role may be, whether it's a husband, whether it's a wife, whether it's a mother uh or something like that, whether it's a child, to not just jettison all those responsibilities. How do you live a balanced life? And I'm not going to go through all these. There's about ten of them. that go down through the rest of this chapter. But we're going to start here just with one, because it comes out of our text, and that's in verse 7. He says, be therefore sober. That's the first thing. It's the first thing he mentions. Be therefore sober. What does that mean? This means to have a mind that's steady and clear, a mind that's of sound judgment, discernment All right. And so where does that where does that come from? How do you be sober? How do you develop the ability to be sober? Is that just something that you have or you don't have? Now I think that this this sobriety or this sound mind comes out of being sound in doctrine. Now you're going to be sound in doctrine, just because you know you want it real bad or Or you you pray it real bad or something like that. The only way anybody's ever going to become sound in doctrine is to saturate themselves with the Word of God. And on a continual, repetitious, consistent basis. There's no other way it's going to come It's no other way. And I think sometimes sadly that uh Christians think, well, I'm very sincere and I'm I'm doing a lot of things for God, maybe But so somehow I'm just going to become sound and truth. And I'm I know I'm neglecting the scripture here, but I'm doing all these other things. Not going to cut it. There's only one way to become sound in doctrine, and that's through the scriptures. Sober-minded people are doctrinally sound people. And therefore their theology is well balanced. They're not often extremes. They're not often conspiracy theories. They're not fanat off on fanatical quests. And they often, let's be honest, they tend to usually draw a little attention to themselves because they're not doing those things. They're just being a good Christian. In a world where the deceived are susceptible to all kinds of wild thinking, a Christian must be sound in mind and heart, and that's what this means here to be sober. To be Sober. The next one is watch unto prayer there in verse 7. So these are the commandments, by the way, to watch unto prayer. What does this mean? Watch means to be controlled to be disciplined, to be alert. And the translation watch comes out of the idea, that's what a watchman does. A watchman on a wall, you want him to be alert. You want him to be awake, discipline, not sleeping, not dozing, not neglecting, because there's danger out there if he neglects his responsibility to stay alert and to watch. But it says watch unto prayer. It's relatively easy now when we connect this that without regular, consistent, diligent prayer, you're not going to be able to be a very good watch person. So prayer is extremely important in this component. Preacher, that's too much. That's too much. You're telling me to do this, I've got to do this. Well, I'll be awesome. I'm not telling you that. You could read that right there for yourself. Uh and so these are very important things. So watch, it's basically the opposite of being drunk. Or asleep, uh the meaning of the word here. So this expectant attitude towards Christ's return involves these two things, a sound mind and to be sober And to do that you're going to have to be doctrinally sound, and to do that, you're going to have to have a life saturated with God's Word. And uh you you might, well, how much? Do I I mean do I have to get up and and be reading the Bible for eight hours a day or d or d or fourteen hours a day and neglect all these other responsibilities? No. No, I think it's pretty it's pretty easy to see. God has laid out these aspects for us to saturate ourselves with God's word. Our personal and devotional time. You be here when the church services are going on, you hear the word of God taught by the man who God has set over you, the one that God has put over you in the Lord, and you have your daily, regular time in the Word. You'd be faithful to the teaching and preaching opportunities of the church, and I dare you say you're probably going to be saturated with the Word of God. But you're going to have to be disciplined and dedicated. and committed to make that happen. But if we can, and a lot of you do. And if and if you are if you're here tonight and you don't, begin. Begin. And you need a good start here tonight. All right, number two, I only got two points tonight. Number two, so the first attitude was an attitude, an expectant attitude towards the return of Christ. Number two, we need to have an expectant attitude toward the saints. All right. An expectant attitude towards the saints. Verse 8 through 11 are contextually dealing with other believers. Verse 8 through 11 are dealing with other believers, and what is the most basic practical application in your life of other believers? The church. The church of Christ. It's those church members that God has set you together with. That is the most practical outworking of your one another in The New Testament. Here we're going to see yourselves. So look in verse eight. And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves. Yourselves It's talking about the community of believers. And it's clear and in the New Testament, what's the community of believers? It's a church. Okay. So that's how you need to look at all these commandments here, in 8 through 11, so that's what I mean, toward the saints. or towards really fellow church members, probably a little bit more precise. So let's uh let's look at the th these things here. Have fervent uh charity, fervent A charity. Fervent pictures an athlete striving towards a goal. The word picture is an athlete striving towards a goal. Alright. Obviously, you know what that way is being love. That kind of love. So the kind of love that as an athlete you're striving after to attain. Now, I I I use this illustration Athletes, some sort of athletic competition, when you were striving, I mean you were working really hard, your flesh usually wants to stop Your body is telling you I'm it hurting. I'm in pain. I'm I'm I like a marathon runner or something like that I I want to stop now. I want to quit. My muscles hurt. I'm having trouble breathing. But I want to win or I want to help my team win. I need to persevere in this. I'm going to continue onward. That's the kind of fervent love that's being talked about here. So what am I driving at? It's not I it's easy to love when you feel like it. That's what I'm getting at. It's this is not the kind of love that's being talked about. None of us will have trouble loving the brethren when we feel like it, when times are going well, when things are going good, everything's nice, I feel comfortable. That's not when you're gonna have trouble at all. The trouble's gonna come when the flesh everything in your flesh is telling you, I don't wanna I don't want to I don't want to love that person. I don't want to show any kind of love. I don't want to even be there. I I I I I use this illustration. I I went for uh a dog on on Sunday and I don't run a whole lot, but I'm starting to run a little bit more lately. And uh I I timed myself and it ended up taking me 47 minutes. And uh it was really hot that day and and I wanted to go out in the heat and humidity of the day. I think it was uh it was like three and a half miles or something like that. And uh so 47 minutes. I wanted to stop after the first minute. And I'm not even kidding. I walked down to the end of the driveway of the mailbox and I started running, knowing that how I knew how far I was going to go, I knew how long it was going to take. I wanted to stop after the first minute. My body wanted to no all kinds of excuses why this was ridiculous or stupid to do. And that's that's what he's talking about here, this kind of an athlete, this kind of charity, and then it's among yourselves. We already talked about who yourselves are So verse 8, for charity or love shall cover the multitude of sins. Now it's going to be easy to to uh to misinterpret me on this, and I'll try I'm gonna have to blow through this. But uh there is an aspect in your life of covering the sins of other people. There's an extreme here which I'm not talking about. I'm not talking about covering up things that need to be dealt with. I I'm not talking about some real serious sin or problem that we're just going to cover up because we're afraid of somebody else finding out about it because it's going to cost us financially, it's going to destroy our church. I'm not talking about those type of things I'm talking about the this aspect of not every sin that somebody does against you needs to be justified. Not every sin that somebody commits against you you have to go through Matthew 18 to deal with. Now at the same moment, I'm not telling you not to do that either. If if you feel that you've really been offended and and it's weighing on you and you need to go through Matthew 18, then you go ahead and do that. But I'm talking about there's there's Let's be honest. Do you go through Matthew 18 with everybody who offends you about something? What kind of apparatus do you use in your mind to say I don't really need to do that here. I can cover this. I can let this go I can give the other person the benefit of the doubt that they didn't really mean it. They weren't really thinking about it. It was something they did in the flesh. If they could do over again, they wouldn't do it. These type of things. And he says, this type of charity, if you have this type of fervent charity, that covers A multitude of sins, and this is what I believe about this, that if you are not showing fervent charity, you will not cover and you will have to go get justification with, or you'll have to gossip about it with somebody, or you'll have to go spread it around or start evil surmising about somebody else in the church. That is going to create a lot of trouble. Turn over with me if I can find it here. I'm going to have to go way down the list. Proverbs 17,9. Proverbs chapter 17 and uh verse 9. Because it this verse is going to say almost the exact same thing that Peter is saying. Proverbs seventeen and verse number nine. And I'll give you time to turn here because there's a really Important principle that's brought out at the end of this verse. Alright, Proverbs 17, 9 reads, He That covereth a transgression. So that's what we're talking about, right? It said fervent love is going to cover a multitude of sins. He that covereth a transgression seeketh love. But now here's our contrast. But he that repeateth a matter separateth very friends. So this is your contrasting parallelism. So what what is being contrasted? Covering versus repeating. Covering versus repeating. So you and I can either choose to cover certain matters, and when we do that, we are seeking, we're promoting love among the brethren. Or we can repeat it, we can keep bringing it up, we can keep talking about it. What is that going to do To whoever that is. It's gonna cause you're gonna separate very friends. You're gonna you're gonna destroy relationships. You're gonna strain relationships. You are going to turn the body of Christ into less of the loving assembly that it ought to be. Alright? So that's it dovetails perfectly here with Proverbs 17. Now I will say it one more time I'm not talking about uh we somebody in there in our church that committed this major, major prop sin. I mean they've broken the law, but we're just going to push up the guy under the rug. So it doesn't cause any major trouble. Not not talking about that. I don't think Peter's talking about that uh at all. Now verse number nine, if I can ever get back here. First Peter Chapter 4 and verse 9, we're going to see some more things that relate to yourselves or the brethren here. He says, use hospitality one another without grudging. This is talking about within yourselves, among yourselves, the context again being the church, be hospitable with one another. And I could go into that a lot more, I won't. Vienna says without grudging, w basically without complaining about it. Don't go don't make this mistake. I I you know I I just have to be hospitable because God wants to be in hospitable or the pastor wants to be in hospitable. I know it's the right thing to do. But I'm gonna I'm just gonna find certain people that I can complain about why I just I really wish I didn't have to do all this hospitality stuff. Wish somebody else would do this hospitality stuff. Alright. So saying here, hey, the and obviously then if he's giving us this commandment He knew, hey, this could be a tendency in some of us to be hospitable, but complain about the fact that we're being hospitable. That's all he's saying here. All right, let's keep going. Now we're going to look at spiritual gifts really, really fast Here in ten and eleven. As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. Okay. So Uh I'm not I've never really talked to the pastor much about spiritual gifts. So if anything I say tonight is in he doesn't agree with, well he's right and I'm wrong about spiritual gifts. All right Okay, so I think that I believe, I'm confident, you have at least one spiritual gift, no doubt about it. At least one. All right. I lean more towards I I think you have one, but at least one for sure. Romans 12 is clear you've got at least one. And the seven gifts, I believe the seven gifts are prophecy, teaching, service, encouragement, giving, administration Mercy. Alright, so he's here. Serving faithfully with your gift is part of stewardship. You see that? As good stewards. Of the manifold grace of God. Since you have been given, if you were saved tonight, you've been given at least one spiritual gift, at least one, you're to be a good steward of that. That's important. Well how do how how am I a good steward of that? Well you you serve with it. You put it in into play. Where is the most practical place for you to practice your spiritual gift. It's it's in the body. It's in the church. Alright. So verse eleven Here talks about, I believe what verse 11 does is it takes the spiritual gifts and puts them in the basically two general categories. speaking gifts and then serving gifts. So let's read the verse. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister that or to serve Jeff speaking or ministering. If any may minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth, that God in all things may be glorified Through Jesus Christ, to whom we praise and dominion forever and ever. Amen. So I break down the gifts like this. Speaking gifts, obviously, prophecy is clearly a speaking gift. Teaching would be a speaking gift. Exhortation or encouragement, there's a lot of a speaking gift in there. That also you you could do certain things for somebody. service oriented without speaking, that would be a great encouragement to them as well, so that could go both ways. Some ministering gifts Or so let's look at the ministering gift. So service. A lot of people with that gift, they don't really like to talk much. They serve with their gift most time without talking. By doing a lot of things. A lot of menial things, a lot of things that they don't even want anybody to know that they're doing a lot of times. They uh they usually uh run away from public speaking like the play. Okay, giving Giving's the other one. I mean giving's almost so obvious, not a speaking gift. I guess you could somehow give by speaking, but usually not. Usually the gift of giving is something else. Now the next one is administration or the King James calls it ruling. Ruling back there in Romans. So ruling has this idea of administrating things. the ability to organize things together, to run a program, to delegate, to administer, to organize, to execute a plan, see it come to fruition take a lot of great joy out of that. There's some speaking involved in that, but there's a lot more just planning uh involved in that one. And then mercy. Mercy's the one that's the most difficult I think to pigeonhole into one or the other. People can show mercy by speaking. People can show mercy by just coming up and putting their arm around you and listening to you as you're in a time of great difficulty. So mercy can definitely go uh both ways. But the capstone here is at the end of verse 11, this is the great capstone of what Peter is trying to say, and that is that God. This is a purpose clause, literally in order that In order for all this, in order that, or that God and all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ So being sober and watching through prayer, why we do that? That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ. All right, having fervent love for the brethren. Why do we do that? So God can be glorified in all things through Jesus Christ. Why do you use hospitality? Why do you serve with your with your gift your gifts in the assembly. All these things come back to this purpose. And if we are running those these if we are doing these things with that purpose in mind, then don't be surprised if you live pretty well in troubled times. Don't be surprised if God really brings uh sheds a lot of grace upon you to encourage you in troubled times when a lot of other people are falling apart and failing and giving up and quitting. But you're you're doing exactly what Isaiah forty talks about, rising up with wings as eagles. And that is how all of you, those of you here tonight, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, you can bring glory to God through your church, which is Christ's Church. During the time that God gives all of you to live. Or if you're not from Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, you're from another church like my family is. Bring glory to God through your church That's Christ Church. And you will be living well in troubled times. Our Heavenly Father tonight, I thank you for our time together. I know it was brief and uh So the really great truths here and these simple verses about how to live well in troubled times and expect an attitude towards your return. I know it's easy to go uh day days, weeks even maybe Without really thinking and living as though you're going to come back and believing with all our heart that you are going to return, set things right here upon this earth once again. And sin will be put down forever. We look forward to that. But also we need to have an exp this kind of attitude, this fervent charity towards one another, to help one another. Live well in troubled times and bring glory to your name. In Jesus' name we pray tonight. Amen. All right, Pastor.