To Titus in the New Testament. And while you're finding that, um I I look forward to all that we're gonna get to be a part of. Brother Williams obviously will have some things uh part of the uh program today and and you already heard from Brother Fox earlier. And um you know Honestly, Brother Fox, uh I I I mean I I liked your message this morning and and and I like your music, but your laugh is just what intrigues me. I I mean, you know, I like hanging around some people because they got heart and spirit. And when this man laughs, it makes me want to laugh. And uh he's got a little unique presentation in that regard, and it's a blessing. And uh I do want to say too, now uh some of you uh brother Sam was here before, wasn't he? He he's been here before. And uh Brother Sam Davison, uh now listen, please trust me. If you've not heard Sam Davison, don't live and die without having heard. One of the truly phenomenal proclaimers of God's truth that's in our generation. Sam is not only a good pulpiteer, but he is a genuine article all the way to the bone. I know him pretty well and I know his heart, I know his spirit, I know what he's about, and I'm telling you, he is he is the real deal. But when he stands up here Monday night, Tuesday morning, Tuesday night, you will be amazed at what he does. He's just he's just a unique and outstanding preacher. And we're going to get to hear him, Lord willing, Monday and Tuesday. So I hope that you'll not do that. And and and along the way here, tonight Monday night, Tuesday night, and uh and uh Tuesday morning and Tuesday night, I have the privilege to put a little cornbread and beans on the table for you and uh and we'll we'll let Brother Sam bring the filet mignon. But anyway Uh we're gonna have a good time. And I'm delighted I'm delighted to be here and be part of it. Um Pastor you said something about the subscription. I'll just mention this quickly so the folks will will know. If you sign up for the paper, for the newspaper. While I'm here, uh Sunday, Monday, or Tuesday, if you sign up, the regular subscription price is $15 for a year. You get 26 issues for $15 Now, here's what I want to do. Now we got a good bunch of sort books back there, but I brought, I think enough of these. If you sign up, I'm going to give you something. You may have your choice of Dr. John Rice's book on Bible facts about heaven. We the the we have we have published three quarters of a million of these. Uh and uh it has been one of the most popular uh things that we've ever published and uh and continues to sell thousands of them every year. I'll give you one of those if you sign up for a year Or you may have a daily devotional book by evangelist Tim Green that has a devotion for each of the 365 days of the year. It's called Today and Tomorrow Too. And you'll like it. It's something you can read alongside your Bible for daily devotions. And you may have either one of those. Or if you sign up for two years, you may have both of them. Or if you sign up for two years, here's a little item that I have one on my desk and I look at it every day. It's a Bible promise book. There are topics in it. Here the one I open to is honesty And then there are Bible passages actually printed, so you don't have to go home up on that subject. That's all it is. A topic, Bible verses about that topic. No comments, no commentary by anybody. But I think you'll like the Bible promise book. Now, we we do not produce this. We have to buy them, so I I have to pay a little attention about what I do. So if you sign up for two years, you may have both of these, or you may have this, or if you sign up for three years, you can have them all And that's twenty-four dollars worth of books if you sign up for three years. So that that's my pitch, and I hope you'll come by the table tonight sometime while I'm here. Alright, do you find Titus chapter 2? Yes. It's in the Bible, amen. Titus chapter 2. And uh and in just a moment, I'll begin reading there at the top of that chapter. But let me set it up for you so you'll get the feel of where we're headed here. This little epistle of Titus, the human penman. Is the Apostle Paul. And Titus is one of his younger preacher proteges. And he sent Titus to an island. called Crete. And Crete is located in the Aegean Sea, which is a part of the Mediterranean. And uh there was at least a church and maybe more than one church there on the island of Crete. And some things had gotten out of shape, messed up, not going the right way. And in chapter 1 and verse 5, Titus is told to set in order. The things that are wanting. Now, just so you remember, first time that the preacher stands in this pulpit and Well, just gets all over your case. Remember that the preacher's job is to set in order what has become disorder. And if things get out of order, it is the preacher's job to help straighten it up. And so whenever we get up here and open the Bible and tell you what's in it and do it in an unvarnished kind of a way so that nobody could misunderstand it. Just understand that is the preacher's job. And so Titus is told: set in order. Stuff's in disorder, get it straightened up. Chapter 2 and verse number 1, we begin reading. He says, but speak thou the things which become sound doctrine. Now, what's he saying? Paul is saying to Titus: When you get in front of the folks, you tell them straight. Don't mess around. You give them the truth. Speak sound doctrine, sound teaching. Not the unsound stuff, but sound teaching Now, the next several verses have specific instructions to five groups of people, namely the aged men. The aged women, the young women, the young men, and servants. And he gives some pointed details to each one of those groups. For the aged men, that's the old guys. The aged women. That's the uh aged women. Yes, uh the young women, the young men and servants We get to chap uh verse number ten, he says, not purloining. That's a kind of a fancy term that just means don't you be a thief. Don't you do dishonest stuff to make a buck. Not perloining, but showing all good fidelity. That they may adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior, in all things. So, verse 1, he said, we're going to give them sound doctrine, sound teaching. In verse 10, he says, Now that you've heard sound teaching, I want you to adorn that teaching, adorn that doctrine You say, what are you talking about? I'm talking about like with the building. You know, if there were no chandeliers, no fans, no carpet, no cushioned pews, no none of that, we can still have church in here. But boy, whenever you put paint on the walls and put down the carpet and the cushion sheets and all that, it adorns it, it enhances it, makes it more useful and easier to use And he says, you've been given sound doctrine. Now, when you go out on the street, you adorn what you've been taught. You make it look good. If you're going to be a Christian, he's saying you make God look good In all things. You say, Where where is that? Well that's Thursday night at midnight, that's Saturday morning on the golf course, that's uh that's when you go to Walmart, that's when you go to W McDonald's, that's when you go I mean, wherever that you go, make God look good. And then we come to the heart of where I want to camp for just a little bit. Verse 11 says, for the grace of God. That bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. Now let me just stop to tell you I've entitled this this morning based on this 11th verse, Awesome God, Amazing Grace Awesome God. See, it uses the term grace of God. It's talking about the God of grace and the grace of God. Awesome God, amazing grace. What he offers to us has been made available to all men, it says. Teaching us, verse number 12, teaching us the denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us, that He might redeem us from all iniquity and purify unto Himself A peculiar people, zealous of good works. And I jumped verse number 13, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. Now Verse 11 says that God provides grace that makes it possible for every single person who will receive that To get in to the family of God and ultimately into heaven. So the first consideration here, when I think about how good God has been and what He provides for us, His grace And no mere ordinary person would do something like this. We're often trying to balance our books and figure out what the assets are and the liabilities are and what you owe me and what I owe you and and uh you know uh what I'm entitled to and uh and what can I get out of this. But God by His grace I mean, out of the sheer goodness of his heart, God made arrangements so that those of us who had nothing we could give back. We had no credit to our own. In fact, we were morally bankrupt, spiritually bankrupt, eternally bankrupt. We have nothing to contribute to the equation, but God, by his goodness, by his grace. God sent his son to die on the cross and rise from the grave and in so doing pay everything that I owe, every moral debt, every spiritual debt, every eternal debt. God paid the price. All that I owed, he paid. So that I could be forgiven So that I could be in his family, and so whenever my life is over, I can go to heaven forever. God made that arrangement for me. Verse 11 says, for all of us. This is not limited grace here, folks. This is limitless. And I want you to understand, it is God's wonderful provision That he has made so that all of us can get in. And when I say to you, awesome God, absolutely. Amazing grace? Absolutely. And point number one is This awesome God, by his amazing grace, gets us in. You want to get in the family of God, if you want to get into heaven, this is the way you get it. And if you want to go to heaven someday, you've got to get in the family of God while you're here Nobody gets into heaven who's not in the family of God. And if you get in the family, that entitles you to ultimately get into heaven. So God is awesome to make that possible for me and for you. Now the second thing is verse number 12 says that he teaches us how. Teaches us how to live the Christian life after that we get in. Just every once in a while I'll be talking to somebody about their spiritual welfare. and a one-on-one conversation and they will say to me, Well, I I think I would like to be a Christian but I'm not sure that I could live it and I don't want to be a hypocrite And invariably when somebody does that, I look at them and I smile and I say to them, I fully understand what you're talking about, but I think I can help you with that. The fact is, there's not a single one of us. Young or old are in between. There's not a one of us Who is capable of living what we think about when we say, well, I'm just going to live the Christian life, and oftentimes we mean by that, man, I'm going to shape up and be perfect. There's not a one of us who can handle that But what happens is, God by His grace not only gets us in, but He shows us how to live the Christian life once we're in. He doesn't toss us out the first time we mess up. In fact, the salvation that God gives is an eternal salvation. Amen. So if you uh get saved on a Sunday and sometime Monday or Tuesday or even late on Sunday If you, oh man, I know I shouldn't do that, but I did that anyway, God's not going to throw you out of the family that he just let you into. It's not the way God does business. I know, I know, I hear it all over the place. We got all kinds of religious folks everywhere that think that somehow what they do on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. Will determine whether or not they're going to heaven. I remind you, point number one, we get into the family of God, we ultimately get into heaven, not because we're something, but because of what He did on our behalf And so you get in like that, and you don't stay in the family of God because you're so good and so able, and because you're so I mean you just go up, boy, you're able to do it. No, no, no, no. That's not the way it works And if you are trying to stay saved and get saved and go to heaven one day because man listen I'm I'm being good to people and I'm helping folks and I'm giving a little money here or there, if that's the way you think you're going to go to heaven. I'm I'm sorry, listen, hear me out. Nobody ever has gone to heaven that way. That's right, yeah. And nobody ever will go to heaven that way. You see, how do you know that? Because it's in the book. It's not, the next chapter says, not by works of righteousness which we have done. But according to his mercy, he saved us. Titus 3. 5. So God not only gets us in, but point number two is he shows us how. In fact, just and there's so much in that twelfth verse, I can't do it all, but just if you look at that verse the word soberly there. Soberly. So I guess it means no more drunkenness. Well, yeah, it would mean that. But that word sober there actually means to think right. To think right. God's going to show you how to think right. Say, well, what's that got to do with living a Christian life? It's got everything to do with it. See Your doer never does anything your thinker hadn't thought of. So if you get your thinker thinking right, your doer will do right. So God works on your thinker. Get you thinking right. So, awesome God, you bet. Amen. Amazing grace, yes. Gets us in, shows us how. And right at the end of that 12th verse is a little phrase that says, In this present world. I don't know whether you'd notice or not. But this old world is not heaven. It's not hell either, by the way. But this old world is a mess. This old world, everything is spiraling out of control. I said out of control. Don't pick up the newspaper down at the uh Jiffy Market down here in the morning. Don't pick up, don't pick up USA Today or some other paper and look at all that junk that's in there and say, well, boy, look what God's doing. Mm-mm. No, no. The world you and I live in, the devil walks about like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. You say, well, if if I become a Christian, let me tell you, you become a Christian, you're still living in an old world where I mean everything is going crazy. We're not in the millennium yet. We're not there yet. We're not we're not at heaven yet. And so you're living in this present world where everything I mean I mean there's all kinds of stuff happening, stupid stuff. I mean I mean people running over people with trucks and And I mean stuff follow out. I mean all kinds of wicked, ugly, despicable, ungodly, truly abominable things happening in our world. And some of that can happen. This same Bible says that the same afflictions that are visited upon the world are also visited upon our brethren. Say, my goodness, if I become a Christian, I mean everything's not just going to go great in my life? Probably not. Because you're still living in the I mean, hey, listen. I can't tell you that everything's going to go just exactly right in your life as long as you live on this world. But I'll tell you this much, it does pay to serve God, and his retirement program is out of this world. Amen. Now, in the meantime, here's what I can promise you. You see, an unsaved person Will have all this tragic stuff happening to them just like everybody else. But when they have to go through a deep valley, they vet they may have to go alone. If an unsaved person's friends desert them, they're alone. But when you get into the family of God, when you get in Whatever valley you have to go through, you never, ever have to go alone. Because the Lord who saves you, who lets you in at point number one. The Lord who lets you in has promised, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. So no matter how deep in the valley, no matter how awful the day of tragedy that comes into your life You are in this present world, but I promise you, what the Lord is saying is you'll never have to go alone. You may have hurt, but you don't have to bear that burden by yourself. God will see you through. He will. Awesome, he is. Amazing what he does. He gets us in. He shows us how. He sees us through. And if you notice that next verse, number thirteen, says He's going to take us out. One of these days, He's going to take us out. We're looking for that blessed hope. And the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. One of these days, the same Lord Jesus who came two thousand years ago, He's He's coming a second time. All the way through the Bible, Old Testament, New Testament, there are the uh I mean it's just there over and over and over again. He's coming a second time. And one of these days, heaven's horn's going to sound. And when that horn sounds, if you have gotten in, point number one, if you've gotten in, when that horn sounds, you're up and out of here. He who created the world will flip the switch and shut off the law of gravity for us. And we'll be up, up, up in the way, out of here. You say sounds crazy to me, man. Listen, I I love flying and I think it's impossible. I got on the airplane in Nashville yesterday and flew to Baltimore. 140 seats on that airplane, and every one of them had a human body sitting in it. And every one of them had luggage. And that thing ran out to the end of the runway and actually took off. We flew at 40,000 feet for a few minutes. Here we are 725 miles away. Set it down on a dime. He didn't land on Lombard Street in Baltimore. He sat down. He sat down on a runway at BWI. Sat down on a dime. Listen, I'm amazed. I'm absolutely astounded. I've flown uh over two million miles, but I I I'm still amazed every time I'm amazed But I'm telling you one of these days, heaven's horn's gonna sound. I won't have to worry about checking luggage. I won't have to worry about those TSA people. Won't have to worry about El Qaeda and all these other nicknam poops. Won't have to worry about them. Yeah. They had a bunch of birds. Yeah. I don't have to worry about that when heaven's horn sounds. Right. If you get in, you say, Well, well my grandpa got in and he's buried out here in one of these cemeteries, I'm telling you that horn sounds, he's up and out of there. Amen. You won't have to worry about your security. You won't have to worry about whether your name's in the computer or not We'll have to worry about, well, well, we we we can't we can't find your name. We no no no when you get in, God writes your name. He writes it in. There'd be no no worrying about that. So God, awesome, amazing, for sure. He gets us in, shows us how, sees us through, takes us out. You get to that next verse, number 14. It says that he frees us up. He redeems us from all iniquity. The redeem word there means exactly that, to free us up. Praise God. You see, when you when you and I uh come to grips with our situation and knowing that we're sinners as we all are, that sin has penalty. It's like when you speed on the freeway. I saw somebody just before I turned off of 68 over here this morning. Uh had just gotten on two nineteen. I saw one of Maryland's troopers with a light on. Some guy in a little red car was pulled over to the side and uh what do you do? Well he's probably speeding. And so what do they do? Well you you speed, you get caught, you're gonna pay a fine. I'm gonna tell you. Uh I I I I drove a mile or two over the limit a time or two this morning, and I'm guessing all of you did too, knowing most of you We do that all the time, get away with it. And I'm telling you, when it comes to God's moral laws, He never misses anything. Never. And the truth is, my record and your record God knows every detail. And every sin has a penalty. That's why I told you, we're bankrupt. Well, what can I do? God, by the crucified and risen Christ, made the payment for us to pay what we owe, and when when we By faith, say yes to Christ, get in. Point number one. Down here at point number five, God frees us from the penalty. He frees us from the condemnation. We're no longer Liable to pay what we owe. You talk about getting a pardon? That's exactly what we're talking about. A full, free pardon. So that we're no longer liable for whatever bad account we've made with God. He frees us up. That 14th verse right in the middle says, in purifying himself of peculiar people, he not only frees us up, he cleans us up. Hallelujah. He cleans us up. Now, let me let me help you here a little bit. So well we we had we had somebody come, they they said they got saved, but it's been three months now and I still see some things that kind of look like the world in their life. Well, I haven't been back to the nursery back here yet. But my guess is some of the toddlers you brought in this morning. They're still acting like toddlers. Yeah. You are gonna feed 'em at lunch, aren't you? You you I mean if I go back there start oooing an eye and if it's one of your children you you are gonna say oh that one's mine I know you you will You're not you're not going to deny them because they cried and did other things that we'll not go into. We're not going to dishone them because you say, well, well, what's the deal? I mean the kid's three years old. He ought to know all this stuff. No, no, no. We don't get there that quick. And in my family, not in your family. Thank God somebody was patient with us. Amen. So somebody comes in and we say, Well, well, you know, uh boy, this guy's got all the traveling of the world hanging over there. Hey, just remember, you know you and I have the assignment to catch 'em If we do the catching, God will do the cleaning. Yes. All we gotta do, just like we're doing this morning, just go through the Bible, let them hear it. And it it has a way of cleaning up what needs to be cleaned up. And God, you say, God does that? He's awesome, I'm telling you. And absolutely amazing. I passed through, in fact, spent the night last night over at the uh epicenter of the universe, Carroll County. Some of you don't know I was pastor over there a long time. Just driving through Carroll County. Oh my goodness. You just put me on any road, any street in Carroll County, and I I walked through and I said, we reached a family right there. Had another family right there Uh you know I remember those folks and I remember what happened there and and and you say well well well the uh what what what'd you find there? Listen When some of those folks came to us, their lives were in a mess. Their kids were driving them crazy. The family was all busted up. But God put it back together again. God made it real. God made it good. God cleaned it up. Not us. God. And I'm telling you, he's awesome, so awesome that he deals with me and deals with you and helps us to get where we need to be. And he cleans us along the way. Just one more point here in that 14th verse, right at the end it says, zealous of good works. Well, the fox is like what you were talking about in Sunday school. Yes. Zealous, zealous means God builds a fire down in the boiler of our soul. Yes. I uh I can imagine if I were to give the microphone to some of you to let you testify. I'm not going to, it's my turn, so I I got the mic, okay. But if I gave the microphone out in this in this audience, there's some of you who would testify. Some of you would testify. Five years ago, seven years ago, ten years ago, twelve years ago, you couldn't have gotten me into church. But now then you can't keep me out of it. How's that come about? What happens? God, hey, got in at point number one. Got into the family of God at point number one. I heard about the crucified and risen Christ, and by faith I received him. And point number seven, he built a fire down deep inside in me that causes me to want to be there. Yes. Amen. That's what God does. He fires us up. Awesome? Oh, don't you know it. Some of the most unlikely folks that just with my own eyes I would have said, well I I don't know how they'll turn out. I mean I I don't have any I mean I don't have X-ray vision, so I'm not able to see down deep into the depths of people's soul. But I'm telling you, God sees and God knows, and he knows how to build the fire that turns us around and heads us where we ought to head all the time Awesome He is. God's awesome, and His grace is amazing. And what He does, He gets us in, shows us how, sees us through, takes us out, frees us up, cleans us up, and fires us up. Awesome. Amen. Amazing. The Lord would like to do every bit of this with me, with all of us. Yes. You know where it all starts? Point number one. That's where it all begins. At point number one. I'm glad a long time ago. Somebody cared enough to tell me about Jesus dying on the cross, rising from the grave. And listen, I I if if you'd a if you'd have handed me a Bible at that time in my life, I mean, I wouldn't have known which end to get hold of. I wouldn't have known whether Genesis was in the front or the back. I'm serious, I wouldn't have. But somebody, somebody cared enough to tell me about the crucified and risen Christ. Amen. And believe me, I knew that I needed it. I hadn't robbed any banks. There's a lot of things I hadn't done. But it didn't take a long explanation to convince me that I was a sinner and that I needed to be saved. I caught on to that real fast. And I'm going to tell you, the day that I trusted Christ, I didn't see any rockets fired off. I didn't hear any whistles and bells and trumpets and so I didn't hear any of that I'll tell you what I did do, what I heard, I believed, and I lifted up my voice to the Lord. I said, dear Lord. I know I need to be saved. And I believe you can do it, and I think you've already arranged for it, and I'm going to trust you with it. And uh every time I open the Bible, it's it's full of things that remind me that God meant what he said, that he would do for me as he's done for others. And what he's done for me and others, he'll do for anybody who ha to whom he hasn't done it yet, that's not re allowed him to come yet into their life. God's awesome. And he'll be amazing in your life if you let him do it. Let's stand up and we'll pray. Let's stand up. Our heads about, please.