I'd like for us to read together verse number 10 is our text for this morning. And if you would, read verse number 10 with me on the turn. Turn this on, Jamie. And I think we're good to go. Ready? Psalms 143, verse 10, altogether, here we go. Teach me to do thy will. For thou art my God, thy spirit is good. Lead me into the land of uprightness. That first phrase there, that verse, David says, Teach me to do thy will. I'll speak this morning on going back to school. In fact, today is kind of back to school day here. We're going to, at the end of the service, we have something real special we're going to do. We are going to bring all the young people up from downstairs to children's church right at the very end. We're going to line them up all across the front here. We're just going to have a special time of prayer. For our young people, as they go back to the schools this year, some are going into middle school, high school, others maybe starting out first time and first grade, others going back and And uh but we just want to pray for them. Some are homeschooled, but we want to pray for them that God will bless them and that they will grow in their understanding and their knowledge and that God will protect them and uh use them to be a testimony. Those that know the Lord use them to be a testimony. You know, that uh classroom and that playground can be a great mission field If our young people uh uh be a witness there. So uh back to school. And uh we're let's look let's pray and then we'll look at this text here. Father in heaven. I thank you, Lord, for uh your love for us. Thank you for the Lord's Day. What a blessing to get up and assemble together with your people. Lord, the singing together is such a blessing to my heart, the fellowship. is so sweet. And these little children singing here, stand up for Jesus. I pray you'd bless them. And I pray this coming year that you would help them to stand for the Lord Jesus Christ. and uh and give give them knowledge and understanding, wisdom from above as they grow and develop. And Lord, I pray you'd help us to come back to school regularly, your school, Lord, and you can teach us, instruct us, guide us, and help us. Lord, I can't, I have nothing in and of myself to offer this morning. I'm more than aware of that And so, Lord, I yield my will to you, I present my body to you, Lord, for a as a vessel to you to use That you would speak through me to each and every one of our hearts. I pray, Lord, that um uh your will be done in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Psalms 143, I got looking at this and trying to get a little bit of uh uh information about the background of the Psalms. I often say this, particularly in the Psalms Uh I think f at least for me it's very helpful if I know a little bit what the circumstances were or what the background was that prompted uh David or whoever the penman is there to record down that scripture. And we always say this. We understand God is the author of all scripture. So ultimately God's the author of this, but he used David, he used others to record his word, and he used the circumstances and the situations they found themselves in to lead and direct them what to record to put in the Word of God. So having said all that, I did some research and we really know nothing about the background of the Psalm. Uh we don't know what the circumstances were that prompted David to write it. We know David is the uh penman of this psalm. Uh the title there has it and it's and you read down through there, it sounds just like David speaking, and so the content uh reaffirms that uh David is dependent here, but we don't know what his circumstance was. We don't know what What age he was? Was he a young man when he recorded this? Was he aged? Was it sometime in the middle of his reign as king of Israel? Um we d we don't know any of that And so we look at the content of the psalm and we try and glean a few things and we pick up a few things here. Apparently David penned this psalm during a time either in the midst or right following, a time of great opposition, a time when he was battling discouragement. Look with me if you would at verse number three. He writes this, for the enemy hath persecuted my soul. He has smitten my life down to the ground. He hath made me to dwell in darkness as those that have been long dead. How many people agree with me? That's a pretty sad state right there. So I don't know we don't know what the exact circumstances were, but it was a time when David was facing great opposition Um he was at least for a period of time being greatly defeated by this foe of his. Well, there's two times that we have in the life of David recorded in Scripture where it might fit That description there. When Saul was pursuing King David early in his life, and David was fleeing from Saul for a number of years and out in the wilderness and hiding in caves and and uh and uh uh fearful for his life. It may have been during that period of time that God prompted David to record down his thoughts here and and uh and uh preserve them for us Or it could be when uh David uh was uh had the insurrection of his son Absalom. How many people remember that event? When his boy raised up against him and won the hearts of Israel over against him, and David, rather than fighting his son, fled Jerusalem out into the wilderness. And uh maybe it was during that period. That would be incredibly discouraging. your boy raises up against you and turns against you, that would be a time of real discouragement. In fact, look down at verse number 7 He says, Hear me speedily, O Lord, my spirit faileth. You ever been there? This man, my spirit, I'm no I'm just so discouraged My spirit faileth. Hide not thy face from me. Seemed like God was hiding from us. It seemed like God was silent. He's wondering, God, please don't abandon me. Uh he's he's down in the pits. Uh lest I be like them that go down into the pit. And so we We have to speculate a little bit, was it when Saul was chasing David around trying to kill him? Greatly discouraging time. In fact, David's faith really struggled there. He made some uh decisions not in faith but in his own reasoning. Was it when Absalom, his own son, turned against him, tried to kill him, dethrone him, and he's out in the wilderness discouraged Could it have been some other event that took place in David's life that was not recorded for us in Scripture? You know, not every detail about David's life is given to us in Scripture. So there could have been other events that um That God did not choose to record in his word for us. So we don't know any of these things. But I do know this. I know this. David was a man of tremendous faith. David was a tremendous man of God. And unless I'm mistaken, I believe David is mentioned in the Bible, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, more than any other man, all through Scripture. David, David, David. We're studying the life of David on Wednesday nights. And I'm telling you, David was an amazing, amazing man of God A man of tremendous faith. Think about this. I say this often. Think about this. The throne of Jesus Christ, that Jesus Christ is going to reign from during a millennial reign. The throne that the Son of God will sit upon and rule from is named after David. Think about that. And so here you have a man of tremendous faith in God. Here you have a man that is a tremendous man of God. In fact, it's said of him twice, he's a man after God's own heart. What a testimony, what a statement about the character and depth of spirituality of this man named David. You say, well, okay, what about that? Here's the thing. Somebody of that spiritual caliber is that discouraged. Is that defeated? Has that level of battles and oppositions and struggles and storms to go through? Here's the point I'm trying to get at. It doesn't matter how long you've been saved. It doesn't matter how strong your faith may be. It doesn't matter how close you're walking with God. Struggles and trials and difficulties are a part of life. I wish I could say, I wish I could stand up here as a preacher of the Word of God, and I wish I could say to you, if you'll trust God enough, if you'll accept Jesus your Savior, and you'll trust God and you live by that book, then you'll have no struggles. You'll have no burdens, you'll have no opposition, all your bills will be paid, your health will be perfect, everything will be sunshine and happy all your days of your life. I wish I could tell you that, but I can't Because it's not true. David was a tremendous man of God. David was a, hey, don't Hey, don't listen to these yard birds on television tell you if you have enough faith, you'll live in a mansion. That's a lie of the devil. Some of the greatest men and women of faith have lived in humble little abodes, unknown away. And so David's a tremendous man. I'm reading what he's saying here about uh his uh the enemies persecuted his soul he's smitten his life down to the ground his spirit is overwhelmed within him uh I'm like them that go down into the pit. God don't hide yourself I thought, here's a man of great faith, and he's struggling, and he's hurting, and he's questioning, God, where are you? What is happening? Like I said, I wish I could tell you if you had enough faith you'd never have any tears. I wish I could tell you if you had enough faith and you were lived by the Bible, you never face difficulties, and nobody would ever turn against you, and there'd never be any injustice against you. But that is just not true. In fact, I'll suggest to you, God's greatest, God's greatest saints have been some of the people that have suffered the most and been hurt the most. And so here we have David. David, God, don't hide your face from me. And in verse number 10 We find this, in this time of struggle and this time of uncertainty, I put it this way, David goes back to school. He goes back to God's school. It's almost like this. God, I don't know what to do. God, I don't understand what's happening. God, I don't know what tomorrow holds. And Lord, I need to come and sit at your feet. God, I need you to teach me and show me What should I do? Instruct me in the way I should go. Help me to understand what actions I should take. God, give me direction in my life. And David comes back to school. He didn't know what to do. David did not know what to do, but here's the thing: he knew where to go to find out what to do. I don't know what your situation may be this morning. I don't know what you're dealing with. My wife was talking to a lady this week and sharing some scripture with her, talking about the Lord and salvation and life and death. And this dear lady has a dread disease and not sure how much longer she has to live. She's fearful. She's concerned. Patty was able to say, hey, listen, let's come to the Word of God and see what God says we should do, how we should learn Come back to school. Uh David didn't know what to do, but he did know where to go. He knew to go to the Lord. I don't know what your circumstances, I don't know what you're facing. I don't know what struggles are going on in your home, your marriage and job, in your life with your family. I don't know what uh struggles may be physically for you. And I'm here to tell you there's somebody that knows what you should do, somebody that can direct us and lead us, and that's Lord God Almighty. I was thinking about before I got saved, and I referenced this so often, but I was thinking about the the years so leading up to my salvation, age of nineteen. Back in Philadelphia, and I had made such a mess of my life. And I and and I realized what I had done and I realized decisions I had made and where I had gotten myself and I could see where my life was heading and I didn't want to go that way. I didn't want to be the kind of person I was and I was grasping and trying to find who do I go to and What do I do? And how do I straighten up this mess I've made of my life? And I found that nobody had the answers Nobody that I was hanging around with, they were just as messed up as I was. And none of these none of these characters on the radio talk shows, they didn't, they're just as messed up as I was Oh o Okra Winf oh Ofra uh what's her name? Um I don't think she was around there, but uh People like that giving out all kinds of advice and I'd listen to these rock songs and they're telling me how to what to do, and uh nobody had any answers. But I thank God for two people. One, I had a daddy that knew the Lord as Savior, and was walking with God and was trusting God, going through his own storms. But God was leading him and helping direct him. And I saw that as a young man. I saw what God was doing in my daddy's life. I saw the testimony of my daddy. That spoke to my heart. And I had a Sunday school teacher. I'm going to mention her here in a little bit. I had a Sunday school teacher. It was probably about fifth or sixth grade, somewhere around there, uh, at the little church we were going to at the time, little Mennonite church. And she would tell us in that class, you need to be saved. You need to be saved. You can come to the Lord. God can help you in your life. And those two things, I didn't know what to do, I didn't know where to go, I made such a mess, but my daddy's testimony, my daddy's walk with God, and the Sunday school teacher's influence in my life as a young boy Prompted me that I thought, I know where I can go to find answers. I can go to the Lord. I found the Bible. I started praying, God help me, God help me, God, please don't give up on me. That wasn't an audible voice, by any it wasn't an audible voice, but in my heart and soul I could like I could hear God saying, get your Bible when you read that Bible. And I enrolled in God's school of salvation. I read that Bible, God showed me my problem was I was a sinner. He showed me that that sin is what's destroying my life. It's ultimately going to take me to hell. That Jesus Christ died so that I could be forgiven and have my sins cleansed and taken away. And if I'll just trust him by faith, accept him as my Savior, that he'll forgive me and give me eternal life, give me a new life, make me a new creature, all that's what I wanted more than anything. A7 1979, I bowed by my bed. I called on the Lord Jesus Christ. And God did exactly what He promised to do in His book. He saved me from sin and hell. He gave me a new life. I came to the school of Jesus, and he taught me how I could be saved, how I could be forgiven, how I could have a new life I didn't nobody else, I didn't know what to do, I didn't know where to go. I came to the Lord and God answered my question, answered my problems. Uh since I was saved, there's been many times we didn't know what to do, uncertain. Uh decisions had to be made. I was thinking about when I graduated from college. Um I had gone and Uh I had taken a four-year course and I worked hard and crammed it into five years and um we um And so we graduated, and after I graduated, Kathy and I got married. I thought it was good to point out, Kathy and I are married. And um But we got married, and uh God called us to go to Indianapolis. Now I have just graduated from Bible college. I had some school debt, not the major, but a little bit of school debt. I'm working in a hospital there and Um, I don't remember w uh what she was doing. And um but uh uh I didn't have any money and so the church in Indianapolis called us. Come on up, we want you to come up, be our youth pastor, and help us here on staff. I was so excited And I was pr I'd look in the mirror, Pastor Dennis. I just hear that name, Pastor Dennis. I was so excited. Got up there and We went to order a uh a moving truck and um uh it was gonna cost I mean I didn't have ten percent of what that moving truck was gonna cost. I didn't think about money. God called me. I was You don't need money if God calls you. You don't need money. And uh they said, this will be, this will be, I think it was like $450 to rent this truck. I said, man, I barely got $75. What am I going to do? I don't know what to do. Kathy don't have no money. None of my friends had money. And uh so we went to the Lord. We said, God, show us what to do. What do I do? I've got to get up there. They've called me. I've accepted the invitation to be the youth pastor. How do we get up there? God, teach me. You know what God told me? He said, You just wait on me. You just wait on me. You just press forward. You know what I've called you to do? You know what my will. You just wait on me. And we wait it, and we and uh A day went by, no money, two days. It's getting the end of the week. It was like Thursday and I'd have picked the truck up that day and I had no money. It was like Wednesday, I'd have picked the truck up the next day No money. We're praying. God, uh, we're trusting you. You're the teacher. You tell me what to do. And uh just be still. Be still tomorrow. I gotta And uh that night after midweek prayer service, uh we're in this little apartment we had there on the the school campus. We were renting from the school About 9 30 that night, I'm sweating bullets. And um we answer the door. Here it's a lady. And she said, uh she said, Brother Leatherman, God laid this on my heart a couple weeks ago, and I just put it off and put it off and uh I just God stirred my heart. I need to give this to you. And she handed a little envelope And I you know how you are. Oh, it's not necessary. And um Wasn't exactly that way. And she says she says she said, I want you to take this as from the Lord. And uh I don't know how you are, but I'm a little bit proud. No, I don't want no you don't need to do that, but we accepted it. She left and walked in my wife said who was that? I said, oh so and so. Oh what was that about? Oh she just I was trying to be real cool. Oh she just gave us this little envelope And saw it, I was like, I can't wait to open this thing. Open up. Anybody want to guess how much money was in that envelope? 450 bucks. Exactly what the bill was for that. I had just enough money for gas to get up there. You know what? God was teaching me. God was teaching me. You can trust me. Wait on me. Follow my instructions. I'll lead you. I'll direct you. I had to go back to school. I had a got I had a college degree. I just want everybody to know I are a college graduate and you know I had that diploma hanging on the wall, but I still had to go back to school I still needed to learn things from the Lord. I'm 59 years old. I know I don't, you would never guess that, but um I'm 59 years old. You know what I find myself doing over and over and over again? Going back to school. Lord teach me. Lord show me. Lord help me. And David goes back to school. Regardless of how old you are, we need to go back to God's school. Regardless of how long you've been saved. We need to keep coming back to God's school and say, Lord, teach me. I want you to notice here, verse 10. I notice three things in here. I notice in verse number 10, we're presented with the best teacher there ever can possibly be. And then we notice here the very best student that you could possibly have. And then thirdly, I notice in here the very best lesson. That can ever be taught. The best teacher. Who's the best teacher? Look what he says: Teach me to do thy will, for thou art my what? God. He says, God, you are my teacher. I want to tell you that God is the very best teacher that anybody could ever have. In Job chapter number 36, verse 22, there's a fellow, his name is Elihu, and he is with Job, and we know what Job was going through. We were familiar with Job's experience. And Elihu is one of his three friends that show up and they're quiet to begin with. They just kind of are there for Job and to be his comfort. And then they made a terrible mistake And this is when we usually make our mistake. They opened their mouth. And they started Given Job advice that he did not ask for, and it ended up as time went by in this back and forth, you read through the book of Job, they start throwing accusations They make assumptions and they say some very, very terrible things. In fact, Job says you guys are miserable comforters. But in the midst of their conversation, every now and then these three guys would make a profound statement, something that was very true. And in Job chapter 36, verse 22, Elijah said this about the Lord. He said, Behold, God exalteth by his power. Listen to this. Who teacheth like him? What Elijah was saying to Job, albeit in the wrong context, what he said was correct. He said, There is no teacher in the world that is like The Lord God. He is the best possible teacher a person could possibly have. From the creation of mankind, God has been teaching I thought about Adam and Eve, when God created Adam from the dust of the earth, and he breathed into his nostrils the breath of light, and man became a living soul. And he began teaching man what he was created to do, what he was designed to do And God told him, Your responsibility is the Garden of Eden here, and your responsibility is to till it and keep it, and this is how you are to do it, and you are to name the creatures. And God taught Adam what his responsibilities are. what how he was to carry out those responsibilities. He told Adam what his privileges were. He could eat of the tree of the Garden of Eden, any fruit, and he told us what his restrictions were. But the tree of the knowledge of good and evil he cannot eat of. And right from the get-go of the creation of man, God is teaching. God is teaching. This is my will. These are my instructions. This is how you are to operate. This is how you are to function. You know when we get in trouble, when we stop listening to God's instructions. That's what happened to Adam. God created Eve from his rib and a woman, and uh and they ate of the forbidden fruit. I'm suggesting to you, God is the best teacher there is. He began, our experience with God began with God teaching us. I thought about Noah. God calls Noah. A man has gotten so wicked, gotten so far from uh from God, living such wicked sin, every imagination of his heart and mind was on evil God says in so many words, I've had it. In fact, the Bible says it grieved God that he had even created man. God says, Noah, you found grace in my eyes. I've got a plan for mankind, and I'm going to teach you that plan. You build an ark. This is what you use. This is the size. This is how you do it. This is its purpose. You follow my instructions. God, the teacher. Teaching Adam. I thought about Abraham. God taught Abraham how to live by faith. I thought about Moses when God, when Israel was uh ha captive in is Egypt and slavery in Egypt and God sends a deliverer, Moses, to raise them up. And Moses goes back and forth. He says, God, I can't do it. I can't talk. Uh uh and uh he's he's going back and forth, and then God says to Moses in Exodus chapter four, fifteen, I love this statement, I will teach thee what to do I'm talking to somebody this morning, you're in a situation, you don't know what to do. You're in a circumstance, I don't know how to solve this problem, I don't know how to fix this I don't know how to meet that need. I don't know what to do. I'm here to tell you, we have the best teacher in the world, and if we'll come to him, he'll teach us what to do. They'll teach us what to do. Can I make this statement? This book here has the answer to every problem, situation you I ever face. Somebody wrote on a man uh sometimes people write on the bathroom wall. I usually don't, but uh some Somebody wrote on a bathroom wall. Jesus is the answer. Somebody else came along and wrote underneath that, what's the question? Another fellow came along and wrote underneath that. Doesn't matter what the question is, Jesus is still the answer. The best teacher you can possibly have is the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, over and over and over, Jesus is referred to in the Gospels as teacher, teacher, teacher. In John chapter 3 and verse 2, Nicodemus came to Jesus by night and listen to this compliment he made about the Lord Jesus. We know thou art a teacher come from God. Now Jesus did not come to be a teacher. But he did teach, and he was so extremely effective at it as a teacher. People recognize that. This teaching, this is from God. I'm saying to you, the best teacher we can possibly have in life is Lord God, Lord Jesus Christ. He'll teach us, He'll show us, He'll help us. He's the best teacher there ever was. What makes God such a great teacher? I put down a few things. Number one, God's the best teacher because he cares deeply for us. I've had some teachers in my life throughout years that cared sincerely for me We're thinking about the kids going back to school this week, and some of the West Virginia kids are already there. Uh started last week, I believe. And I thought I got thinking back to some of the teachers I've had when I was young, and I thought about, and this is Stewart I believe if I remember correctly, it was third grade. It's about a hundred years ago, I'm trying to remember. Mrs. Stewart, of all the teachers I have, there's only a handful that I remember their names. I remember Mrs. Stewart She was a big, broad, big lady. She was older. I'm sure she's been with the Lord. She was a Christian lady. I'm sure she's been with the Lord many, many years. And I mean she was uh big and burly and um uh I'm trying to be nice and um And she uh and she was firm. Brother, you you towed the line in her class. Every one of those kids, myself included, we knew Mrs. Stewart cared about us. She'd come over, put her arm around, help us work through things. I uh here it is, fifty-some years later, I still can see Mrs. Stewart there Now then this is right about the time they forbid Bible reading in schools, so in those early days. And um Every morning she'd get that Bible out, public school, Harleysville Elementary School, she'd get that Bible out. So we're going to read scripture this morning, young people. She'd read some scripture, she'd pray Mrs. Stewart cared about us. I thought about, I think it was the next year, the year after the it was either fourth or fifth grade, somewhere around there, the teacher we started out with got real sick and couldn't finish the year And they brought a substitute in, his name was Mr. Light. And uh tall guy. I still remember Mr. Light because that guy cared about us. And he would spend time, he'd take us after hours, kids, in class of his own dollar, and he'd take us places and do things. He'd invite us. And all these years stands out in my mind. He was a musician. He would teach us music and different things. Why I can sing so good. And um that wasn't a joke. I don't know what I thought about already referenced her and I mention her occasionally o over the years. I mentioned her a Sunday school teacher we had at Rock Hill Mennonite Church where we went when I was a kid. This is Felton. I'll tell you to this day, my life has been impacted by that Sunday school teacher that cared deeply for the spiritual well-being of her students. I still remember her. She would say, young people, you need to accept Jesus as your Savior. You need to be sure you've accepted Christ. She'd teach the lesson, and then she would emphasize the importance of being saved I didn't get saved then in her class, it was years later, but I'm telling you, there's no doubt about it in my mind and heart that because she cared so much about her spiritual well-being And what she taught, that was a seed planted in my heart and mind that God used years later to bring eternal life to my life. I thank God for these teachers I thought of that cared deeply for me, but no one has ever cared for me like Jesus. Nobody has ever cared about my soul and about my life, about my spiritual condition to the Lord Jesus Christ. A caring teacher does more than just gives information. They give their life. They give their heart. I look to my God and I see a God that loved me so much, that gave his life on a cross and suffered hell so that I can have eternal life I'm telling you, God's the best teacher because he cares about you in ways no one else can possibly care about you. No one ever cared for me like Jesus. God is the best teacher, not just because he deeply cares for us, but he has the answers to all of life's issues If you're hearing Psalms, come over to chapter 147, just a page over there God has the answers to every one of life's issues. Doesn't matter what you're facing, doesn't matter what your problem is, doesn't matter what you're confused about. God has the answer. Look at Psalm 147. Come down to verse number 5. I love this verse. Great is our Lord, and of great power. Now look at this. Is what? His understanding is infinite. You know what that's saying? That's saying every situation, every circumstance, every problem, God's understanding is unlimited. He knows the answer. He knows the proper response. He knows the solution. Come over the other direction, Psalms 139. Great chapters of the Bible. They're all great. But I'm telling you this one stands out. Psalms 139. Notice with me verse number one. O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. That word search there is a scholarly term. It means to thoroughly test. O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. Thou knowest my downsetting and my uprising. Thou understandest my thought afar off. Thou compass my path. and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways, for there is not a word in my tongue. But lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. Our God is the best teacher, because He is all-knowing. Do you notice he says, thou understandest my downsetting and my uprising? Were you ever in a situation, maybe you remember back when you were in school or some young people in school, and uh you you You were trying to commute get something across and the teacher didn't understand what you were trying to do and she misunderstood and she responded the wrong way. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And it's like, no, you don't understand what I'm trying to say. You don't understand what I'm trying to do. Hey, I can never say to God, listen, I can never say to God, you don't understand. Because God always understands. In fact, He understands our circumstance situations clearer than we do ourselves. What a great teacher. What a teacher that understands where I'm at. That understands what I'm dealing with. He's all-knowing. He's the best teacher because he cares deeply for us. I'm here to tell you this morning. You're discouraged, you're down, you feel like you're in the pit like David, your spirit is overwhelmed. I'm here to tell you, God cares about your situation. He understands your situation And he's the best teacher because thirdly I put it down, he gives the best lessons. He gives the best lessons. When I was a kid, I I took uh in high school, I went to um Uh votech class. Do they still do that? Anybody know? Remember vote anybody here? Vogech class? It was basically for the losers that couldn't handle classrooms So they sent you off to this other we'd ride a bus half hour down to Lansdale and go to Vogec class. I was joking there when I said that. In my case, I'm not joking, but for others And so I thought, I hate sitting in class, I hate doing all this. I'll go to uh I'll go to BoTech. And so I signed up, and I signed up to be an architect. Now I I wasn't there very long. I found out you've got to be pretty smart to be an architect. I found out I thought I messed up here bad on this thing. You had to take algebra. I didn't even know how to spell it. Algebra. And so I took algebra one and flumped it So I said, all right, they say, you got Leatherman, if you're going to stay an architect, vote tech class, architect, you've got to pass this class. So you're going to take it again. I took it again. Guess what? I flunked it again Finally, I eked through that. I got to algebra two, and there ain't no way. This ain't happening. And I made this statement. What do you need algebra for? Well, I don't see why you gotta learn how to add and multiply and count. That's ridiculous. Who would ever use that in life? At the time, here's what I'm getting at, at the time, it seemed like this lesson is meaningless, this lesson is foolish. I'll never need to know how to add when I was a little kid. I got later in life, you know, I found out adding, knowing how to add is pretty good. Pretty helpful. Why do we gotta read for you? Oh, read. I found out later on. Boy, I'm glad they taught me how to read. That's come in pretty handy, especially a preacher. You know, sometimes God teaches us lessons. He knows what we need. Maybe we don't understand at the time. God, why am I going through this? Why are you letting this happen to me? God, what are you doing? Are you hiding your face? Why am I going through this? And it's like God says, listen, I know what you need. I've got the best lessons designed just for you You trust me and you let me teach you, and someday down the road, you'll look back and you'll say, oh, now I understand why God taught me that I bet there's people all across this auditorium would say along with me, there's some experiences I went through earlier in my life that I hated them at the time. I would never want to go through them again. But on this side, I'm saying, boy, I'm glad for what I learned from that. I would never want to go through it again, but boy, it sure helped me. It sure was good for me. Our God. is the best teacher because first of all he cares more for us than anybody else. Young people, God cares for you more than anybody else in this world. Senior citizen, in the sunset years of life, nobody remembers me. People have forgotten me. I'm here to tell you God cares deeply about you. He hasn't forgotten you. He's the best teacher because he cares for us. He's the best teacher because he understands us the most. He has the answers, and he's the best teacher because he gives us the best lessons. Our Lord knows what we need. He knows when to give them. He knows which lessons I don't need. So we have here in Luke, in uh Psalms chapter 143 and verse number 10, we have the best teacher. Let me get back here. Teach me to do thy will, for thou art my God. You're my teacher. You're the best teacher I could possibly go to. And the second thing I notice here, we notice here the best student. Look what his request is: teach me. David is hungry to learn. He's eager to be taught. I've done a little substituting. I've taught in Bible Institute. I've taught some college classes over the years. I did a little bit of teaching Sunday school. You know who the favorite student of every teacher is? The one that wants to learn. The one that comes in that's hungry. I want you to teach me. I want you to show me. I want you to help me. I want you to instruct me. Tell you the hardest kit the hardest student to teach is the one that don't care. Right or wrong. They don't care. I'm not interested in this. I don't care what you have to say. I don't want to be here. Boy, what a challenge that is. But you get some kid that sits down front, got their notes out, they're wanting to hungry, they're wanting to learn. Oh, that's the best student you can possibly have. And that's what David was. He was eager. He was hungry to learn. Teach me, teach me, Lord. He was concerned about being the person God designed him to be. He didn't want to, David did not want to squander his life on empty and temporal things, and then ultimately stand before God and come short-handed, empty-handed. Wasted my life. David said, Teach me. I'm hungry. I want to know. Maybe I'm talking to some folks this morning, you're unsaved. You don't have assurance in your heart and mind you never trust in Christ. There's no assurance there, there's no peace that your sins are forgiven, that you have eternal life, a home in heaven. I'm here to tell you, if you care, listen, if you care about your soul's salvation, if you sincerely care about your standing before God, God will help you. He'll show you. But if you don't care, if you don't care about your soul, if you don't care about where you spend eternity, If you don't care about your soul salvation and your acceptance before God and your spiritual well-being, if you don't care about that, I'll tell you there's not much hope. Until you genuinely care. We get out I was out knocking on doors yesterday, met a sweet lady out towards uh uh over four ninety-five areas just visiting up through there, old sweet lady came in and uh she was on oxygen. She goes, Oh, uh uh I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman Baptist Church. She goes, Oh, um I I I invite you I'm on oxygen. I just got out of the hospital. And I said, um, I talked a little bit. I said, okay, I said, I understand. I won't keep it. I'll just leave a little literature. She told me, I said, ma'am, can I pray with you before we I go? Just pray God bless you and help you. She goes, Oh, preacher, please. I said, before I pray, let me ask you a question. Do you know for sure that when you die, your sins are given on your way to heaven? She looked at me and smiled. She goes, yes, I got saved. And she told me the number of years ago I accepted Christ and I got saved. And she was so happy. And I thought here I met a lady that was really genuinely concerned. About her standing before God and did something about it. And got her salvation settled. What a blessing. And I had prayer and she cried. I said she got and I said, I'll come by sometime, visit with you again. Oh, thank you. I've knocked on a lot of other doors I'm Pastor Leather, Mountain Lake Baptist Church. Hey, talk a little bit. I'll ask this. I I I always say this. Going to church is important, but more important is knowing for sure your sins are forgiven. That when you die you go to heaven, not to hell. And I'll ask this as my next question. You ever think about that? Uh, sometimes. Does that concern you where you spend heaven or hell? Where you spend eternity, heaven or hell? Does that concern you? And every now and then I'll get this answer. Yeah. I don't worry about that. I don't care none about that at all. No I found out Somebody's have that frame of mind, I can't do much to help them for their soul salvation. I can't even never get the Bible open, really. Show them how to be saved. I don't care whether I go to heaven or hell. I don't care about dying in my sins. I don't care about where I spend eternity. I don't care Well, it's not much anybody can do for somebody that don't care. Do you find somebody that says, Lord, teach me, show me how to be saved? God, I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know my sins are forgiven. I want to know how to have eternal life. God says here. It's in my word. We can find out how to be saved. Uh maybe living the Christian life if I don't take seriously as a Christian to live for the Lord And to serve him, if I don't take that seriously, if we have folks all the time, they'll trust Christ, they'll get saved, they'll get baptized, you never see him again Well, I got that settled. I got saved. God forgave me. And uh then they don't care about living for God, don't care about doing right, don't care about uh uh trusting the Lord and following the Lord. I tell you what, I got problems with that. Something's wrong. God says, you care about it. You genuinely care. I think I see here in this verse the best student that could possibly be. He says, teach me, oh Lord, teach me. I want to do right. I want to be right. I want to know I'm saved. I want to live for God. And then the last of all I am with this, we have the best lesson. The best teacher is the Lord God, no doubt about it. The best student is the one that wants to learn, wants to be taught. The best lesson, look what he says here. Teach me what's the lesson he wants to learn? What's it say? To do thy will. To do thy will. I thought it was interesting to notice. I highlighted that word do in the verse. I thought it's interesting. He doesn't say, Lord, teach me to know thy will. He said, Teach me to do thy will. There's a big difference between knowing something, what should be done, and doing what should be done. That word do there means to carry out, fulfill, or perform. I wish you'd write this statement down. A successful life is the life that finds the will of God and does it. That is success in life, finding God's will and doing it. The person can be very successful in the financial business world. He can be a multi-millionaire. He can be uh uh uh very successful in his business, but if he's not in the will of God, he's a failure Person can be very successful and popular and everybody likes him and boy he's a quite entertainer and and uh boy his personality, greatest personality, and everybody in the world likes him But he's not living for God. He's not in the will of God. That is a failure of a life. The success success in life is finding the will of God and doing it. And doing it. I cannot do God's will if I do not know God's will. But it is possible to know God's will and not do it. Did you get that? Is everybody with me? Is everybody with me? It's possible to know God's will exactly what God wants me to do and not do it. I thought of a this lady this past week They were talking a little bit, and Kathy said to her, and not in these words, but in so many words, she said, It's God's will for you to be saved. God wants you to be saved. And she said, Can I show you from the Bible how you can be forgiven and be saved? Go to heaven. And the lady said, Yes. And in our living room, Kathy opened the Bible and went through the Romans, wrote how to be saved, and the lady bowed her head and trusted Jesus Christ as her Savior. She knew God's will. Kathy showed her from the Bible, it was God's will for her to be saved, how to be saved. She knew God's will, but she didn't leave it there. She went and did God's will and called on Him and trusted Him as Savior. A number of years ago, I was helping with hospice a little bit, and I got a call one day, and they said there's a fellow in the Dennett Road nursing home. And he has no pastor, he has no spiritual input, and they always ask him, do you uh um you know, would you like some spiritual counsel? I think is how they word it. And he said, yes, I would very much. He doesn't have long to live. And so they called me up and said, we got a fellow over here. He would like a pastor, somebody to talk to him about spiritual things. He's at the end of his life, doesn't have long to live, and he's concerned about it. I said, sure, I went right over And it was of an evening, if I remember correctly, and I went and found him and sat in his room, he's all by himself, no family, nobody else there We got talking a little bit and finally I said, sure, uh, could I read some verses with you before I pray? And then I'll I'll need to go my way And he says, Absolutely. So I got my Bible out and I turned to the book of Romans and I showed him in Romans how that were all sinners, and he agreed with me that he had sinned against God, as we all have And then I went to Romans 6. 23. I said, here it says the wages of sin is death, the consequences, the judgment of our sin is death, not just physical death, but spiritual death, separated from God for all eternity. In a horrific place called hell, ultimately the lake of fire. And I showed him revelation in different places, and he says, Yes, I know because of my sin, uh I know uh I would go to hell I said, you don't want to go to hell, do you? He says, no. I said, well, God doesn't want you to go to hell either. And I showed him how Jesus Christ commended his love toward us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. He said, Do you believe yes? Yes, I know Jesus died for me. I believe that's true. I said, Well just because Jesus died on the cross and was buried and rose again doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven. He offers it uh salvation, forgiveness as a gift to us. We can accept it or reject it. We can receive it and take it to be ours and experience the blessings of it and claim it as ours. We're safe, forgiven, home in heaven, eternal life, or we can say no, thank you and refuse it. And I showed him Romans 10, 13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I said, Sir, would you be willing to call on the Lord? And what he said to me. Not right now. So I went over a little bit. I said, you understand that God wants you to be saved. It's God's will for you to be saved. You understand that. Yes, I know. I know I need to be saved. I know God wants me to be saved. But not right now. See, it's one thing to know God's will. It's another thing to know God's will and do it. Next day I went over, I thought I need to go check on this guy. He was on my heart. Went over the next day, went to the room, room's empty. Bed's made. I said, where's so-and-so? They said, oh, he passed away early this morning. What a tragedy. What a tragedy. Best teacher in the world is the Lord God. No matter what my circumstance is, no matter what my situation is, if I'll come to the Lord, He will show me, He will lead me and direct me. If I'll wait on Him and trust Him and follow His instructions. The best student is the one that says, Lord, I want you to teach me. I want your will to be done. I want to be what you and Created me to be. I want to be the person that would please you. And when I stand before God, you can say, Well done. I want that. I want that. That's the best student. The best lesson that you and I can ever learn is determining what God's will is for my life, and then doing it. Maybe I'm talking to someone this morning. You're saved, like that fellow at the nursing home. You're unsaved, you're lost. God's will is for you to be saved. I'm telling you that on the authority of the Word of God. It is God's will for every unsaved person to be saved. It's God's will. God will forgive you and save you if you'll trust him. Come to him. Turn from your sin. Accept Christ your Savior. He'll save you. If you are saved, you say, Well, preacher, I've already done that. Then it's God's will for you to live for him. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto Him. It's God's will. And we turn from sin, we seek the Lord, we repent of sin a whole life just going on and fighting and conquering sin through faith in Christ. You're saved and not baptized, it's God's will for you to be baptized. You're saved and baptized. It's God's will for you to be a part of a local church. Hebrews tells us that. It's God's will for us to forsake sin and turn from the wickedness of the world. It's God's will that we be a witness. God's will. It's all laid out for us very clearly in His Word. Do you want to do it? You want God's will in your life? Then you come and trust Him. Follow this book. Again, I'll end with this real quickly. There was when I was in Indianapolis, we ended up going up there, spent four years. Lord provided the money, and we got there. Towards the end of my term there, I was there, as I said, four years. It was we were probably three years into it and got to know the folks real good and we loved them. They loved us. We were very happy in a lot of ways. One night the preacher preached. I would always sit over here. We had the teens here, always set over there. One night the preacher preached, gave an invitation, always came up and helped counsel. I'd stand up here and help counsel One of the fellows in the church, real faithful man, businessman, very dignified. He's probably in his mid to late 60s at this point. Very dignified, always dressed real short, pretty wealthy, very successful in the business world. As I said, a very dignified man. He didn't talk a lot. He came up and he was at the altar. I don't remember what the preacher preached, but he was at the altar. I stood there and I kind of watched and I kind of determined who if I should pray with somebody or if there was somebody new or whatever, and I watched. I noticed this guy was just sobbing and sobbing. I'm 30 years old, about there, 29, 30 years old. This guy's mid-late 60s, very dignified. He's sobbing. Finally I thought I need to pray with this guy. And I went over, I put my arm around him, I said his name. And I said, what can I pray with you about? And he said they called me Pastor Dennis. He said, Pastor Dennis, I wasted my life. I said, what do you mean? He said, God called me to be a preacher when I was a late teen boy, my late teens. I said, no. He said, I want to live my life and I've got my life planned out. He said, I've been very successful and I've accomplished what I wanted to do. He says, but in my mind, heart and mind, all these years. I've been out of the will of God. It's been God's will for me to serve Him. I wept with Him and prayed. I said, well, God can still use you. You give what you have left. You live for him and you serve him. You win souls. You witness. You do right. Oh, what a terrible thing to live your whole life out of the will of God. Best teacher is God. The best student. I want to learn the best lesson, the will of God. Father in heaven, I pray you bless us and help us. Lord, help us to be teachable. Help us. To be submissive to you. And I pray you'd show us and lead us and direct us and us in faith respond to that. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. I know I'm saved, but I need the Lord to help me. I've got some situations and I've got some circumstances. I don't know the solution. I don't know the answers. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will teach me and show me How I should respond and and uh what my actions should be. Is there any like this? Say preacher, I'm like David. Lord teach me to do thy will. Any others? God bless you, hands around. How about it? Others? I need the Lord to help me and show me how to respond to this. God bless you. Maybe there's some that's more preacher, I'm not saved. I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die, and I don't want to go to hell. You say, preacher, I'm concerned about that. I'd like for you to pray with me that God will help me settle that. I can know for sure Jesus is my Savior and my sins forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to die and go to hell, I want to know to be saved. How about it? God bless you. How about it? Others? Anyone And maybe we know someone that's gone through it a difficult time, and God can use us to be an influence to draw them to Christ. Father in heaven, I pray you bless now our invitation time in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.